D51|On the Economics of Science Parks|Science parks play a growing in knowledge-based economies by accommodating high-tech firms and providing an environment that fosters location-dependent knowledge spillovers and promote R&D investments by firms. Yet, not much is known about the economic conditions under which such entities may form in equilibrium without government interventions. This paper develops a spatial equilibrium model with a competitive final sector and a monopolistic competitive intermediate sector, which allows us to determine necessary and sufficient conditions for a science park to emerge as an equilibrium outcome. We show that strong localized knowledge spillovers, high startup costs, skilled labor abundance, or low commuting costs make intermediate firms more likely to cluster and a science park more likely to form. We also show that the productivity of the final sector is highest when intermediate firms cluster. As the decay penalty, firms' startup and workers' commuting costs become lower, science parks will eventually be fragmented.
D51|Understanding Preferences: “Demand Types”, and the Existence of Equilibrium With Indivisibilities|An Equivalence Theorem between geometric structures and utility functions allows new methods for understanding preferences. Our classification of valuations into “Demand Types” incorporates existing definitions (substitutes, complements, “strong substitutes,” etc.) and permits new ones. Our Unimodularity Theorem generalizes previous results about when competitive equilibrium exists for any set of agents whose valuations are all of a “demand type.” Contrary to popular belief, equilibrium is guaranteed for more classes of purely‐complements than of purely‐substitutes, preferences. Our Intersection Count Theorem checks equilibrium existence for combinations of agents with specific valuations by counting the intersection points of geometric objects. Applications include matching and coalition‐formation, and the “Product‐Mix Auction” introduced by the Bank of England in response to the financial crisis.
D51|La conception de l'homme dans la théorie de l'Echange Composite de François Perroux : entre homo economicus et homo religiosus|Cet article réexamine les fondements, analytiques, conceptuels et philosophiques sur lesquels repose la conception de l'homme que Perroux promeut pour définir l'Echange Composite par rapport à l'homo œconomicus propre à l'Echange Pur. Une première partie montre que l'Echange Composite constitue -i- une critique du rationalisme des modèles d'Echange pur marginalistes et d'équilibre général -ii- que cette critique repose sur une série de concepts qui ont contribués à définir le système que Perroux a toujours défendu (effets de domination, luttes-concours, conflits-coopérations, coûts de l'homme, dons et transferts contraints). Une seconde partie met en évidence que ces concepts trouvent leur origine dans une philosophie spécifique à la fois spiritualiste et communautariste qui s'inscrit dans l'oecuménisme chrétien de Perroux et qui fonde sa conception de l'homme.
D51|Asset Liquidity and Indivisibility|We study asset liquidity in a search-theoretic framework where divisible assets can facilitate exchange for an indivisible consumption good. The distinctive characteristics of our theory are that the asset dividend can be either positive or negative and buyers can choose whether or not to carry the asset and trade for the indivisible good. Buyers' participation determines the demand for asset liquidity and hence asset price carries a component of liquidity premium to reflect its function of trade facilitation. The economy features multiple equilibria when the asset dividend is negative, due to the trade-off between the probability of trade and the endogenous cost of holding the asset.
D51|The optimal extraction rate versus the expected real return of a sovereign wealth fund|With reference to funds established for the benefits of the public at large, a university endowment, or other similar sovereign wealth fund, we demonstrate that the optimal extraction rate from the fund is significantly smaller than the expected real rate of return on the underlying fund. We consider the situation where the influx to the fund has stopped, it is in a steady state, and is invested broadly in the international financial markets. The optimal spending rate secures that the fund is a perpetuity, i.e., it will last 'forever', where the real value of the fund after payments is stationary, while spending according to the expected rate of return will deplete the fund with probability 1. Optimal portfolio choice and spending are then inconsistent. Our conclusions are contrary to the recommendations of an expert panel to the Norwegian Government Pension Fund Global, as well as at odds with part of the extant literature on the management of endowments of universities.
D51|Market Structure and Indeterminacy of Stationary Equilibria in a Decentralized Monetary Economy|This study investigates which market structure gives rise to indeterminacy of stationary equilibria in a decentralized economy with non-degenerate distributions of money holdings. I develop a price-posting model with divisible money and then, examine two alternative markets: a pairwise random matching market and a many-to-many exchange. Importantly, the former market balances the number of matched buyers and sellers by definition. As a result, indeterminacy arises under the pairwise matching while a unique equilibrium exists in the many-to-many market. This balancing assumption also leads to the indeterminacy in a Walrasian market.
D51|On the General Impossibility of Persistent Unequal Exchange Free Trade Equilibria in the Pre-industrial World Economy|This paper analyzes the persistency of the unequal exchange of labor (UE) in international trade. An intertemporal model of a world economy is defined with a leisure preference and no discount factor. Every incompletely specialized free trade equilibrium is characterized as having non-persistent UE, which verifies the convergence of economies without relying on economic growth or diminishing returns to scale. In particular, it characterizes a subclass of equilibria in which the sequence of real interest rates does not converge to zero, but UE tends to disappear while equivalently the distribution of capital assets tends to be equalized in the long run.
D51|On the Real Determinacy and Indeterminacy of Stationary Equilibria in Monetary Models|It is known that stationary equilibria are indeterminate in some monetary models, especially in money search models with divisible money. However, most of the indeterminacy results are limited to the case that money holdings distributions have fi nite supports. In the case of infi nite supports, both determinacy and indeterminacy results are known. In this paper, using the Borsuk-Ulam theorem in Banach Space, I investigate what determines the differences.
D51|Heterogeneous Impatience of Individual Consumers and Decreasing Impatience of the Representative Consumer|In a continuous-time equilibrium model of heterogeneous consumers, we formulate and prove the statement that the more heterogeneous the consumers are in their impatience, the more dynamically consistent the representative consumer is. We apply this result to interest rate models, and, in particular, accommodate heterogeneous impatience in the model of Cox, Ingersoll, and Ross (1985) to come up with a new form of short-rate processes.
D51|A general equilibrium evolutionary model with generic utility functions and generic bell-shaped attractiveness maps, generating fashion cycle dynamics|We propose a discrete-time exchange economy evolutionary model, in which two groups of agents are possibly characterized by heterogeneous preference structures. With respect to the classical Walrasian framework, in our setting the definition of equilibrium, in addition to utility functions and endowments, depends also on population shares, which affect the market clearing conditions. We prove that, despite such difference with the standard framework, for every economy and for each population shares there exists at least one equilibrium and we show that, for all population shares, generically in the set of the economies, equilibria are finite and regular. We then introduce the dynamic law governing the evolution of the population shares, and we investigate the existence and the stability of the resulting stationary equilibria. More precisely, we assume that the reproduction level of a group is related to its attractiveness degree, which depends on the social visibility level, determined by the consumption choices of the agents in that group. The attractiveness of a group is described via a generic bell-shaped map, increasing for low visibility levels, but decreasing when the visibility of the group exceeds a given threshold value, due to a congestion effect. Thanks to the combined action of the price mechanism and of the share updating rule, the model may reproduce the recurrent dynamic behavior typical of the fashion cycle, presenting booms and busts in the agents’ consumption choices, and in the groups’ attractiveness and population shares. We illustrate the emergence of fashion cycle dynamics in the case of Stone-Geary utility functions, which generalize the Cobb-Douglas utility functions, and for different formulations of the attractiveness maps, already considered in the literature.
D51|On the Economics of Science Parks|Science parks play a growing in knowledge-based economies by accommodating high-tech firms and providing an environment that fosters location-dependent knowledge spillovers and promote R&D investments by firms. Yet, not much is known about the economic conditions under which such entities may form in equilibrium without government interventions. This paper develops a spatial equilibrium model with a competitive final sector and a monopolistic competitive intermediate sector, which allows us to determine necessary and sufficient conditions for a science park to emerge as an equilibrium outcome. We show that strong localized knowledge spillovers, high startup costs, skilled labor abundance, or low commuting costs make intermediate firms more likely to cluster and a science park more likely to form. We also show that the productivity of the final sector is highest when intermediate firms cluster. As the decay penalty, firms' startup and workers' commuting costs become lower, science parks will eventually be fragmented
D51|Demand and equilibrium with inferior and Giffen behaviors|We introduce a class of differentiable, strictly increasing, strictly concave utility functions exhibiting an explicit demand of a good which may have Giffen behavior. We provide a necessary and sufficient condition (bases on prices and consumers’ preferences and income) under which this good is normal, inferior or Giffen good. Interestingly, with this utility, the equilibrium price of a good may increase in the aggregate supply for this good.
D51|Evil deeds in urban economics|"The purpose of this note is to update an ancient controversy over the comparison between discrete and continuous agent models of land use and agent location in urban economics. Berliant (1985) shows that that the following statement is self-contradictory: ""There is a continuum of agents, each of whom owns or is endowed with a positive Lebesgue measure of land."" A corollary follows: ""As the number of agents tends to infinity, the set of agents who own a positive Lebesgue measure of land shrinks to zero."" The basic question is this: Under what circumstances, if any, can we reconcile the two models?"
D51|Evil deeds in urban economics|"The purpose of this note is to update an ancient controversy over the comparison between discrete and continuous agent models of land use and agent location in urban economics. Berliant (1985) shows that that the following statement is self-contradictory: ""There is a continuum of agents, each of whom owns or is endowed with a positive Lebesgue measure of land."" A corollary follows: ""As the number of agents tends to infinity, the set of agents who own a positive Lebesgue measure of land shrinks to zero."" The basic question is this: Under what circumstances, if any, can we reconcile the two models?"
D51|On the General Impossibility of Persistent Unequal Exchange Free Trade Equilibria in the Pre-industrial World Economy|This paper analyzes the persistency of the unequal exchange of labor (UE) in international trade. An intertemporal model of a world economy is defined with a leisure preference and no discount factor. Every incompletely specialized free trade equilibrium is characterized as having non-persistent UE, which verifies the convergence of economies without relying on economic growth or diminishing returns to scale. In particular, it characterizes a sub-class of equilibria in which the sequence of real interest rates does not converge to zero, but UE tends to disappear while equivalently the distribution of capital assets tends to be equalized in the long run.
D51|Persistent Exploitation with Intertemporal Reproducible Solution in Pre-industrial Economies|This paper presents an intertemporal model of pre-industrial economies defined with leisure preference to study the condition of the emergence and persistence of exploitation as unequal exchange of labor. We show that pure workers are exploited in any finite periods if there is positive real profit rate, even though labor allocation among agents tends to be equalized in the limit regardless of the saving behaviors. The so-called Fundamental Marxian Theorem and Profit-Exploitation Correspondence Principle are generalized in the intertemporal setting with exploitation in the whole life, and the Class-Exploitation Correspondence Principle is established with exploitation within period.
D51|A Multi-Stage Market Game that Implements any Walrasian Allocation in any Pure-Exchange Environment|This paper studies retrading in a multi-stage Shapley--Shubik structure market game with symmetric limit orders and a finite number of agents. Without restrictions on preferences and endowments, a constructive proof is used to show that any Walrasian allocation can be implemented by a Markov perfect equilibrium if agents are allowed to retrade for a finite number of rounds before they consume. As part of the proof, we give a closed form expression for the required number of rounds, which depends on the Walrasian allocation and the selection of a numeraire.
D51|Optimists and pessimists in (in)complete markets|We study the effects of market incompleteness on speculation, investor survival, and asset pricing moments, when investors disagree about the likelihood of jumps and have recursive preferences. We consider two models. In a model with jumps in aggregate consumption, incompleteness barely matters, since the consumption claim resembles an insurance product against jump risk and effectively reproduces approximate spanning. In a long-run risk model with jumps in the long-run growth rate, market incompleteness affects speculation, and investor survival. Jump and diffusive risks are more balanced regarding their importance and, therefore, the consumption claim cannot reproduce approximate spanning.
D51|The Proportional Solution in a Permit Sharing Problem|A permit sharing problem is represented by countries, each of whom owns a technology that emits pollutants such as GHGs to produce output and privately owns a certain amount of permits. The permits are treated as the only input and are regarded as perfectly transferable among the countries, unlike regular factor inputs such as labor or capital. First, we axiomatically characterize a series of solutions called the pro- portional solutions. We hypothetically separate countries into two groups, permit contributors and technology contributors, and identify solutions un- der which countries receive rewards systematically according to the two types of contribution they provide (Separation Principle). Two other main axioms (NART and NARP), saying that no group of countries bene t from rearranging their contributions of technologies or permits among themselves, are used in characterizing the proportional solutions. Second, we introduce another axiom called Voluntary Participation to the solutions of sharing the surplus produced beyond the autarky economy output. This addition of Voluntary Participation leads to an interesting result; the surplus must be shared equally between the two groups, the per- mit (input) contributors and technology contributors. Hence the equal share proportional solution is uniquely characterized.
D51|The dynamics of inequalities and unequal exchange of labor in intertemporal linear economies|Introducing a concept of fairness of economic allocations, namely exploitation as the unequal exchange of labor (henceforth, UE exploitation) by generalizing Roemer’s (1981, 1982a) seminal models, this paper aims to answer the following two questions in the context of an intertemporal economy with linear technology: How is income and wealth inequality related (or unrelated) to the existence and persistence of UE exploitation? What are the mechanisms driving the persistent existence of UE exploitation in growing economies? Agents are UE exploited (resp. exploiters) if the amount of labor that they contribute to the economy is bigger (resp. smaller) than the amount of labor ‘received’ by them via their income. It is proved, first, that UE exploitation is monotonically correlated to functional income inequality. Second, it is shown that, unless agents discount the future, asset inequalities are necessary, but not sufficient for the persistence of UE exploitation, and capital accumulation leading to the disappearance of UE exploitation cannot be ruled out in equilibrium. Third, it is shown that, regardless of whether agents discount the future, labor-saving technical progress may yield sustained growth with persistent UE exploitation by keeping labor abundant relative to capital, which restrains wages from rising. Unlike in models with differentiable production functions, this mechanism does not rely on changes in the marginal productivity of inputs and it is entirely driven by the interaction between innovation and labor markets.
D51|The natural interest rate in OLG modelling: A rehabilitation|A simple OLG model is used to show that the natural interest rate is superior to the golden rule. This remains valid with public goods, provided these are financed in an appropriate way. In order to preserve the natural interest rate, the so-called helicopter money appears to be more appropriate than the normal credit money. Dynamic inefficiency cannot occur, if either land or neutral (helicopter) money is available as an alternative store of private wealth. Thus, the frequently proposed failure of OLG-models to satisfy the first fundamental theorem of welfare economics does not exist. The paper both generalizes and summarizes some key results from my recent book (van Suntum 2017).
D51|Progressive taxation and (in)stability in an exogenous growth model with Epstein-Zin recursive preferences|"We show that in a exogenous growth model with Epstein-Zin (1989, 1991) recursive preferences calibrated to Bulgarian data under the progressive taxation regime (1993- 2007), the economy exhibits equilibrium indeterminacy. These results are in line with the fi ndings in Benhabib and Farmer (1994, 1996) and Farmer (1999). Also, the findings in this paper are in contrast to Guo and Lansing (1988) who argue that progressive taxation works as an automatic stabilizer. In contrast, under the flat tax regime (2008-16), the same economy calibrated to Bulgarian data now displays saddle-path stability. The decrease in the average effective tax rate addresses the indeterminacy issue and eliminates the ""sink"" dynamics."
D51|Pricing sin stocks: Ethical preference vs. risk aversion|We develop a model that reproduces the return and volatility spread between sin and non-sin stocks, where investors trade off dividends with the ethical assessment of companies. We relax the assumption of boycott behaviour and investigate the role played by the dividend share of sin stocks on their return and volatility spread relative to non-sin stocks. We empirically show that the dividend share predicts a positive return and volatility spread. This pattern is reproduced by our model when dividends and ethicalness are complementary goods and investors are sufficiently risk averse.
D51|An experiment on the efficiency of bilateral exchange under incomplete markets|We test in a controlled laboratory environment whether traders in a bilateral exchange internalize the impact of their actions on market prices better than in a large market. In this model, traders choose asset holdings, constrained by a technology frontier. Next, each trader experiences a random shock which makes only one type of asset profitable. In a general equilibrium environment with incomplete markets, this leads to pecuniary externalities because traders increase scarce asset holdings beyond what is socially optimal. This behavior is especially exacerbated in large experimental markets as traders fail to internalize the impact of their actions on prices. We find that when markets are incomplete, a bilateral exchange can slightly mitigate the extent of pecuniary externalities, and weakly increase welfare.
D51|Behavioral Inattention|Inattention is a central, unifying theme for much of behavioral economics. It permeates such disparate fields as microeconomics, macroeconomics, finance, public economics, and industrial organization. It enables us to think in a rather consistent way about behavioral biases, speculate about their origins, and trace out their implications for market outcomes. This survey first discusses the most basic models of attention, using a fairly unified framework. Then, it discusses the methods used to measure attention, which present a number of challenges on which a great deal of progress has been achieved, although much more work needs to be done. It then examines the various theories of attention, both behavioral and more Bayesian. It finally discusses some applications. For instance, inattention offers a way to write a behavioral version of basic microeconomics, as in consumer theory and Arrow-Debreu. A last section is devoted to open questions in the attention literature. This chapter is a pedagogical guide to the literature on attention. Derivations are self-contained.
D51|Structural transformation to manufacturing and services: what role for trade?|Understanding how and why economies structurally transform as they grow is crucial for sound national policy making. Typically analysts of this issue focus on sectoral shares of GDP and employment. This paper extends that to include exports, including of services. It also considers mining in addition to agriculture and manufacturing, and recognizes some of the products of those four sectors are nontradable. The theory section’s general equilibrium model provides hypotheses about structural change in different types of economies as they grow, and tests them econometrically with annual data for a sample of 117 countries for the period 1991-2014. The results point to the futility of adopting protective policies aimed at slowing de-agriculturalization and subsequent de-industrialization in terms of sectoral shares, since those trends inevitably will accompany economic growth. Fortuitously governments now have far more efficient and equitable ways of supporting the adjustments needed by people choosing or being pushed to leave declining industries.
D51|Existence and Optimality of Cournot-Nash Equilibria in a Bilateral Oligopoly with Atoms and an Atomless Part|We consider a bilateral oligopoly version of the Shapley window model with large traders, represented as atoms, and small traders, represented by an atomless part. For this model, we provide a general existence proof of a Cournot-Nash equilibrium that allows one of the two commodities to be held only by atoms. Then, we show, using a corollary proved by Shitovitz (1973), that a Cournot-Nash allocation is Pareto optimal if and only if it is a Walras allocation.
D51|Cobb-Douglas preferences and pollution in a bilateral oligopoly market|In this note, we introduce pollution and examine its effects in a finite bilateral oligopoly model where agents have asymmetric Cobb-Douglas preferences. We define two strategic equilibria: the Stackelberg-Cournot equilibrium with pollution (SCEP) and the Cournot equilibrium with pollution (CEP). While the supplied quantities of the polluting and the non-polluting good depend on the preferences of all economic agents in the case of symmetric preferences, we show that when preferences are asymmetric, i) at both equilibria, each polluter’s equilibrium supply depends only on the non-polluters’ preferences for the non-polluting good; ii) at the CEP and the SCEP, the elasticity of the polluters emissions is greater when nonpolluters preferences for the non-polluting good increase, compared to an increase in their own preferences for this good; iii) firm’s emissions’elasticity decreases with the market power if their marginal cost is lower than their competitor.
D51|"Progressive taxation and (in)stability in an exogenous growth model with non-market (""home"") production"|"We show that in a exogenous growth model with non-market (""home"") sector calibrated to Bulgarian data under the progressive taxation regime (1993-2007), the economy exhibits equilibrium indeterminacy due to the presence of non-market production. These results are in line with the findings in Benhabib and Farmer (1994, 1996) and Farmer (1999). Also, the findings in this paper are in contrast to Guo and Lansing (1988) who argue that progressive taxation works as an automatic stabilizer. Under the flat tax regime (2008-16), the economy calibrated to Bulgarian data displays saddle-path stability. The decrease in the average effective tax rate addresses the indeterminacy issue and eliminates the ""stable focus"" dynamics."
D51|François Perroux : Echange pur contre échange composite - Controverses et enjeux de justice|Cet article examine les enjeux du concept d’Echange Composite que François Perroux propose pour critiquer celui d’Echange pur. La première partie étudie les critiques que Perroux adresse aux modèles marginalistes, néo-marginalistes, d’équilibre général et d’optimalité parétienne pour définir l’Echange Composite. La seconde partie apprécie les concepts qui caractérisent l’Echange Composite (effet de domination, luttes-concours, conflits-coopérations, coûts de l’homme, dons et transferts contraints). Nous étudions les enjeux de ces concepts par rapport aux formes de justice distributive que Perroux envisage pour définir l’Echange Composite par rapport aux théories de la justice de Walras et de Rawls.
D51|The Effect of Exchange Rates on Trade Balance: An Empirical Study of Morocco|Objective – This paper aims to examine the relationship between exchange rates and trade balance in Morocco, to investigate whether the Marshall-Lerner condition and J-curve exist. Methodology/Technique – This paper attempts to identify the relationship between the real exchange rate and trade balance in Morocco between 2000 to 2015. Findings – Historically, exchange rates have had a strong impact on foreign trade in Morocco. Novelty – This study concludes that the fluctuation of exchange rates has no notable impact on the rate of foreign trade.
D51|Market failures and equilibria in Banach lattices|In this paper, we consider an economy with infinitely many commodities and market failures such as increasing returns to scale and external effects or other regarding preferences. The commodity space is a Banach lattice possibly without interior points in the positive cone in order to include most of the relevant spaces in economics. We propose a new definition of the marginal pricing rule through a new tangent cone to the production set at a point of its (non-smooth)-boundary. The major contribution is the unification of many previous works with convex or non-convex production sets, smooth or non-smooth, for the competitive equilibria or for the marginal pricing equilibria, with or without external effects, in finite dimensional spaces as well as in infinite dimensional spaces. In order to prove the existence of a marginal pricing equilibria, we also provide a new properness condition on technologies
D51|Noncooperative oligopoly in markets with a continuum of traders and a strongly connected set of commodities|We show the existence of a Cournot–Nash equilibrium for a mixed version of the Shapley window model, where large traders are represented as atoms and small traders are represented by an atomless part. Previous existence theorems for the Shapley window model, provided by Sahi and Yao (1989) in the case of economies with a finite number of traders and by Busetto et al. (2011) in the case of mixed exchange economies, are essentially based on the assumption that there are at least two atoms with strictly positive endowments and indifference curves contained in the strict interior of the commodity space. Our result does not require this restriction. It relies on the characteristics of the atomless part of the economy and exploits the fact that traders belonging to the atomless part have an endogenous “Walrasian” behavior.
D51|The dynamics of exploitation and inequality in economies with heterogeneous agents|This paper analyses the relation between growth, inequalities, and exploitation as the unequal exchange of labour (UE exploitation). An economy with heterogeneous, intertemporally optimising agents is considered which generalises John Roemer's [52, 53] seminal models. First, a correspondence between pro ts and the existence (and intensity) of UE exploitation is proved in the dynamic context. This result is important, positively, because the pro t rate is one of the key determinants of investment decisions, and, normatively, because it provides a link between UE exploitation and the functional distribution of income. Second, it is shown that asset inequalities are fundamental for the emergence of UE exploitation, but they are not sufficient for its persistence, both in equilibria with accumulation and growth, and, perhaps more surprisingly, in stationary intertemporal equilibrium paths. Labour-saving technical progress, however, may yield sustained growth with persistent UE exploitation by keeping labour abundant relative to capital. Persistent inequalities in income and labour exchanged arise from the interaction between labour market conditions and differential ownership of productive assets.
D51|On the Ricardian invariable measure of value in general convex economies|This study examines the possibility of an invariable measure of value when price changes induced by income redistribution between profit and wages take place in general convex economies. While Ricardo searched for an invariable measure of value with respect to changes in both the factor income distribution and the technique, Sraffa constructed a standard commodity serving as a measure of the change in a factor income distribution alone by leaving aside the possibility of changes in the size and composition of output and means of production. This study allows for the possibility that a change in factor income distribution involves a change in technique, and proposes an extension of Sraffaâ€™s standard commodity. Then, we show that it serves as an invariable measure of value with respect to the income redistribution, even though it involves a change in technique. Finally, we examine whether the linear distributional relation is preserved.
D51|The Dynamics of Exploitation and Inequality in Economies with Heterogeneous Agents|This paper analyses the relation between growth, inequalities, and exploitation as the unequal exchange of labour (UE exploitation). An economy with heterogeneous, intertemporally optimising agents is considered which generalises John Roemer's [52, 53] seminal models. First, a correspondence between prots and the existence (and intensity) of UE exploitation is proved in the dynamic context. This result is important, positively, because the prot rate is one of the key determinants of investment decisions, and, normatively, because it provides a link between UE exploitation and the functional distribution of income. Second, it is shown that asset inequalities are fundamental for the emergence of UE exploitation, but they are not sucient for its persistence, both in equilibria with accumulation and growth, and, perhaps more surprisingly, in stationary intertemporal equilibrium paths. Labour-saving technical progress, however, may yield sustained growth with persistent UE exploitation by keeping labour abundant relative to capital. Persistent inequalities in income and labour exchanged arise from the interaction between labour market conditions and dierential ownership of productive assets.
D51|On the Ricardian Invariable Measure of Value in General Convex Economies|This study examines the possibility of an invariable measure of value when price changes induced by income redistribution between profit and wages take place in general convex economies. While Ricardo searched for an invariable measure of value with respect to changes in both the factor income distribution and the technique, Sraffa constructed a standard commodity serving as a measure of the change in a factor income distribution alone by leaving aside the possibility of changes in the size and composition of output and means of production. This study allows for the possibility that a change in factor income distribution involves a change in technique, and proposes an extension of Sraffa’s standard commodity. Then, we show that it serves as an invariable measure of value with respect to the income redistribution, even though it involves a change in technique. Finally, we examine whether the linear distributional relation is preserved.
D51|Nash Implementation in Production Economies with Unequal Skills: A Characterization|The present study examines production economies with unequal labor skills, where the planner is ignorant of the set of feasible allocations in advance of production. In particular, we characterize Nash implementation by canonical mechanisms by means of Maskin monotonicity and a new axiom, non-manipulability of unused skills (NUS), where the latter represents a weak independence property with respect to changes in skills. Following these characterizations, we show that some Maskin monotonic social choice correspondences are not implementable if information about individual skills is absent.
D51|Equilibrium Prices of the Market Portfolio in the CAPM with Incomplete Financial Markets|In the Capital Asset Pricing Model, we consider how introducing new assets will affect the prices of the existing ones. We prove that introducing new assets into financial markets increases the relative price of the market portfolio with respect to the risk-free bond if the elasticity of the marginal rates of substitution of the mean for standard deviation with respect to the latter is greater than one for every consumer; the relative price of the market portfolio decreases if the elasticity is less than one; and the relative price is left unchanged if the elasticity is equal to one.
D51|Intertemporal efficiency does not imply a common price forecast: a leading example|We define an efficient temporary equilibrium (ETE) within the framework of a two period economy. We show by example that ETE in this setting can lead to intertemporally efficient allocations without the agents forecasts being coordinated on a perfect foresight price. There is a one dimensional set of such efficient allocations for generic endowments.
D51|Intertemporal effiiency does not imply a common price forecast|Do price forecasts of rational economic agents need to coincide in perfectly com- petitive complete markets? To address this question, we define an efficient tempo- rary equilibrium (ETE) within the framework of a two period economy. Although an ETE allocation is intertemporally efficient and is obtained by perfect competition, it can arise without the agents forecasts being coordinated on a perfect foresight price. We show that there is a one dimensional set of such Pareto efficient allocations for generic endowments.
D51|Market failures and equilibria in Banach lattices|In this paper, we consider an economy with infinitely many commodities and market failures such as increasing returns to scale and external effects or other regarding preferences. The commodity space is a Banach lattice possibly without interior points in the positive cone in order to include most of the relevant spaces in economics. We propose a new definition of the marginal pricing rule through a new tangent cone to the production set at a point of its (non-smooth)-boundary. The major contribution is the unification of many previous works with convex or non-convex production sets, smooth or non-smooth, for the competitive equilibria or for the marginal pricing equilibria, with or without external effects, in finite dimensional spaces as well as in infinite dimensional spaces. In order to prove the existence of a marginal pricing equilibria, we also provide a new properness condition on technologies. .
D51|Sell Low and Buy High: Arbitrage and Local Price Effects in Kenyan Markets|"Large and regular seasonal price fluctuations in local grain markets appear to offer African farmers substantial inter-temporal arbitrage opportunities, but these opportunities remain largely unexploited: small-scale farmers are commonly observed to ""sell low and buy high"" rather than the reverse. In a field experiment in Kenya, we show that credit market imperfections limit farmers' abilities to move grain inter-temporally. Providing timely access to credit allows farmers to buy at lower prices and sell at higher prices, increasing farm revenues and generating a return on investment of 28%. To understand general equilibrium effects of these changes in behavior, we vary the density of loan offers across locations. We document significant effects of the credit intervention on seasonal price fluctuations in local grain markets, and show that these GE effects shape individual level profitability estimates. In contrast to existing experimental work, the results indicate a setting in which microcredit can improve firm profitability, and suggest that GE effects can substantially shape microcredit's effectiveness. In particular, failure to consider these GE effects could lead to underestimates of the social welfare benefits of microcredit interventions."
D51|Structural Transformation to Manufacturing and Services: What Role for Trade?|Understanding how and why economies structurally transform as they grow is crucial for sound national policy making. Typically analysts of this issue focus on sectoral shares of GDP and employment. This paper extends that to include exports, including of services. It also considers mining in addition to agriculture and manufacturing, and recognizes some of the products of those four sectors are nontradable. The theory section's general equilibrium model provides hypotheses about structural change in different types of economies as they grow, and tests them econometrically with annual data for a sample of 117 countries for the period 1991-2014. The results point to the futility of adopting protective policies aimed at slowing de-agriculturalization and subsequent de-industrialization in terms of sectoral shares, since those trends inevitably will accompany economic growth. Fortuitously governments now have far more efficient and equitable ways of supporting the adjustments needed by people choosing or being pushed to leave declining industries.
D51|A convexity result for the range of vector measures with applications to large economies|"On a Boolean algebra we consider the topology $u$ induced by a finitely additive measure $\mu$ with values in a locally convex space and formulate a condition on $u$ that is sufficient to guarantee the convexity and weak compactness of the range of $\mu$. This result à la Lyapunov extends those obtained in (Khan, Sagara 2013) to the finitely additive setting through a more direct and less involved proof. We will then give an economical interpretation of the topology $u$ in the framework of coalitional large economies to tackle the problem of measuring the bargaining power of coalitions when the commodity space is infinite dimensional and locally convex. We will show that our condition on $u$ plays the role of the ""many more agents than commodities"" condition introduced by Rustichini and Yannelis in (1991). As a consequence of the convexity theorem, we will obtain two straight generalizations of Schmeidler's and Vind's Theorems on the veto power of coalitions of arbitrary economic weight."
D51|A second welfare theorem in a non-convex economy: The case of antichain-convexity|We introduce the notion of an antichain-convex set to extend Debreu (1954)’s version of the second welfare theorem to economies where either the aggregate production set or preference relations are not convex. We show that – possibly after some redistribution of individuals’ wealth – the Pareto optima of some economies which are marked by certain types of non-convexities can be spontaneously obtained as valuation quasiequilibria and equilibria: both equilibrium notions are to be understood in Debreu (1954)’s sense. From a purely structural point of view, the mathematical contribution of this work is the study of the conditions that guarantee the convexity of the Minkowski sum of finitely many possibly non-convex sets. Such a study allows us to obtain a version of the Minkowski\Hahn–Banach separation theorem which dispenses with the convexity of the sets to be separated and which can be naturally applied in standard proofs of the second welfare theorem; in addition – and equally importantly – the study allows to get a deeper understanding of the conditions on the single production sets of an economy that guarantee the convexity of their aggregate.
D51|Housing market models with consumption externalities|We analyze housing market models à la Shapley and Scarf with externalities in consumption; that is, agents care about others and their preferences are defined over allocations rather than over single indivisible goods. After collecting some negative results about the existence of several cooperative solutions, we focus on stable allocations and search for special domains of preferences that can guarantee that they both exist and form a stable set à la von Neumann and Morgenstern.
D51|Asset Pricing Equilibria with Indivisible Goods|We study asset pricing of divisible assets based on consumption decisions of indivisible goods in a frictional market. Indivisibility matters for equilibria along with the trading mechanism. Bargaining generates a good's price that is not linked to the dividend value of the asset or the number of active buyers of the asset. In contrast, competitive search generates a price as a continuous function of the dividend and the number of buyers. In both cases, when the asset supply is scarce, the asset price bears a liquidity premium that closely relates to the dividend and the number of buyers. We also find that, for positive dividend values on the asset, unique stationary asset price equilibrium exists, while for negative dividend values, multiple equilibria occur. We show that lotteries are not used in any equilibria, but sellers are able to extract a positive surplus under bargaining with lotteries.
D51|Private ownership economies with externalities and existence of competitive equilibria: a differentiable approach|Abstract We consider a general equilibrium model of a private ownership economy with consumption and production externalities. Utility functions and production technologies may be affected by the consumption and production activities of all other agents in the economy. We use homotopy techniques to show that the set of competitive equilibria is non-empty and compact. Fixing the externalities, the assumptions on utility functions and production technologies are standard in a differentiable framework. Competitive equilibria are written in terms of first order conditions associated with agents’ behavior and market clearing conditions, following the seminal paper of Smale (J Math Econ 1:1–14, 1974). The work of adapting the homotopy approach to economies with externalities on the production side is non-trivial and it requires some ingenious adjustments, because the production technologies are not required to be convex with respect to the consumption and production activities of all agents.
D51|On the regularity of smooth production economies with externalities: competitive equilibrium à la Nash|Abstract We consider a general equilibrium model of a private ownership economy with consumption and production externalities. The choices of all agents (households and firms) may affect utility functions and production technologies. The allocation of a competitive equilibrium is a Nash equilibrium. We provide an example showing that, under standard assumptions, competitive equilibria are indeterminate in an open set of the household’s endowments. Next, we consider a new version of this model, with firms’ endowments in the spirit of Geanakoplos et al. (J Math Econ 19:113–151, 1990). In our model, firms’ endowments impact the technologies of the other firms. We then prove that, generically in the space of endowments of households and firms, each economy has a finite number of competitive equilibria and each competitive equilibrium is locally a differentiable map of the fundamental parameters.
D51|Rational land and housing bubbles in infinite-horizon economies|This paper considers rational land and housing bubbles in an infinite-horizon general equilibrium model. Their demands rest on two different grounds: the land is an input to produce while the house may be consumed. Our work differs from the existing literature in two respects. First, dividends on both these long-lived assets are endogenous and their sequences are computed. Second, we introduce and study different concepts of bubbles, including individual and strong bubbles
D51|Borrowing in Excess of Natural Ability to Repay|The paper aims at improving our understanding of self-enforcing debt in competitive dynamic economies with lack of commitment when default induces a permanent loss of access to international credit markets. We show, by means of examples, that a sovereign's creditworthiness is not necessarily limited by the ability to repay out of its future resources. Self-enforcing debt grows at the same rate as interest rates. If a sovereign's endowment growth rates are lower than interest rates, then debt limits eventually exceed the natural debt limits. This implies that there is asymptotic borrowing in present value terms. We show that this can be compatible with lending incentives when credible borrowers facilitate inter-temporal exchange, acting as pass-through intermediaries that alleviate the lenders' credit restrictions. (Copyright: Elsevier)
D51|Hierarchical competition and heterogeneous behavior in noncooperative oligopoly markets|In this paper, we consider a sequential bilateral oligopoly market which embodies a finite number of leaders and followers who compete on quantities. We define a noncooperative equilibrium concept for this two-stage market game with complete and perfect information, namely the Stackelberg-Nash equilibrium (SNE). Then, we study the existence of a SNE with trade. The existence proof requires some steps as this market game displays a rich set of strategic interactions. In particular, to show the existence of a pure strategy subgame perfect Nash equilibrium, we have to determine the conditions under which there exist well defined continuously differentiable best responses. Some examples buttress the approach and discuss the assumptions made on the primitives.
D51|The Dixit–Stiglitz economy with a ‘small group’ of firms: A simple and robust equilibrium markup formula|In a general version of Dixit–Stiglitz two-sector economy, we present three variants of the concept of oligopolistic equilibrium in price-quantity pairs (d’Aspremont and Dos Santos Ferreira, 2016) integrating income feedback effects in three different ways. For the first two variants (Ford effects ignored or restricted to profits), a single and simple equilibrium markup formula is derived involving, for each firm, a conduct parameter indicating its degree of competitive toughness. Different specifications of these conduct parameters lead to different oligopolistic equilibria in prices and/or in quantities. In particular in the standard Dixit–Stiglitz economy, we show, that the first order conditions of a symmetric oligopolistic price equilibrium correspond to a unique degree of competitive toughness in the general markup formula, This degree is decreasing (and the markup increasing) as more feedback effects are taken into account by firms. On the contrary, for the third variant, introducing full Ford effects leads to lower markups and higher competitive toughness in the standard Dixit–Stiglitz economy and under conditions ensuring the equilibrium markup to remain in tne right interval,
D51|Inside And Outside The Black Box - Organization Of Interdependencies|Production theory has remained substantially unchanged since the publication of the Theory of Production by Ragnar Frisch, (1928, 1965). The theory is based on the idea of a firm deciding on the possible input and output combinations of a single unit of production. His theory was substantially copied in contributions by Sune Carlsson (1939) and Erich Schneider (1947), and later by practically all textbooks in microeconomics. The idea is to model the firm as a “black box” in which a finite number of externally purchased inputs are transformed into a finite number of outputs to be sold in the market(s). Most of the time, the prices are externally determined. Often, the production process is summarized by some simplified production function as for example in the form of a CES function. Another and conceptually richer approach is the formulation of an activity analysis model. In the latter case, simple internal interdependencies can be included. In this paper, we indicate how internal interdependencies can also be modeled within a special CES framework. In recent decades, there has been a remarkable growth in the number of production units of firms like IKEA, Walmart and Apple to name a few such global networking firms. Most of the analysis of these network firms has been modeled by logistics and other operations-research analysts and to a limited extent by researchers in business administration schools. Very little has been done in economics. We propose a modelling approach consistent with microeconomic theory.
D51|An invitation to market design|Market design seeks to translate economic theory and analysis into practical solutions to real-world problems. By redesigning both the rules that guide market transactions and the infrastructure that enables those transactions to take place, market designers can address a broad range of market failures. In this paper, we illustrate the process and power of market design through three examples: the design of medical residency matching programmes; a scrip system to allocate food donations to food banks; and the recent ‘Incentive Auction’ that reallocated wireless spectrum from television broadcasters to telecoms. Our lead examples show how effective market design can encourage participation, reduce gaming, and aggregate information, in order to improve liquidity, efficiency, and equity in markets. We also discuss a number of fruitful applications of market design in other areas of economic and public policy.
D51|Bubbly Markov equilibria|Abstract Bubbly Markov equilibria (BME) are recursive equilibria on the natural state space which admit a non-trivial bubble. The present paper studies the existence and properties of BME in a general class of overlapping generations economies with capital accumulation and stochastic production shocks. Using monotone methods, we develop a general approach to construct Markov equilibria and provide necessary and sufficient conditions for these equilibria to be bubbly. Our main result shows that a BME exists whenever the bubbleless equilibrium is Pareto inefficient due to either overaccumulation of capital or inefficient risk sharing between generations.
D51|Equilibrium Selection in Monetary Search Models: An Experimental Approach|It is known that there exists a multiplicity (indeterminacy) of stationary equilibria in search models with divisible money. This paper investigate whether some specific stationary equilibrium is selected through economic experiments. We observe that in some treatments there is a tendency to converge to the most efficient equilibrium. However, as a whole, there remains some degree of indeterminacy.
D51|Local Independence, Monotonicity, Incentive Compatibility and Axiomatic Characterization of Price-Money Message Mechanism|To characterize money in a static economic model, it is known to be important to consider the agentcommodity double-infinity settings, i.e., the overlapping-generations framework. There does not seem to exist abundant literature, however, treating the axiomatic characterization problems for such monetary Walras allocations under the social choice and/or mechanism design settings. We show that the monetary Walras allocation for the economy with double infinities is characterized by weak Paretooptimality, individual rationality and local independence or the monotonicity, or the incentive compatibility conditions of social choice correspondence among the allocation mechanisms with messages under the category theoretic approach in Sonnenschein (1974). We utilize Sonnenschein fs market extension axiom for swamped economies that is closely related to the replica stability axiom of Thomson (1988). We can see how these conditions characterize the price-money message mechanism universally among a wide class of mechanisms, and efficiently in the sense that it has the minimal message spaces (pricemoney dictionary theorems). Moreover, by using the category theoretic framework, we can obtain the up-to-isomorphism uniqueness for such a dictionary object (isomorphism theorems).
D51|Neoclassical theories of stationary relative prices and the supply of capital|In the traditional versions of the neoclassical theory of value and distribution, the stock of existing capital—understood as either an amount of value or an endowment of capital goods—was taken as given, together with the available quantities of labour and natural resources. This characteristic of the early neoclassical theories is analysed by the comparison with the modern neo-Walrasian models of stationary equilibrium, in which the stock of capital is not considered among the data. We show that the attempt to put capital on the same footing as labour and land—i.e. to present it as a factor of production—led the early neoclassical author to write the zero netaccumulation condition, which was required by the stationarity of relative prices, in the form of a market clearing condition between supply of and demand for capital. The rate of interest was then understood as the price to determine by this market. However, as is well known, the conception of capital as a factor of production—and of the rate of interest as the price for its use—did not work and involved several problems, some of which are discussed in this paper.
D51|Information within coalitions: risk and ambiguity|We address economies with asymmetric information where agents are not perfectly aware about the informational structure for coalitions. Thus, we introduce solutions that we refer to as risky core and ambiguous core. We provide existence results and a variety of properties of these cooperative solutions.
D51|Mientras llegaba el futuro<BR>[While the future arrived]|This book focuses on the historical analysis of the main economic and social transformations of Valle del Cauca in the last 25 years. With a wide and diverse statistical information, the results of the Valley are evaluated against those registered by the main departments of the country. An account of the productive and social performance originated by the accelerated economic growth of the first half of the nineties, the crisis of the late twentieth century, the mining-energy boom experienced by the country between 2003 and 2013 and the recent adjustment of the economy. The new productive bets are also presented and teachings and lights are thrown for the economic future of the department
D51|Growth, Exploitation and Class Inequalities|This paper provides a formal dynamic analysis of exploitation, class inequalities and profits. A stylised model of a capitalist economy with two classes - workers and capitalists - is considered which extends Roemer [26, 27]. First, a dynamic generalisation of a key Marxian insight is provided by proving that the profitability of capitalist production is synonimous with the existence of exploitation. Second, it is shown that, in a competitive environment, asset inequalities are fundamental for the emergence of exploitation, but they are not sufficient for its persistence, both in equilibria with accumulation and growth, and, perhaps more surprisingly, in stationary intertemporal equilibrium paths. Finally, it is shown that labour-saving technical progress may yield persistent exploitation by ensuring the persistent abundance of labour.
D51|Optimal Taxation with Private Insurance|We derive a fully nonlinear optimal income tax schedule in the presence of a private insurance market. The optimal tax formula is expressed in terms of sufficient statistics?such as the Frisch elasticity of labor supply, social preferences, and hazard rates of the income distributions?as in the standard Mirrleesian taxation without private insurance (e.g., Saez (2001)). However, in the presence of a private market, the standard sufficient statistics are no longer sufficient. The optimal tax rate also depends on how private savings interact with public insurance? through substitution and crowding in/out. Based on our formula, we compute the optimal tax schedule using a quantitative general equilibrium model calibrated to reproduce the U.S. income distribution.
D51|Labor Rigidity and the Dynamics of the Value Premium|This paper empirically and theoretically investigates the relation between labor rigidity and the value premium. Aggregate labor rigidity shifts dividend risk towards the short horizon and enhances the pricing of short-run risk. In turn, shorter duration equity deserves a premium over longer duration equity, that is the value premium obtains. Con- sistently, labor-share variation strongly explains the contemporaneous and intertemporal excess return of value firms over growth firms. A closed-form general equilibrium model reproduces the term-structure effect of labor rigidity and naturally gives rise to the value premium and its dynamics. The model is robust to many features of financial markets.
D51|The Provision of Collective Goods Through a Social Division of Labour|This paper develops a general equilibrium framework in which collective goods are provided by specialised professionals as part of an endogenously emerging social division of labour. It merges an economy with collective goods with the model of a private-goods market economy with an endogenously emerging social division of labour. Our approach is founded on the notion of a consumer-producer who endogenously select a profession, thereby inducing an endogenous social division of labour. Natural applications are the presence of non-tradables in production, the effects of education on productive abilities, and the market system itself as an implementation of the price mechanism. For an appropriately generalised notion of valuation equilibrium, we prove the two fundamental theorems of welfare economics under very general conditions, notably allowing for incomplete, non-monotonic, and non-transitive preferences. We also incorporate Adam Smith's principle of increasing returns to specialisation and investigate its effects on equilibrium prices.
D51|Edgeworth box economies with multiple equilibria|Abstract We derive sufficient conditions for the existence of multiple equilibria in two-good, two-agent pure exchange economies with heterogeneous but symmetric preferences with identical Bernoulli utilities. When preferences are non-homothetic (for example, quadratic, quasi-linear, or HARA), multiple equilibria are possible even with identical endowments.
D51|Contracts and domination in incomplete markets: what is a true core?|Abstract The goal of the paper is to propose and study a concept of domination by coalitions for incomplete markets. Previously elaborated in the context of contractual approach, now it is presented in more or less standard terms and style. This concept is described as a set of allocations implemented by the net trades (webs of contracts) that are characterized by a special kind of stability in future markets: (i) for every state of the world inducted allocation has to be Pareto optimal and individually rational and (ii) there is no coalition which is able to dominate the allocation via financially feasible trades in future spot markets using real assets and relative to prices specified by (i) (partial Pareto prices). This core converts into a classical one when the market turns complete. Under perfect competition conditions core allocations are GEI-equilibria. These properties prove the validity of suggested core.
D51|Designing a strategyproof spot market mechanism with many traders: twenty-two steps to Walrasian equilibrium|Abstract To prove their Walrasian equilibrium existence theorem, Arrow and Debreu (Econometrica 22(3):265–290, 1954) devised an abstract economy that Shapley and Shubik (J Polit Econ 85:937–968, 1977) criticized as a market game because, especially with untrustworthy traders, it fails to determine a credible outcome away from equilibrium. All this earlier work also postulated a Walrasian auctioneer with complete information about traders’ preferences and endowments. To ensure credible outcomes, even in disequilibrium, warehousing is introduced into a multistage market game. To achieve Walrasian outcomes in a large economy with incomplete information, even about traders’ endowments, a strategyproof demand revelation mechanism is considered and then extended to include warehousing.
D51|Ambiguous implementation: the partition model|Abstract In a partition model, we show that each maximin individually rational and ex ante maximin efficient allocation of a single good economy is implementable as a maximin equilibrium. When there are more than one good, we introduce three conditions. If none of the three conditions is satisfied, then a maximin individually rational and ex ante maximin efficient allocation may not be implementable. However, as long as one of the three conditions is satisfied, each maximin individually rational and ex ante maximin efficient allocation is implementable. Our work generalizes and extends the recent paper of de Castro et al. (Games Econ Behav 2015. doi: 10.1016/j.geb.2015.10.010 ).
D51|Information within coalitions: risk and ambiguity|We address economies with asymmetric information where agents are not perfectly aware about the informational structure for coalitions. Thus, we introduce solutions that we refer to as risky core and ambiguous core. We provide existence results and a variety of properties of these cooperative solutions.
D51|Optimal Taxation with Private Insurance|We derive a fully nonlinear optimal income tax schedule in the presence of a private insurance market. The optimal tax formula is expressed in terms of sufficient statistics?such as the Frisch elasticity of labor supply, social preferences, and hazard rates of the income distributions?as in the standard Mirrleesian taxation without private insurance (e.g., Saez (2001)). However, in the presence of a private market, the standard sufficient statistics are no longer sufficient. The optimal tax rate also depends on how private savings interact with public insurance? through substitution and crowding in/out. Based on our formula, we compute the optimal tax schedule using a quantitative general equilibrium model calibrated to reproduce the U.S. income distribution.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D51|What moves the Beveridge curve and the Phillips curve: An agent-based analysis|Understanding what moves the Phillips curve is important to monetary policy. Because the Phillips curve has experienced over time movements similar to those characterizing the Beveridge curve, the authors jointly analyze the two phenomena. They do that through an agent-based macro model based on adaptive micro-foundations, which works fairly well in replicating a number of stylized facts, including the Beveridge curve, the Phillips curve and the Okun curve. By Monte Carlo experiments they explore the mechanisms behind the movements of the Beveridge curve and the Phillips curve. They discovered that shifts of the Beveridge curve are best explained by the intensity of worker reallocation. Reallocation also shifts the Phillips curve in the same direction, suggesting that it may be the reason behind the similarity of the patterns historically recorded for these two curves. This finding may shed new light on what moves the Phillips curve and might have direct implications for the conduction of monetary policy.
D51|Rawls' fairness, income distribution and alarming level of Gini coefficient|The arguments that the alarming level of Gini coefficient is 0.4 are widely reported. However, to the authors' knowledge, it is not based upon any rigid economic theories. In this paper, they show that Rawls' fairness is compatible with the standard model of competitive markets. This finding reveals that the exponential income distribution not only satisfies Pareto optimality (or efficiency) but also obeys social fairness in Rawls' sense. Therefore, the authors specify the maximal value of Gini coefficients when income follows exponential distribution as a minimal basic reference point of the alarming level (calculated as 0.5), above which efficiency and Rawls' fairness cannot be guaranteed simultaneously. Their empirical investigations show that during peaceful times, worldwide Gini coefficients approximately obey asymptotic normal distribution with a mean around 0.4, contradicting the implication of alarming level; while the two-sigma rule shows that in our sample the alarming levels are all larger than 0.5, conforming to our prediction.
D51|International capital markets with time-varying preferences|We propose a 2-country asset-pricing model where agents' preferences change endogenously as a function of the popularity of internationally traded goods. We determine the effect of the time-variation of preferences on equity markets, consumption and portfolio choices. When agents are more sensitive to the popularity of domestic consumption goods, the local stock market reacts more strongly to the preferences of local agents than to the preferences of foreign agents. Therefore, home bias arises because home-country stock represents a better investment opportunity for hedging against future fluctuations in preferences. We test our model and find that preference evolution is a plausible driver of key macroeconomic variables and stock returns.
D51|Aggregation and convergence in experimental general equilibrium economies constructed from naturally occurring preferences|"Prior laboratory experiments have studied general equilibrium economies constructed from ""induced preferences"" for artificial goods. We introduce new methods that allow us to study economies constructed instead from subjects' actual, ""homegrown"" preferences. Our subjects reveal their preferences by choosing portfolios of Arrow securities from budget lines through fixed endowments for a series of prices. We then construct several different economies by sorting subjects according to their revealed preferences. The constructed economies exhibit a wide range of predicted outcomes, where predictions are competitive general equilibria given the revealed preferences. Perhaps surprisingly, in every one of our markets the predicted excess demand is well-behaved, and avoids the pathologies highlighted in the Sonnenschein-Mantel-Debreu theorem. (The main reason seems to be heterogeneity in revealed preferences.) Actual trade in the constructed economies using a tatonnement market institution closely tracks predictions in most markets. The exceptions occur in economies with severe wealth effects that generate excess demands that are flat relative to measured preference volatility."
D51|Coarse Competitive Equilibrium and Extreme Prices|We introduce a notion of coarse competitive equilibrium, to study agents' inability to tailor their consumption to prices. Our goal is to incorporate limited cognitive ability (in particular limited attention, memory, and complexity) into the analysis of competitive equilibrium. Compared to standard competitive equilibrium, our concept yields more extreme prices and, when all agents have the same endowment, riskier allocations. We provide a tractable model suitable for general equilibrium analysis as well as asset pricing.
D51|Nonparametric Counterfactual Predictions in Neoclassical Models of International Trade|We develop a methodology to construct nonparametric counterfactual predictions, free of functional form restrictions on preferences and technology, in neoclassical models of international trade. First, we establish the equivalence between such models and reduced exchange models in which countries directly exchange factor services. This equivalence implies that, for an arbitrary change in trade costs, counterfactual changes in the factor content of trade, factor prices, and welfare only depend on the shape of a reduced factor demand system. Second, we provide sufficient conditions under which estimates of this system can be recovered nonparametrically. Together, these results offer a strict generalization of the parametric approach used in so-called gravity models. Finally, we use China's recent integration into the world economy to illustrate the feasibility and potential benefits of our approach.
D51|Revisiting Multiplicity of Bubble Equilibria in a Search Model with Posted Prices|Multiplicity of equilibria naturally obtains in search models of money with price posting: buyers’ money holdings depend on posted prices, which, in turn, depend on buyers’ money holdings. I show that this multiplicity of equilibria exists in general even when money is replaced with a dividend-bearing asset, as long as the asset is useful as a medium of exchange. If the fundamental value of the asset is sufficiently high, there is a unique equilibrium, in which the price of the asset equals its fundamental value. For lower fundamental values, there is a continuum of bubble equilibria, in which the price of the asset exceeds the fundamental value. For very low fundamental values, the equilibrium is again unique but the asset is not used as a medium of exchange. I characterize the set of symmetric and asymmetric bubble equilibria for both positive and negative fundamental values.
D51|The Dynamics of Heterogeneity and Asset Prices|In the context of a continuous-time pure-exchange economy model, the paper develops a novel methodology, based on measure-valued stochastic processes, for analyzing the evolution of heterogeneity in a tractable manner and studying its impact on asset prices. The agents in the economy differ with respect to impatience, risk aversion, beliefs about the growth rate of output, and to the rules for updating beliefs. The heterogeneity itself is described by a single object, a measure, and its dynamics by a measure-valued stochastic process. A key contribution of the paper consists in obtaining a closed form formula for the stock price in the case in which preferences are homogeneous with the risk aversion parameter given by a natural number. We also synthesize and generalize existing results about the equilibrium in heterogeneous pure-exchange complete markets economies and we highlight the importance of the endogenously determined risk tolerance weighted consumption distribution as a key ingredient in driving the equilibrium variables.
D51|Oligopoly Equilibrium with differentiated commodities: a computation of two models|In this paper, we define the concept of symmetric Cournot-Walras equilibrium (SCWE thereafter) in a pure exchange economy with differentiated commodities based on Julien and Tricou (2005). We compute this concept of equilibrium to two economies where the oligopolists offer their differentiated goods on the market in order to obtain the competitive good. We obtain three main results. First, we find that, under certain conditions, SCWE-DP allocations and price converge to Walrasian ones. Second, we also find that whether the SCWE-DP is Pareto-dominated or not by Walrasian equilibrium depends on the type of economic agent (oligopolist or competitive). Third, the two economies are linked.
D51|Hierarchical Competition and Heterogeneous Behavior in Noncooperative Oligopoly Markets|In this paper, we consider a sequential bilateral oligopoly market which embodies a finite number of leaders and followers who compete on quantities. We define a noncooperative equilibrium concept for this two-stage market game with complete and perfect information, namely the Stackelberg-Nash equilibrium (SNE). Then, we study the existence of a SNE with trade. The existence proof requires some steps as this market game displays a rich set of strategic interactions. In particular, to show the existence of a pure strategy subgame perfect Nash equilibrium, we have to determine the conditions under which there exist well defined continuously differentiable best responses. Some examples buttress the approach and discuss the assumptions made on the primitives.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D51|Strategic fiscal policies in Europe: Why does the labour wedge matter?|Most European countries suffer from a structural weakness in employment and competitiveness. Can an optimal tax system reinforce European countries in this respect? In this paper, we show that fiscal competition can be a welfare improving second best solution if the labour wedge is sufficiently large. Indeed, a sufficiently large labour wedge calls for an expansion of the production set in both countries, thus increasing global opportunities. For a small labour wedge, this would not be the case, because the terms-of-trade externality would call for a fiscal policy that exacerbates a non-cooperative behaviour between countries. In a two-country world, we show that the symmetric Nash equilibrium can be Pareto-efficient, if employment subsidies are financed by a consumption tax. This is not the case when the former are financed by tariffs.
D51|Implementation under ambiguity|We introduce the idea of implementation under ambiguity. In particular, we study maximin efficient notions for an ambiguous asymmetric information economy (i.e., economies where agents' preferences are maximin à laWald, 1950). The interest on the maximin preferences lies in the fact that maximin efficient allocations are always incentive compatible (de Castro and Yannelis, 2009), a result which is false with Bayesian preferences. A noncooperative notion called maximin equilibrium is introduced which provides a noncooperative foundation for individually rational and maximin efficient notions. Specifically, we show that given any arbitrary individually rational and ex-ante maximin efficient allocation, there is a direct revelation mechanism that yields the efficient allocation as its unique maximin equilibrium outcome. Thus, an incentive compatible, individually rational and efficient outcome can be reached by means of noncooperative behavior under ambiguity.
D51|Progressive taxation and (in)stability in an exogenous growth model with an informal sector|We show that in an exogenous growth model with informal economy calibrated to Bulgarian data under the progressive taxation regime (1993-2007), the economy exhibits equilibrium indeterminacy due to the presence of an unofficial production. These results are in line with the findings in Benhabib and Farmer (1994, 1996) and Farmer (1999). Also, the findings in this paper are in contrast to Guo and Lansing (1988) who argue that progressive taxation works as an automatic stabilizer. Un- der the flat tax regime (2008-14), the economy calibrated to Bulgarian data displays saddle-path stability. The decrease in the average effective tax rate addresses the indeterminacy issue and eliminates the ”sink” dynamics.
D51|Exchange Efficiency with Weak Ownership Rights|"We show that efficient exchange obtains independently of the degree to which a legal system protects the rights of owners. We study a number of different legal rules, including property rules (strong protection), liability rules (any party can take the owner's asset but must pay a legally determined compensation), and even rules that protect the owner's interests very weakly (liability rules with a very low compensation level). Efficiency is obtained as long as the degree of protection provided by law and by the bargaining protocol is not ""too"" inversely correlated with a party's valuation of the asset."
D51|Production Networks|"In this paper, we model the economy as a production network of competitive firms that interact in a general-equilibrium setup. First, we find that, at the unique Walrasian equilibrium, the profit of each active firm is proportional to (a suitable generalization of) its Bonacich centrality. We also determine consumer welfare at equilibrium and characterize efficient networks. Then we proceed to conduct a broad range of comparative-static analyses. These include the effect on profits and welfare of: (a) distortions (e.g. tax/subsidies) imposed on the whole economy or specific firms; (b) structural changes such as the addition of links and the elimination of nodes; (c) productivity and preference changes. We discover that the induced effects are in general nonmonotone, depend on global network features, and impinge on each sector depending on the pattern of incentralities displayed by its input providers and output users. Furthermore, the inter-sector ""linkages"" underlying these effects can usually be decomposed – following the heuristic dichotomy proposed by Hirschman (1958) – into a forward (push) component and a backward (pull) one. Finally, we undertake some preliminary analysis of firm dynamics and illustrate that, when evaluating policies of support and shock mitigation from a dynamic viewpoint, the reliance on strict market-based criteria can be quite misleading in terms of social welfare."
D51|Exponential structure of income inequality: evidence from 67 countries|Abstract Economic competition between humans leads to income inequality, but, so far, there has been little understanding of underlying quantitative mechanisms governing such a collective behavior. We analyze datasets of household income from 67 countries, ranging from Europe to Latin America, North America and Asia. For all of the countries, we find a surprisingly uniform rule: income distribution for the great majority of populations (low and middle income classes) follows an exponential law. To explain this empirical observation, we propose a theoretical model within the standard framework of modern economics and show that free competition and Rawls’ fairness are the underlying mechanisms producing the exponential pattern. The free parameters of the exponential distribution in our model have an explicit economic interpretation and direct relevance to policy measures intended to alleviate income inequality.
D51|Africaâ€™s rising commodity export dependency on China|In this paper, we look at China-Africa trade links in more detail and evaluate some of the implications of Africaâ€™s growing commodity export dependency on China going forward, particularly in the context of a slowdown in China.
D51|Disaster recovery and the term structure of dividend strips|Recent empirical findings document downward-sloping term structures of equity return volatility and risk premia. An equilibrium model with rare disasters followed by recoveries helps reconcile theory with empirical observations. Indeed, recoveries outweigh the upward-sloping effect of time-varying disaster intensity and expected growth, generating downward-sloping term structures of dividend growth risk, equity return volatility, and equity risk premia. In addition, the term structure of interest rates is upward-sloping when accounting for recoveries and downward-sloping otherwise. The model quantitatively reconciles high risk premia and a low risk-free rate with the shape of the term structures, which are at odds in other models.
D51|Income Insurance and the Equilibrium Term-Structure of Equity|This paper documents that GDP, wages and dividends are co-integrated but feature term-structures of risk respectively flat, increasing and decreasing. Income insurance within the firm from shareholders to workers explains those term-structures: distributional risk smooths wages and enhances the short-run risk of dividends. A simple general equilibrium model, where labor rigidity affects dividend dynamics and the price of short-run risk, reconciles standard asset pricing facts with the term-structures of equity premium and volatility and those of macroeconomic variables, at odds in leading models. Income insurance also helps to explain dividend growth predictability, cross-sectional value premia, counter-cyclical Sharpe-ratios, and interest rates term-premia.
D51|Labor Rigidity, Ination Risk and Bond Returns|This paper exploits information from the variance-ratios of macroeconomic variables to infer about the short and long-run components of dividend risk and ination risk. While labor rigidity shifts dividend risk towards the short horizon, it also reveals {by means of labor-share variation{ the component of ination risk which is correlated with fundamentals. A simple general equilibrium model with labor rigidity can explain how ination interacts with the real growth and the labor-share, as well as many patterns of the term-structures of real and nominal bond yields. The model is robust to many properties of equity returns.
D51|Oligopolistic vs. monopolistic competition: Do intersectoral effects matter?|Abstract Recent extensions of the standard Dixit–Stiglitz (Am Econ Rev 67:297–308, 1977) model, that go beyond the CES sub-utility assumption while maintaining monopolistic competition, have mainly emphasized the role of intrasectoral substitutability. We argue that introducing oligopolistic competition can be an alternative extension, still tractable, allowing to restore the role of intersectoral substitutability and reinforcing the general equilibrium dimension of the model. For this purpose, we define a comprehensive concept of oligopolistic equilibrium to give account of a large set of competition regimes with varying competitive toughness. For two particular regimes, price competition and quantity competition, we show how, with strategic interactions, pro-competitive or anti-competitive effects now depend on the intersectoral elasticity of substitution as compared to the intrasectoral elasticity of substitution.
D51|Existence and multiplicity of temporary equilibria under nominal price rigidities|Abstract This paper proves existence of a multiplicity of equilibria in a two-period TGE model with money and nominal rigidities. Households have incomplete preferences and firms reach decisions through the “control principle”. The multiple equilibria belong to an inflation–unemployment locus allowing for a Phillips curve or stagflation.
D51|The transfer paradox in welfare space|The transfer paradox describes a situation in which a transfer of endowments between two agents results in a welfare decrease for the recipient and a welfare increase for the donor. It is known that in a two-agent regular exchange economy with an arbitrary number of goods, the transfer paradox occurs only if the price equilibrium is unstable. In this paper, we show that in the space of welfare weights, the set of stable equilibria and the set of no-transfer paradox equilibria coincide. As a corollary we also obtain that for two agents and an arbitrary number of goods, the index of an equilibrium in price space coincides with its index in welfare space.
D51|Uniqueness and Stability of Equilibrium in Economies with Two Goods|We offer new sufficient conditions ensuring demand is downward sloping local to equilibrium. It follows that equilibrium is unique and stable in the sense that rising supply implies falling prices. In our setting, there are two goods, which we interpret as consumption in different time periods, and many impatience types. Agents have the same Bernoulli utility function, but the types differ arbitrarily in time preference. Our main result is that if endowments are identical and utility displays nonincreasing absolute risk aversion, then market demand is strictly downward sloping local to equilibrium. We discuss implications for the Diamond-Dybvig literature.
D51|The Determinants of Inflation in India: The Bounds Test Analysis|India is facing a fast rise in the general price level for the last couple of years. This paper seeks to empirically examine the sources of inflation in India both in the long-run and in the short-run by using the co-integration method developed by Pesaran et al. (2000). The empirical findings suggests that in the long-run money supply (MS), depreciation of the rupee and supply bottlenecks puts a pressure on the domestic price level by causing inflation to rise in the country. The analysis reveals that in the long-run domestic factors as monetary growth and supply bottlenecks dominates the external factors for a rise in the domestic prices in the economy. The short-run analysis also reveals that domestic factor MS and supply bottlenecks dominate the external factor as a measure cause for a persistent rise in the price level in the country. The supply bottlenecks are though a significant factor in the short-run, but its importance in the long-run is relatively small
D51|Demand shifting bids in energy auction with non-convexities and transmission constraints|The major objective of this paper was to propose clearing and pricing models suitable for demand shifting bids in the efficient, but non-convex pool-based auction. Complex generators' offers bring non-convexities into the efficient auctions due to e.g. start-up costs and times. This paper focused on the responsive demands, introducing simple, yet adequate linear constraints into a multi-period bid/offer-based optimal power flow (OPF DC) model. As the standard locational marginal prices (LMPs) may not support the auction outcomes due to non-convexities, uplifts are needed to reduce generators' loss. Previous work has developed a minimum-uplift pricing model that directly optimizes prices, so that uplifts arising from generators' profit-suboptimality and simple, elastic demands' benefit-suboptimality are minimized. This work extended the mixed integer linear programming (MILP) formulation of the previous model to incorporate new linear constraints defining benefit-suboptimality of demand shifting bids. Furthermore, the transmission constrained market was attempted. As a result, the buyers were protected against over-curtailment; moreover, prices complemented with minimum uplifts were fair for both generators and demands. The models were validated on the literature-based cases, including IEEE RTS 24-node 24-hour system.
D51|Fractional matching markets|I take a decentralized approach to fractional matching with and without money. For the model with money I define and show the existence of competitive equilibria. For the model without money, while competitive equilibria may not exist, I define a version of approximate equilibrium and show existence.
D51|Reference dependent ambiguity|Motivated by experimental and empirical evidence, I study a framework where reference-points – such as a status quo, endowment, or default option – can distort the way an individual responds to ambiguity. I characterize a model of reference-dependent maxmin expected utility, and provide behavioral foundations for comparing reference-dependent ambiguity attitudes. I also illustrate some implications of reference-dependent ambiguity for trade in an asset market, including underdiversification, no-trade, and the potential for a market collapse.
D51|Equilibrium using credit or money with indivisible goods|This note studies the trade of indivisible goods using credit or money in a frictional market. We show how indivisibility matters for monetary equilibrium under different assumptions about price determination. Bargaining generates a price and allocation that are independent of the nominal interest or inflation rate over some range. This is not the case with price posting and directed search. In either case, we provide conditions (the nominal rate cannot be too high) under which stationary monetary equilibrium exists, and we show it is unique or generically unique.
D51|Steel scrap and equity market in Japan|Steel scrap is an important raw material in the steel making industry. As steel is a vital metal in modern life, the price of steel scrap is viewed as an important indicator of the macroeconomic activity. Steel scrap is consumed mainly in the electric arc furnace steel making, which represents approximately 30 per cent of the world annual steel production. Unlike other minerals including iron ore, both the supply and consumption amounts of steel scrap can be relatively easily adjusted based on the contemporary industrial activity level. For this reason, the steel scrap price reflects the condition of the macro economy and thereby it can be used as an indicator of future stock market performance in the country by market participants. Nevertheless, there is not much research on the market of steel scrap. This study aims to close this gap by testing the lead–lag relationship between the changes of steel scrap price and the aggregate Japanese stock market movement. Our empirical analyses suggest that the steel scrap price changes are informative in explaining the future stock market performance in Japan.
D51|Endowment redistribution and Pareto improvements in GEI economies|With incomplete markets and numeraire assets, there are open sets of economies such that their equilibrium allocations can be improved upon by a reallocation of period zero endowments. This strengthens the classical results on constrained Pareto inefficiency of equilibria in GEI.
D51|Real and Nominal Equilibrium Yield Curves: Wage Rigidities and Permanent Shocks|The links between real and nominal bond risk premia and macroeconomic dynamics are explored quantitatively in a model with nominal rigidities and monetary policy. The estimated model captures macroeconomic and yield curve properties of the U.S. economy, implying significantly positive real term and inflation risk bond premia. In contrast to previous literature, both premia are positive and generated by wage rigidities as a compensation for permanent productivity shocks. Stronger policy-rule responses to inflation (output) increase (decrease) both premia, while policy surprises generate negligible risk premia. Empirical evidence of the economic mechanism is provided.
D51|Credit, Money and Asset Equilibria with Indivisible Goods| We study the trade of indivisible goods using credit, divisible money and divisible assets in a frictional market. We show how indivisibility matters for equilibria. Bargaining generates a price that is not linked to nominal interest rates, dividend value of the asset, or the number of active buyers. To reestablish this connection, we consider price posting with competitive search. We provide conditions under which stationary equilibrium exists. With bargaining, we find that for negative dividend value on the asset, multiple equilibria occur. Otherwise, in all possible combinations of liquidity and price mechanisms the equilibrium is unique or generically unique.
D51|Credit, Money and Asset Equilibria with Indivisible Goods| In a New Monetarist framework, we study the trade of indivisible goods under credit, divisible money and divisible asset in a frictional market. We show how indivisibility on the goods side, instead of the money or asset side, matters for equilibria. The bargaining solution generates a price that is independent of nominal interest rate, dividend value of the asset, or the number of active buyers carrying the asset for liquidity purposes. To reestablish this link, we consider price posting with competitive search. We derive conditions under which stationary equilibrium exists. With asset and bargaining, we find that for negative dividend value on the asset, multiple equilibria occur. Otherwise, in all possible combinations of liquidity and price mechanisms, including positive dividend value under asset, the equilibrium is unique or generically unique.
D51|Equilibrium of a production economy with noncompact attainable allocations set|In this paper, we consider a production economy with an unbounded attainable set where the consumers may have non-complete non-transitive preferences. To get the existence of an equilibrium, we provide an asymptotic property on preferences for the attainable consumptions and we use a combination of nonlinear optimization and fixed point theorem on truncated economies together with an asymptotic argument. We show that this condition holds true if the set of attainable allocations is compact or, when preferences are representable by utility functions, if the set of attainable individually rational utility levels is compact. This assumption generalizes the CPP condition of Allouch (2002) and covers the example of Page et al. (2000) when the attainable utility levels set is not compact. So we extend the previous existence results with non compact attainable sets in two ways by adding a production sector and considering general preferences
D51|Production Networks|In this paper, we model the economy as a production network of competitive firms that interact in a general-equilibrium setup. First, we find that, at the unique Walrasian equilibrium, the profit of each active firm is proportional to (a suitable generalization of) its Bonacich centrality. We also determine consumer welfare at equilibrium and characterize efficient networks. Then we proceed to conduct a broad range of comparative-static analyses. These include the effect on profits and welfare of: (a) distortions (e.g. tax/subsidies) imposed on the whole economy or specific firms; (b) structural changes such as the addition of links and the elimination of nodes; (c) productivity and preference changes. We discover that the induced effects are in general nonmonotone, depend on global network features, and impinge on each sector depending on the pattern of incentralities displayed by its input providers and output users. Furthermore, the inter-sector “linkages” underlying these effects can usually be decomposed – following the heuristic dichotomy proposed by Hirschman (1958) – into a forward (push) component and a backward (pull) one. Finally, we undertake some preliminary analysis of firm dynamics and illustrate that, when evaluating policies of support and shock mitigation from a dynamic viewpoint, the reliance on strict market-based criteria can be quite misleading in terms of social welfare.
D51|A Comparison of Different Window Models for Measuring Technical Efficiency|This study analyzes the technical efficiency of Iran's 13 major cotton producing provinces over the period 2000-2012. To assess technical efficiency over time we use several non-parametric versions of the Window methodology. These include Window-DEA, Window-FDH, Window order- and Window order-m models. In a Window’s analysis one uses moving average patterns as a provincial observation in each period treated as if it is a different observation leading to a higher number of observations. The aim is to shed light on temporal patterns and heterogeneity in efficiency, time dependency and sensitivity of the results attributed to different efficiency measurement methodologies that are applied using the same dataset. It then invokes four consistency conditions to examine these scores and rankings. According to our results the models Window-FDH, Window order- and Window order-m are consistent. We were able to identify the most (least) efficient provinces and follow temporal patterns of their performance in the production of cotton. The findings reveal that provinces with larger scales of production are not necessarily more efficient. The results also indicate that although there are differences in the levels of efficiency across the models used, efficiency rankings from various models tend to support similar conclusions about the relative performance of the sample provinces.
D51|No bullying! A playful proof of Brouwer's fixed-point theorem|We give an elementary proof of Brouwer's fixed-point theorem. The only mathematical prerequisite is a version of the Bolzano-Weierstrass theorem: a sequence in a compact subset of n-dimensional Euclidean space has a convergent subsequence with a limit in that set. Our main tool is a `no-bullying' lemma for agents with preferences over indivisible goods. What does this lemma claim? Consider a finite number of children, each with a single indivisible good (a toy) and preferences over those toys. Let's say that a group of children, possibly after exchanging toys, could bully some poor kid if all group members find their own current toy better than the toy of this victim. The no-bullying lemma asserts that some group S of children can redistribute their toys among themselves in such a way that all members of S get their favorite toy from S, but they cannot bully anyone.
D51|The entrepreneurial rent: the value of and compensation for entrepreneurship|Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to show that entrepreneurship can be fruitfully analyzed by positing that entrepreneurs are searching for rates of return exceeding the risk-adjusted market rate of return, i.e., they try to create or discover economic rents. Design/methodology/approach - A conceptual paper trying to bridge the gap between neoclassical economics and the entrepreneurship field by seeing entrepreneurship as the search for and creation of (entrepreneurial) rents. Findings - In the short to medium term the search for and creation of entrepreneurial rents give rise to supernormal profits if successful. In the longer term these rents are dissipated and accrue to society at large as cheaper and better products. Entrepreneurial rents are crucial for bringing about the innovation and continuous structural change required to generate economic growth. Practical implications - The search for entrepreneurial rents is crucial for economic development. Without the possibility to earn entrepreneurial rents, no entrepreneur would be willing to exercise entrepreneurship and exploit entrepreneurial opportunities. Successful entrepreneurship attracts imitating firms that push back profits to normal levels and the benefits of the innovation will be diffused to consumers. Social implications - Understanding the role of entrepreneurship and its compensation is crucial for analyses of potential policy measures. High Originality/value - The entrepreneurial function and its compensation are often neglected in neoclassical economics. This is a major shortcoming, as the presence of and search for entrepreneurial rents are necessary for bringing about the innovation and structural change that result in economic growth.
D51|A Progress Report On Marxian Economic Theory: On The Controversies In Exploitation Theory Since Okishio (1963)|This report explores the development of exploitation theory in mathematical Marxian economics by reviewing the main controversies surrounding the proper definition of exploitation since the contribution of Okishio. The report first examines the debates on the Fundamental Marxian Theorem and Classâ€ Exploitation Correspondence Principle, developed mainly in the 1970s and 1980s, followed by the property relation theory of exploitation by Roemer. Then, the more recent exploitation theory proposed by Vrousalis and Wright is introduced. Finally, the report introduces and comments on recent axiomatic studies of exploitation by focusing on the work of Veneziani and Yoshihara.
D51|On the Existence and Characterization of Unequal Exchange in the Free Trade Equilibrium|As in Roemer (, chapter 1), this article considers a simple international trade model and examines the existence and characterization of free trade equilibria involving the unequal exchange of labor (UE). The article provides an almost complete characterization of the domain of economies in which free trade equilibria with incomplete specialization exist. Moreover, the necessary and sufficient conditions for free trade equilibrium to involve UE is identified. It suggests that the emergence of free trade equilibria with UE cannot be entailed by the competitive mechanism of markets and unequal distribution of wealth alone, but might be understood as an outcome of equilibrium selection on the basis of Nash bargaining between rich and poor nations.
D51|A re-examination of constrained Pareto inefficiency in economies with incomplete markets|We establish that, when the number of agents is sufficiently large, but finite, there are open sets of economies with constrained Pareto inefficient equilibria and provide a simple sufficient condition for constrained inefficiency. We also show that there are open sets of economies with constrained efficient equilibria. Hence, for these economies, neither constrained efficiency, nor its lack, are generic properties. However, constrained inefficiency is a pervasive feature: for each economy with preferences satisfying a mild restriction, there are open sets of endowments such that their equilibrium allocations are constrained inefficient.
D51|Cambio estructural y desindustrialización en México./ Structural Change and desindustrialisation in Mexico|En este artículo se hace un análisis de la economía mexicana que en las últimas décadas se transformó y sufrió cambios de gran magnitud en su estructura productiva y sectorial, convirtiéndose en una economía abierta, estancada y expulsora de trabajo hacia los Estados Unidos. Se demuestra como con la apertura en los años noventa y la competencia del exterior, se fortaleció la insuficiencia dinámica de la industria y se acentuó la terciarización precoz de la economía mexicana. Lo que trajo consigo una acelerada desindustrialización y la consecutiva absorción espuria del trabajo. En esta perspectiva se hace una revisión de los principales conceptos de la teoría del desarrollo sobre la naturaleza del cambio estructural y se analiza el comportamiento de la economía mexicana durante el periodo./ This paper presents an analysis of the Mexican economy. The Mexican economy has transformed and suffered major changes in its productive and sectorial structures during recent decades. Becoming an open, stagnant economy that expels labor towards the US. This demonstrates how as the nineties began along with foreign competition, the dynamic failure of the industry was strengthened and early outsourcing of the Mexican economy deepened. Which resulted in an accelerated deindustrialization and consecutive spurious absorption of labor. This point of view reviews the main concepts of development theory which describes the nature of structural change and analyzes the behavior of the Mexican economy during that period.
D51|Una visión crítica del problema de indeterminación de la distribución del ingreso en el sistema económico de piero Sraffa./ A critical view of the problem indeterminacy of distributionincome in the system Sraffa economic Piero|El modelo de Piero Sraffa (1960) propone una indeterminación de origen en la distribución del ingreso, la cual tiene implicaciones importantes pues su arbitraria determinación modifica los precios relativos entre los bienes. Este trabajo muestra que al incluir las ecuaciones de producción, y el modelo económico de demanda de Ramsey (1928), la indeterminación del sistema de Sraffa (1960) desaparece siempre y cuando haya pleno empleo del factor trabajo. Sin embargo, sigue siendo cierto que los precios relativos de las mercancías en relación a los salarios se determinan en una variante de la teoría del valor trabajo./ The model by Piero Sraffa (1960) proposes an indeterminacy in the distribution of income, which has important implications since its arbitrary determination modifies relative prices among goods. This paper shows that when we include equations of production and the Ramsey´s 1928 model of demand for goods, the indeterminacy of the Sraffian system disappears provided where there is full employment of labor. Relative prices of goods in terms of wages are determined as a variant of the labor theory of value, nonetheless.
D51|Rational land and housing bubbles in infinite-horizon economies|This paper considers rational land and housing bubbles in an infinite-horizon general equilibrium model. Their demands rest on two different grounds: the land is an input to produce while the house may be consumed. Our work differs from the existing literature in two respects. First, dividends on both these long-lived assets are endogenous and their sequences are computed. Second, we introduce and study different concepts of bubbles, including individual and strong bubbles.
D51|Equilibrium of a production economy with unbounded attainable allocations set|In this paper, we consider a production economy with an unbounded attainable set where the consumers may have non-complete non-transitive preferences. To get the existence of an equilibrium, we provide an asymptotic property on preferences for the attainable consumptions. We show that this condition holds true if the set of attainable allocations is compact or, when preferences are representable by utility functions, if the set of attainable individually rational utility levels is compact. So we extend the previous existence results with unbounded attainable sets in two ways by adding a production sector and considering general preferences
D51|Local Independence, Monotonicity and Axiomatic Characterization of Price-Money Message Mechanism|To characterize money in a static economic model, it is known to be important to consider the agent- commodity double-in nity settings, i.e., the overlapping-generations framework. There does not seem to exist any papers, however, treating the axiomatic characterization problems for such monetary Walras allocations under the social choice and/or mechanism design settings. We show that the monetary Walras allocation for the economy with double in nities is characterized by weak Pareto- optimality, individual rationality, local independence or the monotonicity conditions of social choice correspondence among the allocation mechanisms with messages under the category theoretic approach in Sonnenschein (1974). We utilize Sonnenschein's market extension axiom for swamped economies that is closely related to the replica stability axiom of Thomson (1988). We can see how these conditions characterize the price-money message mechanism universally among a wide class of mechanisms, and efficiently in the sense that it has the minimal message spaces (price-money dictionary theorems). Moreover, by using the category theoretic framework, we can obtain the up-to-isomorphism uniqueness for such a dictionary object (isomorphism theorems).
D51|Corporate Fraction and the Equilibrium Term Structure of Equity Risk|The recent empirical evidence of a downward-sloping term structure of equity risk is viewed as a challenge to many leading asset pricing models. This article analytically characterizes conditions under which a continuous-time long-run risk model can accommodate the stylized facts about dividend and equity risk, when dividends are a stationary stochastic fraction of aggregate consumption. Such a cointegrating relation not only makes dividends riskier in the short run than at medium horizons but also preserves the role of long-run risk: consequently, the model captures both the traditional puzzles, like the high equity premium, as well as the new evidence about the term structure of equity risk.
D51|Price expectations in neo-Walrasian equilibrium models: an overview|Since the late 1960s, the efforts of general equilibrium theorists have been directed towards overcoming the evident limitation of the Arrow-Debreu model, i.e. the assumption that the transactions associated with the future activities of agents are all regulated at the initial date on a complete system of forward markets. Research has thus focused on ‘sequential economies’, in which spot markets are active in each period, and has developed along two paths, both inspired by Hicks’s Value and Capital and stressing the dependence of agents’ choices on their expectations of future prices. The first is temporary equilibrium theory, in which expectations are assumed to be subjective. The second postulates that all agents exactly predict the future prices (sequential economies with perfect foresight). This paper examines the analytical problems that the inclusion of expectations among the determinants of equilibrium originates within each approach. In the light of the studies of the 1970s and 1980s, it first illustrates the difficulties that arise in temporary equilibrium theory due to the subjective nature of individual forecasts. Then it moves on to examine sequential economies with perfect foresight. After illustrating the equilibrium notion on which the analysis of those economies relies, i.e. the ‘equilibrium of plans, prices and price expectations’ introduced by Radner (1972), it indicates, on the basis of recent contributions, that for plausible configurations of the economy the perfect foresight associated with Radner equilibria proves not only unrealistic but also theoretically dubious.
D51|Coalitional Extreme Desirability in Finitely Additive Economies with Asymmetric Information|We prove a coalitional core-Walras equivalence theorem for an asymmetric information exchange economy with a finitely additive measure space of agents, finitely many states of nature, and an infinite dimensional commodity space having the Radon-Nikodym property and whose positive cone has possibly empty interior. The result is based on a new cone condition, firstly developed in Centrone and Martellotti (2015), called coalitional extreme desirability. As a consequence, we also derive a new individualistic core-Walras equivalence result.
D51|Economics of Regulation: Credit Rationing and Excess Liquidity|: In examining the global imbalance by the excess liquidity level, the argument is whether commercial banks want to hold excess reserves for the precautionary aim or expect to get better return through risky decision. By pictorial representations, risk preference in the Machina’s triangle (1982, 1987) encapsulates motivation to hold excess liquidity. This paper introduces an endogenous liquidity model for the ﬁnancial sector where the imbalance argument comes from credit rationing extended from outside liquidity (Holmstrom and Tirole, 2011). We also conduct a stylistic analysis of excess liquidity in Jordan and Lebanon from 1993 to 2015. As such, the proposed model exempliﬁes the combination of credit, liquidity and regulation.
D51|The New Concept of Money: From Record-Of-Value (RoV) To Record-Of-Entropy (RoE)|In this paper, we shall analyse the concept of Money. Presently money is viewed as Record-of-Value i.e. money is used to capture value created in any activity. We start by defining money. Then we discuss the way energy is spent in creating value is measured using money. We also assess the uses of money by viewing it as a Record-of-Value entity. We discuss about the parallel economy which impacts mainstream economy in various ways. Economic Entropy is then defined and discussed. An equation that relates Economic Entropy, value based money and other economic parameters is proposed. The various advantages of viewing money as a Record-of-Entropy are debated. Finally, the paper concludes as to which concept is best suited to present day and future economic scenarios.
D51|Strategic trade in pollution permits|Markets for pollution have become a popular regulatory instrument. In this article we investigate the implications of strategic trade in pollution permits. The permit market is developed as a strategic market game, where all firms are allowed to behave strategically and their roles as buyers or sellers of permits are determined endogenously with price-mediated trade. In a second stage, firms transact on a product market and we allow for a variety of market structures. We identify a unique equilibrium in permit exchange, investigate the properties of this equilibrium, and consider the effect of strategic behavior in the product market.
D51|Accounting for Firm Exit and Loss of Variety in the Welfare Cost of Regulations|This paper develops a multi-sector general equilibrium model with heterogeneous firms to account for both the direct cost of regulations on regulated firms as well as the indirect cost associated with firm exit and loss of variety. The model derives an analytical marginal abatement cost function, dividing the cost according to various direct and indirect effects, and explores the implications for optimal environmental policy. The model is calibrated to the U.S. manufacturing sector for criteria air pollutants, demonstrating that the direct cost of regulations significantly overstates the true cost. Moreover, because marginal abatement costs vary across industries, reallocating pollution across industries from their current levels can generate substantial cost savings.
D51|Can Higher-Order Risks Explain the Credit Spread Puzzle?|We tweak the conventional Merton model to account for the asymmetric properties of assets returns and investors asymmetric behavior toward the upside potential of gain versus the downside risk of loss. Using an asymmetric split normal distribution, we capture empirical asymmetries in the underlying return distribution, while we conserve the attractiveness of delivering closed-form pricing formulas that collapse to the basic Merton model in the symmetric Gaussian case. The asymmetric specification outperforms the symmetric one in matching high levels of historical credit spreads. We then link the residual (non-default-model-implied) spread to two illiquidity risk factors. The first factor is extracted from several measures of idiosyncratic illiquidity variables and the second factor is a systematic factor obtained from a general index common to all studied bonds. Our model explains 70% of the BBB-AAA spread and more than 72% of BBB and AAA credit spreads relative to the on-the-run Treasury rates.
D51|Coalitional fairness with participation rates|Abstract This paper investigates coalitional fairness in pure exchange economies with asymmetric information. We study allocations of resources which are immune from envy when comparisons take place between coalitions. The model allows negligible and non-negligible traders, partially informed about the true state of nature at the time of consumption, to exchange any number, possibly infinite, of commodities. Our analysis is based on the Aubin approach to coalitions and cooperation. Namely, on a notion of cooperation allowing traders to take part in one or more coalitions simultaneously, employing only shares of their endowments (participation rates). We introduce and study in detail the notion of coalition fairness with participation rates (or Aubin c-fairness) and show that flexibility in cooperation permits to recover the failure of fairness properties of equilibrium allocations. Our results provide applications to several market outcomes (ex-post core, fine core, ex-post competitive equilibria, rational expectations equilibria) and emphasize the consequences of the convexification effect due to participation rates for models with large traders and infinitely many commodities.
D51|Cones with semi-interior points and equilibrium|We study exchange economies in ordered normed spaces (X,‖⋅‖) where agents have possibly different consumption sets. We define the notion of semi-interior point of the positive cone X+ of X, a notion weaker than the one of interior point and we study the existence of equilibrium in the case where X+ has semi-interior points. In Section 4, we study the case where X+ has interior points and we prove a second welfare theorem and the existence of equilibrium. Subsequently we apply these results in the case where X+ has semi-interior points. In the case of semi-interior points the supporting price vectors are continuous with respect to a new norm ∣∣∣⋅∣∣∣ on X which is strongly related with the initial norm and the ordering, and in some sense can be considered as an extension of the norm adopted in classical equilibrium models. Many examples of cones in normed and Banach spaces with semi-interior points but with empty interior are provided, showing that this class of cones is a rich one. In the last section we apply our results to strongly reflexive cones.
D51|Stable sets for exchange economies with interdependent preferences|We introduce the notion of stable sets with externalities and prove its existence. Stable sets provide a successful alternative to core notions of externalities (i.e., α-core, β-core and strong Nash equilibrium), which are typically empty. However, the stable sets do exist in situations where the above core notions are empty.
D51|Search and matching frictions and business cycle fluctuations in Bulgaria|In this paper we investigate the quantitative importance of search and matching fric- tions in Bulgarian labor markets. This is done by augmenting an otherwise standard real business cycle model a la Long and Plosser (1983) with both a two-sided costly search and fiscal policy. This introduces a strong propagation mechanism that allows the model to capture the business cycles in Bulgaria better than earlier models. The model performs well vis-a-vis data, especially along the labor market dimension, and in addition dominates the market-clearing labor market framework featured in the stan- dard RBC model, e.g Vasilev (2009), as well as the indivisible labor extension used in Hansen (1985).
D51|The Road to Socioeconomic Fractality|Modelling socioeconomic phenomena is a challenge because of the difficulty to relate abstract conceptual structures with complex empirical data. The standard econometric approach takes whatever insight there exists, and simplifies it to fit into regression equations. However, developing economic ideas and empirical models separately may foster a tendency for science to diverge from reality, especially when those ideas originate in another discipline. This paper suggests a stochastic-optimization-based mapping of concepts from any domain on concepts from economics and management science. Such an approach could potentially alleviate the divergence problem by outsourcing part of the researcher’s task to the computational intelligence. By way of example I discuss the opportunities to use the field of mathematical neuroscience as a source of knowledge to be transferred to socioeconomic research.
D51|The Effects of Cameroonian Informal Sector on the Scale and Composition of Output|This paper studies potential economic effect of the informal sector, stemming from two factors: first, that informal workers, rural migrants, bring not only their labour supply with them, but also their consumption demands. Second, that informal workers may have a comparative advantage in the production of local goods. The paper then provides some descriptive statistics on the Informal workers share in the Cameroonian labour force, by industry, region, as well as on their branches distribution. Using data on a sample of microenterprises located in Douala and Yaounde between 2001 and 2010 matched with Rural and Urban Youth Support Program (RUYSP) and the National Employment Fund (NEF) data, the paper find some evidence that rural workers inflows boost employment in the retail sector, which is non-traded and a non-intensive user of informal labour. The paper also find that informalisation is associated with greater stand-alone retail stores, and a fewer number of large and in particular big-box retailers – evidence that likely corroborate a diversityenhancing effect of informalisation. Finally, focusing more sharply on the agricultural sector, for which we can better identify the types of products consumed by customers, the authors indicate that informalisation is associated with increased product diversity of agricultural sellers.
D51|Throwing good money after bad|Abstract An “investment bubble” is a period of “excessive, and predictably unprofitable, investment” (DeMarzo et al. in J Financ Econ 85:737–754, 2007). Such bubbles most often accompany the arrival of some new technology, such as the tech stock boom and bust of the late 1990s and early 2000s. We provide a rational explanation for investment bubbles based on the dynamics of learning in highly uncertain environments. Objective information about the earnings potential of a new technology gives rise to a set of priors or a belief function. A generalised form of Bayes’ rule is used to update this set of priors using earnings data from the new economy. In each period, agents—who are heterogeneous in their tolerance for ambiguity—make optimal occupational choices, with wages in the new economy set to clear the labour market. A preponderance of bad news about the new technology may nevertheless give rise to increasing firm formation around this technology, at least initially. To a frequentist outside observer, the pattern of adoption appears as an investment bubble.
D51|Rational expectations equilibria: existence and representation|Abstract In this paper, we continue to explore the equilibrium theory under ambiguity. For a model of a pure exchange and asymmetric information economy with a measure space of agents whose exogenous uncertainty is described by a complete probability space, we establish a representation theorem for a Bayesian or maximin rational expectations equilibrium allocation in terms of a state-wise Walrasian equilibrium allocation. This result strengthens the theorems on the existence and representation of a (Bayesian) rational expectations equilibrium or a maximin rational expectations equilibrium in the literature.
D51|Existence of Walrasian equilibria with discontinuous, non-ordered, interdependent and price-dependent preferences|Abstract We generalize the classical equilibrium existence theorems by dispensing with the assumption of continuity of preferences. Our new existence results allow us to dispense with the interiority assumption on the initial endowments. Furthermore, we allow for non-ordered, interdependent and price-dependent preferences.
D51|Stable sets of allocations and the provision of public goods|Abstract In a market model with public projects, we introduce and study von Neumann–Morgenstern stable sets. Stability concepts derive from a procedure in which the blocking coalitions are responsible for a share of the total cost of the public project. This share is determined by a contribution measure. Moreover, the analysis is extended to the case in which traders can join a coalition with a grade of membership. In this framework, under proper assumptions, we provide a correspondence between stable sets of an economy with finitely many types and stable sets of an associated finite economy and prove uniqueness of stable sets when the dominance is defined over a suitable family of coalitions.
D51|Conditional exact law of large numbers and asymmetric information economies with aggregate uncertainty|Abstract A stochastic model with a continuum of economic agents often involves shocks at both macro and micro levels. This can be formalized by a continuum of conditionally independent random variables given the macro level shocks. Based on the framework of a Fubini extension, the results on the exact law of large numbers and its converse for a continuum of independent random variables in Sun (J Econ Theory 126:31–69, 2006) are extended to the setting with conditional independence given general macro states. It also follows from Hammond and Sun (Econ Theory 36:303–325, 2008) that the conditional independence assumption is generally satisfied. As an illustrative application, it is shown that any ex ante efficient allocation in an asymmetric information economy with general aggregate uncertainty has a (utility) equivalent allocation that is incentive compatible, which generalizes the corresponding results in Sun and Yannelis (Games Econ Behav 61:131–155, 2007) to the case with infinitely many states.
D51|Implementation of maximin rational expectations equilibrium|Abstract We study the implementation of maximin rational expectations equilibrium (MREE). When each agent’s interim information is only his private signal, we show that each non-revealing MREE is implementable. This is not true for a partially revealing MREE or a fully revealing MREE. However, if each agent learns both his private signal and the market price in the interim, then each partially revealing and fully revealing MREE is implementable.
D51|Determinants Of Blood Donation: A Study On Organizational Satisfaction|The present research aims at investigating if motivations and social norms can determine satisfaction with organization – understood as an indicator of organizational well-being – in blood donation. Moreover, this study analyses the relations of organizational satisfaction on integration in the organization and identification with it in order to pursue research on prosocial behaviour volunteer retention. 2464 blood donors were contacted. The present work has important applicative implications as it can give guidance to blood donation organizations regarding factors determining attraction and maintenance of donors.
D51|Fairness and Utilitarianism without Independence|In this work we reconsider Harsanyi?s celebrated (1953, 1955, 1977) utilitarian impartial observer theorem. Departing from Harsanyi?s individual-centered approach, we argue that, when societal decisions are at stake, postulates must not be drawn from individualistic behavior. Rather, they should be based on societal norms. Hence, notions like societal fairness should explicitly be taken as the guiding principles. Continuing this line of thinking, we state and prove a utilitarian result that, rather than the independence assumption, is based on the notion of procedural fairness and on similar treatment of societal and individual lotteries.
D51|Regulation of trades based on differences in beliefs|Some trades based on differences in beliefs might cause more harm than good. Should they be restricted? If yes, how? We propose three properties ensuring that regulation does not prevent beneficial trade and is consistent: Unanimity – the regulator should not object to trades with identical beliefs; Merge-Proofness of Autarky – if the regulator does not object to finitely many unrelated trades, all with identical beliefs, then it should not object to the mere juxtaposition of the trades; and Independence of Irrelevant Trade – if the regulator does not object to the juxtaposition of two unrelated trades, then it should not object to any of the two trades standing alone. We show that there is a unique policy having these three properties, namely laissez-faire.
D51|Walras' law in the context of pre-analytic visions: A note|Walras' law is central to the formation of economic theory. For mainstream economics, it is a device for testing rigorousness and consistency of model-building; for heterodox economists, the refutation of Walras' law is key to understanding Keynes' revolutionary contribution to a new economic paradigm. The purpose of this short research note is to elaborate on the possibility of a refutation of Walras' law and to inquire into its preconditions. It will be argued that this can only be achieved on the basis of an alternative pre-analytic vision of a genuine monetary economy as forshadowed by John Maynard Keynes.
D51|Search and Matching Frictions and Business Cycle Fluctuations in Bulgaria|In this paper we investigate the quantitative importance of search and matching fric- tions in Bulgarian labor markets. This is done by augmenting an otherwise standard real business cycle model a la Long and Plosser (1983) with both a two-sided costly search and fiscal policy. This introduces a strong propagation mechanism that allows the model to capture the business cycles in Bulgaria better than earlier models. The model performs well vis-a-vis data, especially along the labor market dimension, and in addition dominates the market-clearing labor market framework featured in the stan- dard RBC model, e.g Vasilev (2009), as well as the indivisible labor extension used in Hansen (1985).
D51|Search and matching frictions and business cycle fluctuations in Bulgaria: Technical Appendix|No abstract is available for this item.
D51|Preference evolution and the dynamics of capital markets|This paper introduces endogenous preference evolution into a Lucas-type economy and explores its consequences for investors' trading strategy and the dynamics of asset prices. In equilibrium, investors herd and hold the same portfolio of risky assets which is biased toward stocks of sectors that produce a socially preferred good. Price-dividend ratios, expected returns and return volatility are all time varying. In this way, preference evolution helps rationalize the observed under-performance and local biases of investors' portfolios and many empirical regularities of stock returns such a time variation, the value-growth effect and stochastic volatility.
D51|The Evolution of Networks During the Development Process: Evidence from Rural Gambia|This paper sheds light on the question of how the process of economic development affects interactions in economic and social networks. To this end, we study networks of exchanges in 56 rural villages of The Gambia, West Africa. For each household in these villages we collect detailed data on six different dimensions of economic exchanges and exploit a randomly placed Community-Driven Development (CDD) project, which provides an exogenous source of variation to village-level stocks of productive capital, to identify the effect of economic development. The paper contributes to the literature in several ways. First, we study a randomized program that directly allocates resources of an economically significant magnitude to villages, but does not specify the sector in which funds are supposed to be used, which enables us to study the effect of development more broadly defined. This complements the existing literature, which studies the effects of the creation of a specific market (either finance or insurance), and considers programs that do not directly provide additional resources to villages or networks. Second, our data allow us to investigate possible mechanisms, in particular changes in reciprocity, formality of exchanges, and changes in the interactions with village outsiders. Third, we study one possible implication of the program-induced changes in networks, namely changes in risk-sharing. To this end, we collect detailed data on shocks, and study whether the ability to cope with shocks, as signaled through the existence of economic links, differs between treatment and control villages. A final, more specific set of contributions is made to the literature on the economic and institutional effects of a widely used development intervention, namely the CDD programs. We find significantly fewer interactions within economic networks in treatment villages, but no evidence for heterogeneous program effects. We investigate several possible mechanisms, and our findings are most consistent with a village-level transformation process from a gift economy to a more formal economy (Kranton 1996). Regarding development interventions, our findings suggest the networks-channel as an avenue through which programs may have unintended consequences that should be considered when costs and benefits are evaluated.
D51|Bayesian general equilibrium|I introduce a general equilibrium model of non-optimizing agents that respond to aggregate variables (prices and the average demand profile of agent types) by putting a “prior” on their demand. An interim equilibrium is defined by the posterior demand distribution of agent types conditional on market clearing. A Bayesian general equilibrium (BGE) is an interim equilibrium such that aggregate variables are correctly anticipated. Under weak conditions, I prove the existence and the informational efficiency of BGE. I discuss the conditions under which the set of Bayesian and Walrasian equilibria coincide and show that the Walrasian equilibrium arises from a large class of non-optimizing behavior. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
D51|Household formation and markets|We explore whether stable matchings and trade in commodities can coexist. For this purpose, we consider competitive markets for multiple commodities with endogenous formation of one- or two-person households. Within each two-person household, individuals obtain utility from his/her own private consumption, from discrete actions such as job choice, from the partner’s observable characteristics such as appearance and hobbies, from some of the partner’s consumption vectors, and from the partner’s action choices. We investigate competitive market outcomes with an endogenous household structure in which no individual and no man/woman pair can deviate profitably. We find a set of sufficient conditions under which a stable matching equilibrium exists. We further establish the first welfare theorem for this economy. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
D51|Two-period economies with price-contingent deliveries|An economy with ex ante markets for future delivery contingent on ex post spot market prices is considered. Since spot prices are publicly observed ex post, this framework bypasses the enforcement problems that may arise as a result of differential information about states of nature. Generically, the equilibria of an economy with price-contingent deliveries coincide with the equilibria of the corresponding economy with state-contingent deliveries. However, replacing state-contingent deliveries with price-contingent deliveries may generate additional equilibria and/or remove some equilibria. The perfect foresight hypothesis is crucial to avoid a severe problem of nonexistence of equilibrium. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
D51|Rational housing bubble|This paper studies an economy inhabited by overlapping generations of households and investors, with the only difference between the two being that households derive utility from housing services, whereas investors do not. Tight collateral constraint limits the borrowing capacity of households and drives the equilibrium interest rate level down to the housing price growth rate, which makes housing attractive as a store of value for investors. A housing bubble arises in an equilibrium in which investors hold houses for resale purposes only and without the expectation of receiving a dividend either in terms of utility or in terms of rent. Pension reform that reduces the contribution rate may increase the supply of credit and create the housing bubble. Empirical findings from China are consistent with theoretical predictions. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
D51|Core and coalitional fairness: the case of information sharing rules|We investigate properties of core allocations in a pure exchange asymmetric information economy whose space of agents is modelled by a mixed market and commodity space is an ordered Banach space admitting an interior point in the positive cone. The information system in our framework is the one introduced by Allen (Econ Theory 29:465–487, 2006 ). It is shown that the main results in Grodal (Econometrica 40:581–583, 1972 ), Schmeidler (Econometrica 40:579–580, 1972 ) and Vind (Econometrica 40:585–586, 1972 ) can be established in our model. As a consequence of one of these results, the main result in Hervés-Beloso et al. (Econ Thoery 55:545–563, 2014 ) is obtained in our framework. Finally, we prove that core allocations are coalitionally fair and incentive compatible. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
D51|On restricted bargaining sets|In this paper we analyze the behavior of bargaining sets in continuum economies when there are restrictions on the formation of coalitions. We provide several characterizations of Vind’s (J Math Econ 21:89–97, 1992 ) bargaining set in terms of its restricted versions, where not all the coalitions are formed. Moreover, we show that these equivalences do not hold for Mas-Colell’s (J Math Econ 18:129–139, 1989 ) bargaining set. These findings highlight the different nature of both notions of bargaining sets. Finally, we illustrate the impossibility of extrapolating our results to a more general setting. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
D51|RHOMOLO: A Dynamic General Equilibrium Modelling Approach to the Evaluation of the European Union's R&D Policies| B randsma A. and K ancs d' A. RHOMOLO: a dynamic general equilibrium modelling approach to the evaluation of the European Union's R&D policies, Regional Studies . European integration changes the prospects of regional economies within the member states of the European Union in many ways. Cohesion Policy is the European Union's instrument to influence and complement the efforts made at the national level to ensure that the gains of economic integration reach everyone, and there are no regions left behind. This paper presents and applies a spatial general equilibrium model RHOMOLO to assess the impact of regional policy in the European Union. The presented simulation results highlight strengths of the approach taken in RHOMOLO in handling investments in research and development (R&D), infrastructure and spillovers of investments in the innovation capacity of the regions, both of which cannot be captured by models in which the spatial structure is not present.
D51|Existence and Stability of Dynamic Exchange Equilibria|Economic general equilibrium results when the forces of supply and demand bring market participants into agreement as to the prices at which good should sell, and the quantities that should be sold. While it has been shown mathematically, that such exchange prices and quantities can be simultaneously determined for all goods in an economy, a mechanism that describes how such equilibria are achieved in practice has never been proposed. This paper demonstrates that such equilibria result naturally from the dynamic interaction of market participants. The dynamic interaction modeled in this paper can be used to study the interaction of demographic groups, which drives the evolution of a community. This model should also be useful in studying the effects of public policy and other external factors on markets.
D51|Characterising competitive equilibrium in terms of opportunity|Abstract This paper analyses alternative profiles of opportunity sets for individuals in an exchange economy, without assuming that individuals’ choices reveal coherent preferences. It introduces the concept of a ‘market-clearing single-price regime’, representing a profile of opportunity sets consistent with competitive equilibrium. It also proposes an opportunity-based normative criterion, the Strong Opportunity Criterion, which is analogous with the core in preference-based analysis. It shows that every market-clearing single-price regime satisfies the Strong Opportunity Criterion and that, in the limit as an economy is replicated, only such regimes have this property.
D51|Equilibrium and matching under price controls|The paper considers a matching with contracts model in the presence of price controls. The model contains two important streams in the matching literature, those with and those without monetary transfers, as special cases. An adjustment process that ends with a stable outcome is presented. The paper presents a notion of competitive equilibrium, called Drèze equilibrium, and shows Drèze equilibrium allocations to be equivalent to allocations induced by stable outcomes. We therefore have an equivalence that is valid with and without monetary transfers as well as when monetary transfers are limited.
D51|Again on the relevance of reverse capital deepening and reswitching|Among the recent interventions in the capital controversy, the debate between Paola Potestio and Kurz&Salvadori has raised important issues. We agree with Potestio’s rejection of the legitimacy of a value endowment of capital but we disagree with her dismissal of the relevance of reswitching and reverse capital deepening: these phenomena are very important because they undermine the demand-side role of the conception of capital as a single factor. For the marginal approach to be plausible, this demand-side role had to imply the stability of the savings-investment market even in shorter time frames than those required by a complete adaptation of the ‘form’ of capital; this was taken by Marshall to authorize doing without a given endowment of value capital, which opened the door to the shift to the modern neo-Walrasian versions of the marginal approach. With proof from Hayek, Hicks, Malinvaud and Lucas we argue that a continuing belief in traditional time-consuming marginalist disequilibrium adjustments based on capital-labour substitution is the hidden reason why the claim, often made by contemporary marginalist economists, that the economy can be assumed to be all the time on the equilibrium-growth path is not found patently unacceptable. The true microfoundation of DSGE macromodels is not intertemporal equilibrium theory, but the adjustment mechanisms on whose basis the marginal approach was born and accepted, and on whose basis monetarism was then able to re-assert a pre-Keynesian view of the working of the economy.
D51|Externalities In The Edgeworth Box|The effect of the presence of an externality in a general equilibrium scenario is illustrated in a standard Edgeworth box. Assuming utility functions parameterized by the incidence of the externality and taking into account the resource constraints when deriving agents’ indifference curves for consumption distributions renders possible to depict contract curves with and without the externality in the same box. The introduction of a market for the right to generate the externality extends the Second Welfare Theorem to hold in the presence of an externality, too. In doing this a novel and strikingly simple graphical procedure is developed to obtain the complete picture.
D51|Peacemaking and Peacebuilding Through Opponent Non-economic and Economic Homogenization|This paper presents a two-agent butter-and-gun neoclassical model of conflict with game-theoretic flavor. When each agent-opponent contemplates individual welfare independently and as if the conflict has been decided in its favor, the optimum outcome is attained when they become alike in tastes over peace and war regardless income distribution. The algebra suggests that this is a matter of putting oneself in the rival’s shoes, of sufficing each with half the butter and presumably leave the richer agent its gun superiority unexploited. This is what both agents realize that has to be done if they act in a decentralized fashion. But, why should the richer opponent dismiss voluntarily its comparative advantage in guns? Therefore, beyond the matter of homogeneity in preferences (non-economic homogenization), the conflict cannot be resolved unless cooperation towards income-equality (economic-homogenization) induced military equilibrium takes place under the auspices of a peace promoting entity. Peacemaking involves the non-economic homogenization referring to a culture of peace, and peacebuilding alludes to the economic homogenization towards inter-agent social-justice.
D51|A Spatial Production Economy Explains Gross Metropolitan Product|It has long been known that the city-size distributions are fat tailed, drawing the interest of urban economists. In contrast, not much is known about the distribution of GDP at city level (henceforth referred to as gross metropolitan product, GMP). We build a model of the spatial economy that includes production and confirm the following empirical facts about the GMP counterpart of the city-size distribution. First, both Zipf's and Gibrat's law hold for the distribution of GMP as well. In particular the GMP distribution is well-traced by a lognormal distribution. Second, citywide aggregate production exhibits increasing returns to scale with respect to employment. In particular a 1% increase in employment leads to a 1.117% (or 1.180% in theory) increase in GMP. Agglomeration economies are explained as a result of an endogenous trade-off between externalities and land consumption of consumers.
D51|Competitive Equilibrium and Singleton Cores in Generalized Matching Problems (published in:International Journal of Game Theory, May 2017, Vol.46, Issue2, 487-509)|We study competitive equilibria in generalized matching problems. We show that, if there is a competitive matching, then it is unique and the core is a singleton consisting of the competitive matching. That is, a singleton core is necessary for the existence of competitive equilibria. We also show that a competitive matching exists if and only if the matching produced by the top trading cycles algorithm is feasible, in which case it is the unique competitive matching. Hence, we can use the top trading cycles algorithm to test whether a competitive equilibrium exists and to construct a competitive equilibrium if one exists. Lastly, in the context of bilateral matching problems, we compare the condition for the existence of competitive matchings with existing suffcient conditions for the existence or uniqueness of stable matchings and show that it is weaker than the existing conditions.
D51|A Two Sector Endogenous Growth Model with Two Accumulating Factors- Implementing Trade|This paper is about trade in an endogenous growth model with accumulation of physical and human capital. The convergence to the ray of steady states is proved for two different development stages of similar small countries. Free trade benefits the education sector of a relatively less developed country and thus stimulates the human capital accumulation. Whereas a technological more developed country declines in favour of the world market.\\ Only if the small country is relatively less developed then there is a convergence to the balanced growth path of the world market and the country improves its situation. Without any trade policy a less developed country will lose necessary factors of production. A more developed country deals with stagnation or even fluctuation of its development stage.
D51|Time-varying disaster risk models: An empirical assessment of the Rietz-Barro hypothesis|This paper revisits the fit of disaster risk models where a representative agent has recursive preferences and the probability of a macroeconomic disaster changes over time. We calibrate the model as in Wachter (2013) and perform two sets of tests to assess the empirical performance of the model in long run simulations. The model is solved using a two step projection-based method that allows us to find the equilibrium consumption-wealth ratio and dividend-yield for different values of the intertemporal elasticity of substitution. By fixing the elasticity of substitution to one, the first experiment indicates that the overall fit of the model is adequate. However, we find that the amount of aggregate stock market volatility that the model can generate is sensible to the method used to solve the model. We also find that the model generates near unit root interest rates and a puzzling ranking of volatilities between the risk free rate and the expected return on government bills. We later solve the model for values of the elasticity of substitution that differ from one. This second experiment shows that while a higher elasticity of substitution helps to increase the aggregate stock market volatility and hence to reduce the Sharpe Ratio, a lower elasticity of substitution generates a more reasonable level for the equity risk premium and for the volatility of the government bond returns without compromising the ability of the price-dividend ratio to predict excess returns.
D51|Conventional and Unconventional Monetary Policy with Endogenous Collateral Constraints|"We consider the effects of central bank purchases of a risky asset as an additional dimension of policy alongside ""conventional"" interest rate policy in a general-equilibrium model of asset pricing with endogenous collateral constraints. The effects of asset purchases depend on the way that they affect collateral constraints. We show that under some circumstances, central bank purchases relax financial constraints, increase aggregate demand, and may even achieve a Pareto improvement; but in other cases, they tighten financial constraints, reduce aggregate demand, and lower welfare. The latter case is almost certainly the one that arises if central bank purchases are sufficiently large. (JEL D51, E43, E44, E52, E58)"
D51|Conventional and Unconventional Monetary Policy with Endogenous Collateral Constraints|"We consider the effects of central bank purchases of a risky asset as an additional dimension of policy alongside ""conventional"" interest rate policy in a general-equilibrium model of asset pricing with endogenous collateral constraints. The effects of asset purchases depend on the way that they affect collateral constraints. We show that under some circumstances, central bank purchases relax financial constraints, increase aggregate demand, and may even achieve a Pareto improvement; but in other cases, they tighten financial constraints, reduce aggregate demand, and lower welfare. The latter case is almost certainly the one that arises if central bank purchases are sufficiently large. (JEL D51, E43, E44, E52, E58)<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
D51|Corrigendum: Pride and Diversity in Social Economies|No abstract is available for this item.
D51|Measuring Latin Americaâ€™s export dependency on China|In this paper we deploy an export dependency index to identify the sectors and countries in Latin America which are most exposed to fluctuations in Chinese demand.
D51|Disagreement about inflation and the yield curve|We show that inflation disagreement, not just expected inflation, has an impact on nominal interest rates. In contrast to expected inflation, which mainly affects the wedge between real and nominal yields, inflation disagreement affects nominal yields predominantly through its impact on the real side of the economy. We show theoretically and empirically that inflation disagreement raises real and nominal yields and their volatilities. Inflation disagreement is positively related to consumers’ cross-sectional consumption growth volatility and trading in fixed income securities. Calibrating our model to disagreement, inflation, and yields reproduces the economically significant impact of inflation disagreement on yield curves.
D51|Stable sets for asymmetric information economies|" type=""main"" xml:lang=""en""> An exchange economy with asymmetrically informed agents is considered with an exogenous rule that regulates the information sharing among agents. In this context, the notion of stable sets à la von Neumann and Morgenstern is analyzed. Two different frameworks are taken into account as regards preferences: a model without expectations and a model with expected utilities. For the former, it is shown that the set V of all individually rational, Pareto optimal, symmetric allocations is the unique stable set of symmetric allocations. For the latter, an example is presented which shows that the same set V is not externally stable and a weaker result is proved."
D51|Locational Signaling And Agglomeration|" type=""main""> Agglomeration can be caused by asymmetric information and a locational signaling effect: The location choice of workers signals their productivity to potential employers. The cost of a signal is the cost of housing at that location. When workers' marginal willingness to pay for housing is negatively correlated with their productivity, only the core-periphery (partially stratified) equilibria are stable. When workers' marginal willingness to pay for housing and their productivity are positively correlated, there is no core-periphery equilibrium. The urban wage premium is explained when there is a core-periphery equilibrium. Furthermore, location can at best be an approximate rather than a precise sieve for high-skill workers."
D51|Transaction Costs and Institutions: Investments in Exchange|This paper proposes a simple model for understanding transaction costs – their composition, size and policy implications. We distinguish between investments in institutions that facilitate exchange and the cost of conducting exchange itself. Institutional quality and market size are determined by the decisions of risk adverse agents and conditions are discussed under which the efficient allocation may be decentralized. We highlight a number of differences with models where transaction costs are exogenous, including the implications for taxation and measurement issues.
D51|Survey Expectations and the Equilibrium Risk-Return Trade Off|Intuition and leading equilibrium models are at odds with the empirical evidence that expected returns are weakly related to volatility at the market level. This paper proposes a closed-form general equilibrium model, which connects the investorsâ€™ expectations of fundamentals with those of market returns, as documented by survey data. Forecasts suggest that investors feature pro-cyclical optimism and, then, overestimate the persistence of aggregate risk. The forward-looking component of stock volatility offset the transient risk and leads to a weak risk-return relation, in line with survey data about market returns. The model mechanism is robust to many features of financial markets.
D51|Taxation under oligopoly in a general equilibrium setting|Taxation under oligopoly is analyzed in a general equilibrium setting where the firms are large relative to the size of the economy and maximize the utility of their shareholders. Assuming that preferences are either identical and homothetic or identical and quasi‐linear, then the oligopoly model is an aggregative game, which greatly simplifies the comparative statics for the effects of taxation. This novel analysis of taxation leads to a number of counterintuitive results that challenge conventional wisdom in microeconomics. A lump‐sum tax may increase the price of the oligopolistic good and decrease welfare whereas a profits tax may decrease the price of the oligopolistic good and increase welfare. A profits tax is shown to be superior to a lump‐sum tax. Furthermore, in line with conventional wisdom, total tax revenue is always higher with an ad valorem tax than with a specific tax that leads to the same price for the oligopolistic good.
D51|Microeconometric Analyses on Economic Consequences of Selective Migration|Die vorliegende Arbeit wurde von Jens Ruhose während seiner Tätigkeit am ifo Institut erstellt. Sie wurde im Dezember 2014 abgeschlossen und von der volkswirtschaftlichen Fakultät der Universität München (LMU) als Dissertation angenommen. Die Arbeit besteht aus vier eigenständigen Kapiteln, die Erkenntnisse zur Integration von Migranten und den Auswirkungen von Migranten auf Einheimische im Zielland liefern. Gerade vor dem Hintergrund, dass der Anteil an Migranten in der Bevölkerung stetig steigt, ist es notwendig die daraus resultierenden Konsequenzen zu analysieren. Neben der generellen Einleitung zum Thema, beinhaltet die Einleitung in Kapitel 1 die Kurzzusammenfassung von drei Studien des Autors, die sich mit den Determinanten selektiver Migration beschäftigen sowie die Wichtigkeit selektiver Migration für die Zusammensetzung der arbeitenden Bevölkerung beleuchten. Kapitel 2 quantifiziert nicht-monetäre Migrationskosten, die sich durch die Überwindung kultureller Barrieren ergeben. Kapitel 3 diskutiert, ob eine frühe Aufteilung von Schülern die Integration von Kindern mit Migrationshintergrund hemmt. Kapitel 4 und 5 befassen sich mit den Effekten von Migranten auf die Gesellschaft des Ziellandes. Einmal wird gezeigt, dass das Aufwachsen in Städten mit hohem Migrantenanteil die intergenerationale Einkommensmobilität erhöht und einmal, dass Immigration unter bestimmten Voraussetzungen zu mehr Kriminalität führen kann.
D51|Koordination von Innovations-, Energie- und Umweltpolitik|"Die von der Bundesregierung - jüngst im Rahmen des Energiekonzepts und der sog. Energiewende verkündeten - Zielvorgaben verdeutlichen, dass fundamentale Strukturveränderungen im Energiesystem, eine weitgehende Abkehr von kohlenstoffintensiven fossilen Energieträgern und ein mittelfristiger Verzicht auf Kernenergie angestrebt werden. Diese Studie untersucht die Koordination von Innovations-, Energie- und Umweltpolitik. Ohne eine derartige Koordination droht ein Verlust an Effektivität - die Ziele werden nicht erreicht -, ein Verlust an Effizienz - v.a. in Form unnötiger Kosten - und gegebenenfalls weitere unerwünschte Nebenwirkung (z.B. ungünstige Verteilungswirkungen). Interaktionen können sich v.a. dann ergeben, wenn mehrere Instrumente mehrere, aber nicht unabhängige Politikziele verfolgen, oder mehrere Instrumente für erforderlich gehalten werden, um verschiedene Formen von Markt- oder Koordinationsversagen zu begegnen. Die zunehmend wahrscheinliche Interaktion zwischen Politiken kann unterschiedliche Wirkungen haben: Instrumente können sich ergänzen und gegenseitig verstärken, sich aber auch neutralisieren oder gar konterkarieren und so wiederum Politikziele und ihre Glaubwürdigkeit unterminieren. Mit zunehmender Zahl von Instrumenten und Überlappungen steigt die Wahrscheinlichkeit von regelrechten „Politikstaus"" und unerwarteten Nebenwirkungen. Bisher haben derartige Politikinteraktionen noch vergleichsweise wenig Beachtung gefunden. Vor allem in der Ökonomie vorherrschend sind Analysen zu einzelnen Instrumenten oder einfache Instrumentenvergleiche. Aufgabe dieses Projektes ist es daher, auf der Basis einer Bestandsaufnahme zur Entwicklung der Politikfelder verschiedene Formen von Interaktionen zwischen Innovations-, Energie- und Umweltpolitik vor dem Hintergrund der Transformation des Energiesystems zu erfassen, ihre Wirkungen zu beschreiben, zu analysieren und zu bewerten und Implikationen für eine effektive und effiziente Koordination der Politiken zu ziehen"
D51|Opportunity And Preference Learning|"Robert Sugden has recently elaborated upon the case for a normative standard of freedom as ""opportunity"" that is supposed to cope with the problem of how to realign normative economics - with its traditional rational choice orientation - with behavioral economics. His standard, though, presupposes that people respond to uncertainty about their own future preferences by dismissing any kind of self-commitment. We argue that the approach lacks psychological substance: Sugden's normative benchmark - the ""responsible person"" - is a purely artificial construct that can hardly serve as a convincing role model in a contractarian setting. An alternative concept is introduced, and some policy implications are briefly discussed.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
D51|Le rôle de la syndication des capital-investisseurs dans le financement de l’innovation, The Role of Venture Capitalists Syndication in the Financing of Innovation|(VF) La pratique de la syndication est notablement développée dans le métier du capital-investissement, quels que soient le stade de développement, le secteur d’activité et la nationalité de l’entreprise financée. La syndication s’explique autant par des arguments financiers (partage des risques entre capital-investisseurs ; gouvernance du management de l’entreprise financée...) que par la nécessité d’une part, d’accéder à des ressources (informations, compétences) en matière de sélection et de surveillance des investissements et, d’autre part, de partager, voire créer, des connaissances. L’objectif de cette synthèse de la littérature est d’étudier dans quelle mesure cette pratique favorise ou contraint l’innovation et son financement dans les firmes entrepreneuriales.(VA) Syndication is a highly developed practice in the venture capital industry, whatever are the stage of development, the industry sector and the nationality of the financed company. It can be explained by financial arguments (sharing of risks between venture capitalists; governance of managemers of the financed firm) as well as by the necessity, on the one hand, to reach resources (information, skills) regarding selection and control of the investments and, on the other hand, to share or create knowledge. The objective of this survey is to study to what extent this practice favor or limit innovation and its financing within entrepreneurial firms.
D51|Loss aversion, habit formation and the term structures of equity and interest rates|I propose a consumption-based asset pricing model that jointly explains the high equity premium, the counter-cyclical behaviour of stock returns, the upward-sloping term structure of interest rates and the downward-sloping term structure of equity. The driving forces behind these results are loss aversion and time-varying habits. The high premium is the reward for holding assets that deliver low returns when consumption descends below habits. The term structure of interests rates is upward-sloping because long-term bonds are more sensitive to fluctuations of discount rates. The term structure of equity is downward-sloping because long-horizon equity gives higher chances to beat consumption habits than short-horizon equity.
D51|Cross-sectional asset pricing with heterogeneous preferences and beliefs|This paper provides the theoretical foundation for studying the cross-section of stock returns in a Lucas economy populated by investors with heterogeneous preferences and beliefs. The equilibrium quantities are either derived explicitly or characterized in terms of conditional expectations well-suited for Monte-Carlo simulations. The main advantage of the simulation approach lies in its straightforward extension to many assets, which makes it possible to analyze equilibrium in economies with many fundamental assets. A numerical example shows that the model is able to generate a low level of the risk-free rate with non-negligible volatility as well as reasonable equity premia and return volatilities when sufficiently many fundamental assets are present.
D51|Payoffs in exact TU economies|We prove that a single-valued solution of perfectly competitive TU economies underlying nonatomic exact market games is uniquely determined as the Mertens [23] value by four plausible value-related axioms. Since the Mertens value is always a core element, this result provides an axiomatization of the Mertens value as a core-selection. Previous works in this direction assumed the economies to be either differentiable (e.g., Dubey and Neyman [11]) or of uniform finite-type (e.g., Haimanko [16]). Our work does not assume that, thus it contributes to the axiomatic study of payoffs in perfectly competitive economies (or values of their derived market games) in general. In fact, this is the first contribution in this direction.
D51|Information acquisition and learning from prices over the business cycle|We study firms' incentives to acquire costly information in booms and recessions to investigate the role of endogenous information in accounting for business cycles. Our model predicts that, for a wide range of parameter values, firms have a stronger incentive to acquire information when the economy has been in a recession and a pessimistic belief about the state of the economy prevails than after a boom when firms share an optimistic belief. The equilibrium price system, which features endogenous information transmission, dampens aggregate fluctuations by discouraging information acquisition. Our welfare analysis reveals that information acquisition in the decentralized economy is not efficient. This is due to inefficient employment dispersion, arising from information heterogeneity in equilibrium. Time series data for the U.S. economy support the model's prediction of wages being more informative about total factor productivity after recessions than following booms.
D51|Atomic Cournotian traders may be Walrasian|In a bilateral oligopoly, with large traders, represented as atoms, and small traders, represented by an atomless part, when is there a nonempty intersection between the sets of Walras and Cournot–Nash allocations? Using a two-commodity version of the Shapley window model, we show that a necessary and sufficient condition for a Cournot–Nash allocation to be a Walras allocation is that all atoms demand a null amount of one of the two commodities. We provide four examples which show that this characterization holds non-vacuously. When our condition fails to hold, we also confirm, through some examples, the result obtained by Okuno et al. (1980): small traders always have a negligible influence on prices, while the large traders keep their strategic power even when their behavior turns out to be Walrasian in the cooperative framework considered by Gabszewicz and Mertens (1971) and Shitovitz (1973).
D51|Efficiency of competitive equilibria in economies with time-dependent preferences|This paper focuses on welfare properties of equilibria in exchange economies with time-dependent preferences. We reintroduce the notion of time-consistent overall Pareto efficiency proposed by Herings and Rohde (2006) and show that, whenever all agents in the economy are sophisticated, any equilibrium allocation is efficient in this sense. Therefore, we present a version of the First Fundamental Welfare Theorem for this class of economies.
D51|Asset pricing with arbitrage activity|We study an economy populated by three groups of myopic agents: constrained agents subject to a portfolio constraint that limits their risk taking, unconstrained agents subject to a standard nonnegative wealth constraint, and arbitrageurs with access to a credit facility. Such credit is valuable as it allows arbitrageurs to exploit the limited arbitrage opportunities that emerge endogenously in reaction to the demand imbalance generated by the portfolio constraint. The model is solved in closed-form, and we show that, in contrast to existing models with frictions and logarithmic agents, arbitrage activity has an impact on the price level and generates both excess volatility and the leverage effect. We show that these results are due to the fact that arbitrageurs amplify fundamental shocks by levering up in good times and deleveraging in bad times.
D51|On Vind’s theorem for an economy with atoms and infinitely many commodities|We extend Vind’s classical theorem on the measure of blocking coalitions valid in finite dimensional atomless economies (see Vind (1972)), to include the possibility of infinitely many commodities as well as the presence of atoms. The commodity space is assumed to be an ordered Banach space which has possibly the empty positive cone. The lack of interior points is compensated by an additional assumption of a cone of arbitrage that allows us to use Lyapunov’s convexity theorem in its weak form. The measure space of agents involves both negligible and non negligible traders. The extension is proved in the general class of Aubin coalitions for which a suitable version of Grodal’s result (Grodal (1972)) is also formulated. Our results wish to point out the relevance of cone conditions dealing with blocking coalitions of arbitrary measure or weight.
D51|Existence and uniqueness of equilibrium in Lucas’ asset pricing model when utility is unbounded|Abstract This note presents a proof of the existence of a unique equilibrium in a Lucas (Econometrica 46(6):1429–1445, 1978) economy when the utility function displays constant relative risk aversion, and the logarithm of dividends follow a normally distributed autoregressive process of order one with positive autocorrelation. We provide restrictions on the coefficient of relative risk aversion, the discount factor and the conditional variance of the consumption process that ensure the existence of a unique equilibrium.
D51|The Long Italian Stagnation and the Welfare Effects of Outsourcing|The stagnation of the Italian economy over the last two decades is widely documented. During this period, the world economy has become highly integrated, and foreign outsourcing has become a standard practice for firms. While trade theory predicts benefits from the internationalization of production, Italy seems to have gained negligibly from it, or, rather to have lost. In a simple model, we show that this may be the case when markets are overregulated and competition policies are weak. We study a small open economy with one oligopolistic and one competitive sector, which outsources part of its production process abroad. Advances in globalization entail lower tariff rates of outsourcing. Contrary to the common wisdom, we show that national welfare is an inverted U-shaped function of tariffs. There exists a tariff threshold, below which the economy loses from globalization because the competitive sector overproduces and the oligopolistic underproduces (the oligopolistic good has a higher marginal effect on welfare). Competition policies that target the competitive sector lower the threshold and allow the economy to benefit from increased openness.
D51|Bilateral exchange and competitive equilibrium|"Motivated by computerized markets, this paper considers direct exchange between matched agents, just two at a time. Each party holds a ""commodity vector”, and each seeks, whenever possible, a better holding. Focus is on feasible, voluntary exchanges, driven only by (projected) differences in generalized gradients. The paper plays down the importance of agents’ competence, experience and foresight. It also reduces the role of optimization, and it allows non-smooth data. Yet it identi…es reasonable conditions which suffice for convergence to competitive equilibrium."
D51|Recursive utility and jump-diffusions|We derive the equilibrium interest rate and risk premiums using recursive utility for jump-diffusions. Compared to to the continuous version, including jumps allows for a separate risk aversion related to jump size risk in addition to risk aversion related to the continuous part. We also consider a version that allows marginal utility to depend on past consumption. The models with jumps are shown to have a potential to give better explanation of empirical regularities than the recursive models based on merely continuous dynamics.
D51|The equity premium in a production economy; A new perspective involving recursive utility|We study a rational expectations' competitive equilibrium in a production economy, i.e., a system of prices at which firms' profit maximizing production decisions and individuals' preferred affordable consumption choices equate supply and demand in every market. We derive the equilibrium price of the firm and the equilibrium short term interest rate, the optimal per capita consumption in society, as well as the risk premium on equity. First a simple linear production technology with constant coefficients is studied, then a more general technology, and finally a general production economy with recursive utility is analyzed by the use of the stochastic maximum principle. While the two first models can not explain the empirics well using conventional preferences, the latter model is found to be much more promising in this regard. Wa also demonstrate a simple proof for the ICAPM.
D51|Cultural biases in migration: Estimating non‐monetary migration costs|We monetize the cost for moving to a culturally different location. We combine administrative social security panel data with a proxy for cultural difference based on historical dialect dissimilarity between German counties. Conditional on geographic distance and pre‐migration wage profiles, we find that migrants demand a (indexed with respect to local rents) wage premium of about 1 (1.5) per cent for overcoming one standard deviation in cultural dissimilarity. The effect is driven by males and those who earn above average occupational wages before migration, and more pronounced for geographically short moves. Se monetiza el costo de mudarse a una ubicación culturalmente diferente. Se combinan datos administrativos de panel de la seguridad social con un proxy de la diferencia cultural, basado en la diferencia histórica del dialecto entre condados alemanes. Dependiendo de la distancia geográfica y los perfiles salariales previos a la migración, se encontró que los migrantes demandan una prima salarial (indexada con respecto a las rentas locales) de aproximadamente 1 (1,5) por ciento para superar una desviación estándar en cuanto a diferencia cultural. El efecto está impulsado por los varones y por quienes ganan salarios ocupacionales superiores al promedio antes de la migración, y es más pronunciado para movimientos geográficamente cortos. 本稿では、文化の異なる場所への移住に関わるコストを金銭的価値で算出する。行政の社会保障パネルデータを、ドイツの郡間の現地語の違いに基づく文化的な違いのproxyと組み合わせる。地理的距離と移住前の賃金プロファイルによるが、移住者は異文化性の標準偏差を一つ克服するために1(1.5)%の(現地の家賃に関して指数をつけた)賃金プレミアムを要求することがわかった。この作用は、男性と移住の前の稼ぎがその職業の平均の賃金よりも多い人に促進され、地理的に距離の少ない移住ではより増強される。
D51|Welfare gains from the adoption of proportional taxation in a general-equilibrium model with a grey economy: the case of Bulgaria's 2008 flat tax reform|This paper provides a quantitative evaluation of the welfare effect of the introduc- tion of proportional taxation in Bulgaria in 2008, an effect that operates through the grey economy channel. Using a general-equilibrium model, augmented with informal sector, a computational experiment is performed to evaluate the welfare gain from the adoption of proportional taxation. The lower effective tax burden in the new tax regime produces a relocation of people into the official sector, stimulates investment, and increases output and consumption. Finally, under the flat tax regime, the size of the informal sector is smaller, and quantitatively consistent with OECD (2009) and European Commission (2012) figures.
D51|Welfare gains from the adoption of proportional taxation in a general-equilibrium model with a grey economy: the case of Bulgaria’s 2008 flat tax reform|This paper provides a quantitative evaluation of the welfare effect of the introduction of proportional taxation in Bulgaria in 2008, an effect that operates through the grey economy channel. Using a general-equilibrium model, augmented with informal sector, a computational experiment is performed to evaluate the welfare gain from the adoption of proportional taxation. The lower effective tax burden in the new tax regime produces a relocation of people into the official sector, stimulates investment, and increases output and consumption. Finally, under the flat tax regime, the size of the informal sector is smaller, and quantitatively consistent with OECD (Is informal normal? Towards more and better jobs in developing countries. OECD, Paris, 2009 ) and European Commission (Tax reforms in EU member states, Official Publications of the European Communities, Luxembourg, p 2012, 2012 ) figures. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
D51|Revisiting Marshallian versus Walrasian Stability in an Experimental Market|We study dynamics in pit market trading by a laboratory experiment. Our exchange economy model contains two types of consumers and two kinds of commodities, and three competitive equilibria exist. The two equilibria with the lowest, and the highest relative prices are beneficial for one type of the consumers, and the intermediate price gives an equitable allocation. The theory of Walrasian tatonnement dynamics predicts that relative prices diverge from the intermediate equilibrium towards the lowest equilibrium or the highest equilibrium depending on initial prices. On the other hand, Marshallian quantity adjustment process leads the total supplied volume to the intermediate equilibrium only regardless of initial states. In order to examine how robust the equilibrium selection is, we conducted a manual experiment of pit market trading with different combinations of ethnicities of subjects in Kenya. Our result shows strong support for the convergence to the intermediate equilibrium, which is unstable in Walrasian tatonnement dynamics and is stable in Marshallian quantity adjustment process.
D51|Stock Prices and Exchange Rates Dynamics in South Africa: An application of Asymmetric Co-integration Approach|We applied asymmetric cointegration approach to investigate the impacts of stock prices on exchange rates in South Africa using monthly data from January 1980 to May 2014. The empirical finding shows that the two macroeconomic variables are cointegrated using traditional Engle-Granger approach. While TAR model shows no element of cointegration, MTAR model revealsthat there is long-run relationshipbetween the variables and they are asymmetrically cointegrated as signifies by both F-equality and F-joint respectively. Using Enders & Siklos (2001) table we reject null hypothesis of no cointegration at 5% significance level. This means that stock prices influences exchange rates in South Africa and the speed of adjustment is non-linear, when share price changes exchange rates equally changes but not in the same proportion with that of share prices. The policy implication is that the authorities in this country should focus more on stabilizing their exchange rates in relation to other major global currencies more especially American dollar. When the value of Rand continues to increase the economy will be less competitive internationally at the same time the value of the stocks might be unattractive even to international investors.
D51|An Axiomatic Characterization of the Price-Money Message Mechanism|The axiomatic characterization of price or market equilibrium is one of the most important problems in the general equilibrium theory. There does not seem to exist, however, so many papers on the axiomatic characterization problem of monetary equilibrium. The overlapping-generations model with a double in nity of commodities and agents is one of the most fundamental frameworks for intro- ducing money into an economic model, although a simple game-theoretic or welfare characterization on the role of money under competitive mechanism is widely known to be difficult. In this paper, we show that the informational efficiency axiomatic characterization as in Hurwicz (1960), Mount and Reiter (1974) and Sonnenschein (1974) is possible for the price-money competitive mechanism for overlapping-generations economies among the class of all allocation mechanisms with messages. Espe- cially, the category theoretic universal mapping characterization in Sonnenschein (1974) is generalized and applied to the overlapping-generations framework through our monetary version of Debreu-Scarf's core limit theorem of Urai and Murakami (2015). Our argument is also closely related to the replica characterization approaches of Walrasian social choice mechanism like Thomson (1988) and Nagahisa (1994), and provide a comprehensive perspective on them.
D51|An Axiomatic Characterization of the Price-Money Message Mechanism|The axiomatic characterization of price or market equilibrium is one of the most important problems in the general equilibrium theory. There does not seem to exist, however, so many papers on the axiomatic characterization problem of monetary equilibrium. The overlapping-generations model with a double in nity of commodities and agents is one of the most fundamental frameworks for introducing money into an economic model, although a simple game-theoretic or welfare characterization on the role of money under competitive mechanism is widely known to be difficult. In this paper, we show that the informational efficiency axiomatic characterization as in Hurwicz (1960), Mount and Reiter (1974) and Sonnenschein (1974) is possible for the price-money competitive mechanism for overlapping- generations economies among the class of all allocation mechanisms with messages. In particular, the category theoretic universal mapping characterization in Sonnenschein (1974) is generalized and applied to the overlapping-generations framework through our monetary version of Debreu-Scarf's core limit theorem of Urai and Murakami (2015). Our argument is also closely related to the replica characterization approaches of Walrasian social choice mechanism like Thomson (1988) and Nagahisa (1994), and provides a comprehensive perspective on them.
