D53|Can successful forecasters help stabilize asset prices in a learning to forecast experiment?|We conduct a Learning to Forecast asset pricing experiment where the market impact of individual forecasts evolves endogenously based on the forecasters’ past accuracy. We investigate how endogenous impacts affect price stability and mispricing relative to the fundamental price. Our results suggest that endogenous impacts can destabilize markets when impacts are quite sensitive to forecast accuracy: Price dispersion increases compared to the baseline treatment where impacts are constant and independent of forecast accuracy. On the other hand, mispricing can be reduced when markets are relatively stable and impacts are moderately sensitive to forecast accuracy.
D53|Interest rate dispersion in commercial loans|We study the dispersion of interest rates on commercial loans granted by banks to Colombian manufacturing firms between 2005 and 2013. Dispersion can be caused by two types of firm heterogeneity. Firms can differ in their ability to negotiate interest rate or firms can differ in how costly it is to provide a loan to them. We document the extent of interest rate dispersion and characterize the impact of borrowers’, banks’ and market characteristics on dispersion. Reduce-form regressions show that, on average, firms with less-than impeccable credit history and firms that are loyal to their banks, pay on equilibrium higher interest rates. Using quantile regressions, we find that, conditional on rates being high, a marginal increase on the firm’s revenue is associated with higher interest rates. Finally, we evaluate the impact that the market structure has on the level and variation of interest rates on commercial loans, taking advantage of a wave of mergers that took place between 2006-2008. **** RESUMEN: En este documento estudiamos las tasas de interés de los créditos comerciales otorgados por bancos a las firmas manufactureras colombianas entre 2005 y 2 013. La dispersión puede ser causada por dos tipos de heterogeneidad de las firmas. Las firmas pueden diferir en su habilidad para negociar las tasas de interés o en qué tan costosas son para proveerles crédito. Nosotros documentamos la magnitud de la dispersión en tasas de interés y caracterizamos el impacto de las características de los deudores, los bancos y el mercado sobre la dispersión. Las regresiones en forma reducida muestran que, en promedio, las firmas con un historial crediticio que no es impecable y firmas que son leales a sus bancos pagan en equilibrio tasas de interés más altas. Usando regresiones cuantílicas nosotros encontramos que, condicional a que las tasas de interés sean altas, un incremento marginal en los ingresos de la firma e stá a sociado c on u nas t asas de interés más altas. Finalmente, evaluamos el impacto que la estructura de mercado tiene sobre el nivel y la variación de las tasas de interés en créditos comerciales, tomando ventaja de una ola de fusiones que tuvieron lugar entre 2006 y 2008.
D53|On the impact of government-initiated CfD's in Australia's National Electricity Market|An intriguing characteristic of Australian energy market policymaking is the almost exclusive focus on spot market dynamics. The policy development cycle displays a virtual disregard for, and of, power system financial markets. The irony is that forward contract prices form the defining wholesale price input to end-user consumer tariffs. In this article, the impacts of a wide-ranging program of government-initiated CfDs on power system financial markets are analysed. Government-initiated CfDs are highly effective in correcting market failures, but they need to be used judiciously because – while they add to demand-side liquidity, they simultaneously extract supply-side forward contract market liquidity. Consequently, when used en-masse in loosely interconnected energy-only markets, CfDs have pro-competitive effects in the spot market by introducing ‘quasi-market participants’ but damage power system financial markets via the loss of liquidity. Power system modelling in this article demonstrates that a wide-ranging policy of government-initiated CfDs can produce shortages of ‘primary issuance’ hedge contact supply. This is far more than theory. In the South Australian region of the NEM, shortages of primary-issuance hedge contract supply have arisen through renewable entry and coal plant exit. Hedge shortages have had the effect of raising forward contract price premiums above efficient levels, needlessly forced the most price-elastic (Industrial/Manufacturing) customers into accepting unwanted spot market exposures, and unintentionally foreclosed non-integrated (2nd tier) energy retailers, all of which ultimately harms consumer welfare. CfDs have a targeted role to play in energy markets by correcting market failure; but broad-based market mechanisms are preferred.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D53|Financing low-carbon generation in the UK: The hybrid RAB model|Decarbonising electricity is a critical first step in mitigating climate damage but low/zero-carbon generation is very capital intensive. Its cost depends critically on the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). Three factors combine to make a low WACC both desirable and feasible in the UK. First, the Stern Report argues for a low social discount rate (1.4% real) for investments in climate mitigation. Second, global and UK real interest rates have been falling steadily - UK gilt index-linked 20-year rates have fallen from +4% in 1995 to -2% (negative) in 2019. CCS and nuclear have long lifetimes over which to recover their capital cost, longer than commercial finance would accept without guarantees, in contrast to renewables where off-take contracts have proven sufficient. Nuclear power faces the additional investment challenge of lengthy uncertain construction. No nuclear plant has ever been built privately without substantial regulatory guarantees. The Regulated Asset Base (RAB) model can address these financing problems for long-lived low-carbon assets. The benefits of placing risk on developers to motivate cost control are small compared to the extra costs of a higher weighted average cost of capital (WACC). A hybrid RAB model (like that used for the Thames Tideway Tunnel)—with excess cost sharing and a cost cap—can reduce risk to deliver an adequately low WACC by accessing infrastructure funds that do not require extensive specialised project knowledge. If the risk of excess costs is spread over the 27 million households and other customers taking two-thirds of electricity, each would bear minimal risk and the cumulative cost would be significantly lower. The levelized cost at the WACC (3.5% real) is £53/MWh if on time and budget, which should be compared with a counterfactual in which all the risk is placed on the company requiring a contract-for-difference with a strike price of £96/MWh for the life of the project (equal to the levelized cost). The levelised cost to consumers if on time and budget would be £50/MWh and in the worst case with a 48% cost over-run, £64/MWh.
D53|Lessons from Australia’s National Electricity Market 1998-2018: the strengths and weaknesses of the reform experience|Australia’s National Electricity Market (NEM) commenced in 1998 and after two decades it is timely to reflect on the strengths and weaknesses of the reform experience. The centrepiece of NEM reforms was the energy-only wholesale market and accompanying forward markets, and for most of the past 20 years it has displayed consistent economic and technical performance. But missing policies relating to climate change, natural gas and plant exit has recently produced results that have tested political tolerances. The piecemeal and random interventions that are now following are likely to inflame rather than resolve matters, at least over the near term. Network policy failures in the mid-2000s led to sharp regulated tariff increases from 2007 onwards. These policy problems were largely cauterized by 2012 but regulatory timeframes and business inertia meant network tariffs didn’t stabilise until 2015. The retail market has been forced to deliver sharply rising prices, and in consequence the problem of rising prices has been conflated with price discrimination; a largely unhelpful development in an otherwise workably competitive market.
D53|Asset-Based Lending|Asset-based lending, the supply of loans based on floating collateral, is an important source of funding for small firms. We analyze the effect of competition on asset-based loan markets on interest rate distributions and the mobility of small firms. Close monitoring of collateral by lenders results in an informational advantage for the incumbent lender and third-degree price discrimination. We find that adverse selection results in a unique equilibrium in which lenders randomize interest rates and firms switch lender with positive probability. Increased competition between lenders does not benefit firms through lower expected interest rates, neither does it improve their mobility.
D53|The Risk of Policy Tipping and Stranded Carbon Assets|If global warming is to stay below 2°C, there are four risks of assets stranding. First, substantial fossil fuel reserves will be stranded at the end of the fossil era. Second, this will be true for exploration capital too. Third, unanticipated changes in present or expected future climate policy cause instantaneous discrete jumps in today’s valuation of physical and natural capital. Fourth, if timing and intensity of climate policy are uncertain, revaluation of assets occurs as uncertainty about future climate policy is resolved. E.g. abandoning climate policy plans immediately boosts scarcity rent, market capitalization, exploration investment and discoveries. To explain and quantify these four effects, we use an analytical model of investment in exploration capital with intertemporal adjustment costs, depletion of reserves and market capitalization, and calibrate it to the global oil and gas industry. Climate policy implements a carbon budget commensurate with 2°C peak warming and we allow for different instruments: immediate or delayed carbon taxes and renewable subsidies. The social welfare ranking of these instruments is inverse to that of the oil and gas industry which prefers renewable subsidy and delaying taxes for as long as possible. We also pay attention to how the legislative “risk” of tipping into policy action affects the timing of the end of the fossil era, the profitability of existing capital, and green paradox effects.
D53|Cryptocurrencies, Currency Competition, and The Impossible Trinity|We analyze a two-country economy with complete markets, featuring two national currencies as well as a global (crypto)currency. If the global currency is used in both countries, the national nominal interest rates must be equal and the exchange rate between the national currencies is a risk- adjusted martingale. We call this result Crypto-Enforced Monetary Policy Synchronization (CEMPS). Deviating from interest equality risks approaching the zero lower bound or the abandonment of the national currency. If the global currency is backed by interest-bearing assets, additional and tight restrictions on monetary policy arise. Thus, the classic Impossible Trinity becomes even less reconcilable.
D53|Global Collateral and Capital Flows|Cross-border financial flows arise when (otherwise identical) countries differ in their abilities to use assets as collateral to back financial contracts. Financially integrated countries have access to the same set of financial instruments, and yet there is no price convergence of assets with identical payoffs, due to a gap in collateral values. Home (financially advanced) runs a current account deficit. Financial flows amplify asset price volatility in both countries, and gross flows driven by collateral differences collapse following bad news about fundamentals. Our results can explain financial flows among rich, similarly-developed countries, and why these flows increase volatility.
D53|Role of cross currency swap markets in funding and investment decisions|A US dollar funding premium in the EUR/USD cross currency swap market has been in existence since 2008. Whilst there are many reasons behind this dislocation, since 2014 the divergence in monetary policy between the euro area and the United States has played a growing role. This paper aims at exploring and gaining more insight into the role the Eurosystem’s Expanded Asset purchase Programme (APP) has had in guiding investment and funding decisions and its influence on the cross currency basis. The downward pressure on yields, exerted by the APP, has made euro assets less attractive and has led investors to search for yield abroad. At the same time, the decline in yields and tighter credit spreads have attracted US corporate issuers to the euro market in search of cheaper funding costs. These cross-border flows from issuers and investors have played a strong role in driving the US dollar funding premium. The purpose of this study is to gauge whether these changing trends in cross-border flows have implications for the implementation of the Eurosystem’s APP. Beyond the structural increase in the US dollar funding premium described above, a cyclical component has led to an amplification of the premium over balance sheet reporting dates, due to new bank regulations. This paper also analyses the behaviour of euro area banks in cross currency swap markets over balance sheet reporting dates, using the money market statistical reporting (MMSR) dataset in order to discern whether the increase in the US dollar funding premium at these specific points in time has an adverse impact on the transmission of monetary policy. JEL Classification: D53, E52, G11, G15, G18
D53|Bank Leverage, Welfare, and Regulation|We take issue with claims that the funding mix of banks, which makes them fragile and crisis-prone, is efficient because it reflects special liquidity benefits of bank debt. Even aside from neglecting the systemic damage to the economy that banksâ€™ distress and default cause, such claims are invalid because banks have multiple small creditors and are unable to commit effectively to their overall funding mix and investment strategy ex ante. The resulting market outcomes under laissez-faire are inefficient and involve excessive borrowing, with default risks that jeopardize the purported liquidity benefits. Contrary to claims in the literature that â€œequity is expensiveâ€ and that regulation requiring more equity in the funding mix entails costs to society, such regulation actually helps create useful commitment for banks to avoid the inefficiently high borrowing that comes under laissez-faire. Effective regulation is beneficial even without considering systemic risk; if such regulation also reduces systemic risk, the benefits are even larger.
D53|On the impact of government-initiated CfD’s in Australia’s National Electricity Market|An intriguing characteristic of Australian energy market policymaking is the almost exclusive focus on spot market dynamics. The policy development cycle displays a virtual disregard for, and of, power system financial markets. The irony is that forward contract prices form the defining wholesale price input to end-user consumer tariffs. In this article, the impacts of a wide-ranging program of government-initiated CfDs on power system financial markets are analysed. Government-initiated CfDs are highly effective in correcting market failures, but they need to be used judiciously because – while they add to demand-side liquidity, they simultaneously extract supply-side forward contract market liquidity. Consequently, when used en-masse in loosely interconnected energy-only markets, CfDs have pro-competitive effects in the spot market by introducing ‘quasi-market participants’ but damage power system financial markets via the loss of liquidity. Power system modelling in this article demonstrates that a wide-ranging policy of government-initiated CfDs can produce shortages of ‘primary issuance’ hedge contact supply. This is far more than theory. In the South Australian region of the NEM, shortages of primary-issuance hedge contract supply have arisen through renewable entry and coal plant exit. Hedge shortages have had the effect of raising forward contract price premiums above efficient levels, needlessly forced the most price-elastic (Industrial/Manufacturing) customers into accepting unwanted spot market exposures, and unintentionally foreclosed non-integrated (2nd tier) energy retailers, all of which ultimately harms consumer welfare. CfDs have a targeted role to play in energy markets by correcting market failure; but broad-based market mechanisms are preferred.
D53|On Banking Regulation and Lobbying|We study the political economy of bank capital regulation from a positive and normative perspective. In a general equilibrium setting, capital requirements and lobbying contributions are determined as the outcome of bargaining between banks and politicians. We show that bankers and politicians agree on lobbying contributions and capital regulation that renders banks fragile, reducing efficiency and fairness. Consideration of all general equilibrium effects, or a bail-in provision and high capital regulation standards from international agreements eliminate lobbying incentives, yielding an efficient and fair allocation.
D53|Mixed Signals: Investment Distortions with Adverse Selection|We study how adverse selection distorts equilibrium investment allocations in a Walrasian credit market with two-sided heterogeneity. Representative investor and partial equilibrium economies are special cases where investment allocations are distorted above perfect information allocations. By contrast, the general setting features a pecuniary externality that leads to trade and investment allocations below perfect information levels. The degree of heterogeneity between informed agents' type governs the direction of the distortion. Moreover, contracts that complete markets dampen the impact of pecuniary externalities and change equilibrium distortions. Implications for empirical design in credit market studies and financial stability are discussed.
D53|An Information-based Theory of Financial Intermediation|We advance a theory of intermediation that builds on private information and heterogeneous screening ability across market participants. We solve for the equilibrium market structure and show that investors with high screening ability are the largest intermediators: they are the most central in trade, they trade frequently, they trade with many different counterparties, and they extract high rents. We derive a set of testable predictions from the model and we test them using transaction-level micro data. Our empirical results provide evidence that our mechanism relying on private information and screening ability is a relevant feature of intermediation in over-the-counter markets.
D53|The optimal extraction rate versus the expected real return of a sovereign wealth fund|With reference to funds established for the benefits of the public at large, a university endowment, or other similar sovereign wealth fund, we demonstrate that the optimal extraction rate from the fund is significantly smaller than the expected real rate of return on the underlying fund. We consider the situation where the influx to the fund has stopped, it is in a steady state, and is invested broadly in the international financial markets. The optimal spending rate secures that the fund is a perpetuity, i.e., it will last 'forever', where the real value of the fund after payments is stationary, while spending according to the expected rate of return will deplete the fund with probability 1. Optimal portfolio choice and spending are then inconsistent. Our conclusions are contrary to the recommendations of an expert panel to the Norwegian Government Pension Fund Global, as well as at odds with part of the extant literature on the management of endowments of universities.
D53|“Testing for private information using trade duration models with unobserved market heterogeneity: The case of Banco Popular”|In this paper, we attempt to assess the potential importance of different types of traders (i.e., those with public and private information) in financial markets using a specification of the standardized duration. This approach allows us to test unobserved heterogeneity in a nonlinear version based on a self-exciting threshold autoregressive conditional duration model. We illustrate the relevance of this procedure for identifying the presence of private information in the final days of trading of Banco Popular, the first bank rescued by the European Single Resolution Board.
D53|Did the recent Brazilian economic defaults originate from real economic or financial issues?|This paper aims to discover whether the origins of the recent Brazilian economic defaults (2009, 2015, and 2016) were related to the real economy or to pure financial transactions. To do so, we analyzed the discrepancy of dispersion index (DDI) and structural path decomposition from flow of funds (FOF) matrices of the Brazilian economy from 2004 to 2015. Financial transactions mirrored real transactions in almost every year, except in 2008, when financial transactions more highly contributed to the imbalance. Additionally, the total value of financial firms’ transactions grew more than that of non-financial firms in periods preceding economic defaults (2008 and 2014) while the continued growth of non-financial firms transactions decreased the DDI in 2009 and 2015. Changes in the power of dispersion indices corroborated this observation by pointing out that the government and non-financial firms reduced their financial sharing while financial firms improved their role as financial intermediaries and, at the same time, the rest of the world was receiving a significant portion of Brazilian savings.
D53|Heterogeneous Impatience of Individual Consumers and Decreasing Impatience of the Representative Consumer|In a continuous-time equilibrium model of heterogeneous consumers, we formulate and prove the statement that the more heterogeneous the consumers are in their impatience, the more dynamically consistent the representative consumer is. We apply this result to interest rate models, and, in particular, accommodate heterogeneous impatience in the model of Cox, Ingersoll, and Ross (1985) to come up with a new form of short-rate processes.
D53|Naïve *Buying* Diversification and Narrow Framing by Individual Investors|Individual investors buying multiple stocks on the same day often use a naïve diversification 1/N heuristic, dividing purchase value equally across stocks. Yet very few investors maintain a 1/N portfolio allocation. Instead, investors appear to narrowly frame their buy-day decision independently of their portfolio, applying the 1/N heuristic only for new purchases. The use of this heuristic decreases, but does not disappear, as financial stakes and investor trading experience increase. These findings indicate that the simple heuristics individual investors use in practice depart further from rationality than is often assumed even in behavioral models of investment decisions.
D53|Will the Market Fix the Market? A Theory of Stock Exchange Competition and Innovation|Will the market adopt new market designs that address the negative aspects of high-frequency trading? This paper builds a theoretical model of stock exchange competition, shaped by institutional and regulatory details of the U.S. equities market. We show that under the status quo market design: (i) trading behavior across the many distinct exchanges is as if there is just a single “synthesized” exchange; (ii) as a result, trading fees are perfectly competitive; but (iii) exchanges capture and maintain significant economic rents from the sale of “speed technology” (i.e., proprietary data feeds and co-location)—arms for the high-frequency trading arms race. Using a variety of data, we document seven stylized empirical facts that suggest that the model captures the essential economics of how U.S. stock exchanges compete and make money in the modern era. We then use the model to examine the private and social incentives for market design innovation. We find that while the social returns to market design innovation are large, the private returns are much smaller and may be negative, especially for incumbents that derive rents in the status quo from selling speed technology.
D53|The Information View of Financial Crises|Short-term debt that can serve as a medium of exchange is designed to be information insensitive. No one should be tempted to acquire private information to gain an informational advantage in trading that could destabilize the value of the debt. Short-term debt minimizes the incentive to acquire information among all securities of equal value backed by the same underlying asset. These features align with observed practice in money markets (markets for short-term debt). They are also consistent with financial crises occurring periodically. In the information view adopted here, financial crisis can occur when the collateral backing the short-term debt is thought to have lost enough value to raise doubts among the traders that some may acquire private information. The purpose of this paper is to review some of the burgeoning empirical literature that bears on the information view sketched above. We focus on evidence related to three key implications of information insensitive debt: (i) adjustments to external shocks will occur along non-price dimensions (less debt issued, higher haircuts, added collateral, etc); (ii) in a crisis some of the short-term debt turns information sensitive; (iii) money markets feature low transparency as well as purposeful opacity.
D53|Cryptocurrencies, Currency Competition, and the Impossible Trinity|We analyze a two-country economy with complete markets, featuring two national currencies as well as a global (crypto)currency. If the global currency is used in both countries, the national nominal interest rates must be equal and the exchange rate between the national currencies is a risk- adjusted martingale. We call this result Crypto-Enforced Monetary Policy Synchronization (CEMPS). Deviating from interest equality risks approaching the zero lower bound or the abandonment of the national currency. If the global currency is backed by interest-bearing assets, additional and tight restrictions on monetary policy arise. Thus, the classic Impossible Trinity becomes even less reconcilable.
D53|The Influence of Zakat on Economic Growth and Welfare Society in Indonesia|Indonesia as a one of the most significant Muslim population in the world has developed zakat rapidly; it is shown by the development of the zakat regulation and establishes of Badan Amil Zakat Nasional (BAZNAS). Zakat has many benefit for economic both of macro and micro aspect, such as foster inclusive economic growth. The objective of this study are 1) to examine the influence of zakat on economic growth and welfare society which uses 3 (three) indicators i.e.HDI, Percentage of Poor People, and GINI Index and 2) to investigate whether items of Theory Planned Behavior influence of zakat payment. The researcher used Structural Equation Model (SEM) with PLS software. The result showed that zakat in Indonesia does not influence economic growth and welfare society. Besides that, welfare society Indonesia as a developing country has a negative value to HDI and GINI index but has a positive value to Percentage of Poor People.
D53|How to Break the Bandwagon Effect of Corruption|Corruption is considered as the most challenging issues of present economies of the world due to its impact on institutions, values and the sustainable development. It restricts almost all form of economic activities through redirecting the finance into unpredictable directions and weakens the economics system which locked as many countries continued to fail in controlling the corruption significantly. According to the World Corruption Perception Index (2018) India stands 78th rank out of 180 countries surveyed even after numerous policies adopted from the independence by the government of India to rectify it. Corruption is a behavioral aspect and the available literature on interlinking of corruption behavior and the Economics behind it are not well documented connecting various theories and their application of controlling corruption which triggers a call for integrated attempt to enquire into the behavioral Economics of corruption and to identify the relevant solution to rectify it. This paper is attempted to fill this gap in research by exploring the behavior of corruption in the light of the micro economic theory of consumer behavior called Bandwagon effect in the society. The paper identify the interlink age among corruption behavior, and bandwagon effect and the Economics of information and explored that how the (includes asymmetric) information can be fine tuned towards mitigating the bandwagon effect and corruption.
D53|A theory of repurchase agreements, collateral re-use, and repo intermediation|We show that repurchase agreements (repos) arise as the instrument of choice to borrow in a competitive model with limited commitment. The repo contract traded in equilibrium provides insurance against fluctuations in the asset price in states where collateral value is high and maximizes borrowing capacity when it is low. Haircuts increase both with counterparty risk and asset risk. In equilibrium, lenders choose to re-use collateral. This increases the circulation of the asset and generates a â€œcollateral multiplierâ€ effect. Finally, we show that intermediation by dealers may endogenously arise in equilibrium, with chains of repos among traders. (Copyright: Elsevier)
D53|An Information-Based Theory of Financial Intermediation|We advance a theory of how private information and heterogeneous screening ability across market participants shapes trade in decentralized asset markets. We solve for the equilibrium market structure and show that the investors who intermediate trade the most and interact with the largest set of counterparties must have the highest screening ability. That is, the primary intermediaries are those with superior information–screening experts. We provide empirical support for the model’s predictions using transaction-level micro data and information disclosure requirements. Finally, we study the connection between screening ability and efficiency, and observe that a market where all investors are screening experts–and thus, a market with no private information–may be dominated in terms of welfare by a market with no screening experts.
D53|R&D Financing And Growth|R&D investment are an important engine of growth and development.Yet economists have often claimed underinvestment, based on the consideration thatthese projects are more costly to finance, especially, due to the asymmetric informa-tion between inside and outside investors. Coherently, a recent empirical evidence hasshown that firms intensively active in R&D are less leveraged and rely more heavilyon internal finance. Motivated by this evidence, we study the e↵ects of asymmetricinformation and financial frictions within a GE economy of Schumpeterian tradition.The model and equilibrium concept are rich enough to represent investment and in-novation decisions, technology adoption/di↵usion through patent licensing and, mostimportantly, firms’ financial decisions. In this representation, R&D-intensive firmsmight e↵ectively rely more on internal sources and equity than on debt financing, rel-ative to what would happen in frictionless markets. Further, financial decisions a↵ectaggregate investment and income dynamics.
D53|Financial innovations role in consumer behavior at Russian retail payments market|This study estimates the effect of contactless payment and various financial innovations on the frequency of payments in terms of number of transactions for different individuals at the Russian retail payments market. Using the representative nation-wide survey of 1500 individuals, it was found that various types of financial innovations promote activity of consumers at the retail payments market. This paper contributes to the existing literature in payment economics by empirically analyzing the effects of emerging and existing retail financial innovations on the consumers? behavior at Russian retail payments market. The results of the paper provide important implications for both consumers and merchants, as well as help to overcome barriers that prevent spread and use various financial innovations in the future.
D53|Perception of Acceptance Barriers and Cashless Payments Value: Evidence from Russian Merchants|This study is aimed to examine the effect caused by perception of higher card acceptance barriers on cashless revenue share of Russian merchants. The empirical testing is conducted based on two representative samples of Russian nation-wide merchants survey data collected in 2014 and 2017. The analysis considers a set of regional controls, as well as merchant-specific characteristics. The statistically significant evidence in favor of negative impact caused by perception of higher infrastructural barriers on cashless revenue share is found in both samples, while only a partial significance of higher perceived institutional and human capital barriers may be observed. No significant evidence for merchants? rationality with respect to acceptance barrier has been found based on the comparison of perceived and actual barriers effects.
D53|Endogenous Discounting, Wariness, and Effcient Capital Taxation|When the discount factors that infinite lived consumers use at each date are not predetermined but are instead chosen within some set, depending on what the consumption plan is, impatience might not hold. More precisely, if the utility is the infimum of discounted utilities over that set of discount factor sequences, then preferences may be just upper semi-impatient. Such lack of lower semi-impatience, which we refer to as wariness, consists in neglecting distant gains but not distant losses. Examples are the precautionary case (a concern with the worst lifetime outcome) and the habit persistence case (a concern with a fall in living standards). The implementation of efficient allocations by trading assets sequentially requires taxes that avoid excessive savings by raising the opportunity of cost of saving up to the point of matching the marginal benefit of dishoarding at distant dates. Taxes on equilibrium plans are zero in many contexts.
D53|Recourse Loans and Ponzi Schemes|Non-recourse borrowing leaves no room for Ponzi schemes, as shown by Araujo, Pascoa and Torres-Martinez (2002). This is not the case with recourse loans, for which, in the event of default and on top of the foreclosure of the collateral, the debtor's estate can be seized or (in a way common in the GE literature) the debtor can suffer utility penalties. We focus on the latter and show that infinite horizon equilibrium with recourse exists in some interesting cases: (i) if utility penalties are low enough and the collateral does not yield utility (for example, when it is a productive asset or a security) or (ii) for a nominal promise backed by real collateral (such as mortgages, whose payments are not tied to a commodity price index).
D53|Crashing of Efficient Stochastic Bubbles|Efficiency is not commonly related to the crash of bubbles. However in the presence of wary agents, infinite-lived agents that are worried about distant losses, efficient bubbles may occur and, in a stochastic setting, these bubbles can crash. In this paper we characterize the Arrow-Debreu (AD) price and establish the relationship between the agents' concern about distant losses and the existence of pure charges in the AD price. We show that this pure charge induces efficient bubbles in the positive net-supply assets that complete the markets and that, as we enter some sub-tree, that pure charge may no longer present in the AD price for the sub-economy, implying the crash of the bubble. Finally, we give an example in which there is an efficient bubble with infinitely many crashes.
D53|No-trade and Refined Equilibria for Secured Loans in Infinite Horizon|When loans are secured but subject to utility penalties on default, notrade equilibria induced by unduly low repayment beliefs can be trivially found for nite horizon economies but not for in nite horizon ones. We illustrate this fact and propose also a re nement of equilibrium that gets rid of spurious no-trade outcomes when they do occur. Known existence results pass this re nement criterion.
D53|Designing Robust Monetary Policy Using Prediction Pools|How should a forward-looking policy maker conduct monetary policy when she has a finite set of models at her disposal, none of which are believed to be the true data generating process? In our approach, the policy makerfirst assigns weights to models based on relative forecasting performance rather than in-sample fit, consistent with her forward-looking objective. These weights are then used to solve a policy design prob-lem that selects the optimized Taylor-type interest-rate rule that is robust to model uncertainty across a set of well-established DSGE models with and without financial frictions. We find that the choice of weights has a significant impact on the robust optimized rule which is more inertial and aggressive than either the non-robust single model counterparts or the optimal robust rule based on backward-looking weights asin the common alternative Bayesian Model Averaging. Importantly, we show that a price-level rule has excellent welfare and robustness properties, and therefore should be viewed as a key instrument for policy makers facing uncertainty over the nature offinancial frictions.
D53|Asset-based lending|Asset-based lending, the supply of loans based on floating collateral, is an important source of funding for small .rms. We analyze the effect of competition on asset-based loan markets on interest rate distributions and the mobility of small firms. Close monitoring of collateral by lenders results in an informational advantage for the incumbent lender and third-degree price discrimination. We find that adverse selection results in a unique equilibrium in which lenders randomize interest rates and firms switch lender with positive probability. Increased competition between lenders does not benefit firms through lower expected interest rates, neither does it improve their mobility.
D53|Credit Default Swap Regulation in Experimental Bond Markets|Credit default swaps (CDS) played an important role in the financial crisis of 2008. While CDS can be used to hedge risks, they can also be used for speculative purposes (as occurred during the financial crisis) and regulations have been proposed to limit such speculative use. Here, we provide the first controlled experiment analyzing the pricing of credit default swaps in a bond market subject to default risk. We further use the laboratory as a testbed to analyze CDS regulation. Our results show that the regulation achieves the goal of increasing the use of CDS for hedging purposes while reducing the use of CDS for speculation. This success does not come at the expense of lower bond IPO revenues and does not negatively affect CDS prices or bond prices in the secondary market.
D53|Cross-Border Financial Effects of Global Warming In a Two-Area Ecological SFC Model|We develop an ecological open-economy SFC model that enables testing cross-area interactions among productive sectors, financial markets and the ecosystem. We show that the unequal technical progress across areas, coupled with rising ecological awareness, can force governments of less ecologically efficient areas to move further away from low-carbon assets. We argue that ‘green’ monetary and fiscal policies can be used to tackle climate change and financial instability. However, their effectiveness depends crucially on the impact of cross-border financial flows and growth rate differentials on exchange rates. Without a cross-area policy coordination plan, currency fluctuations can bring about unintended consequences, undermining green policies’ effects.
D53|Global Collateral and Capital Flows|Cross-border financial flows arise when (otherwise identical) countries differ in their abilities to use assets as collateral to back financial contracts. Financially integrated countries have access to the same set of financial instruments, and yet there is no price convergence of assets with identical payoffs, due to a gap in collateral values. Home (financially advanced) runs a current account deficit. Financial flows amplify asset price volatility in both countries, and gross flows driven by collateral differences collapse following bad news about fundamentals. Our results can explain financial flows among rich, similarly-developed countries, and why these flows increase volatility.
D53|The blockchain, plums, and lemons: Information asymmetries & transparency in decentralized markets|Despite a growing interest, researchers and practitioners still struggle to transfer the blockchain concept introduced by Bitcoin to market-oriented application scenarios. To shed light on the technology's usage in markets with asymmetric information, this study analyzes the effect of the blockchain's public transparency paradigm on behavioral patterns and market outcomes. In line with prior research, our findings indicate that the blockchain's shared record mitigates adverse selection effects and reduces moral hazard of good market participants (plums). In addition, we identify an incentive for bad market participants (lemons) to behave opportunistically in the presence of perfect quality information. More specifically, the disclosed information allows them to learn about quality differences between plums and lemons, deceive their counterparties, and move to a new equilibrium with increased utility. As a result, the market collapses despite a welfare gain and future generations are denied market access. In addition, plums and lemons are committed to inefficient equilibria following irrational behavior. In total, this study aims to provide initial guidance for blockchain adoption in the context of markets with information asymmetries and highlights risks that arise from competition, the exposure to irrational behavior, and the implementation of services on the infrastructure level.
D53|Coordination failures, bank runs and asset prices|We study efficiency properties of competitive economies in which banks provide liquidity insurance and interact on secondary asset markets. While all banks are subject to extrinsic risk, a bank's portfolio choice determines whether it is prone to a bank run in one of the extrinsic states. Asset prices determine the value of bank assets and thus how to structure run-proof portfolios. Except for very large sunspot probabilities, equilibria with trivial sunspots exist, where asset prices are state-dependent, bank runs do not occur and the efficient allocation obtains. Interbank asset markets are also a new source of multiplicity of equilibrium. For low sunspot probabilities, there are equilibria in which all banks are run-prone. For high sunspot probabilities, there is no equilibrium with run-prone banks but consumption can be indeterminate. If the sunspot probability is neither high nor low, equilibria may exist in which some banks are run-prone and others are run-proof.
D53|A New Model for Pricing Collateralized Financial Derivatives|This paper presents a new model for pricing financial derivatives subject to collateralization. It allows for collateral arrangements adhering to bankruptcy laws. As such, the model can back out the market price of a collateralized contract. This framework is very useful for valuing outstanding derivatives. Using a unique dataset, we find empirical evidence that credit risk alone is not overly important in determining credit-related spreads. Only accounting for both collateral posting and credit risk can sufficiently explain unsecured credit costs. This finding suggests that failure to properly account for collateralization may result in significant mispricing of derivatives. We also empirically gauge the impact of collateral agreements on risk measurements. Our findings indicate that there are important interactions between market and credit risk.
D53|The Impact of Government Debt Supply on Bond Market Liquidity: An Empirical Analysis of the Canadian Market|This paper finds that Government of Canada benchmark bonds tend to be more illiquid over the subsequent month when there is a large increase in government debt supply. The result is both statistically and economically significant, stronger for the long-term than the short-term sector, and is robust when other macro factors are controlled for. The result is consistent with the interpretation that risk-averse dealers tend to provide less liquidity to the market when facing increased duration risks brought by large debt issuance. The fact that the newly issued bonds are much less liquid may also contribute to the impact of debt supply on market liquidity.
D53|The Impact of Heterogeneous Signals on Stock Price Predictability in a Rational Expectations Model|"Through extending a standard Grossman and Stiglitz (1980) noisy rational expecta- tions economy by a heterogeneous signal structure with signal-specic dierences in uncertainty, we show that price momentum as well as reversal are not intrinsically at odds with rational behavior. Dierences in information quality in combination with asymmetric information lead to an under- and over-reaction in equilibrium prices. We derive our results in a standard setup in which information asymmetry is mimicked by access to the realization of a certain signal including its quality, as well as in an environment in which signal quality is the only source of information asymmetry. Both scenarios support price patterns like momentum and reversal in a competitive rational expectations equilibrium without implying investor irrational- ity. Furthermore, we are able to show that in equilibrium it is always rational for agents to draw inference on their information sets, even in a ""second-best"" way. By ""second best"", we refer to the notion that the way in which agents process their in- formation might result in systematic mistakes owing to the existence of asymmetric information regarding signal precision."
D53|BREXIT Perspectives: Financial Market Dynamics, Welfare Aspects and Problems from Slower Growth|In this analysis, BREXIT is considered with regard to the main consequences for financial markets; and real economic implications are taken into account while policy options are also highlighted. The role of the interest elasticity of the demand for money is emphasized for both welfare analysis of BREXIT and overshooting – assuming that that elasticity will fall post-BREXIT. Key insights emerge from aspects related to Dornbusch-type exchange rate overshooting problems and insights from the Branson model: This medium-term perspective is used to derive some short-term and long-term BREXIT implications. As regards overall welfare effects, the BREXIT welfare effect related to a lower holding of real money balances – due to a lower gross domestic product post-BREXIT in the long run – is rather high, so that adding this to the HM Treasury finding of a 10% income loss from BREXIT suggests that the long run welfare loss of the UK could be high. Moreover, the quality of financial market integration in the EU countries is highlighted: For the first time, financial services trade restrictiveness indices are empirically analyzed. This leads – on the basis of a restrictiveness index regarding international financial services and additional information about prudential supervision quality – to an assessment of the quality of financial markets. Policy conclusions take into account the new protectionist challenges and use insights from the Welfens enhanced growth model with trade and foreign direct investment.
D53|Does Monetary Policy Impact Market Integration? Evidence from Developed and Emerging Markets|We reconsider the microeconomic foundations of financial economics under Knightian Uncertainty. In a general framework, we discuss the absence of arbitrage, its relation to economic viability, and the existence of suitable nonlinear pricing expectations. Classical financial markets under risk and no ambiguity are contained as special cases, including various forms of the Efficient Market Hypothesis. For Knightian uncertainty, our approach unifies recent versions of the Fundamental Theorem of Asset Pricing under a common framework.
D53|Patience is a Virtue - In Value Investing|This note illustrates a simple but important insight for financial investment. In a heterogeneous agent-based evolutionary finance market model with long-lived assets, markets are stable if clients of fundamental ('value') investment funds are more patient than clients of other funds.
D53|Liquidity Regimes and Optimal Dynamic Asset Allocation|We solve for the optimal dynamic asset allocation when expected returns, volatilities, and trading costs follow a regime switching model. The optimal policy is to trade partially towards an aim portfolio with a given trading speed. In a given state, the aim portfolio is a weighted average of mean-variance portfolios in every state, where the weight is a function of the probability of transitioning to that state, and the state's persistence, risk and trading costs. The trading speed is higher in states that are more persistent, where return volatility is higher and trading costs are lower. It can be optimal to deviate substantially from the mean-variance efficient portfolio (or from the risk-parity allocation) and to underweight high Sharpe ratio (high volatility) assets, as well as to trade more aggressively the less liquid assets in anticipation of an increase in their volatility and trading costs. We illustrate our approach in an empirical exercise in which we exploit time-variation in the expected return, volatility, and cost of trading of the value-weighted market portfolio of US common stocks. We estimate a regime switching model applied to a dataset of institutional trades, and find that realized trading costs are significantly higher when market volatility is high. The optimal dynamic strategy significantly outperforms a myopic trading strategy in an out-of-sample experiment. The highest gains arise from timing the changes in volatility and trading costs rather than expected returns.
D53|The Implications of Financial Innovation for Capital Markets and Household Welfare|Our objective is to understand how financial innovation affects investors' optimal asset-allocation decisions and the economic mechanisms through which these decisions influence financial markets, welfare, and wealth inequality. We show that when some investors, such as households, are less confident than other investors about the dynamics of the new asset made available by financial innovation, but learn over time, many ''intuitive'' results are reversed: financial innovation increases the return volatility and risk premium of the new asset along with volatilities of investors' portfolios. Despite the increase in volatilities, financial innovation improves the welfare of all investors but worsens wealth inequality because experienced investors benefit more from it.
D53|Quantitative Easing, Collateral Constraints, and Financial Spillovers|The steady application of Quantitative Easing (QE) has been followed by big and non-monotonic effects on international asset prices and international capital flows. These are difficult to explain in conventional models, but arise naturally in a model with collateral. This paper develops a general-equilibrium framework to explore QE’s international transmission involving an advanced economy (AE) and an emerging market economy (EM) whose assets have less collateral capacity. Capital flows arise as a result of international sharing of scarce collateral. The crucial insight is that private AE agents adjust their portfolios in different ways in response to QE, conditional on whether they are (i) fully leveraged, (ii) partially leveraged or (iii) unleveraged. These portfolio shifts of international assets can diminish or even reverse the effectiveness of ever-larger QE interventions on asset prices. The model provides a simultaneous interpretation of several important stylized facts associated with QE.
D53|Credit shocks and the European labour market|More than five years after the start of the Sovereign debt crisis in Europe, its impact on labour market outcomes is not clear. This paper aims to fill this gap. We use qualitative firm-level data for 24 European countries, collected within the Wage Dynamics Network (WDN) of the ESCB. We first derive a set of indices measuring difficulties in accessing the credit market for the period 2010-13. Second, we provide a description of the relationship between credit difficulties and changes in labour input both along the extensive and the intensive margins as well as on wages. We find strong and significant correlation between credit difficulties and adjustments along both the extensive and the intensive margin. In the presence of credit market difficulties, firms cut wages by reducing the variable part of wages. This evidence suggests that credit shocks can affect not only the real economy, but also nominal variables.
D53|Completing Markets With Contracts: Evidence From the First Central Clearing Counterparty|I study the real effects a contracting innovation that suddenly made financial markets more complete: central clearing counterparties (CCPs) for derivatives. The first CCP to provide full insulation against counterparty risk was created in Le Havre (France) in 1882, in the coffee futures market. Using triple difference-in-differences estimation, I show that central clearing changed the geography of trade flows Europe-wide, to the benefit of Le Havre. Inspecting the mechanism using trader-level data, I show that the CCP was instrumental both to mitigate adverse selection issues and to solve a ``missing market'' problem. Increased risk-sharing possibilities enabled more gains from trade to be realized. The successful contractual innovation quickly spread to new exchanges.
D53|Financial frictions, international capital flows and welfare|The connection between the financial crisis and global imbalances is controversial. This paper argues that this relationship is likely to be connected to the existence of heterogenous financial frictions in different domestic credit markets. By developing a general equilibrium model where adverse selection and limited pledgeability coexist, this work highlights why adverse selection may play a pivotal role in determining the different (often opposing) welfare effects of international capital flows on originating and destination countries. This perspective also advances an analytical framework that is flexible enough to analyze the global effects on investment allocation of the ”Saving Glut”, of the policies facilitating financial integration and macro-prudential policy. JEL Classification: D53, E2, F3
D53|Re-Use of Collateral: Leverage, Volatility, and Welfare|We assess the quantitative implications of the re-use of collateral on financial market leverage, volatility, and welfare within an infinite-horizon asset-pricing model with heterogeneous agents. In our model, the ability of agents to re-use frees up collateral that can be used to back more transactions. Re-use thus contributes to the build-up of leverage and significantly increases volatility in financial markets. When introducing limits on re-use, we find that volatility is strictly decreasing as these limits become tighter, yet the impact on welfare is non-monotone. In the model, allowing for some re-use can improve welfare as it enables agents to share risk more effectively. Allowing reuse beyond intermediate levels, however, can lead to excessive leverage and lower welfare. So the analysis in this paper provides a rationale for limiting, yet not banning, re-use in financial markets.
D53|Delegation Uncertainty|Delegation bears an intrinsic form of uncertainty. Investors hire managers for their superior models of asset markets, but delegation outcome is uncertain precisely because managers' model is unknown to investors. We model investors' delegation decision as a trade-off between asset return uncertainty and delegation uncertainty. Our theory explains several puzzles on fund performances. It also delivers asset pricing implications supported by our empirical analysis: (1) because investors partially delegate and hedge against delegation uncertainty, CAPM alpha arises; (2) the cross-section dispersion of alpha increases in uncertainty; (3) managers bet on alpha, engaging in factor timing, but factors' alpha is immune to the rise of their arbitrage capital--when investors delegate more, delegation hedging becomes stronger. Finally, we offer a novel approach to extract model uncertainty from asset returns, delegation, and survey expectations.
D53|Economic and financing aspects of removing asbestos in residences|Reflecting its utility and versatility, asbestos was used in the past in many different products, including eaves, fences, roofs, walls, ceilings, floor coverings and backing, brake drums, pipe lagging, ironing boards, electrical meter boxes, sealants, pipes, and so on. Most Australian jurisdictions banned ‘the mining of raw asbestos and the manufacture, import and installation of products containing crocidolite (blue) and amosite (brown or grey) asbestos’ from 1985 (Fary 2012, p. 11). An Australia-wide ban on the manufacture and use of all types of asbestos and asbestos containing material took effect on 31 December 2003. Work Health and Safety legislation in all states and territories prohibits the supply, transport, use, or handling of asbestos unless an exception or exemption applies. Despite the bans, remnant asbestos products are still ubiquitous, particularly in older Australian homes. Exposure to asbestos fibres may result in asbestos-related disease, which in turn may lead to interstitial lung disease or various thoracic malignancies such as universally fatal bronchogenic carcinoma or mesothelioma. Inhalation of fibres is recognised as a hazard in a range of exposure levels in different occupations (Gottschall, 2002) and residential activities (Gordon & Leigh 2011), with different types of asbestos varying in their potency levels (Berman & Crump, 2008). Three “waves” of asbestos-related disease have been posited in Australia. The first is associated with the mining of raw asbestos and the manufacture of asbestos-containing products. A second wave was generated by the use of asbestos products in industry. Of greatest current concern is a growing third wave of non-industrial exposure, especially affecting those undertaking residential renovations and maintenance (Olsen et al., 2011; Musk et al. 2016; ASEA 2016). The two main themes examined in this paper are: 1. socio-economic rationale. A necessary condition for enhancing the well-being of society is that the social benefits of a proposed government action exceed its social costs. But it is also necessary to establish that any action is best undertaken by government, rather than by private firms or individuals. Situations of market failure can generally provide a prima facie case for government intervention, but the relative transaction costs and the risk of government failure also need to be considered in taking a decision. 2. cost-minimisation. Once a government has decided to take action, budgetary considerations and competing expenditure priorities will dictate that associated financial outlays be minimised as far as possible. A range of possible approaches to implementing asbestos removal are outlined, with a succinct presentation of their key advantages and disadvantages. A number of implicit and explicit assumptions are made throughout the paper. For example, the constitutional level of government involvement is left unstipulated. While state governments have primary responsibility in Australia’s federal system for public health issues, the Australian Government established an Asbestos Safety and Eradication Agency (ASEA) in 2013 to provide a national focus on asbestos issues which goes beyond workplace safety to encompass environmental and public health concerns. The agency aims to ensure that asbestos issues receive the attention and focus needed to drive change across all levels of government. References below to ‘government’ therefore refer to any combination of local, state and federal governments, but not to any specific one. Further, no distinction is made between the many types of asbestos or their effects.
D53|A Multi-Criteria Financial and Energy Portfolio Analysis of Hedge Fund Strategies|The paper is concerned with a multi-criteria portfolio analysis of hedge fund strategies that are concerned with financial commodities, including the possibility of energy spot, futures and exchange traded funds (ETF). It features a tri-criteria analysis of the Eurekahedge fund data strategy index data. We use nine Eurekahedge equally weighted main strategy indices for the portfolio analysis. The tri-criteria analysis features three objectives: return, risk and dispersion of risk objectives in a Multi-Criteria Optimisation (MCO) portfolio analysis. We vary the MCO return and risk targets, and contrast the results with four more standard portfolio optimisation criteria, namely tangency portfolio (MSR), most diversified portfolio (MDP), global minimum variance portfolio (GMW), and portfolios based on minimising expected shortfall (ERC). Backtests of the chosen portfolios for this hedge fund data set indicate that the use of MCO is accompanied by uncertainty about the a priori choice of optimal parameter settings for the decision criteria. The empirical results do not appear to outperform more standard bi-criteria portfolio analyses in the backtests undertaken on the hedge fund index data.
D53|Villains or Scapegoats? The Role of Subprime Borrowers in Driving the U.S. Housing Boom|An expansion in mortgage credit to subprime borrowers is widely believed to have been a principal driver of the 2002–06 U.S. house price boom. Contrary to this belief, we show that the house price and subprime booms occurred in different places. Counties with the largest home price appreciation between 2002 and 2006 had the largest declines in the share of purchase mortgages to subprime borrowers. We also document that the expansion in speculative mortgage products and underwriting fraud was not concentrated among subprime borrowers.
D53|Technological Innovation in Mortgage Underwriting and the Growth in Credit: 1985-2015|The application of information technology to finance, or “fintech,” is expected to revolutionize many aspects of borrowing and lending in the future, but technology has been reshaping consumer and mortgage lending for many years. During the 1990s computerization allowed mortgage lenders to reduce loan-processing times and largely replace human-based assessment of credit risk with default predictions generated by sophisticated empirical models. Debt-to-income ratios at origination add little to the predictive power of these models, so the new automated underwriting systems allowed higher debt-to-income ratios than previous underwriting guidelines would have typically accepted. In this way, technology brought about an exogenous change in lending standards, which helped raise the homeownership rate and encourage the conversion of rental properties to owner-occupied ones, but did not have large effects on housing prices. Technological innovation in mortgage underwriting may have allowed the 2000s housing boom to grow, however, because it enhanced the ability of both borrowers and lenders to act on optimistic beliefs about future house-price growth.
D53|Bank Market Power and the Risk Channel of Monetary Policy|This paper investigates the risk channel of monetary policy through banks' lending standards. We modify the classic costly state verification (CSV) problem by introducing a risk-neutral monopolistic bank, which maximizes profits subject to borrower participation. While the bank can diversify idiosyncratic default risk, it bears the aggregate risk. We show that, in partial equilibrium, the bank prefers a higher leverage ratio of borrowers, when the profitability of lending increases, e.g. after a monetary expansion. This risk channel persists when we embed our contract in a standard New Keynesian DSGE model. Using a factor-augmented vector autoregression (FAVAR) approach, we find that the model-implied impulse responses to a monetary policy shock replicate their empirical counterparts.
D53|Impact study of telematics auto insurance|The development of telematic systems, as well as the need to differentiate the motor insurance market, led to the emergence of new clauses in motor insurance contracts. Thus, vehicle insurance contracts with self-check (and telematic) insurance policies are in the recent focus of insurance companies for motor insurance. With the help of a telematics device installed on the vehicle and a mobile application the driving mode of the driver is permanently assessed;the rating is calculated according andthe discount for the insurance priceis setaccordingly. These types of auto insurance contract terms can provide, on average, 25% savings for carefullydrivers.Our paperpresents, the recent developments in telematics insurance in Europe and around the world and the Romanian drivers propension to accept the monitoring of their driving behavior. We then present the economic, financial and socio-ecological advantages versusdisadvantages revealed by specialized literature for both policyholders and insurers. In this context, we will prefigure the future of telematics insurance in Europe.In our empirical study we estimate the financial impact of telematics insurance in Romania on gross written prices and gross paid indemnities. Finally, we estimate the socio-economic impact of these telematics insurance on the decrease in the number of kilometers,fuel consumption, number of accidents and casualties, and implicitly, on the reduction of the cost of the compensation. For this impact study we used the scenario technique (pessimistic, moderate and optimistic) in relation to the baseline scenario, respectively, the estimate of the natural evolution of the insurance market in the absence of telematics.
D53|Optimal Collateralized Contracts|We examine the role of collateral in a dynamic model of optimal credit contracts in which a borrower values both housing and non-housing consumption. The borrower’s private information about his income is the only friction. An optimal contract is collateralized when in some state, some portion of the borrower’s net worth is forfeited to the lender. We show that optimal contracts are always collateralized. The total value of forfeited assets is decreasing in income, highlighting the role collateral as a deterrent to manipulation. Some assets, those that generate consumable services will necessarily be collateralized while others may not be. Endogenous default arises when the borrower’s initial wealth is low, as with subprime borrowers, and/or his future earnings are highly variable.
D53|Evaluating Efficient Multilateral Interchange Fees: Evidence from End-User Benefits|This article evaluates the efficiency of current MIF rates for the Russian market and identifies the effects of their changes. In order to estimate the demand of end users and end-user surpluses the study uses the adopted version of the Bedre-Defolie and Calvano (2013) model as well as representative samples of 800 traditional (offline) Russian merchants, 1500 Russian individuals and 7 banks from the top 20 that cover more than 80% of the Russian issuing and acquiring markets and the end-user benefits. Results confirm the efficiency of currently set MIF rates. Comparative statics analysis confirms that the changes in MIF rates never lead to a Pareto improvement, while the total surplus changes are asymmetric across different market parts. The article also shows that once the realistic assumptions are introduced to the models (e.g., information asymmetry, imperfect pass-through of changes) the end-user welfare is distorted more severely as a result of the MIF rates changes. The first-best policy for the Russian regulator and legislators is the use of alternative (non-tariff) stimulating measures for a cashless economy in order to isolate the effect of changes to the intended groups
D53|Robust-yet-fragile: A simulation model on exposure and concentration at interbank networks|This paper presents a layered simulation model and the results from its initial employment. In this study, we focus on financial contagion due to debt exposure and structural concentration at interbank networks. Our results suggest that a medium density of connections in regular networks is already sufficient to induce a ’robust-yet-fragile’ response to insolvency shocks, while the same occurs in star networks only when the centralization is very high. The simulation model enables us to create stock-flow-consistent interbank networks with desired level of network connectivity and centralization. A parsimonious set of network configuration parameters can be employed not only to create stylized network structures with exact connectivity and centralization features but also random core-periphery network representations of a two-tier banking system. Our generic setup decouples the steps of a research on financial contagion. The layers of the simulator covers phases of a research from interbank network configuration to probing the details of a contagion. The presented version enables researchers (i) to create an interbank system of a desired network structure, (ii) to initialize bank balance sheets where the network in previous step can optionally be used as an input, (iii) to configure a controlled or randomized sequence of exogenous shock vectors, (iv) to simulate and inspect detailed process of a single contagion process via tables, graphs and plots generated by the simulator, (v) to design and run automated Monte Carlo simulations, (vi) to analyze results of Monte Carlo simulations via tools from the simulation analysis library.
D53|Flow-of-funds analysis in the Brazilian economy (2004–2014)|This paper is applies the flow-of-funds (FOF) framework proposed by Tsujimura and Mizoshita (2004) to investigate the structure of financial system in the Brazilian economy. The study presents the compilation process of the asset–liability matrix (ALM) and then develops an ALM with six institutional sectors (households, non-financial firms, government, the rest of world, financial firms and the Central Bank of Brazil) for the years 2004 to 2014. From the Brazilian ALM, FOF indexes are calculated (the power of dispersion, the sensitivity of dispersion and the discrepancy of dispersion). For selected years, the structural decomposition of change in the discrepancy index is calculated and an additional expansion presents an ALM with four additional financial firms: three government-sponsored banks—Banco do Brasil, Caixa Econômica Federal, and Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social —and one private bank—Itaú. The role of each institutional sector in the Brazilian financial system is illustrated and the discrepancy of dispersion is highlighted with a good indicator of economic problems showing that the origin of recessions in Brazilian economy was almost in the structure of the financial system.
D53|Intertemporal efficiency does not imply a common price forecast: a leading example|We define an efficient temporary equilibrium (ETE) within the framework of a two period economy. We show by example that ETE in this setting can lead to intertemporally efficient allocations without the agents forecasts being coordinated on a perfect foresight price. There is a one dimensional set of such efficient allocations for generic endowments.
D53|Intertemporal effiiency does not imply a common price forecast|Do price forecasts of rational economic agents need to coincide in perfectly com- petitive complete markets? To address this question, we define an efficient tempo- rary equilibrium (ETE) within the framework of a two period economy. Although an ETE allocation is intertemporally efficient and is obtained by perfect competition, it can arise without the agents forecasts being coordinated on a perfect foresight price. We show that there is a one dimensional set of such Pareto efficient allocations for generic endowments.
D53|The Economics of Instability: An Abstract of an Excerpt|"The dominant postwar tradition in economics assumes the utility maximization of economic agents drives markets toward stable equilibrium positions. In such a world there should be no endogenous asset bubbles and untenable levels of private indebtedness. But there are. There is a competing alternative view that assumes an endogenous behavioral propensity for markets to embark on disequilibrium paths. Sometimes these departures are dangerously far reaching. Three great interwar economists set out most of the economic theory that explains this natural tendency for markets to propagate financial fragility: Joseph Schumpeter, Irving Fisher, and John Maynard Keynes. In the postwar period, Hyman Minsky carried this tradition forward. Early on he set out a ""financial instability hypothesis"" based on the thinking of these three predecessors. Later on, he introduced two additional dynamic processes that intensify financial market disequilibria: principal-agent distortions and mounting moral hazard. The emergence of a behavioral finance literature has provided empirical support to the theory of endogenous financial instability. Work by Vernon Smith explains further how disequilibrium paths go to asset bubble extremes. The following paper provides a compressed account of this tradition of endogenous financial market instability."
D53|Inflation-linked Bonds: An Introduction|This paper gives an overview of inflation-linked bonds (ILBs). In the first part, it describes the characteristics of inflation-linked bonds and their pricing mechanics. This is followed by an illustrative example which compares the cashflow structure of the two types of fixed income securities. An analysis of the historical performance of inflation-linked bonds relative to their nominal counterparts1 follows on the basis of the Bloomberg Barclays total return indices for the US and Germany. Correlations between ILBs and fixed coupon bonds were computed.
D53|Asymmetric Volatility Spillovers Between Developed And Developing European Countries|This paper aims to examine the volatility spillovers among three asset classes, namely, equity, currency and credit among developed European countries and developing Central Eastern European countries in response to political, economic and financial events occurred in the Eurozone in the last decade. We use a different version of the Diebold-Yilmaz spillovers index in order to take into account the volatility asymmetry effect under both its leverage effect and, also, in relation to separated good or bad news. The first may be due to positive or negative shocks of identical size, whereas the latter may be due to good or bad news impacting separately. We find that the stock market is the main channel through which volatility spills over among these countries with a clear role as volatility transmitters for the developed EU stock markets. The volatility leverage effect is evident mainly for the equity market, while it emerges only after the Eurozone sovereign debt crisis for the credit market. The Brexit vote is found to be the main event contributing to volatility spillovers in the currency market with the Brittish pound transmitting positive volatility to the system. The Italian CDS market is found to play a crucial role during the Eurozone sovereign debt crisis, while the German CDS market is found to be more stable and mainly transmitting positive volatility. The European Central Banks policies, such as, LTRO and QE result into a reduction of negative volatility spillovers and into an increase of positive volatility spillovers in the credit market. According to the considered asset classes and time period, we detect positive and negative volatility spillovers among the selected countries in Europe showing how different events might contribute to different, beneficial or harmful, reactions within the system.
D53|Bank Leverage, Welfare, and Regulation|We take issue with claims that the funding mix of banks, which makes them fragile and crisis-prone, is efficient because it reflects special liquidity benefits of bank debt. Even aside from neglecting the systemic damage to the economy that banks’ distress and default cause, such claims are invalid because banks have multiple small creditors and are unable to commit effectively to their overall funding mix and investment strategy ex ante. The resulting market outcomes under laissez-faire are inefficient and involve excessive borrowing, with default risks that jeopardize the purported liquidity benefits. Contrary to claims in the literature that “equity is expensive” and that regulation requiring more equity in the funding mix entails costs to society, such regulation actually helps create useful commitment for banks to avoid the inefficiently high borrowing that comes under laissez-faire. Effective regulation is beneficial even without considering systemic risk; if such regulation also reduces systemic risk, the benefits are even larger.
D53|Liquidity Regimes and Optimal Dynamic Asset Allocation|We solve a portfolio choice problem when expected returns, volatilities and trading-costs follow a regime-switching model. The optimal policy trades towards an aim portfolio given by a weighted-average of the conditional mean-variance portfolios in all future states. The trading speed is higher in more persistent, riskier and higher-liquidity states. It can be optimal to overweight low Sharpe-ratio assets such as Treasury bonds because they remain liquid even in crisis states. We illustrate our methodology by constructing an optimal US equity market timing portfolio based on an estimated regime-switching model and on trading costs estimated using a large-order institutional trading dataset.
D53|Do Proxies for Informed Trading Measure Informed Trading? Evidence from Illegal Insider Trades|This paper exploits hand-collected data on illegal insider trades to test whether standard illiquidity measures can detect informed trading. Controlling for unobserved cross-sectional and time-series variation, sampling bias, and strategic timing of insider trades, I find that only absolute order imbalance and the negative autocorrelation of order flows are statistically and economically robust predictors of insider trading. However, this result only holds for short-lived information. When information is long-lived, none of the measures of illiquidity I consider detect informed trading, including bid-ask spreads, Kyle's lambda, and Amihud illiquidity. These results suggest that standard measures of illiquidity have limited applications.
D53|Mood Betas and Seasonalities in Stock Returns|Existing research has documented cross-sectional seasonality of stock returns—the periodic outperformance of certain stocks during the same calendar months or weekdays. A model in which assets differ in their sensitivities to investor mood explains these effects and implies other seasonal patterns. We find that relative performance across individual stocks or stock portfolios during past high or low mood months and weekdays tends to recur/reverse in periods with congruent/noncongruent mood. Furthermore, assets with higher sensitivities to aggregate mood—higher mood betas — subsequently earn higher/lower returns during high/low mood periods, including those induced by Daylight Saving Time changes, weather conditions and anticipation of major holidays.
D53|The Economic Limits of Bitcoin and the Blockchain|The amount of computational power devoted to anonymous, decentralized blockchains such as Bitcoin's must simultaneously satisfy two conditions in equilibrium: (1) a zero-profit condition among miners, who engage in a rent-seeking competition for the prize associated with adding the next block to the chain; and (2) an incentive compatibility condition on the system's vulnerability to a “majority attack”, namely that the computational costs of such an attack must exceed the benefits. Together, these two equations imply that (3) the recurring, “flow”, payments to miners for running the blockchain must be large relative to the one-off, “stock”, benefits of attacking it. This is very expensive! The constraint is softer (i.e., stock versus stock) if both (i) the mining technology used to run the blockchain is both scarce and non-repurposable, and (ii) any majority attack is a “sabotage” in that it causes a collapse in the economic value of the blockchain; however, reliance on non-repurposable technology for security and vulnerability to sabotage each raise their own concerns, and point to specific collapse scenarios. In particular, the model suggests that Bitcoin would be majority attacked if it became sufficiently economically important — e.g., if it became a “store of value” akin to gold — which suggests that there are intrinsic economic limits to how economically important it can become in the first place.
D53|Portfolio Rebalancing in General Equilibrium|This paper develops an overlapping generations model of optimal rebalancing where agents differ in age and risk tolerance. Equilibrium rebalancing is driven by a leverage effect that influences levered and unlevered agents in opposite directions, an aggregate risk tolerance effect that depends on the distribution of wealth, and an intertemporal hedging effect. After a negative macroeconomic shock, relatively risk tolerant investors sell risky assets while more risk averse investors buy them. Owing to interactions of leverage and changing wealth, however, all agents have higher exposure to aggregate risk after a negative macroeconomic shock and lower exposure after a positive shock.
D53|A Walrasian Theory of Sovereign Debt Auctions with Asymmetric Information|Sovereign bonds are highly divisible (since they are sold in large lots), usually of uncertain quality and sold to a large number of investors. As no bidder can individually affect the bond price, we develop a tractable Walrasian theory of Treasury auctions in which investors are asymmetrically informed about the quality of the bond. We characterize the price of the bond for different degrees of asymmetric information, both under price-discriminating (PD) and uniform-price (UP) protocols. We endogenize information acquisition and show that PD protocols are likely to induce multiple equilibria, one displaying asymmetric information, while UP protocols are unlikely to sustain equilibria with asymmetric information. This result has welfare implications as asymmetric information negatively affects the level and volatility of sovereign bond prices.
D53|Credit and Bankruptcy in a Temporary Equilibrium Model|A temporary general equilibrium in bankruptcy model with finite periods was analyzed in this paper, which (i) every consumer only issues one type of bond to financial market in each period; (ii) the bank has right to circulate currency, and never face bankruptcy. The model was an extesion of the Bankruptcy model in Eichberger(1989), based on the assumptions that the occurrence of moral hazard is prevented by the credit scheme law, which depends on the current information and forecast function. The main result of this paper enables as to develop the liquidation rule without penalties. This rule can also be used to interpret liquidating distribution in Bankruptcy Act. In addition, the bankruptcy mechanism plays an effective role even if the chain-reaction bankruptcy occurred. Moreover, we can prove that the economy will never collapse in an overlapping model which has some newborn in every period.
D53|Climate Policy and Stranded Carbon Assets: a Financial Perspective|Unanticipated climate policy curbs the value of physical capital that is costly to adjust. We illustrate this by showing that climate policy to keep peak global warming below 2°C depresses the share prices of oil and gas majors and their market capitalisation, curbs exploration investment and oil and gas discoveries, boosts proven reserves left abandoned in the crust of the earth, cuts exploitation investment, and induces an earlier onset of the carbon-free era. For a given carbon budget, an immediate carbon tax is the first-best response but delaying the carbon tax or a renewable energy subsidy to meet the same temperature target are preferred by shareholders because they introduce Green Paradox effects and protect the profitability of existing capital.
D53|The Superiority of Biased Reviewers in a Model of Simultaneous Sales|This paper considers the impact of reviewers on sales of products of quality unknown to consumers. Sales occur simultaneously after consideration by a reviewer with a known level of bias. Consumers observe the reviewer`s decision and a private signal. We find that: (a) with flexible prices and signals that are not too revealing the reviewer most biased against the product is best for profits; (b) with flexible prices and very revealing private signals the reviewer most biased in favour is optimal; (c) with fixed prices then a reviewer biased against, but close to unibased, is optimal.
D53|Optimal taxation, environment quality, socially responsible firms and investors|We characterize the optimal pollution-, capital- and labour-tax structure in a continuous-time growth model in the presence of pollution (resulting from production), both in the first- and second-best, allowing investors to be driven by social responsibility objectives. The social responsibility objective takes the form of warm-glow, as in Andreoni (1990) and Dam (2011), inducing firms to reduce pollution through increased abatement activity. Among the results, the first best pollution tax is still positive under warm-glow, the second-best pollution tax displays the additivity property, and we show the circumstances under which the Chamley-Judd zero capital-income tax result does not hold.
D53|Financial bubbles and capital accumulation in altruistic economies|We consider an overlapping generations model à la Diamond (1965) with two additional ingredients: altruism and an asset (or land) bringing non-stationary positive dividends (or fruits). We study the global dynamics of capital stocks and asset values as well as the interplay between them. Asset price bubbles are also investigated.
D53|Pricing Credit Default Swap Subject to Counterparty Risk and Collateralization|This article presents a new model for valuing a credit default swap (CDS) contract that is affected by multiple credit risks of the buyer, seller and reference entity. We show that default dependency has a significant impact on asset pricing. In fact, correlated default risk is one of the most pervasive threats in financial markets. We also show that a fully collateralized CDS is not equivalent to a risk-free one. In other words, full collateralization cannot eliminate counterparty risk completely in the CDS market.
D53|R&D financing and growth|R&D investment are an important engine of growth and development. Yet economists have often claimed underinvestment, also due to the asymmetric information between inside investors and outside investors and financiers, and the consequent capital and financial market imperfections. Some recent empirical evidence robustly supports these claims. Motivated by this evidence, we study the effects of asymmetric information and financial frictions on R&D investment within a dynamic GE economy of Shumpeterian tradition. The model and equilibrium concept we propose is rich enough to represent investment and innovation decisions, financial decisions and decisions regarding technology adoption/diffusion through patent licensing. Qualitative predictions indicate that the financial policy of the firm matters in explaining both entrepreneurial production and innovation decisions. Young R&D-intensive firms might rely more heavily on internal sources and equity than on debt financing, relatively to what would otherwise be observed in absence of frictions. These findings contribute to explain the type of financial hierarchy recently highlighted in the empirical studies.
D53|Arbitrage Opportunities: Anatomy and Remediation|We introduce an experimental design where arbitrage opportunities emerge reliably and repeatedly. We observe significantly higher sell-side than buy-side arbitrage opportunities. We study ways to mitigate them. Relaxing margin requirements, shortsale restrictions, or both have neither statistically nor economically significant effects. Increasing competition (more participants, each with small stakes), and more impactful, participants’ stakes (few wealthy participants each with large exposures), generate large reductions in arbitrage opportunities. Hence, we advocate increased competition for small markets, and allowance for large stakes in large markets, rather than relaxation of rules on margin purchases or shortsales.
D53|Effect of corporate governance on cost of equity before and after international financial reporting standard implementation|The ability to compete between companies at the time of intercompany production efficiency is no longer a differentiator, the determinant of competitiveness includes the aspect of funding to be one of the determinants of competitiveness. One of the company's competitiveness capabilities is determined by the capital cost or the discount rate used in evaluating a project. The higher the cost of capital will be the lower the competitiveness of the company. There are many factors that determine the cost of a company's capital, but this research focuses only on the aspects of Corporate Governance (CG). Investors will assume that the risk in companies that have good CG quality will be smaller than companies that do not have good CG quality. On the other hand, IFRS implementation has a variety of purposes including improving the implementation of CG in a company, so it is theoretically suspected that IFRS implementation will increase CG's influence on CoE. The approach used is to study the capability of the linear regression model formed and to conduct a comparative analysis among regression models established by data from manufacturing companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange during 2007-2011 as data prior to IFRS implementation and 2012-2015 for data after IFRS implementation. Based on the results of data processing obtained evidence that Corporate Governance negatively affect the Cost of Equity (CoE). This contradicts the theory because the better the CG value of a firm the CoE will be to decrease. When compared to the period before and after IFRS implementation, there is no evidence of a relationship between CG and CoE.
D53|Inequality and asset fire sales|It is widely acknowledged that fire sales were a critical factor in inducing and exacerbating the financial crises of 2007--2008. The leverage of financial intermediaries, which is defined as the ratio of total assets to capital, is a key factor in causing fire sales. Why do financial intermediaries expand their balance sheets despite subsequently having to sell their assets at discounted prices? To examine this question, we incorporate financial intermediaries into a three-period incomplete market economy model, in which households face countercyclical and uninsured idiosyncratic income shocks. We demonstrate that countercyclical income inequality and market incompleteness result in leveraged investment and subsequent asset fire sales by financial intermediaries in equilibrium. The first contribution of this paper is that we demonstrate that the mechanism between asset prices and leverages could successfully solve the famed asset-pricing puzzles. The second contribution is that we analyze the impact of financial regulation on the welfare of ex ante homogeneous households.
D53|The strength of sensitivity to ambiguity|Abstract We report an experiment where each subject’s ambiguity sensitivity is measured by an ambiguity premium, a concept analogous to and comparable with a risk premium. In our design, some tasks feature known objective risks and others uncertainty about which subjects have imperfect, heterogeneous, information (“ambiguous tasks”). We show how the smooth ambiguity model can be used to calculate ambiguity premia. A distinctive feature of our approach is estimation of each subject’s subjective beliefs about the uncertainty in ambiguous tasks. We find considerable heterogeneity among subjects in beliefs and ambiguity premia; and that, on average, ambiguity sensitivity is about as strong as risk sensitivity.
D53|Strategic Default in Financial Networks|This paper investigates a model of strategic interactions in financial networks, where the decision by one agent on whether or not to default impacts the incentives of other agents to escape default. Agents’ payoffs are determined by the clearing mechanism introduced in the seminal contribution of Eisenberg and Noe (2001). We first show the existence of a Nash equilibrium of this default game. Next, we develop an algorithm to find all Nash equilibria that relies on the financial network structure. Finally, we explore some policy implications to achieve efficient coordination.
D53|Unleashing Animal Spirits: Self-Control and Overpricing in Experimental Asset Markets|One explanation for overpricing on asset markets is a lack of traders’ self-control. We implement the first experiment to address the causal relationship between self-control and systematic overpricing on financial markets. Our setup detects some of the channels through which low individual self-control could transmit into irrational exuberance in markets. Our data indicate a large direct effect of reduced self-control on market overpricing. Low self-control traders report stronger emotions after the market. Received February 13, 2017; editorial decision August 29, 2018 by Editor Wei Jiang. Authors have furnished supplementary data and an Internet Appendix, which are available on the Oxford University Press Web site next to the link to the final published paper online.
D53|Central Bank purchases of private assets: An evaluation|We develop a model of asset exchange and monetary policy, augmented to incorporate a housing market and a frictional financial market. Homeowners take out mortgages with banks using their residential properties as collateral to finance consumption. Banks use mortgages and government liabilities as collateral to secure deposit contracts, but they have an incentive to falsify the quality of mortgages at a cost. Quantitative easing in the form of central bank purchases of mortgages from private banks has an effect on the composition of assets in the economy and on the incentive structure of the private sector. When the incentive problem is severe, private banks hold capital with mortgage retention to mitigate the incentive problem, and the central bank can unambiguously improve welfare by purchasing mortgages. However, when this problem is not severe, the central bank's mortgage purchases cause a housing construction boom and can sometimes decrease an exchange in the economy, thereby reducing welfare. (Copyright: Elsevier)
D53|Market power and the risk-taking of banks: Some semiparametric evidence from emerging economies|We investigate the nexus between the market power of banks and their risk-taking, using bank-level data from 35 emerging economies during the period of 2000-2014. Under a Bayesian framework, we employ the semiparametric method, which allows for a nonlinear risk impact of banks' market power. Our results suggest a significant nonlinear relationship between the market power and the risk-taking of banks.
D53|Network effects at retail payments market: evidence from Russian individuals|This research empirically evaluates the effect of network externalities for individuals behavior at Russian retail payments market. Specifically, the effects of direct and indirect network externalities for cardholding and usage probabilities are examined. Using the representative sample of 1500 individuals from all Russian regions this study finds significant robust evidence of positive association between the degree of both types of network externalities and individuals? activity at the Russian retail payments market. Results are economically significant: a standard deviation increase in network effects leads to 2.5-4 percentage points increase in probability of cardholding and usage. Findings imply that one needs to account for network effects which play an important role for the payment behavior before implementing payment stimulating programs in Russia aimed at cardholders or users.
D53|The painting can be fake, but not the feeling’: an overview of the Vietnamese market through the lens of fake, forgery and copy paintings|A work of Vietnamese art crossed a million-dollar mark in the international art market in early 2017. The event was reluctantly seen as a sign of maturity from the Vietnamese art amidst the many existing problems. Even though the Vietnamese media has discussed the issues enthusiastically, there is a lack of literature from the Vietnamese academics examining the subject, and even rarer in from the market perspective. This paper aims to contribute an insightful perspective on the Vietnamese art market, and hesitantly the Vietnamese art as well, through the lens of fake, forgery and copy artworks. 35 cases of fake, forgery and copy paintings were found on the news and from the experts' wisdom. Through the examples, we argue that the Vietnamese art market is a temporary reaction to the immaturely rising of the Vietnamese art and the economy. Therefore, the art market is unable to function healthily unless the Vietnamese art and the economy developed.
D53|Momentum and Reversal in Financial Markets with Persistent Heterogeneity|This paper investigates whether short-term momentum and long-term reversal may emerge from the wealth reallocation process taking place in speculative markets. We assume that there are two classes of investors who trade long-lived assets by holding constantly rebalanced portfolios based on their beliefs. Provided beliefs, and thus portfolios, are sufficiently diversified, all investors survive in the long-run and, due to waves of mispricing, the resulting equilibrium returns exhibit long-term reversal. If, moreover, asset dividends are positively correlated, investors’ profitable trades become positively correlated too, thus generating short-term momentum in equilibrium returns. We use the model to replicate the performance of the Winners and Losers portfolios highlighted by the empirical literature and to provide insights on how to improve upon them. Finally, we show that dividend positive autocorrelation is positively related to momentum and negatively related to reversal while diversity of beliefs is positively related to both momentum and reversal.
D53|Experience Does not Eliminate Bubbles: Experimental Evidence|We study the role of experience in the formation of asset price bubbles. Therefore, we conduct two related experiments. One is a call market experiment in which participants trade assets with each other. The other is a learning-to-forecast experiment in which participants only forecast future prices, while the trade, which is based on these forecasts, is computerized. Each experiment comprises three treatments that vary the amount of information about the fundamental value that participants receive. Each market is repeated three times. In both experiments and in all treatments, we observe sizable bubbles. These bubbles do not disappear with experience. Our findings in the call market experiment stand in contrast to the literature. Our findings in the learningto-forecast experiment are novel. Interestingly, the shape of the bubbles is different between the two experiments. We observe flat bubbles in the call market experiment and boom-and-bust cycles in the learning-to-forecast experiment.
D53|Unleashing Animal Spirits - Self-Control and Overpricing in Experimental Asset Markets|One possible determinant of overpricing on asset markets is a lack of self-control abilities of traders. Self-control is the individual capacity to override or inhibit undesired behavioral tendencies such as impulses and to refrain from acting on them. We implement the first experiment that is able to address a potential causal relationship between self-control abilities and systematic overpricing on financial markets by introducing an exogenous variation of self-control abilities. Our experimental conditions seek to detect some of the channels through which individual self-control problems could transmit into irrational exuberance on the aggregate level. We observe a strong effect of inhibited self-control abilities on market overpricing. Our findings are furthermore robust to reducing self-control abilities only for a moderate share of traders in a market. Low self-control traders engage in more speculative behavior early on, but because others imitate their trading patterns, they do not end up earning less and are not driven out of the market.
D53|Leverage and evolving heterogeneous beliefs in a simple agent-based financial market|Recent research has acknowledged the crucial role of financial intermediariesâ€™ balance sheet variables â€“ namely, wealth and leverage â€“ in the dynamics of asset prices. In this paper we use a prototypical â€œsmall-typeâ€ artificial financial market model with heterogeneous interacting traders to pin down how asset prices are affected by the complex interaction between balance sheet constraints and the endogenous evolution of trading rules.
D53|Experience Does not Eliminate Bubbles: Experimental Evidence|We study the role of experience in the formation of asset price bubbles. Therefore, we conduct two related experiments. One is a call market experiment in which participants trade assets with each other. The other is a learning-to-forecast experiment in which participants only forecast future prices, while the trade, which is based on these forecasts, is computerized. Each experiment comprises three treatments that vary the amount of information about the fundamental value that participants receive. Each market is repeated three times. In both experiments and in all treatments, we observe sizable bubbles. These bubbles do not disappear with experience. Our findings in the call market experiment stand in contrast to the literature. Our findings in the learning-to-forecast experiment are novel. Interestingly, the shape of the bubbles is different between the two experiments. We observe flat bubbles in the call market experiment and boom-and-bust cycles in the learning-to-forecast experiment.
D53|Momentum and Reversal in Financial Markets with Persistent Heterogeneity|This paper investigates whether short-term momentum and long-term reversal may emerge from the wealth reallocation process taking place in speculative markets. We assume that there are two classes of investors who trade long-lived assets by holding constantly rebalanced portfolios based on their beliefs. Provided beliefs, and thus portfolios, are sufficiently diversified, all investors survive in the long-run and, due to waves of mispricing, the resulting equilibrium returns exhibit long-term reversal. If, moreover, asset dividends are positively correlated, investors' profitable trades become positively correlated too, thus generating short-term momentum in equilibrium returns. We use the model to replicate the performance of the Winners and Losers portfolios highlighted by the empirical literature and to provide insights on how to improve upon them. Finally, we show that dividend positive autocorrelation is positively related to momentum and negatively related to reversal while diversity of beliefs is positively related to both momentum and reversal.
D53|Behavioral Heterogeneity : Pareto Distributions of Homothetic Preference Scales and Aggregate Expenditures Income Elasticities|"We evaluate the income elasticity of the aggregate budget share spent on a sub-group of commodities, in a competitive framework, by a continuum of agents having the same income, but heterogeneous behavior described by an ""homothetic preferences scaling factor"" having a bounded Pareto distribution in the population. If individual budget share increases globally significantly in the limit from low to large incomes, aggregate budget share is locally increasing with medium range incomes when the logarithm of the heterogeneity factor has an increasing (exponential) density with a large support. Aggregate income elasticity converges to that exponential density parameter when its support becomes infinitely large. Symmetric results hold in the decreasing case. Applications are made to market expenditures, wealth effects on portfolio choice with many risky assets, concave expenditures, that are compatible with standard (expected) utility maximization or other ""behavioral"" decision making processes."
D53|Asset prices and macroeconomic outcomes: A survey|This paper surveys the literature on the linkages between asset prices and macroeconomic outcomes. It focuses on three major questions. First, what are the basic theoretical linkages between asset prices and macroeconomic outcomes? Second, what is the empirical evidence supporting these linkages? And third, what are the main challenges to the theoretical and empirical findings? The survey addresses these questions in the context of four major asset price categories: equity prices, house prices, exchange rates and interest rates, with a particular focus on their international dimensions. It also puts into perspective the evolution of the literature on the determinants of asset prices and their linkages with macroeconomic outcomes, and discusses possible future research directions.
D53|Macroeconomic implications of financial imperfections: a survey|This paper surveys the theoretical and empirical literature on the macroeconomic implications of financial imperfections. It focuses on two major channels through which financial imperfections can affect macroeconomic outcomes. The first channel, which operates through the demand side of finance and is captured by financial accelerator-type mechanisms, describes how changes in borrowers' balance sheets can affect their access to finance and thereby amplify and propagate economic and financial shocks. The second channel, which is associated with the supply side of finance, emphasises the implications of changes in financial intermediaries' balance sheets for the supply of credit, liquidity and asset prices, and, consequently, for macroeconomic outcomes. These channels have been shown to be important in explaining the linkages between the real economy and the financial sector. That said, many questions remain.
D53|Overpricing and stake size: On the robustness of results from experimental asset markets|We assess the effects of a stake size variation on experimental asset markets. Our results show that a fivefold increase in stake size leads to higher trading frequencies. Mispricing and overpricing, however, are not fundamentally different for different stake sizes.
D53|Real Anomalies|We examine the importance of cross‐sectional asset pricing anomalies (alphas) for the real economy. To this end, we develop a novel quantitative model of the cross‐section of firms that features lumpy investment and informational inefficiencies, while yielding distributions in closed form. Our findings indicate that anomalies can cause material real inefficiencies, which raises the possibility that agents who help eliminate them add significant value to the economy. The model shows that the magnitude of alphas alone is a poor indicator of real outcomes, and highlights the importance of the alpha persistence, the amount of mispriced capital, and the Tobin's q of firms affected.
D53|Price Uncertainty and Price-Contingent Securities|I extend the classical general equilibrium treatment of uncertainty about exogenous states of nature to uncertainty about prices. Traders do not know the prices at which markets will clear but have expectations over possible prices. They trade price-contingent securities (derivatives) to insure against the risks arising from this uncertainty. I establish four results. One is set of conditions that are necessary and sufficient for the existence of equilibrium (called an equilibrium with price insurance) in this framework. A second is that equilibria with price insurance are Pareto efficient. I give conditions under which agents are fully insured at an equilibrium. Finally I show that agents' price expectations matter in the sense that they affect the equilibrium allocation of resources, and that the existence of price-contingent securities alters the equilibrium of the underlying real economy.
D53|The relation between management fees and the mutual funds` performance in Poland in 2015|Research background: The investor`s expectation of better performance in case of more expensive mutual funds seems natural and fully justified. However the arise of passive funds and their surprisingly good results, especially when compared to their low fees, triggered the discussion. Recent years brought more and more studies, conducted mostly for the American market, discrediting high-charging, aggressive funds. First analyses in Poland also indicate, that the level of fees is not always linked with the fund performance. Purpose of the article:The purpose of the study is to investigate the relation between the fees imposed by the mutual funds and the funds` performance. The idea is to verify, whether higher management fees are associated with top performance and whether it is rational to pay more for capital management. Methodology/methods:In the first step of the study, linearity and direction of the dependency has been explored using scatterplots and correlation analysis. In the second part the regression has been analyzed to verify the strength of the relation. One-factor models have been built with rate of return and standard deviation as an independent variables for 1-, 3- and 5-year time horizons. Moreover two-factor models, with both rate of return and risk included has been created, to compare the significance of rate of return and risk factor. Findings& Value added:The results indicated, that more expensive Polish mutual funds in 2015 tended to perform worse in all tested time horizons – both in terms of lower rates of return and higher risk. Especially unexpected are the results of rates of return regression analysis – it turns out, that within a sample 1% higher fee implied over 0.6% lower rate of return before fees (in yearly period). Nonetheless risk turned out to be more important, explaining the charges variability much better than the rate of return. Another interesting finding of the study is that merely two simple factors (return and risk) explain even as much as 60% of the management fee variability.
D53|Information Flow Interpretation of Heteroskedasticity for Capital Asset Pricing: An Expectation-based View of Risk|The Heteroskedastic Mixture Model (HMM) of Lamoureux, and Lastrapes (1990) is extended, relaxing the restriction imposed on the mean i.e. μt-1=0 . Instead, an exogenous variable rm, along with its vector βm, that predicts return rt is introduced to examine the hypothesis that the volume is a measure of speed of evolution in the price change process in capital asset pricing. The empirical findings are documented for the hypothesis that ARCH is a manifestation of time dependence in the rate of information arrival, in line with the observations of Lamoureux, and Lastrapes (1990). The linkage between this time dependence and the expectations of market participants is investigated and the symmetric behavioural response is documented. Accordingly, the tendency of revision of expectation in the presence of new information flow whose frequency as measured by ‘volume clock’ is observed. In the absence of new information arrival at the market, investors tend to follow the market on average. When new information is available, the expectations of investors are revised in the same direction as a symmetric response to the flow of new information arrival at the market.
D53|A Reconsideration of the Equity Premium Puzzle|This paper develops an equilibrium asset pricing framework that allows for investor aggregation, and assumes a log-normally distributed aggregate endowment growth. This framework allows me to derive the equilibrium risk free rate, the expected market return, and expected returns for individual securities. To test how reasonable the results are, I use data of several developed economies from Campbell (2003, 2017) to find a median value of relative risk aversion of 1.57, and a time preference rate of 4.58%. The framework allows me to estimate a version of the CAPM and a multi-period pricing model.
D53|Erception of capital, profit and dividends affect the stock purchase intention in Indonesia public company|This study aims to investigate the influence perception of Capital Gains and Dividends on Stock Purchase Intention in Indonesian companies. Variables used in this research are the capital, profit and dividends (independent variables) and Stock Purchase Intention (dependent variable) and to show their relationship, it was used multiple linear regression. This research included Manufacturing Companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange and there were taken into account a number of 38 societies Data of this research are secondary data, obtained from the financial statements of the investigated companies published in the Indonesia Stock Exchange. The results showed that simultaneous independent variables have a significant influence on the capital structure, while partially effect on the Capital Shares Purchase Intentions. It was also shown that Profit and Dividends do not affect the Stock Purchase Intention.
D53|Perception of capital, profit and dividends affect the stock purchase intention in Indonesia public company|This study aims to investigate the influence perception of Capital Gains and Dividends on Stock Purchase Intention in Indonesian companies. Variables used in this research are the capital, profit and dividends (independent variables) and Stock Purchase Intention (dependent variable) and to show their relationship, it was used multiple linear regression. This research included Manufacturing Companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange and there were taken into account a number of 38 societies Data of this research are secondary data, obtained from the financial statements of the investigated companies published in the Indonesia Stock Exchange. The results showed that simultaneous independent variables have a significant influence on the capital structure, while partially effect on the Capital Shares Purchase Intentions. It was also shown that Profit and Dividends do not affect the Stock Purchase Intention
D53|Rationalizable Information Equilibria|Rational expectations equilibria (REE) assume that the ex post equilibrium price function is able to reveal ex ante information. This paper drops the assumption of information revealing prices and instead constructs an internal reasoning process through which highly rational price-takers can infer information from other market participants under the assumption that their utility maximization problems are common knowledge. Based on this reasoning process, we introduce the novel competitive equilibrium concept of rationalizable information equilibria (RIE). Our formal analysis establishes that (i) the RIE concept amounts to a refinement of the (generalized) REE concept whereby (ii) REE with interior net-trades are generically RIE.
D53|Trading under Market Impact|We use a model with agency frictions to analyze the structure of a dealer market that faces competition from a crossing network. Traders are privately informed about their types (e.g. their portfolios), which is something the dealer must take into account when engaging his counterparties. Instead of participating in the dealer market, the traders may take their business to a crossing network. We show that the presence of such a network results in more trader types being serviced by the dealer and that, under certain conditions, the book\'s spread shrinks. We allow for the pricing on the dealer market to determine the structure of the crossing network and show that the same conditions that lead to a reduction of the spread imply the existence of an equilibrium book or crossing network pair.
D53|Debt-Market Friction, Firm-specific Knowledge Capital Accumulation and Macroeconomic Implications|This paper studies research and development (R&D) investment and accumulation of firm-specific knowledge capital (i.e., human capital) in the presence of debt market frictions, highlighting the macroeconomic implications. Empirically, R&D investment and knowledge capital are negatively correlated with debt at the firm level, which is in contrast with the positive relationship between physical investment and firm debt. I propose a new model to account for these facts: Firms accumulate firm-specific knowledge capital through R&D investment. However, knowledge capital - different from physical capital - cannot be used as banking collateral. Firms with high R&D investment opportunities rely more on internal finance and less on external debt. The model is quantitatively consistent with empirical facts along several dimensions. Based on the model, I then study the implications of two industrial policies. A practice that encourages using intellectual property as collateral for bank loans has a relatively small effect. I recommend a policy of tax credits for R&D investment. In fact, this policy can increase output by more than 5% and welfare by more than 3% in the long run. (Copyright: Elsevier)
D53|Memory and Markets|In many environments, including credit and online markets, past records about participants are collected, published, and erased after some time. We study the effects of erasing past records on trade and welfare in a dynamic market where each seller’s quality follows a Markov process and buyers leave feedback about sellers. When the average quality of sellers is low, unlimited records always lead to a market breakdown. Appropriately deleting records, instead, can sustain trade in the long run. Positive and negative records play very different roles, and welfare is maximized for short positive records and long but bounded negative records.
D53|Benefits of the retail payments card market: Evidence from Russian merchants|This article evaluates merchants' benefits resulting from the participation in the retail payments market. Using surveys to obtain a representative sample of 800 traditional (offline) Russian merchants, the article finds significant, robust evidence in favor of positive merchant' benefits. This study further separates the benefits into direct and opportunity finding that the non-welfare improving regulatory initiatives might result from the failure to account opportunity benefits of merchants. This article also examines the factors affecting the level of merchants' benefits. Results show that factors affecting the value of benefits and the probability to accept payment cards differ. Findings imply that unbalanced intervention may be detrimental to the agents' welfare and propose a mechanism for ex-ante evaluation of the effect of shocks and interventions.
D53|Romanian Capital Market in a Globalized World|Globalization is a central topic in the financial literature, as its impact observed or estimated on local economies is sometimes invalidated by the macroeconomic variables. The positive effects induced by globalization are usually closely followed by several preconditions of future crisis, leading to an exposure of less developed economies to shocks induced by globalized markets. In this article, we use the daily returns of 12 capital markets - developed, emergent and frontier markets (mainly from the Central and Eastern Europe), between January 1st, 2007-March, 17th, 2017, in order to reveal the impact that turbulences on these markets have on the Romanian capital market. We use VAR models to capture the impact the developed capital markets have on the less developed Romanian capital market. The obtained results show the major influence that the developed capital markets, especially the US capital market, have on the volatility of the daily returns from the Romanian capital market. This result emphasizes the need for a reform of the Romanian capital market, in order to better fulfill its role as a financing venue for the Romanian companies.
D53|Behavioral Banking: A Theory of the Banking Firm with Time-Inconsistent Depositors|Time-consistent savers require compensation for holding savings accounts that are illiquid rather than liquid. In equilibrium, banks subject to reserve requirements for liquidity management are keen to offer that compensation. Yet the presence of time-inconsistent agents, who value illiquidity as a commitment device to discipline their future selves, reshuffles the deck. Our model determines the equilibrium liquidity premium––the interest spread between illiquid and liquid deposits––offered by a bank to a pool comprising known proportions of time-consistent and time-inconsistent savers, under the assumption that individual time consistency or inconsistency is private information. We characterize pooling and separating equilibria, and uncover two asymmetric externalities: time-inconsistent agents obtain a higher premium than they would request ex ante for holding illiquid accounts, while time-inconsistent agents make it harder for their time-consistent counterparts to get illiquid accounts. We also deliver insights on reserve requirements for banking regulation.
D53|Terör Olaylarının Finansal Piyasalar Üzerine Etkisi|In this study, we examined the volatility effect of terrorist incidents on Istanbul Gold Exchange, ISE100 and on the index yields of the sub-sectors in Turkey. Since negative and positive events have different effects on volatility, EGARCH and GJR-GARCH models used. Because of the study, it has seen that the terrorist attacks which occured in Turkey do not have statistically significant effects on the volatility of Istanbul Gold Exchange, ISE100 and of the sub-sectors. In addition, it has found that gold, service and technology indices have affected by only positive events; however, both negative and positive ones affect industrial and financial indices.
D53|Endogenous differential information|Abstract We include endogenous differential information in a model with sequential trade and incomplete financial participation. Agents update information through market signals given by commodity prices and asset deliveries. Information acts over admissible strategies and consumption tastes, allowing discontinuities in preferences and choice sets. Therefore, equilibrium may cease to exist. However, internalizing the compatibility between information and consumption through preferences, and without requiring either financial survival assumptions or fully revealing prices, equilibrium existence can be ensured.
D53|Eliminating useless portfolios in constrained financial economies|Abstract When financial investors’ portfolio holdings are unconstrained, financial economies are assumed, w.l.o.g., to have no redundant assets. Indeed, eliminating redundant assets allows to replace the initial financial structure by an equivalent one, i.e., one that has the same consumption equilibria. Moreover, at the end of the process, absence of redundant assets guarantees that the set of admissible portfolio allocations is bounded, a fundamental property for the existence of equilibria. In the presence of institutional (exogenous) portfolio constraints, eliminating redundant assets is not innocuous anymore since bounded arbitrage may persist at equilibrium, the law of one price does not hold, and some zero-income portfolios may not be free. The goal of the paper is to replace the elimination of redundant assets by the elimination of useless portfolios, a process that eliminates in particular Werner useless portfolios, but needs to go beyond to obtain the boundedness of the set of admissible portfolio allocations at the end of the purification process. Moreover, the elimination process is carried out without affecting the set of consumption equilibria, hence replacing at each step the financial structure by an equivalent one.
D53|General economic equilibrium with financial markets and retainability|Abstract A theory of economic equilibrium for incomplete financial markets in general real assets is developed in a new formulation with currency-denominated prices. The “goods” are not only commodities, and they can influence utility through retention as an alternative to consumption. Perfect foresight is relinquished in a rolling horizon approach to markets which lets agents pursue long-term interests without being sure of future prices. The framework is that of an economy operating in a fiat currency that agents find attractive to retain, in balance with other needs. The attractiveness comes from Keynesian considerations about uncertainty which until now have not been brought in. The existence of equilibrium is established directly—not just generically—and moreover under weaker assumptions on endowments than before, except that utility functions are taken to be concave. Agents do not need to start out with, or end up with, positive amounts of everything. With a single currency denominating the units of account in all states, price indeterminacy is avoided and all contracts issued in the financial markets can be interpreted as “real contracts.” Derivative instruments and collateralized contracts based on money prices are thereby encompassed for the first time. Transaction costs on sales of contracts, generated endogenously, lead to bid–ask spreads and in particular to a gap between interest rates for lending and borrowing money.
D53|Collateralized borrowing and increasing risk|Abstract This paper uses a general equilibrium model with collateralized borrowing to show that increases in risk can have ambiguous effects on leverage, loan margins, loan amounts, and asset prices. Increasing risk about future payoffs and endowments can lead to riskier loans with larger balances and lower spreads even when lenders are risk averse and borrowers can default. As well, increasing the covariance of either agents’ endowments with the asset payoff can have ambiguous consequences for equilibrium. Though the effects are ambiguous, key determinants of how increased risk translates into changes in prices and allocations are the covariance of agents’ endowments with the asset payoff, agents’ risk aversion, and the location of increased risk in the distribution of future states. Some restricted changes in the borrower’s or lender’s endowments can have unambiguous but asymmetric effects on equilibrium.
D53|Compressing over-the-counter markets|In this paper, we show both theoretically and empirically that the size of over-the-counter (OTC) markets can be reduced without affecting individual net positions. First, we find that the networked nature of these markets generates an excess of notional obligations between the aggregate gross amount and the minimum amount required to satisfy each individual net position. Second, we show conditions under which such excess can be removed. We refer to this netting operation as compression and identify feasibility and efficiency criteria, highlighting intermediation as the key element for excess levels. We show that a tradeoff exists between the amount of notional that can be eliminated from the system and the conservation of original trading relationships. Third, we apply our framework to a unique and comprehensive transaction-level dataset on OTC derivatives including all firms based in the European Union. On average, we find that around 75% of market gross notional relates to excess. While around 50% can in general be removed via bilateral compression, more sophisticated multilateral compression approaches are substantially more efficient. In particular, we find that even the most conservative multilateral approach which satisfies relationship constraints can eliminate up to 98% of excess in the markets. JEL Classification: C61, D53, D85, G01, G10, G12
D53|Analysing Cross-Currency Basis Spreads|This paper investigates the drivers of cross-currency basis spreads, which were historically close to zero but have widened significantly since the start of the financial crisis. Credit and liquidity risk, as well as supply and demand have often been cited as general factors driving cross-currency basis spreads, however, these spreads may widen beyond what is normally explained by such variables. We suggest market proxies for EUR/USD basis swap spread drivers and build a multiple regression and cointegration model to explain their significance during three different historical periods of basis widening. The most important drivers of the cross-currency basis spreads appear to be short- and medium-term EU financial sector credit risk indicators, and to a slightly lesser extent, short- and medium-term US financial sector credit risk indicators. Another important driver is market volatility for the short-end basis spread, and the EUR/USD exchange rate for the medium term basis spread, and to a lesser extent, the Fed/ECB balance sheet ratio.
D53|A Multi-Criteria Portfolio Analysis of Hedge Fund Strategies|This paper features a tri-criteria analysis of Eurekahedge fund data strategy index data. We use nine Eurekahedge equally weighted main strategy indices for the portfolio analysis. The tri-criteria analysis features three objectives: return, risk and dispersion of risk objectives in a Multi-Criteria Optimisation (MCO) portfolio analysis. We vary the MCO return and risk targets and contrast the results with four more standard portfolio optimisation criteria, namely the tangency portfolio (MSR), the most diversifed portfolio (MDP), the global minimum variance portfolio (GMW), and portfolios based on minimising expected shortfall (ERC). Backtests of the chosen portfolios for this hedge fund data set indicate that the use of MCO is accompanied by uncertainty about the a priori choice of optimal parameter settings for the decision criteria. The empirical results do not appear to outperform more standard bi-criteria portfolio analyses in the backtests undertaken on our hedge fund index data.
D53|Seeking price and macroeconomic stabilisation in the euro area: The role of house prices and stock prices|We propose an Economic Stability Index (ESI) incorporating house prices and stock prices as components of the measure of the inflation rate in order to allow the European Central Bank (ECB) to achieve both price and macroeconomic stability. We use an optimisation approach to estimate target weights for different sectoral prices in the broader price index, which depend on sectoral parameters other than those used to compute the Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices applied by the ECB to gauge price stability in the euro area (EA). Our results suggest that if the ECB had targeted the ESI, it would have implemented a different monetary policy which would had increased stability in the EA’s economic activity and would have helped to create adequate preconditions for sustainable economic growth and job creation.
D53|Disputes, debt and equity|We show how the prospect of disputes over firms' revenue reports promotes debt financing over equity. This is demonstrated in a costly state verification model with a risk averse entrepreneur. The prospect of disputes encourages incentive contracts that limit penalties and avoid stochastic monitoring, even when the lender can commit to stochastic monitoring. Consequently, optimal contracts shift from equity toward standard debt. In short: When audit signals are weakly correlated with true incomes, standard debt contracts emerge as optimal; if audit signals are highly correlated with true incomes, optimal contracts resemble equity. When audit costs are sufficiently high, stochastic monitoring may be optimal. Optimal standard debt contracts under imperfect audits are shown to reproduce key empirical facts of US firm borrowing.
D53|Understanding the Trembles of Nature: How Do Disaster Experiences Shape Bank Risk Taking?|This paper examines the impact of natural disaster experiences on banks’ business practices. Using earthquake and banking data for California, we find that banks that have had stronger earthquake experiences change their practices, both as a result of the natural disasters’ effects on local deposit supply and through changes in banks’ risk perceptions. These banks have a smaller exposure to real estate, maintain higher equity levels, and are more likely to lend to high-income borrowers. This paper confirms, therefore, that institutional memory exists in the banking sector and that banks and communities adapt to natural disasters interactively.
D53|Aggregation and Design of Information in Asset Markets with Adverse Selection|How effectively does a decentralized marketplace aggregate information that is dispersed throughout the economy? We study this question in a dynamic setting where sellers have private information that is correlated with an unobservable aggregate state. In any equilibrium, each seller’s trading behavior provides an informative and conditionally independent signal about the aggregate state. We ask whether the state is revealed as the number of informed traders grows large. Surprisingly, the answer is no; we provide conditions under which information aggregation necessarily fails. In another region of the parameter space, aggregating and non-aggregating equilibria coexist. We solve for the optimal information policy of a constrained social planner who observes trading behavior and chooses what information to reveal. We show that non-aggregating equilibria are always constrained inefficient. The optimal information policy Pareto improves upon laissez-faire outcomes by concealing favorable information in order to accelerate trade.
D53|The Wisdom of the Crowd in Dynamic Economies|The Wisdom of the Crowd applied to financial markets asserts that prices represent a consensus belief that is more accurate than individual beliefs. However, a market selection argument implies that prices eventually reflect only the beliefs of the most accurate agent. In this paper, we show how to reconcile these alternative points of view. In markets in which agents naively learn from equilibrium prices, a dynamic Wisdom of the Crowd holds. Market participation increases agents’ accuracy, and equilibrium prices are more accurate than the most accurate agent.
D53|Behavioral Heterogeneity: Pareto Distributions of Homothetic Preference Scales and Aggregate Expenditures Income Elasticities|"We evaluate the income elasticity of the aggregate budget share spent on a sub-group of commodities, in a competitive framework, by a continuum of agents having the same income, but heterogeneous behavior described by an ""homothetic preferences scaling factor"" having a bounded Pareto distribution in the population. If individual budget share increases globally significantly in the limit from low to large incomes, aggregate budget share is locally increasing with medium range incomes when the logarithm of the heterogeneity factor has an increasing (exponential) density with a large support. Aggregate income elasticity converges to that exponential density parameter when its support becomes infinitely large. Symmetric results hold in the decreasing case. Applications are made to market expenditures, wealth effects on portfolio choice with many risky assets, concave expenditures, that are compatible with standard (expected) utility maximization or other ""behavioral"" decision making processes."
D53|Macroeconomic Implications of Financial Imperfections: A Survey|This paper surveys the theoretical and empirical literature on the macroeconomic implications of financial imperfections. It focuses on two major channels through which financial imperfections can affect macroeconomic outcomes. The first channel, which operates through the demand side of finance and is captured by financial accelerator-type mechanisms, describes how changes in borrowers’ balance sheets can affect their access to finance and thereby amplify and propagate economic and financial shocks. The second channel, which is associated with the supply side of finance, emphasizes the implications of changes in financial intermediaries’ balance sheets for the supply of credit, liquidity and asset prices, and, consequently, for macroeconomic outcomes. These channels have been shown to be important in explaining the linkages between the real economy and the financial sector. That said, many questions remain.
D53|Money, Banking and Financial Markets|The fact that money, banking, and financial markets interact in important ways seems self-evident. The theoretical nature of this interaction, however, has not been fully explored. To this end, we integrate the Diamond (1997) model of banking and financial markets with the Lagos and Wright (2005) dynamic model of monetary exchange–a union that bears a framework in which fractional reserve banks emerge in equilibrium, where bank assets are funded with liabilities made demandable in government money, where the terms of bank deposit contracts are affected by the liquidity insurance available in financial markets, where banks are subject to runs, and where a central bank has a meaningful role to play, both in terms of inflation policy and as a lender of last resort. Among other things, the model provides a rationale for nominal deposit contracts combined with a central bank lender-of-last-resort facility to promote efficient liquidity insurance and a panic-free banking system.
D53|Three risks for the German residential property market|With prices surging in major cities since 2010, the debate about a potential speculative bubble in the German housing market has been gaining momentum. Overall, however, the German housing market is sound. Neither an excess of construction, nor an excess of mortgage lending have been observed, and thus the risk of a sudden burst in housing prices seems low. In the major cities in particular, there is a discrepancy between supply and demand. Combined with low mortgage rates, strong price increases are plausible. Nevertheless, this study also points to risks in the market. Specifically, investors should take into account the 3 following risks: 1. In rural regions, there is an excess of supply of single-family homes. Since demographic forecasts for the larger part of these regions are dismal, a price correction seems more likely. 2. In some big cities, completions in micro apartments have been enormously high. Moreover, most new micro apartments are let at high rental rates, overburdening most students who are meant to be the typical users. As the population aged between 18 and 25 is set to shrink over the coming years, there are grounds for a market correction, 3. Multipliers indicate optimistic expectations with regards to future rent increases, specifically in Hamburg and Munich. Although rental increases can be justified by a growing population, there is a risk of a tightening in rental regulation, preventing investors from putting rental increases in practice. The German housing market appeared to be a haven for investors in recent years. The combination of high demand (migration), a robust economy and ultra-low mortgage rates offered the chance for high capital growth. Fortunately, the German market is less prone to overheating than other markets, but risks are emerging nonetheless. However, since demand continues to outpace supply in various sub-segments of the housing market, investment opportunities are still present.
D53|Cutting out the Middleman: Crowdinvesting, Efficiency, and Inequality|We show that direct investments by consumers without the use of financial intermediaries can efficiently allocate financial capital to firms seeking funding for production of a novel consumption good. In our setting, consumers are also investors, and their privately known consumption preferences are correlated. Hence, consumers can use their own preferences to identify worthwhile investment opportunities and tend to invest in firms whose product they like. A socially optimal capital allocation and complete information aggregation about consumer preferences is achieved if and only if all groups of consumers have enough wealth to invest. If some groups of consumers cannot invest, then capital flows reflect preferences of the wealthy but not necessarily future aggregate demand. Traditional financial intermediaries can improve the allocation of capital only if wealth inequality prevents an efficient allocation of capital by consumers, but financing via intermediaries never reaches the social optimum.
D53|Order protection through delayed messaging|Several financial exchanges have recently introduced messaging delays (e.g., a 350 microsecond delay at IEX and NYSE American) intended to protect ordinary investors from high-frequency traders who exploit stale orders. We propose an equilibrium model of this exchange design as a modification of the standard continuous double auction market format. The model predicts that a messaging delay will generally improve price efficiency and lower transactions cost but will increase queuing costs. Some of the predictions are testable in the field or in a laboratory environment.
D53|Fundamentals unknown: Momentum, mean-reversion and price-to-earnings trading in an artificial stock market|The use of fundamentalist traders in the stock market models is problematic since fundamental values in the real world are unknown. Yet, in the literature to date, fundamentalists are often required to replicate key stylized facts. The authors present an agent-based model of the stock market in which the fundamental value of the asset is unknown. They start with a zero intelligence stock market model with a limit-order-book. Then, the authors add technical traders which switch between a simple momentum and mean reversion strategy depending on its relative profitability. Technical traders use the price to earnings ratio as a proxy for fundamentals. If price to earnings are either too high or too low, they sell or buy, respectively.
D53|Moral hazard in VC finance: More expensive than you thought|Venture projects are fraught with exogenous market risk and endogenous agency risk. We apply a real options perspective to analyze the investment decision of the venture capitalist (VC) in this set-up. The solutions presented are conflictive: the VC reduces his exposure to exogenous risk by delaying investments to wait for informational updates (delay option), but he mitigates endogenous risk by advancing investments to discover entrepreneur's effort. So far, papers focus on the optimal timing of investments considering independence of exogenous and endogenous risk. We show that interdependence of exogenous risk and endogenous risk exists. We find that endogenous risk prompts the VC to accelerate the discovery process when exogenous risk is high, and to abandon the delay option when it is most valuable.
D53|International capital markets with time-varying preferences|We propose a 2-country asset-pricing model where agents' preferences change endogenously as a function of the popularity of internationally traded goods. We determine the effect of the time-variation of preferences on equity markets, consumption and portfolio choices. When agents are more sensitive to the popularity of domestic consumption goods, the local stock market reacts more strongly to the preferences of local agents than to the preferences of foreign agents. Therefore, home bias arises because home-country stock represents a better investment opportunity for hedging against future fluctuations in preferences. We test our model and find that preference evolution is a plausible driver of key macroeconomic variables and stock returns.
D53|Looking behind the financial cycle: the neglected role of demographics|Data demonstrate a correlation between demographic variables and financial cycle: an increase in the working-age population is associated with an expansion of the financial cycle, that is, credit growth and increased housing prices. To account for this stylized fact, this paper uses an OLG model with data on housing prices, life-cycle of income, and consumption. A transitory baby boom, which increases the working-age population, leads to higher housing prices and household borrowing.
D53|Aggregation and design of information in asset markets with adverse selection|How effectively does a decentralized marketplace aggregate information that is dispersed throughout the economy? We study this question in a dynamic setting where sellers have private information that is correlated with an unobservable aggregate state. In any equilibrium, each seller’s trading behavior provides an informative and conditionally independent signal about the aggregate state. We ask whether the state is revealed as the number of informed traders grows large. Surprisingly, the answer is no; we provide conditions under which information aggregation necessarily fails. In another region of the parameter space, aggregating and non-aggregating equilibria coexist. We solve for the optimal information policy of a constrained social planner who observes trading behavior and chooses what information to reveal. We show that non-aggregating equilibria are always constrained inefficient. The optimal information policy Pareto improves upon laissez-faire outcomes by concealing favorable information in order to accelerate trade.
D53|The economic cost of capital: a VECM approach for estimating and testing the banking sector's response to changes in capital ratios|The Basel III/CRD IV reforms to the banking system following the financial crisis of 2008–09 required banks to raise significantly both the quality and quantity of capital on their balance sheets. This econometric study provides evidence of both the long and short-term implications for ongoing activity in the UK economy of a change in the aggregate proportion of bank capital funding. We find that, in response to changes in their capital funding, banks change credit spreads applied to private non-financial corporate borrowers to a greater extent than for household borrowers in the short term, but equalise these changes in the longer term. The short-term impact reflects banks’ desire to adjust their capital ratios through changes to the value of their risk-weighted assets by restricting the flow of lending to higher-risk sectors to a greater extent than to lower-risk sectors. We also find that after recent regulatory reforms banks may have modified their price-setting behaviour somewhat. We develop a vector error correction model of these effects with an innovative non-standard estimation of the short-term coefficients. Using this approach, we are able to: (i) test hypotheses about the short-term and long-term responses to changes in the aggregate mix of bank capital funding; (ii) test hypotheses about the responses of the non-financial corporate and household sectors; and (iii) enhance the accuracy of the short-term dynamics and the accuracy of the macroeconomic simulations of the effect of increasing bank capital.
D53|Subprime assets and financial crisis: theory, policy and the law|In this paper, we explore three specific aspects of the US subprime crisis, using both theoretical models and the outcome of subsequent legal proceedings. First, the role of pecuniary externalities in amplifying shocks to the quality of MBS held by Investment Banks. Second, the role of adverse selection in the marketing of such assets by Investment Banks; and third the role of financial panic in making shadow banking disaster prone. The relevance of these differing perspectives is attested by the nature of state support and, more especially, the findings of law courts. Janet Yellen has recently argued that the vulnerabilities within the US financial system in the mid-2000s were “numerous and familiar from past financial panics”. That the aforementioned threats to stability should be complements and not substitutes is of more than technical interest. It helps to show why the US financial system was so exposed to radical failure.Keywords: Financial Instability, Pecuniary Externalities, Asymmetric Information, Bank run JEL Classification: D52, D53, G01, G12, G13
D53|Re-use of Collateral: Leverage, Volatility, and Welfare|We assess the quantitative implications of the re-use of collateral on financial market leverage, volatility, and welfare within an infinite-horizon asset-pricing model with heterogeneous agents. In our model, the ability of agents to re-use frees up collateral that can be used to back more transactions. Re-use thus contributes to the build-up of leverage and significantly increases volatility in financial markets. When introducing limits on re-use, we find that volatility is strictly decreasing as these limits become tighter, yet the impact on welfare is non-monotone. In the model, allowing for some re-use can improve welfare as it enables agents to share risk more effectively. Allowing re-use beyond intermediate levels, however, can lead to excessive leverage and lower welfare. So the analysis in this paper provides a rationale for limiting, yet not banning, re-use in financial markets.
D53|The Dynamics of Heterogeneity and Asset Prices|In the context of a continuous-time pure-exchange economy model, the paper develops a novel methodology, based on measure-valued stochastic processes, for analyzing the evolution of heterogeneity in a tractable manner and studying its impact on asset prices. The agents in the economy differ with respect to impatience, risk aversion, beliefs about the growth rate of output, and to the rules for updating beliefs. The heterogeneity itself is described by a single object, a measure, and its dynamics by a measure-valued stochastic process. A key contribution of the paper consists in obtaining a closed form formula for the stock price in the case in which preferences are homogeneous with the risk aversion parameter given by a natural number. We also synthesize and generalize existing results about the equilibrium in heterogeneous pure-exchange complete markets economies and we highlight the importance of the endogenously determined risk tolerance weighted consumption distribution as a key ingredient in driving the equilibrium variables.
D53|Possibilities of use of the noble metals market in the life insurance|Motivation: The financial crisis of 2008 undermined the trust of many people to the financial markets. During such crises one can observe growing prices and trust among others to tangible assets including noble metals. Noble metals, to which following metals are classed: gold, silver, palladium and platinum, in contrary to current financial instruments (shares, bonds, derivatives, bank deposits) do not generate interests. They are instead one of forms of thesaurisation. Moreover, they constitute (mainly gold) good protection from inflation in contrary to the fiat money. In Poland this market is not very developed yet, but its growing popularity can be already observed. Aim: The main aim of this paper is to analyse the possibilities to use the market of noble metals in the market of life insurances. Results: The insurance companies can potentially use noble metals in typically protective products as well as in saving. Additional aim of this paper is to determine the attitude of people purchasing noble metals to the financial markets (including the insurance industry) and investigating their attitude to risk. For the purpose of the researching part, a survey among people purchasing noble markets was used. Moreover, this group can be potentially most interested in purchasing insurance products based on gold or silver.
D53|Deposit Insurance and Reinsurance: A General Equilibrium Perspective|We study the consequences and optimal design of bank deposit insurance and reinsurance in a general equilibrium setting. The model involves two production sectors. One sector is financed by issuing bonds to risk-averse households. Firms in the other sector are monitored and financed by banks. Households fund banks through deposits and equity. Deposits are explicitly insured by a deposit insurance fund. Any remaining shortfall is implicitly guaranteed by the government. The deposit insurance fund charges banks a premium per unit of deposits whereas the government finances any necessary bail-outs by lump-sum taxation of households. When the deposit insurance premium is actuarially fair or higher than actuarially fair, two types of equilibria emerge: One type of equilibria supports the Pareto optimal allocation, and the other type does not. In the latter case, bank lending is too large relative to equity and the probability that the banking system collapses is positive. Next, we show that a judicious combination of deposit insurance and reinsurance eliminates all non-optimal equilibrium allocations. Our paper provides a benchmark result for policy proposals that advocate deposit insurance cum reinsurance.
D53|Belief Dispersion in the Stock Market|We develop a dynamic model of belief dispersion with a continuum of investors differing in beliefs. The model is tractable and qualitatively matches many of the empirical regularities in a stock price and its mean return, volatility, and trading volume. We find that the stock price is convex in cash‐flow news and increases in belief dispersion, while its mean return decreases when the view on the stock is optimistic, and vice versa when pessimistic. Moreover, belief dispersion leads to higher stock volatility and trading volume. We demonstrate that otherwise identical two‐investor heterogeneous‐beliefs economies do not necessarily generate our main results.
D53|Global Collateral: How Financial Innovation Drives Capital Flows and Increases Financial Instability|We show that cross-border financial flows arise when levels of financial innovation differ across countries. Financial integration is a way of sharing scarce collateral. The ability of one country to leverage and tranche assets provides attractive financial contracts to investors in the other country, and general equilibrium effects on prices create opportunities for investors in the sophisticated country to invest abroad. Foreign demand for collateral and for collateral-backed financial promises increases the collateral value of domestic assets, and cheap foreign assets provide attractive returns to investors who do not demand collateral to issue promises. Gross global flows respond dynamically to fundamentals, exporting and amplifying financial volatility.
D53|The risk premium channel and long-term growth|We study a quantitative DSGE model linking a state of the art asset pricing framework a la Kung and Schmid (2015) with a constraint on leverage as in Gertler and Kiyotaki a (2010). We show that a mere increase in the probability of firms being financially constrained leads to an increase in risk premia. Even for a small adverse shock to productivity a drop in asset valuation restrains firms from outside financing and by that induces a persistent low growth environment. In our framework a constraint on leverage induces countercyclical risk premia in equity markets even when it does not bind. JEL Classification: D53, G01, G12
D53|Equilibrium asset pricing with Epstein-Zin and loss-averse investors|We study multi-period equilibrium asset pricing in an economy with Epstein-Zin (EZ-) agents whose preferences for consumption are represented by recursive utility and with loss averse (LA-) agents who derive additional utility of gains and losses and are averse to losses. We propose an equilibrium gain-loss ratio for stocks and show that the LA-agents are more (less) risk averse than the EZ-agents if their degree of loss aversion is higher (lower) than this ratio. When all the agents have unitary relative risk aversion degree and elasticity of intertemporal substitution, we prove the existence and uniqueness of the equilibrium and the market dominance of the EZ-agents in the long run. Finally, we extend our results to the case in which the LA-agents use probability weighting in their evaluation of gains and losses.
D53|Speculative behavior in a housing market: Boom and bust|We study a housing market with household buyers, speculative investors and property developers in a Walrasian scenario. We show that in addition to the factors that affect the real demand of household buyers and the development cost of property developers, investors' speculative behavior is an important factor explaining housing price evolution and dynamics. In particular, investors' extrapolative expectations may drive the housing price to persistently deviate from its benchmark value and even to explode. In contrast, investors' mean-reverting strategy can balance out the position of trend extrapolators, which may stabilize an otherwise explosive housing market. Moreover, the evolutionary process of housing prices driven by investors' speculative behavior is path-dependent in the sense that different initial market conditions may result in different price paths, which corresponds to the localization property empirically documented in the real housing market. In addition, within the stylized model, we provide some policy implications through analyzing the limitation and effectiveness of policy adjustments via down payment and development cost, and find that the decrease of development cost is a better measure to adjust the housing market when it booms or busts.
D53|Estimating the speed of adjustment to target levels: The case of energy prices|In this paper, we propose a model that estimates the speed of energy price adjustment to its target level. We also explain the source of price adjustment. Moreover, we extract energy price bubbles and show that bubbles help explain price adjustment. Since ours is the first paper that develops an energy price adjustment model and links it to bubbles, several avenues for future research have emerged from our analysis. The first is to provide a theoretical framework for the bubbles and price adjustment mechanism. The second direction of research will be to continue the search for other potential determinants of price adjustment.
D53|Market selection|The hypothesis that financial markets punish traders who make relatively inaccurate forecasts and eventually eliminate the effect of their beliefs on prices is of fundamental importance to the standard modeling paradigm in asset pricing. We establish straightforward necessary and sufficient conditions for agents to survive and to affect prices in the long run in a general setting with minimal restrictions on endowments, beliefs, or utility functions. We describe a new mechanism for the distinction between survival and price impact in a broad class of economies. Our results cover economies with time-separable utility functions, including possibly state-dependent preferences.
D53|Information disclosure, firm growth, and the cost of capital|We study how information disclosure affects the cost of equity capital and investor welfare in a dynamic setting. We show that a firm’s cost of capital decreases (increases) in the precision of public disclosure if the firm’s growth rate is below (above) a certain threshold. The threshold growth rate is higher when the firm’s cash flows are more persistent, or when other firms in the economy are growing at low rates. While current shareholders always prefer maximum public disclosure, future shareholders’ welfare decreases (increases) in the precision of public disclosure if the firm’s growth rate is below (above) the threshold.
D53|Asset prices and macroeconomic outcomes: a survey|This paper surveys the literature on the linkages between asset prices and macroeconomic outcomes. It focuses on three major questions. First, what are the basic theoretical linkages between asset prices and macroeconomic outcomes? Second, what is the empirical evidence supporting these linkages? And third, what are the main challenges to the theoretical and empirical findings? The survey addresses these questions in the context of four major asset price categories: equity prices, house prices, exchange rates and interest rates, with a particular focus on their international dimensions. It also puts into perspective the evolution of the literature on the determinants of asset prices and their linkages with macroeconomic outcomes, and discusses possible future research directions.
D53|Firm Networks and Asset Returns|This paper argues that changes in the propagation of idiosyncratic shocks along firm networks are important to understanding variations in asset returns. When calibrated to match key features of supplier-customer networks in the United States, an equilibrium model in which investors have recursive preferences and firms are interlinked via enduring relationships generates long-run consumption risks. Additionally, the model matches cross-sectional patterns of portfolio returns sorted by network centrality, a feature unaccounted for by standard asset pricing models.
D53|Money, banking and financial markets|The fact that money, banking, and financial markets interact in important ways seems self-evident. The theoretical nature of this interaction, however, has not been fully explored. To this end, we integrate the Diamond (1997) model of banking and financial markets with the Lagos and Wright (2005) dynamic model of monetary exchange – a union that bears a framework in which fractional reserve banks emerge in equilibrium, where bank assets are funded with liabilities made demandable for government money, where the terms of bank deposit contracts are constrained by the liquidity insurance available in financial markets, where banks are subject to runs, and where a central bank has a meaningful role to play, both in terms of inflation policy and as a lender of last resort. The model provides a rationale for nominal deposit contracts combined with a central bank lender-of-last-resort facility to promote efficient liquidity insurance and a panic-free banking system.
D53|Appendix for Financial Frictions and Fluctuations in Volatility|This appendix contains five sections. Section 1 provides details for the comparative statics exercise performed in the simple example. Section 2 discusses extending the model to allow firms to default on the wages for managers. Section 3 describes the firm-level and aggregate data. Section 4 contains the details of the computational algorithm. Finally, Section 5 reports the results for our model with a lower labor elasticity.
D53|Asset Issuance in Over-the-Counter Markets|We model asset issuance in over-the-counter markets. Investors buy newly issued assets in a primary market and trade existing assets in a secondary market, where trade in both markets is over-the-counter (OTC). We show that the level of asset issuance and its efficiency depend on how investors split the surplus in secondary market trade. If buyers get most of the surplus, then sellers do not have incentives to participate in the primary market in order to intermediate assets and the economy has a low level of assets. On the other hand, if sellers get most of the surplus, buyers have strong incentives to participate in the primary market and the economy has a high level of assets. The decentralized equilibrium is inefficient for any splitting rule. The result follows from a double-sided hold-up problem in which it is impossible for all investors to take into account the full social value of an asset when trading. We propose a tax/subsidy scheme and show how it restores efficiency. We also extend the model in several dimensions and study the robustness of the inefficiency result. Finally, we explore the effects of the inefficiency using numerical examples. We study how bargaining power and trading speed in the secondary market affect the efficiency result, and we notice some interesting implications for policy interventions aimed to restore efficiency to OTC markets. (Copyright: Elsevier)
D53|Disputes, Debt and Equity| We show how the prospect of disputes over firms revenue reports promotes debt financing over equity. These findings are presented within a costly state verification model with a risk averse entrepreneur. The prospect of disputes encourages incentive regimes which limit penalties and avoid stochastic monitoring, even when the lender can commit to stochastic enforcement strategies. Consequently, optimal contracts shift away from equity and toward standard debt. For a useful special case of the model, closed form solutions are presented for leverage and consumption allocations under efficient debt contracts.
D53|A New Model for Pricing Collateralized Financial Derivatives|This paper presents a new model for pricing financial derivatives subject to collateralization. It allows for collateral arrangements adhering to bankruptcy laws. As such, the model can back out the market price of a collateralized contract. This framework is very useful for valuing outstanding derivatives. Using a unique dataset, we find empirical evidence that credit risk alone is not overly important in determining credit-related spreads. Only accounting for both collateral posting and credit risk can sufficiently explain unsecured credit costs. This finding suggests that failure to properly account for collateralization may result in significant mispricing of derivatives. We also empirically gauge the impact of collateral agreements on risk measurements. Our findings indicate that there are important interactions between market and credit risk.
D53|Access to financial intermediaries and external capital acquisition|We examine whether low access to financial intermediaries works as an obstacle acquiring financial capital for Swedish firms by using information from the Community Innovation Survey indicating whether firms perceive the acquisition of external capital to be difficult. This perception is explained by the distance to the firms’ nearest financial intermediaries and their total local supply. The results indicate that the distance to banks is related to a larger problem of obtaining external financial capital in rural areas.
D53|An Elementary Exposition of the No Strong Arbitrage Principle for Financial Markets|A Linear Pricing Rule is established for the No Strong Arbitrate Principle (NSAP) in a finite state, single period asset pricing model. The (NSAP) condition is a statement about the inconsistency of a particular system of linear inequalities. The novelty here lies in the use of the Kuhn-Motzkin-Fourier elimination technique that derives the corresponding dual linear inequality system using elementary methods only. The advantage is that a familiar computational scheme yields the relationship between the (NSAP) inequalities and their dual system. Indeed, the method uncovers why the dual inequality system is, in fact, a dual system in the first place. Students and researchers unfamiliar with systems of dual linear inequalities and Theorems of the Alternative may find the approach taken here as a way to better understand the motivation and use of these techniques.
D53|Seeking price and macroeconomic stabilisation in the euro area: The role of house prices and stock prices|We propose an Economic Stability Index (ESI) incorporating house prices and stock prices as components of the measure of the inflation rate in order to allow the European Central Bank (ECB) to achieve both price and macroeconomic stability. We use an optimisation approach to estimate target weights for different sectoral prices in the broader price index, which depend on sectoral parameters other than those used to compute the Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices applied by the ECB to gauge price stability in the euro area (EA). Our results suggest that if the ECB had targeted the ESI, it would have implemented a different monetary policy which would had increased stability in the EA’s economic activity and would have helped to create adequate preconditions for sustainable economic growth and job creation.
D53|The impact of import vs. export competition in technology flows between countries|Many countries are interested in strengthening their technological capabilities to achieve high growth rates. Knowledge flow is a key to build technological capabilities. This paper investigates how competition in international trades affects knowledge flow between countries. There are two findings. First, the results in the current paper shows that import is indeed an important avenue for knowledge flow, conforming with the results from the previous literature. Second, what is interesting and new is that export competition in the third market (in our study, the US market) seems to also have a positive impact on the flow of knowledge. The finding from this study contributes to the debate on “learning-by-exporting”.
D53|How important is the financial sector to price indices in an inflation targeting regime? An empirical analysis of the UK and the US|Abstract This paper investigates whether there are benefits in terms of higher economic stability from incorporating stock prices into the price index targeted by the central banks. It also looks into the question of whether central banks should use stock prices as a component of the output stability index and how the index can be constructed. An optimization technique is employed to estimate weights for the various sectoral prices. The obtained weights, which depend on sectoral parameters, differ from those used in the construction of the consumer price index, CPI. Using data from the UK and the US, our analysis demonstrates that in comparison to the CPI, our measure of inflation leads to a higher output stability. Thus, in an inflation-targeting monetary policy environment, it is important to adopt a broader inflation benchmark than the CPI for the general macroeconomic stability.
D53|Credit Referencing Bureaus and Bank Credit Risk: Evidence from Ghana|The study takes advantage of the introduction of Credit Referencing Bureaus (CRBs) in Ghana to provide evidence of the effects of information sharing, employing a Prais-Winsten panel estimation of 25 banks from 2006 to 2013. The study establishes that CRBs are negatively related to bank credit risk in Ghana. This implies that banks that use the services and products of CRBs in their operations are able to reduce their credit risk by reducing information asymmetry, which enhances banks predictive power on borrowers and also pressures borrowers to service their loans due to future denial of loan by banks. The study also found bank capital, size, loan concentration, gross domestic product growth rate and inflation rate to be significant determinants of bank credit risk. It is recommended that an expansion of the data source for CRBs and more publicity about CRBs presence in Ghana be embarked upon to improve the operations of both banks and CRBs.
D53|A controversial debate between financial speculation and changes in agricultural commodity spot prices| Some research works state that speculation with agricultural commodities on the futures market has risen agricultural commodity spot prices. This research work analyzes the causal relationships between spot prices of corn, wheat, and soybean and agricultural commodity futures trading activities. These causal relationships between agricultural commodity spot prices and financial variables are tested for Granger-causality. Model results show that causal relationships have been found among changes in “volume traded” and “open positions” of futures contracts and changes in spot prices for corn. These results do not show that financial speculation might be a major driver of rising agricultural commodity prices.
D53|Finansal Sikinti Surecinde Sirketlerin Etkinlik Duzeylerinin Belirlenmesi|Finansal sikinti yasanmasi veya finansal sikintiya dusme olasiligi; hem sirketin, hem de sirketle ilgili cikar gruplarinin cesitli maliyetlerle karsilasma olasiligini artirmaktadir. Finansal sikinti surecinin ortaya cikarabilecegi maliyetler ve bu maliyetlerin buyuklugu, finans literaturunde tartisilan konulardan biridir. Finansal sikinti maliyetleri ve yeniden yapilandirma surecinin isletmeler ve isletmelerle ilgili cikar gruplari uzerine etkisini inceleyen calismalar gun gectikce artmaktadir. Bu calismada da sirketlerin finansal sikinti surecinde ve yeniden yapilandirma sonrasi sirket performansindaki degisimin incelenmistir. Bu amacla Operational Competitional Rating Analysis (OCRA) yontemi kullanilarak sirketlerin etkinlikleri tespit edilmistir. Elde edilen sonuclara gore finansal sikinti surecinde firmanin etkinligi azalmaktadir. Ancak finansal sikintidan kurtulmayi basaran sirketlerde etkinlik duzelmektedir. Finansal sikintidan kurtulamayan sirketlerde ise etkinlik iyice dusmekte ve sonucta bu sirketler iflas etmektedir.
D53|Zmiany na rynkach towarowych a regulacje nadzorcze w Unii Europejskiej / Changes on Commodity Markets and Regulation in the European Union|Commodity markets are important for the shape of the world economy and have experienced numerous structural changes over the span of the last few decades. Prices became more volatile as more and more financial investors began to speculate on commodity markets. Such a process combined with other crucial factors led to market abuses, decreasing the transparency of trade, and excessive speculation. These issues intensifiedand were mostly observed during the subprime mortgage crisis and in the period straight after it. The policymakers around the globe made an effort to diminish those effects and introduced new a policy framework regarding commodity markets. The aim of this paper is to define, present and review the current works and actions taken by the European Union policymakers. This has been done based on an analysis of the new legislation and its possible results.
D53|Market microstructure during financial crisis: Dynamics of informed and heuristic-driven trading|We implement a market microstructure model including informed, uninformed and heuristic-driven investors, which latter behave in line with loss-aversion and mental accounting. We show that the probability of informed trading (PIN) varies significantly during 2008. In contrast, the probability of heuristic-driven trading (PH) remains constant both before and after the collapse of Lehman Brothers. Cross-sectional analysis yields that, unlike PIN, PH is not sensitive to size and volume effects. We show that heuristic-driven traders are universally present in all market segments and their presence is constant over time. Furthermore, we find that heuristic-driven investors and informed traders are disjoint sets.
D53|Understanding the non-convergence of agricultural futures via stochastic storage costs and timing options|This paper studies the market phenomenon of non-convergence between futures and spot prices in the grains market. We postulate that the positive basis observed at maturity stems from the futures holder's timing options to exercise the shipping certificate delivery item and subsequently liquidate the physical grain. In our proposed approach, we incorporate stochastic spot price and storage cost, and solve an optimal double stopping problem to give the optimal strategies to exercise and liquidate the grain. Our new models for stochastic storage rates lead to explicit no-arbitrage prices for the shipping certificate and associated futures contract. We calibrate our models to empirical futures data during the periods of observed non-convergence, and illustrate the premium generated by the shipping certificate.
D53|Estimating Canada’s Effective Lower Bound|Recently, the Bank of Canada has estimated the effective lower bound (ELB) on its policy interest rate to be about -50 basis points. This article outlines the analysis that underpins that estimate by quantifying the costs of storing and using cash in Canada. It also explores how some international markets have adapted to negative interest rates, issues surrounding their implementation, as well as their transmission to other interest rates in the economy. Finally, it discusses theoretical ideas on how the ELB could be reduced further.
D53|Fragile markets: An experiment on judicial independence|Contract enforcement does not only affect single transactions but the market as a whole. We compare alternative institutions that allocate enforcement rights to the different parties to a credit transaction: either lenders, borrowers, or judges. Despite all parties having incentives to enforce and transact, the market flourishes or disappears depending on the treatment: paying judges according to lenders’ votes maximizes total surplus and equity; and a similar result appears when judges are paid according to average earnings in society. In contrast, paying judges according to borrowers’ votes generates the poorest and most unequal society. These results suggest that parties playing the role of borrowers understand poorly the systemic consequences of their decisions, triggering under-enforcement, and hence wasting profitable trade opportunities.
D53|Can Islamic Injunctions Indemnify the Structural Flaws of Securitized Debt?|Securitization enhances liquidity of debt contracts. However, its structural deficiency at origination has led to the freezing of its secondary market and failure of institutions holding the collateral. This paper builds on key cultural (i.e., Islamic) rulings to rectify flaws entrenched in securitized debt stemming from asymmetric information and agency issues. These injunctions help in the efficient underwriting of debt contracts across the globe to: (i) redeem its ‘toxicity’; (ii) guarantee liquidity; (iii) alleviate fragility of the financial system;and (iv) promote economic growth.Finally, this study promotes a rethink of the current ‘Islamic’ financial system from a narrow literalist juridical perspective to one that is grounded in financial economics
D53|Securitization and Aggregate Investment Efficiency|This paper studies the efficiency of competitive equilibria in economies where the expansion of investment is facilitated by securitization. We show that the use of securitization is generally associated with constrained inefficient aggregate investment, thereby justifying regulatory intervention in markets for securitized assets. We examine the effectiveness of three policy instruments to address this inefficiency: ex-ante capital / leverage requirements, skin-in-the game (retention) requirements and initiatives to improve transparency in the securitization process. We find that leverage/capital restrictions and improved transparency can increase welfare in our environment, but that forcing originators to hold additional skin-in-the game can never increase welfare.
D53|Disaster recovery and the term structure of dividend strips|Recent empirical findings document downward-sloping term structures of equity return volatility and risk premia. An equilibrium model with rare disasters followed by recoveries helps reconcile theory with empirical observations. Indeed, recoveries outweigh the upward-sloping effect of time-varying disaster intensity and expected growth, generating downward-sloping term structures of dividend growth risk, equity return volatility, and equity risk premia. In addition, the term structure of interest rates is upward-sloping when accounting for recoveries and downward-sloping otherwise. The model quantitatively reconciles high risk premia and a low risk-free rate with the shape of the term structures, which are at odds in other models.
D53|Stock Market Response To Fiscal Policy Shocks: Evidence From Eu Countries From Central And Eastern Europe|Expanding the existing literature regarding the relationship between fiscal policy and sock market, this paper will analyse the response of stock markets from Central and Eastern Europe (Bulgaria, Check Republic, Slovakia, Poland and Romania), to a deviation in fiscal policy by using a Vector Autoregressive model (VAR) for quarterly data, for the period 2004-2015. The effect of crisis over stock market performance is significantly negative for all analysed countries, while governmental expenditure increased in Bulgaria, Check Republic, Slovakia and Romania, and governmental revenues increased only in Check Republic, Hungary and Slovakia. The paper highlights that an increase of stock market performance leads to a decrease of governmental expenditure in Slovakia, Romania, Check Republic and Bulgaria, due to the existence of a performant private sector which comes and compensates the investments. The Romanian’s governmental expenditure decreased considerably in comparison with other countries. Also, in Poland case, there is no relation between stock market performance and governmental expenditure.
D53|Breaking the spell with credit-easing : self-confirming credit crises in competitive search economies|We show that credit crises can be Self-Confirming Equilibria (SCE), which provides a new rationale for policy interventions like, for example, the FRB’s TALF credit-easing program in 2009.We introduce SCE in competitive credit markets with directed search. These markets are efficient when lenders have correct beliefs about borrowers’ reactions to their offers. Nevertheless, credit crises – where high interest rates self-confirm high credit risk - can arise when lenders have correct beliefs only locally around equilibrium outcomes. Policy is needed because competition deters the socially optimal degree of information acquisition via individual experiments at low interest rates. A policy maker with the same beliefs as lenders will find it optimal to implement a targeted subsidy to induce low interest rates and, as a by-product, generate new information for the market. We provide evidence that the 2009 TALF was an example of such Credit Easing policy. We collect new micro-data on the ABS auto loans in the US before and after the policy intervention, and we test, successfully, our theory in this case.
D53|A comedy of errors: misguided policy, mis-sold mortgages, and more|"In Phishing for Phools, Akerlof and Shiller characterise the US subprime crisis as the insolvency that follows when highly-leveraged investment banks mis-sell derivative-style products to low-income US households. That rating agencies qualified many of the Mortgage Backed Securities as triple A was no proof of top quality; just further evidence of distorted incentives. Other observers, however, see it as a direct consequence of financial innovation; or as a liquidity crisis driven by the lack of transparency of Mortgage Backed Securities. To help weigh these views in the balance, three aspects of the situation are explored, using both theoretical models and the outcome of recent legal proceedings. First, we examine the role of pecuniary externalities using a partial equilibrium model of investment banking due to Adrian and Shin, where bank equity induces amplified responses to news on fundamentals. We find that the system may be ""catastrophic"" in that the simple reversal of a ""good news"" shock (which has been promptly ""marked to market"") can lead to insolvency. To interpret these news shocks, we turn to a general equilibrium model of risky asset pricing with heterogeneous beliefs recently developed by Fostel and Geanakoplos. In their framework, a rise in optimism acts as a ""good news"" shock which raises the price of risky assets; while ""bad news"" may be attributed to financial innovation that allows for the shorting of risky assets. Finally, to help resolve the contentious issue of whether the striking collapse in the value of MBSs net of insurance costs was due to irrational panic or had its basis in poor fundamentals, we consider the nature of state support and, more especially, the findings of law courts. The need for unprecedented capital injections by the Treasury in 2008 and the substantial fines for mis-selling of MBSs subsequently imposed on the banks suggest that the collapse of confidence in subprime securities had its roots in reality, not unreasoning panic."
D53|EAGLE-FLI: A macroeconomic model of banking and financial interdependence in the euro area|We incorporate financial linkages in EAGLE, a New Keynesian multi-country dynamic general equilibrium model of the euro area (EA) by including financial frictions and country-specific banking sectors. In this new version, termed EAGLE-FLI (Euro Area and GLobal Economy with Financial LInkages), banks collect deposits from domestic households and cross-country inter-bank market and raise capital to finance loans issued to domestic households and firms. In order to borrow from local (regional) banks, households use domestic real estate whereas firms use both domestic real estate and physical capital as collateral. These features – together with the full characterization of trade balance and real exchange rate dynamics and with a rich array of financial shocks – allow to properly assessing domestic and cross-country macroeconomic effects of financial shocks. Our results support the views that (1) the business cycles in the EA can be driven not only by real shocks, but also by financial shocks, (2) the financial sector could amplify the transmission of (real) shocks, and (3) the financial/banking shocks and the banking sectors can be sources of business cycle asymmetries and spillovers across countries in a monetary union.
D53|Can Islamic injunctions indemnify the structural flaws of securitized debt?|Securitization enhances liquidity of debt contracts. However, its structural deficiency at origination has led to the freezing of its secondary market and failure of institutions holding the collateral. This paper builds on key cultural (i.e., Islamic) rulings to rectify flaws entrenched in securitized debt stemming from asymmetric information and agency issues. These injunctions help in the efficient underwriting of debt contracts across the globe to: (i) redeem its ‘toxicity’; (ii) guarantee liquidity; (iii) alleviate fragility of the financial system; and (iv) promote economic growth. Finally, this study promotes a rethink of the current ‘Islamic’ financial system from a narrow literalist juridical perspective to one that is grounded in financial economics.
D53|Itchy feet vs cool heads: Flow of funds in an agent-based financial market|Investors tend to move funds when they are unhappy with their current portfolio managers׳ performance. We study the effect of the size of this flow of funds in an agent-based model of the financial market. The model combines the discrete choice approach from agent-based modelling, where all capital is mobile, with the evolutionary finance framework where all growth is endogenous. Our results show that, if investors exhibit recency bias in evaluating portfolio managers׳ performance, even a small amount of freely flowing capital has a huge impact on the market dynamics and the survival of noise traders. We also find that investors׳ intensity of choice is a driving force for excess volatility and extreme price movements when the size of the flow of funds is large.
D53|Default risk and private student loans: Implications for higher education policies|In recent years, the proportion of students facing a binding constraint on government student loans has grown. This has led to substantially increased use of private loans as a supplementary source of finance for households׳ higher education investment. A critical aspect of the private market for student loans is that loan terms must reflect students׳ risk of default. College investment will therefore differ from a world in which government student loans, whose terms are not sensitive to credit risk, are expanded to no longer bind. Moreover, beyond simply crowding out private lending, expansions of the government student loan program will feed back into default risk on private loans. The goal of this paper is to provide a quantitative assessment of the likely effects of the private market for student loans on college enrollment. We build a model of college investment that reflects uninsured idiosyncratic risk and a well-defined life-cycle that is consistent with observed borrowing and default behavior across family income and college preparedness. We find that higher government borrowing limits increase college investment but lead to more default in the private market for student loans, while tuition subsides increase college investment and reduce default rates in the private market. Consequently, higher limits on government student loans have small negative welfare effects, while tuition subsidies increase aggregate welfare.
D53|Consumption-based CAPM with belief heterogeneity|This paper finds that the risk–return relationship of the consumption-based CAPM is robust to the heterogeneity in agents׳ beliefs. First, the effect of disagreement cancels out in the limit as risk tolerance approaches zero. Second, although low risk aversion and large disagreement can significantly distort the security market line (SML) and the effect is amplified in a dynamic model, per capita volatility of consumption growth is implausibly high compared to empirical estimates from microeconomic data. Third, increasing risk aversion and lowering disagreement levels can help to reduce per capita volatility, however the impact of disagreement on the SML also become negligible.
D53|Fractional integration in daily stock market indices at Jordan's Amman stock exchange|Using daily data on five sectoral indices from 2006 to 2014, this paper aims to investigate the possibility of fractional integration in sectoral returns (and their volatility measures) at Jordan's Amman stock exchange (ASE). Empirical analysis, using the log-periodogram (LP) and local whittle (LW) based semi-parametric fractional differencing techniques suggest that all sectoral returns at ASE exhibit short memory. However, in the case of volatility measures, we found evidence of long memory. Following the recent literature that argues that structural breaks in a time series could also explain the presence of long memory, we tested the volatility measures for the presence of structural breaks. We found that long memory in some volatility measures could be attributed to the presence of structural breaks. Furthermore, using impulse response functions (IRF) based on ARFIMA, we found that shocks to sectoral returns at ASE exhibit short run persistence, whereas shocks to volatility measures display long run persistence.
D53|The value of information in risk-sharing environments with unawareness|The value of information is examined in a risk-sharing environment with unawareness and complete markets. Information and awareness are symmetric among agents, who have a clear understanding of their actions and deterministic payoffs. We show with examples that public information can make some agents strictly better off at the expense of others, contrasting the standard results of Hirshleifer (1971) and Schlee (2001) that the value of public information is negative for all when risk averse agents are fully insured. We identify the source of this problem to be that, as awareness varies across states, it creates an “awareness signal” that the agents misunderstand and treat asymmetrically. As a result, risk-sharing opportunities that are available when this signal is not used, vanish when it is used. We identify a property, Conditional Independence, which we show is sufficient for the value of public information to be negative for all.
D53|Do traders strategically time their pledges during real-world Walrasian auctions?|Experimental research suggests the Walrasian tâtonnement auction encourages traders to under-reveal preferences, even encouraging initial pledges contrary to true desires, because pledges are not binding. We analyze the timing and characteristics of individual pledges and trades during 9604 auctions for redbeans conducted by the Tokyo Grain Exchange. We find no evidence of contrarian pledging and little evidence of under-revelation – as many traders over-reveal as under-reveal. Most traders pledge seriously from the beginning. Despite the considerable heterogeneity in pledging behavior across individual traders, these differences appear to have no relationship with traders’ profits, nor do they appear to affect the achievement of equilibrium.
D53|Trading heterogeneity under information uncertainty|Instead of heuristical heterogeneity assumption in the current heterogeneous agent models (HAMs), we derive the trading heterogeneity by introducing information uncertainty about the fundamental value to a HAM. Conditional on their private information about the fundamental value, agents choose different trading strategies when optimizing their expected utilities. This provides a micro-foundation to heterogeneity and switching behavior of agents. We show that the HAM with trading heterogeneity originating from the incomplete information performs equally well, if not better than existing HAMs, in generating bubbles, crashes, and mean-reverting prices. The simulated time series matches with the S&P 500 in terms of power law distribution in returns, volatility clustering and long memory in volatility.
D53|Reference dependent ambiguity|Motivated by experimental and empirical evidence, I study a framework where reference-points – such as a status quo, endowment, or default option – can distort the way an individual responds to ambiguity. I characterize a model of reference-dependent maxmin expected utility, and provide behavioral foundations for comparing reference-dependent ambiguity attitudes. I also illustrate some implications of reference-dependent ambiguity for trade in an asset market, including underdiversification, no-trade, and the potential for a market collapse.
D53|Market making with asymmetric information and inventory risk|Market makers in some financial markets often make offsetting trades and have significant market power. We develop a market making model that captures these market features as well as other important characteristics such as information asymmetry and inventory risk. In contrast to the existing literature, a market maker in our model can optimally shift some trades with some investors to other investors by adjusting bid or ask. As a result, we find that consistent with empirical evidence, expected bid–ask spreads may decrease with information asymmetry and bid–ask spreads can be positively correlated with trading volume.
D53|Ambiguity aversion in the long run: “To disagree, we must also agree”|We consider an economy populated by smooth ambiguity-averse agents with complete markets of securities contingent to economic scenarios, where bankruptcy is permitted but there is a penalty for it. We show that if agents' posterior belief reductions given by their “average probabilistic beliefs” do not become homogeneous then an equilibrium does not exist. It is worth noting that our main result does not imply any convergence of ambiguity perception or even the attitudes towards it. In this way, complete markets with default and punishment allow for ambiguity aversion in the long run, and the agents can disagree on their ambiguity perception but they must agree on their expected beliefs.
D53|Dynamic portfolio choice with frictions|We show how portfolio choice can be modeled in continuous time with transitory and persistent transaction costs, multiple assets, multiple signals predicting returns, and general signal dynamics. The objective function is derived from the limit of discrete-time models with endogenous transaction costs due to optimal dealer behavior. We solve the model explicitly and the intuitive solution is also the limit of the solutions of the corresponding discrete-time models. We show how the optimal high-frequency trading strategy depends on the nature of the trading costs, which in turn depend on dealers' inventory dynamics. Finally, we provide equilibrium implications and illustrate the model's broader applicability to micro- and macro-economics, monetary policy, and political economy.
D53|Discerning information from trade data|How best to discern trading intentions from market data? We examine the accuracy of three methods for classifying trade data: bulk volume classification (BVC), tick rule and aggregated tick rule. We develop a Bayesian model of inferring information from trade executions and show the conditions under which tick rules or bulk volume classification predominates. Empirically, we find that tick rule approaches and BVC are relatively good classifiers of the aggressor side of trading, but bulk volume classifications are better linked to proxies of information-based trading. Thus, BVC would appear to be a useful tool for discerning trading intentions from market data.
D53|Information tradeoffs in dynamic financial markets|In dynamic financial markets the stochastic supply of risky assets has a significant informational role. Contrary to static models, where it acts as “noise,” in dynamic markets stochastic supply contains information about risk premiums. Acquiring private dividend information helps investors disentangle dividend information from discount-rate information contained in prices. For uninformed investors, however, as more informed investors enter the economy prices become more informative about dividends but less informative about discount rates. This tradeoff creates complementarities in information acquisition and multiple equilibria in the information market.
D53|Incomplete preferences and confidence|A theory of incomplete preferences under uncertainty is proposed, according to which a decision maker’s preferences are indeterminate if and only if her confidence in the relevant beliefs does not match up to the stakes involved in the decision. We use the representation of confidence in beliefs introduced in Hill (2013), and axiomatise a class of models, differing from each other in the appropriate notion of stakes. The theory naturally suggests two distinct strategies for completing preferences, and hence for choosing in the presence of incompleteness: one that relies only on beliefs in which the decision maker is sufficiently confident, and one that mobilises all beliefs, no matter how little confidence she may have in them. Axiomatic characterisations are given for completion procedures following each of the strategies. Finally, in a market setting, the incorporation of confidence is shown to add an extra friction, beyond the standard implications of non-expected utility models for Pareto optima.
D53|Interest rates parity and no arbitrage as equivalent equilibrium conditions in the international financial assets and goods markets|In this paper, we consider a two-period consumption model with many financial assets. In the spirit of Hart (1974), consumers purchase financial assets in period 0 and consume in period 1. We differ from Hart by considering that each agent is a country. We provide conditions for the existence of an equilibrium in both international financial assets and goods markets.
