D59|Natural Instability of Equilibrium Prices|We develop a theory of market fluctuations caused by strategic trade with complete information and without outside shocks. The constructed general equilibrium duopoly is a strategic market game with infinite strategies and multiple mixed strategies equilibria. First order conditions (FOC) of the game are the ill-posed problems (Hadamard, 1909), but every equilibrium mixed strategy can be only approximated. This imposes restrictions on convergence of common beliefs of players about actions of each other, existence of rational expectations and a price discovery property of the market, although the market is informationally efficient (Fama, 1970). We suggest a modification of Tikhonov regularization to construct pseudo-solutions. All endogenous variables of the model are exposed to unremovable instabilities, ‘natural instabilities’, specific to parameters of a chosen approximation. Our result is also related to existence of common knowledge, sun-spot equilibrium, and noise trade.
D59|The Effect of Exchange Rates on Trade Balance: An Empirical Study of Morocco|Objective – This paper aims to examine the relationship between exchange rates and trade balance in Morocco, to investigate whether the Marshall-Lerner condition and J-curve exist. Methodology/Technique – This paper attempts to identify the relationship between the real exchange rate and trade balance in Morocco between 2000 to 2015. Findings – Historically, exchange rates have had a strong impact on foreign trade in Morocco. Novelty – This study concludes that the fluctuation of exchange rates has no notable impact on the rate of foreign trade.
D59|Credit and Bankruptcy in a Temporary Equilibrium Model|A temporary general equilibrium in bankruptcy model with finite periods was analyzed in this paper, which (i) every consumer only issues one type of bond to financial market in each period; (ii) the bank has right to circulate currency, and never face bankruptcy. The model was an extesion of the Bankruptcy model in Eichberger(1989), based on the assumptions that the occurrence of moral hazard is prevented by the credit scheme law, which depends on the current information and forecast function. The main result of this paper enables as to develop the liquidation rule without penalties. This rule can also be used to interpret liquidating distribution in Bankruptcy Act. In addition, the bankruptcy mechanism plays an effective role even if the chain-reaction bankruptcy occurred. Moreover, we can prove that the economy will never collapse in an overlapping model which has some newborn in every period.
D59|A Design for Market Socialism|Socialism is conceptualized as a society in which individuals cooperate, distinguished from capitalism, characterized as involving ubiquitous economic competition. Here, I embed a formal model of cooperation in an Arrow-Debreu model, using the Kantian optimization protocol, and define a Walras-Kant equilibrium, in which firms maximize profits, consumers choose demands for commodities in the usual utilitymaximizing fashion, and the state rents capital to firms. The labor-supply decision of workers, however, is arrived at using the cooperative protocol. Incomes are redistributed through a flat income tax. Walras-Kant equilibria, with any desired degree of income equality exist, are decentralizable, and are Pareto efficient.
D59|The Effect of the Increasing Demand for Elite Schools on Stratification|I use detailed applications data to document a case in which, contrary to prevailing concerns, increasing school stratification by ability co-existed with stable stratification by family income: Mexico City public high schools. To understand this puzzle, I develop a model that shows that the effect of an overall increase in the demand for elite schools on school stratification by family income is a horse race between the correlations of family income and ability, and family income and demand. My empirical analysis reveals an initial (and decreasing) demand gap by family income that explains the observed stability in stratification.
D59|Revize monetárního modelu Marca Lavoieho endogenizací parametru gama|Revision of Marc Lavoie’s Monetary Model by the Endogenization of the Parameter γ This paper tries to point out a fallacy in Lavoie’s (2006) conclusion that incorporation of deep endogeneity of parameters into the PKA model suffices to bring about irreversibility of such a system. The arguments of the authors are supported by Setterfield’s (1998a, 2008) concept of hysteresis as path-dependence in the long-run outcome of systems with direct shocks. The paper shows that extension of Lavoie’s PKA model by deep endogeneity of the parameter γ causes the fulfillment of the necessary condition of hysteresis - Setterfi eld’s condition (a) ensuring deep endogeneity of the alleged exogenous parameter and, by means of this, path dependence in the long-run output - but not the fulfi llment of the sufficient condition of hysteresis - condition (c) ensuring the presence of adjustment asymmetry and, by means of this, irreversibility. Thus, deependogenisation of the parameter γ does not bring about Setterfi eld’s hysteresis and, in effect, does not cause irreversibility.
D59|The case for increasing returns (2): the methods of planning horizons|In neoclassical economics, substitution assumptions support equilibrium models in closed systems shunning interdependence. On these grounds an array of frames show outcomes as stable, efficient, unique and determinate. Heterodox economists say equilibrium models sidestep practical knowledge and the rich reality of economic behavior. Rigor or realism, mainstream or radical, ecological, institutional, socio-cultural: economics invites a wide diversity of assumptions, once short-term models of substitution are opened to question. The answers are blurred by applications; there is clarity in a simplicity shielded from mundane detail. This paper addresses the methodological impact of planning horizons, increasing returns and complementarity, and their proper representation in economic constructions. Horizonal economics can be construed as extending orthodox standards into a realm of time, but for its subtler ramifications. Increasing returns make our relations complementary and not substitutional, loosening the tight deductions from mainstream models of choice. The horizonal extension of our received theory of price applies time to cost and demand curves, showing Marshallian scissors (supply and demand) cut outward and downward with expanded horizons. Static conceptions appear in horizonal groups, suggesting complete theories of price should specify agents’ horizons, with no further radical impact: the trouble emerges with increasing returns and complementarity. Horizons stem from unbounded causality; if all we do ripples outward forever in nature and society, the relevant field of inquiry for economics is interdependent: this is the case for bounded rationality as an analytical limit to economic conceptions. In turn, interdependence suggests a use of network constructs to frame complex systemic cascades, and networks open a door to complementarity and increasing returns in transport and information exchange. The gaping maw of increasing returns and complementarity opens, swallowing down neat traditions such as stability, equilibrium, marginalism, partial analysis, supply and demand depictions of price, etc. The methodological lesson of this shift to network contexts and dynamic complex systems supersedes some of our favored doctrines and the analyses on which they stand. Without decreasing returns and substitution, neoclassical arguments simply do not work. Heterodox approaches - and their intelligent application - are required in this setting. The paper offers a few guidelines to an unexplored domain of fundamental departures.
D59|The Multidimensional Nature Of Young Immigrants’ Well-Being|On arrival in a new country, migrants usually face language and cultural barriers, discrimination, and other sources of unjust contextual conditions, which limit their opportunities for a successful experience. This scenario compromises levels of well-being in the migrants and accentuates a tendency towards social fragmentation in the places of settlement. Therefore, the present work aims to investigate which factors can support young immigrants’ well-being in our country focusing on a set of demographic, psychological, and relationship with the context variables. There were 408 young immigrants participating in the research, aged between 19 and 29 years old (M = 24.08, SD = 2.89). The results show that life satisfaction of the immigrant is thus given by individual factors but in close connection with others and with the community, in a process that mutually reinforces oneself and the other, oneself and the community
D59|Endogenous labour market imperfection, foreign direct investment and external terms-of-trade shocks in a developing economy|This theoretical paper shows that developing countries possess an inherent shock-absorbing mechanism that stems from their peculiar institutional characteristics and can lessen the gravity of detrimental welfare consequence of international terms-of-trade disturbances in terms of a static two-sector, full-employment general equilibrium model with endogenous labour market distortion. The supply of foreign capital in the economy is a positive function of the return to capital. Subsequently, it has been verbally explained why the main result of the full-employment model would remain valid even in a two-sector specific-factor Harris-Todaro type model with urban unemployment. The analysis leads to a couple of important policies that should be adhered to preserve this in-built system. Finally, it offers three important statistically testable hypotheses which would pave the way for future empirical research in this area.
D59|Debt Relief or Debt Restructuring? Evidence from an Experiment with Distressed Credit Card Borrowers|This paper reports results from a randomized field experiment that offered distressed credit card borrowers more than $50 million in debt forgiveness and over 27,500 additional months to repay their debts. The experimental variation effectively randomized debt write-downs and minimum payments for borrowers at eleven large credit card issuers. Merging information from the experiment to administrative tax and bankruptcy records, we find that the debt write-downs increased debt repayment and decreased bankruptcy ling. The debt write-downs also increased formal sector employment for the most financially distressed borrowers. In contrast, we find little impact of the lower minimum payments on debt repayment, bankruptcy, or employment. We show that this null result can be explained by the positive short-run effect of increased liquidity being o set by the unintended, negative effect of exposing borrowers to more default risk. We conclude that debt relief is more effective than debt restructuring for distressed credit card borrowers, even when these borrowers are liquidity constrained.
D59|Empirical Investigation On The Corporate Financing For Sport Development In E.U|Assuming the increasing part that sport economics plays nowadays in research and pragmatic fields, the main objective of the present study is to investigate on the companies’ role for supporting sport development through sponsorships and donations, as one main component of the private financing for sport. The fundamental premise that stays behind this research is the potential of sport for inducing competitive advantages for the companies that assign corporate resources for this social domain. The research was conducted for the EU member countries by using secondary data freely available in official documents and databases. The comparative analysis highlighted the factors that generate significant differences between the investigated countries. The results showed that, although corporate financing for sport purposes is well-developed only in few EU countries, its part is constantly increasing as companies in different economic, social and cultural contexts are becoming aware of the strategic potential of sport on medium and long terms. The findings are presented in detail at country level.
D59|Towards a General Theory of Deep Downturns|This paper, an extension of the Presidential Address to the International Economic Association, evaluates alternative strands of macro-economics in terms of the three basic questions posed by deep downturns: What is the source of large perturbations? How can we explain the magnitude of volatility? How do we explain persistence? The paper argues that while real business cycles and New Keynesian theories with nominal rigidities may help explain certain historical episodes, alternative strands of New Keynesian economics focusing on financial market imperfections, credit, and real rigidities provides a more convincing interpretation of deep downturns, such as the Great Depression and the Great Recession, giving a more plausible explanation of the origins of downturns, their depth and duration. Since excessive credit expansions have preceded many deep downturns, particularly important is an understanding of finance, the credit creation process and banking, which in a modern economy are markedly different from the way envisioned in more traditional models.
D59|Endogenous Labour Market Imperfections, FDI and External Terms-of-Trade Shocks in a Developing Economy|This paper shows that developing countries possess an inherent shock-absorbing mechanism that stems from their peculiar institutional characteristics and can lessen the gravity of detrimental welfare consequence of exogenous terms-of-trade disturbances in terms of a two-sector, full-employment general equilibrium model with endogenous labour market distortion. The supply of foreign capital in the economy is a positive function of the return to capital and a decreasing function of the degree of prevailing restrictions in the economy in the process of free inflow of foreign capital. The analysis leads to a couple of important policies that should be adhered to preserve this in-built system. Finally, it offers three important statistically testable hypotheses, empirical validation of which might have an important bearing on formulation of developmental policies in these countries.
D59|The case for increasing returns I: ‘The Hicksian Getaway’ and ‘The Hirshleifer Rescue’|The case for increasing returns is accepted by most heterodox economists. Yet allegiance to decreasing returns in orthodox circles still endures directly and in the form of substitution assumptions. In forty short years from 1928 to 1968, beliefs shifted from Pigou calling rising cost ‘inadmissible’ to Alchian deeming decreasing returns ‘a universally valid law’ until Kaldor revived the case for increasing returns in the 1970s. How did these shifts of view occur? After dapham opened the door and Pigou defined the orthodox stand, the 1930s debates swept through imperfect competition and many other issues into Keynesian disequilibrium theory. In 1939, ‘The Hicksian Getaway’ opened an Age of Denial leading to equilibrium theories based on substitution; then during the 1960s a second challenge to rising cost based on learning and technical change was defeated by ‘The Hirshleifer Rescue’ of decreasing returns and thus substitution in neoclassical theory. Why economists' substitution assumptions still hold sway is the focus of this study. First, the paper reviews ‘The Hicksian Getaway’ in its context and with respect to equilibrium models. Second, the paper analyzes and disproves ‘The Hirshleifer Rescue’ as an invalid argument based on a non-sequitur and thus simply asserted. Third, the case for increasing returns is developed into a theory of planning horizons supporting a generalized complementarity in economics. Some methodological implications are explored at the end.
D59|Do Developing Countries Possess any Built-in Mechanism that Copes with External Terms-of-trade Shocks?|This theoretical note shows that developing countries possess an inherent shock-absorbing mechanism that stems from their peculiar institutional characteristics that can lessen the gravity of detrimental welfare consequence of exogenous terms-of-trade disturbances in terms of a two-sector, full-employment general equilibrium model with endogenous labour market distortion. The analysis leads to a couple of important policies that should be adhered to preserve this in-built system. Finally, it offers an important statistically testable hypothesis, empirical validation of which might have an important bearing on formulation of development policies in these countries.
D59|External terms-of-trade and labor market imperfections in developing countries: theory and evidence|The paper addresses the question of whether developing countries possess any built-in mechanism that can cope with external terms-of-trade (TOT) shocks. Using a two-sector, full-employment general equilibrium model with endogenous labor market distortion theoretically it shows that such countries possess an inherent shock-absorbing mechanism that stems from their peculiar institutional characteristics and can lessen the gravity of detrimental welfare consequence of exogenous TOT movements. This result has been found to be empirically valid based on a panel dataset of 13 countries from 2000-2012. Our analyses lead to recommendation of an important policy that should be adhered to preserve this in-built system.
D59|Láthatóvá tehető-e a láthatatlan kéz? Egy ágensalapú piaci modell tapasztalatai<BR>[Can the invisible hand be rendered visible? Experiences of an agent-based market model]|A szerzők egy ágensalapú modell kialakításával próbáltak válaszolni arra a kérdésre, hogy milyen dinamikát követnek a piaci folyamatok, ha nem teljesülnek a főáramú közgazdaságtan erős megszorításai (a láthatatlan kéz explicit megjelenése a walrasi árverező képében, amely kizárja a nem egyensúlyi tranzakciókat, a szereplők racionális viselkedése, az információáramlás tökéletessége, a szereplők homogenitása, az ár- és mennyiségi alkalmazkodás szétválasztása stb.). Egy egyszerű, alulról építkező modell segítségével elemezték a piaci mikrostruktúrák, illetve a döntési szabályok paramétereinek egyensúlyi folyamatokra gyakorolt hatását. Vizsgálataik során azt találták, hogy a piaci szereplők száma akkor is lényegesen befolyásolja az alkalmazkodási folyamatokat, ha azok homogének; az ár- és mennyiségi szabályozás aránya nem gyakorol jelentős hatást a piaci ár és mennyiség alakulására; az információáramlás kiterjesztése javítja a piaci alkalmazkodást; a heterogén szereplők bevezetésének elsősorban a termelők esetén van jelentősége. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: B41, C69, D01, D49, D59, L11.
D59|Ways To Improve Conceptual Aspects Of Balancing The Budget|The aim of the present article is to analyze the various concepts, techniques and procedures applied in different periods by different countries in order to balance state budget. There are analyzed positive parts and deficiencies at legislative level of different concepts concerning budgetary balance and as a result are developed a series of measures that aim to balance the budget of Moldova.
D59|The role of saving and investment in a SAM price model|No abstract is available for this item.
D59|Fundamentos hipotéticos para proyectos de investigación sobre la crisis económica contemporánea<BR>[Hypothetical foundations for research projects on the contemporary economic crisis]|The paper seeks to integrate the theoretical developments in the field of imperfect competition and monopoly, and operation of the firm in such conditions, with the theories of income distribution, particularly among the macroeconomic aggregates of capital and labor. And formulating a working hypothesis to focus the breaking of the capital accumulation process expressed in the current economic crisis, from a holistic perspective.
D59|Profits in (Partial) Equilibrium and (General) Disequilibrium| In a many-sector production economy where each sectorâ€™s output is used as input for every sector, a general equilibrium implies zero profit for everyone, whereas one market in excess demand implies positive profits for all others in their partial equilibrium. If more than one market is stuck in excess demand, every market allows positive profits.
D59|Beyond Financial Contagion, Negative Effects Abnormalities Detection|Financial contagion is a special case of economic abnormality. Starting from this assumption, the rational conclusion is that such abnormalities could be detected if recognized as such and defined. Detection of possible abnormalities could be done using moving averages on bankruptcies and number of companies' data series.
D59|Una lectura no walrasiana del equilibrio general con demanda efectiva restringida|En el presente texto se desarrolla un modelo macroeconómico, desde una aproximación no walrasiana, en un escenario de rigideces en los precios y de competencia imperfecta. Asimismo, se indaga por la posibilidad del establecimiento de un equilibrio general con múltiples mercados y se describen, explícitamente, los conceptos de equilibrio general para dos casos extremos: uno con todos los precios rígidos, otro con todos los precios flexibles, ambos en un régimen de competencia imperfecta.
D59|Generalized Calvo Approach|This paper presents a generalized application of the Calvo pricing approach, assuming that in each particular market, both prices and quantities are adjusted according to the Calvo approach. With certain restrictions placed on the parameters, the system of log-linearized equations that I derived using the generalized Calvo approach produces similar dynamics within the economy as are produced by the system that one would obtain assuming Calvo pricing, consumption habit formation, capital adjustment costs, investment adjustment costs, search-and-match at the labor market, and smooth money adjustment. Therefore, the generalized Calvo approach proposed here acts as a uni cation of many frictions used in conventional dynamic stochastic general equilibrium models.
D59|A Note on Optimality of Full-Capacity Flat-Rate Equilibrium|No abstract is available for this item.
D59|La crítica clásica del excedente a la economía neoclásica|No abstract is available for this item.
D59|Evaluando impactos externos mediante un modelo de equilibrio general computable con competencia imperfecta: El caso colombiano|ResumenMediante un modelo de equilibrio general computable, en el que se discrimina un sector informal en la economía, se modela el sector formal como un mercado de competencia monopolística. Además de incluir mercados de trabajo discriminados, este modelo también evalúa el impacto del creciente flujo de inversión extranjera, del aumento de precio de los bienes básicos, y del aumento del volumen de las exportaciones sobre la economía colombiana. Se concluye que algo más de la mitad del crecimiento observado puede explicarse por el efecto de los factores mencionados. No obstante, se señala la importancia de las políticas internas para aprovechar las coyunturas favorables, y para minimizar el efecto de circunstancias negativas sobre el desempeño económico.
D59|The IDE geographical simulation model : predicting long-term effects of infrastructure development projects|It is important to be able to predict changes in the location of populations and industries in regions that are in the process of economic integration. The IDE Geographical Simulation Model (IDE-GSM) has been developed with two major objectives: (1) to determine the dynamics of locations of populations and industries in East Asia in the long-term, and (2) to analyze the impact of specific infrastructure projects on the regional economy at sub-national levels. The basic structure of the IDE-GSM is introduced in this article and accompanied with results of test analyses on the effects of the East West Economic Corridor on regions in Continental South East Asia. Results indicate that border costs appear to play a big role in the location choice of populations and industries, often a more important role than physical infrastructures themselves.
D59|Living with ambiguity: prices and survival when investors have heterogeneous preferences for ambiguity|No abstract is available for this item.
D59|Has Wal‐Mart Buried Mom And Pop?: The Impact Of Wal‐Mart On Self‐Employment And Small Establishments In The United States|This paper explores the widely accepted view that Wal‐Mart causes significant harm to the traditional, small “mom and pop” business sector of the U.S. economy. We present the first rigorous econometric investigation of this issue by examining the rate of self‐employment and the number of small employer establishments using both time series and cross‐sectional data. We also examine alternative measures and empirical techniques for robustness. Contrary to popular belief, our results suggest that the process of creative destruction unleashed by Wal‐Mart has had no statistically significant long‐run impact on the overall size and profitability of the small business sector in the United States. (JEL L81, D59, C21)
D59|Determinantes Del Acceso Al Crédito De Los Hogares|Este documento busca identificar los determinantes de acceso al crédito de los hogarescolombianos y encuentra que características tales como el ingreso, la riqueza, la posicióngeográfica, el acceso a la seguridad social, el nivel de educación y la edad afectan laprobabilidad de ser usuario de los servicios financieros acá analizados (tarjeta de crédito ycrédito hipotecario). Adicionalmente se encontró que una porción importante de poblacióncuenta con unas condiciones financieras favorables (representados en unas altas tasas deahorro) y no cuentan con acceso a servicios financieros, lo cual sugiere que podría haberposibilidades de expandir la oferta de crédito a ciertos segmentos.
D59|Descomposición de los Cambios de Multiplicadores en una Matriz de Contabilidad Social: un Ejemplo para la Economía Catalana|The aim of this paper is to determine the factors that underlie to the changes in the linear multipliers corresponding to the social accounting matrix (SAM) framework. The differences between two matrices of multipliers are divided into two separated components; the first one shows the differences in the structural coefficients, and the second one shows the differences in the ability of the accounts to generate net multipliers. This depends on the importance of agents and institutions within the global income. The empirical application is for the Catalan economy. I compare the multipliers corresponding to two social accounting matrices, one for 1990 and one for 1994. El objetivo de este artículo es determinar los factores que subyacen a los cambios de multiplicadores lineales obtenidos a partir de una matriz de contabilidad social (MCS). En concreto, las diferencias entre dos matrices de multiplicadores se dividen en dos componentes aditivos distintos; el primer componente refleja las diferencias en los coeficientes estructurales del modelo, mientras que el segundo refleja las diferencias en la capacidad de las cuentas de generar efectos multiplicadores, según la importancia de dichas cuentas dentro de la renta global. La aplicación empírica toma como referencia la economía de Cataluña, a partir de sendas matrices de contabilidad social (de 1990 y 1994).
D59|Determinantes Del Acceso Al Crédito De Los Hogares Colombianos|En este documento se busca identifi car los determinantes de acceso al crédito de los hogares colombianos; así, se encuentra que características tales como el ingreso, la riqueza, la posición geográfi ca, el acceso a la seguridad social, el nivel de educación y la edad infl uyen sobre la probabilidad de ser usuario de los servicios fi nancieros acá analizados (tarjeta de crédito y crédito hipotecario). Adicionalmente, se encontró que una porción importante de población cuenta con unas condiciones fi nancieras favorables (representados en unas altas tasas de ahorro) y no cuentan con acceso a servicios fi nancieros, lo cual sugiere que podría haber posibilidades de expandir la oferta de crédito a ciertos segmentos. Classification-JEL:C25, C43, D19, D59
D59|Determinantes del acceso al crédito de los hogares colombianos|En este documento se busca identifi car los determi-nantes de acceso al crédito de los hogares colombia-nos; así, se encuentra que características tales como el ingreso, la riqueza, la posición geográfi ca, el ac-ceso a la seguridad social, el nivel de educación y la edad infl uyen sobre la probabilidad de ser usuario de los servicios fi nancieros acá analizados (tarjeta de crédito y crédito hipotecario). Adicionalmente, se encontró que una porción importante de población cuenta con unas condiciones fi nancieras favorables (representados en unas altas tasas de ahorro) y no cuentan con acceso a servicios fi nancieros, lo cual sugiere que podría haber posibilidades de expandir la oferta de crédito a ciertos segmentos.
D59|A Multisectorial model of prices: the SAM approach| Social Accounting Matrices (SAM) are normally used to analyse the income generation process. They are also useful, however, for analysing the cost transmission and price formation mechanisms. For price contributions, Roland-Holst and Sancho (1995) used the SAM structure to analyse the price and cost linkages through a representation of the interdependence between activities, households and factors. This paper is a further analysis of the cost transmission mechanisms, in which I add the capital account to the endogenous components of the Roland-Holst and Sancho approach. By doing this I reflect the responses of prices to the exogenous shocks in savings and investment. I also present an additive decomposition of the global price effects into categories of interdependence that isolates the impact on price levels of shocks in the capital account. I use a 1994 Social Accounting Matrix to make an empirical application of the Catalan economy. Keywords: social accounting matrix, cost linkages, price transmission, capital account. JEL Classification: C63, C69, D59.
D59|A general equilibrium analysis of emission allowances|Each Party of the Kyoto Protocol on Climate Change must achieve quantified green-house gases emission reduction. one of the major policy instrument to be used to comply with these commitments is the opening of an emission allowances market. This paper analyzes, in the general equilibrium framework, the effects of the opening of such a market on the economic equilibrium.
D59|A General Equilibrium Analysis of Emission Allowances|Each Party of the Kyoto Protocol on Climate Change must achieve quantified green-house gases emission reduction. one of the major policy instrument to be used to comply with these commitments is the opening of an emission allowances market. This paper analyzes, in the general equilibrium framework, the effects of the opening of such a market on the economic equilibrium.
D59|CAP Reform and the Mediterranean EU-Member States| In the previous years the Mediterranean Member States of the EU came across the Reform of the CAP and especially last year faced the second wave of the Reform for three typical Mediterranean products, namely cotton, olive oil and tobacco. In this paper a partial equilibrium model is used to simulate the impacts of decoupling, as a key point of the decided CAP Reform. The second wave of the Reform appears to be of crucial importance for the southern EU countries and although the producer's income is reduced, there are positive welfare effects.
D59|Modelos SAM lineales y distribución de renta: una aplicación para la economía extremeña|Las matrices de contabilidad social constituyen bases de datos que incorporan gran cantidad de información económica. Uno de los aspectos más relevantes de estas matrices es su énfasis en el sector hogares, incorporando generalmente una desagregación del mismo en diferentes grupos de acuerdo a distintos criterios socioeconómicos. El principal objetivo que se persigue en este trabajo es aplicar sobre la economía extremeña los modelos SAM de multiplicadores lineales, centrándonos en diversos multiplicadores relacionados con los grupos de hogares y la distribución de la renta. Entre los diferentes ejercicios realizados se determinan, por ejemplo, los cambios en sus niveles de renta ante incrementos exógenos en la demanda o ante transferencias de renta. Para valorar estos cambios, junto a los multiplicadores tradicionales que miden incrementos absolutos en rentas, se plantean también medidas de efectos redistributivos que muestran los cambios en términos relativos. Social accounting matrices are databases that includes lot of economic information. These matrices emphasizes the role of the household sector, involving its desaggregation into different groups according to socioeconomic criteria. The main goal of this paper is to apply linear multipliers SAM models to the Extremadura economy. We focus on several multipliers related to households groups and income distribution. Furthermore, the changes in their income levels caused by demand exogenous injections or income transfers are analysed in depth. Besides a set of common multipliers that measure absolute income changes, we also employ some measures of redistributive effects that show the changes in relative terms.
D59|Measuring inequality in a region: a SAM approach|In this paper, we apply SAM linear models to the economy in a Spanish region, Extremadura, from the usual household disaggregation of these matrices. The analysis aims to some issues related to income distribution. To achieve these goals, some relative multipliers are computed and we propose different simulations based on final demand and income transfers. Finally, we also compute the standard statistical measures of inequality and show how these measures change if different transfer policies are applied. JEL CODES: C69, D31, D59, H59
D59|Comparing Multipliers in the Social Accounting Matrix Framework|The aim of this paper is to compare the linear multipliers corresponding to the Social Accounting Matrix (SAM) framework. Specifically, the differences between two matrices of multipliers are divided into two separate components. The first one shows the differences in the structural coefficients. The second one shows the differences in the ability of the accounts to generate net multipliers. This depends on the importance of agents and institutions within the income process. The method developed in this paper can be used for comparisons between countries or regions and can also be used for comparisons over time. The empirical application is for the Catalan economy. I compare the multipliers corresponding to two social accounting matrices, one for 1990 and one for 1994. The main conclusion is that the changes in the structural coefficients of the Catalan economy explain the less part of the global multiplier changes.
D59|Managament in a New and Experimentally Organized Economy|The parallel development of management theory and practice over three phases of economic development is surveyed; (1) the pre-oil crisis experience 1969-1975, (2) the post oil crisis sobering up through most of the 1990s and (3) the emergence of new global production organizations , blurring the notion of the firm to be managed. The external market circumstances of each period dictate different structures of business operations ; (a) a steady state and predictable environment, (b) crisis, inflation and disorderly markets and (c) new technology supporting a globally distributed production organization. As a consequence structural learning between the periods has been of limited value and often outright misleading. The influence of management theory on management practice and its origin in the received economic equilibrium model are discussed, and an alternative management theory based on the theory of the Experimentally Organized Economy (EOE) presented. The increased rate of failure among large firms is related to the increasing complexity of business decisions in globally distributed production and the decreased reliability of learning . It is concluded that successful management practice develops through experimentation in markets and that the best management education has been a varied career in many lines of business and in several companies.
D59|Income distribution in a regional economy: a SAM model|Social accounting matrices (SAM) are a numerical scheme of the circular flow. The SAM-based multipliers can be used to determine the changes in the relative income of the economic agents. In this paper we investigate the process of income distribution in the Catalan Economy, using the linear model of SAM multipliers. We also present an additive decomposition of the distributional incidence measurement provided by Roland-Holst and Sancho (1992). With this decomposition we can identify the different components in the overall process of income distribution among the agents of an economy. The proposed approach pays special attention to the role of the government in the process of income distribution.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D59|Competitive dynamics of web sites|We present a dynamical model of web site growth in order to explore the effects of competition among web sites and to determine how they affect the nature of markets. We show that under general conditions, as the competition between sites increases, the model exhibits a sudden transition from a regime in which many sites thrive simultaneously, to a “winner-take-all market” in which a few sites grab almost all the users, while most other sites go nearly extinct. This is in agreement with recent measurements on the nature of electronic markets.
D59|Análisis de multiplicadores lineales en una economía regional abierta|The objective of this paper is to extend the model of linear multipliers to represent the circular flow in an open economy. Specifically, we incorporate the links between the domestic economy and the foreign sector in the calculation of generalised multipliers. Additionally, we present a decomposition of the multipliers that allows us to identify the feedback effects caused by the foreign sector. With this decomposition we can evaluate the contribution of the external relationships to the income creation inside the economy.
D59|Linear exchange economies with a continuum of agents|"The purpose of this paper is to study how the equilibrium prices vary with respect to the initial endowments in a linear exchange economy with a continuum of agents. We first state the model and give conditions of an increasing strength for existence, uniqueness and continuity of equilibrium prices. Then, if we restrict ourselves to economies with essentially bounded initial endowments and if we assume that there is, from the point of view of preferences, only a finite number of types of agents, we show that, on an open dense subset of the space of initial endowments, the equilibrium price vector is an infinitely differentiable function of the initial endowments. The proof of this claim is based on a formula allowing to compute the equilibrium price vector around a so-called ""regular"" endowment where it is known."
D59|Un modelo clásico de crecimiento económico|This essay focuses on the conditions under which spontaneous growth in a developed economy create inestability, fluctuations and resources waste in a endogenous manner, in contrast with the neoclassical theories of economic cycles generated by exogenous shocks.
D59|The Marginal Pricing Rule in Economies with Infinitely Many Commodities|In this paper, we consider an economy with infinitely many commodities and non-convex production sets. We propose a definition of the marginal pricing rule which allows us to encompass the case of smooth and convex production sets. We also show the link with the definition used in a finite dimensional setting where the marginal pricing rule is defined by means of the Clarke's normal cone. We prove the existence of a marginal pricing equilibrium under assumptions similar to the one given for an economy with a finite set of commodities.
D59|The Marginal Pricing Rule in Economies with Infinitely Many Commodities|Clarke's normal cone appears as the right tool to define the marginal pricing rule in finite dimensional commodity space since it allows to consider in the same framework convex, smooth as well as nonsmooth nonconvex production sets. Furthermore it has nice continuity and convexity properties. But it is not well adapted for economies with infinitely many commodities since it does satisfy minimal continuity properties. In this paper, we propose an alternative definition of the marginal pricing rule.
D59|Dynamique et marche intertemporel : deroulement reel et anticipations|"A l'origine de ce texte se trouve la question de la signification de l'equilibre intertemporel, dans ses deux approches, celle de la theorie des marches incomplets et celle de l'equilibre temporaire. Plus precisement, la question de la relation entre l'objet mathematique ""equilibre intertemporel"", de ces theories, et le deroulement (temporel) reel du marche, deroulement qui est sequentiel."
D59|Del mercado al instinto (o de los intereses a las pasiones)|This essay analyzes liberal explanations of social order. Throughout exposition, Ovejero suggests the convenience of reviewing two central insights of liberalism, related with the way that the “problem” of social order is stated and its “solution” through the market. The “problem” is based on the unsustainable idea of presocial individuals inherent to liberalism. The article develops some arguments that shows why it has no sense to ask for the foundation of social order in that way. It supports that sociability can not be chosen, as the language can no be chosen either, in other words sociability can not be explained as a result of exchange or bargaining among individuals. The paper analyzes too the alternatives to explain the existence of social cement: passions, in terms of emotions and instincts, as the central basis that explains the way in which personal interests and the market would guarantee the social order.
D59|Rentas monopolísticas en el sistema de precios|This paper seeks to point out and to correct some mistakes of the conventional theory of imperfect competition based on partial equilibrium analysis. It extends to imperfect competition the classical model of general equilibrium, signaling the interconnections between individual prices and between these and macroeconomic aggregates.
D59|Smooth infinite economies|No abstract is available for this item.
D59|A topological invariant for competitive markets|No abstract is available for this item.
D59|Pricing in Economies with a Variable Number of Commodities|We present a general equilibrium model that encompasses the endogenous selection of a set of tradeable commodities. At its foundation we introduce the notion of a trade infrastructure as a set of social institutions describing the trade and production technologies available to the agents in the economy. Our model bridges the analyses of economies with a finite number of commodities and those with an infinite number, and it provides a general framework for investigating a very large class of possible applications. We discuss in detail a simple example on the development of a guild economy into a market based economy. We introduce an equilibrium concept that describes the pricing of trade infrastructures, based on the notion of valuation equilibrium for economies with abstract public goods, as in Diamantaras and Gilles (1996, International Economic Review, 37, 851-860). Through this concept we are able to price the tradeability of a commodity by itself. As our main results we obtain the existence as well as the decentralization of Pareto efficient allocations using the concept of valuation equilibrium. JEL classification: D23, D41, D46, D59, D90, H40, O12
D59|Nobel Lectures in Economic Sciences 1991 – 1995|Below is a list of the prizewinners during the period 1991 – 1995 with a description of the works which won them their prizes:
D59|On the Frequency of Chaotic Dynamics in Large Economies|No abstract is available for this item.
D59|A Monetary Model of a Shortage Economy|"During the transition from centrally planned economies to market economies, many countries have experienced macroeconomic instability. This paper develops a monetary model to show how macroeconomic stability and instability can materialize in a rigidly planned economy with inherent structural imbalances and an irrational price system. The study shows that, without hardening enterprise budget constraints, wage and price liberalization may destabilize an economy and lead to persistent budget deficits and inflation. The paper also analyzes household savings and money demand in a shortage economy, clarifying the somewhat confusing concept of ""monetary overhang"" in the literature."
D59|Arbitrator Behavior|Arbitration systems are often used to resolve labor disputes because on-going employment relationships are likely to contain specific (human capital) investments. Recent research indicates that the ex ante acceptability of arbitration to the parties must depend, in part, on the unpredictability of the arbitrator's award. It is shown that the usual selection process for arbitrators does imply that arbitrator decisions should be statistically exchangeable (in the limit), and the evidence available to date supports this hypothesis.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
