D61|Inequality in Parental Transfers, Borrowing Constraints, and Optimal Higher Education Subsidies|This paper studies optimal education subsidies when parental transfers for college education are unequally distributed across students and cannot be publicly observed. After documenting substantial inequality in the amount of parental transfers among American college students with similar observed family resources, I examine the implications of unobservable heterogeneity in parental transfers for efficient design of education subsidy policy that minimizes the distortions generated by borrowing constraints. When inequality in educational attainment is driven by differences in parental transfers, providing larger subsidy for lower level of schooling is optimal, because additional resources given to constrained students choosing low schooling levels reduce distortions. This force is weakened if unobservable heterogeneity in returns to schooling also leads to different schooling choices. To quantify these mechanisms, I build a model with endogenous parental transfers where inequality in parental transfers among students with similar parental economic resources and returns to education is determined by heterogeneity in parental altruism. The quantitative model is calibrated to the U.S. economy and used to solve for the optimal subsidy that may assign different amounts for each year of college and parental income quartile. The optimal policy subsidizes the first two years of college much more heavily than later years. The shift of public spending towards early years of college is more pronounced for higher parental income groups, generating little variation of subsidy amounts for the first two years of college across parental income.
D61|How does Caste Affect Entrepreneurship? Birth vs Worth|This paper examines the relative importance of the caste system in explaining the resource misallocation in India and quantifies its impact on aggregate productivity. I document that the historically disadvantaged castes (LC) are less likely to enter entrepreneurship even though they are more productive on average. At the intensive margin, the LC entrepreneurs are less capital-intensive but have higher marginal revenue product of capital relative to high castes. In a quantitative model of entrepreneurship, I find that the LC face higher entry cost and stricter financial constraints and that such asymmetries reduce aggregate TFP by 2.54% and output by 6%.
D61|Linear voting rules|How should a society choose between two social alternatives if participation in the decision process is voluntary and costly and monetary transfers are not feasible? Considering symmetric voters with private valuations, we show that it is utilitarian-optimal to use a linear voting rule: votes get alternativedependent weights, and a default obtains if the weighted sum of votes stays below some threshold. Standard quorum rules are not optimal. We develop a perturbation method to characterize equilibria in the case of small participation costs and show that leaving participation voluntary increases welfare for linear rules that are optimal under compulsory participation.
D61|Efficient Sequential Screening|A seller of an item faces a potential buyer whose valuation depends on multiple private signals. When there are informational externalities and the buyer's private signals arrive all at once efficient implementation is impossible. We show that if the buyer's private signals arrive over time in a particular order then the seller can implement efficiency even in the presence of informational externalities.
D61|Costless Information and Costly Verification: A Case for Transparency|A principal has to take a binary decision. She relies on information privately held by a completely biased agent. The principal cannot incentivize with transfers but can learn the agent's information at a cost. Additionally, the principal privately observes a signal correlated with the agent's type. Transparent mechanisms are optimal: unlike in standard results with correlation, the principal's payoff is the same as if her signal was public. They take a simple cut-off form: favorable signals ensure the agent's preferred action. Signals below this cut-off lead to the nonpreferred action unless the agent appeals. An appeal always triggers type verification.
D61|The Impact of Unilateral Carbon Taxes on Cross-Border Electricity Trading|Market coupling makes efficient use of interconnectors by ensuring higher-price markets import until prices are equated or interconnectors constrained. A carbon tax in one of the market can distort trade and reduce price convergence. We investigate econometrically the impact of the British Carbon Price Support (CPS, an extra carbon tax) on GBs cross-border electricity trading with France (through IFA) and the Netherlands (through BritNed). Over 2015-2018 the CPS would have raised the GB day-ahead price by an average of about €10/MWh in the absence of compensating adjustments through increased imports. The actual price differential with our neighbours fell to about €8/MWh allowing for replacement by cheaper imports. The CPS increased GB imports by 13 TWh/yr, thereby reducing carbon tax revenue by €103 million/yr. Congestion income increased by €133 m/yr, half transferred to foreign interconnector owners. The unilateral CPS created €28 m/yr deadweight loss. About 18% of the increase in the GB price caused by the CPS was passed through to higher French prices and 29% in higher Dutch prices.
D61|The social cost of carbon and inequality: when local redistribution shapes global carbon prices|The social cost of carbon is the central economic measure for aggregate climate change damages and functions as a metric for optimal carbon prices. Previous literature shows that inequality significantly influences the level of the social cost of carbon, but mostly neglects a major source of inequality - heterogeneity in income below the national level. We characterize the relationship between climate and redistributional policy in an optimal taxation model that explicitly accounts for inequality between and within countries. In particular, we demonstrate that climate and distributional policy cannot be separated when national governments fail to compensate low-income households for climate change damages: Even if only one country does not compensate especially affected households, the social cost of carbon increases globally. Further, we use numerical methods to estimate the scope of these effects. Our results suggest that it is crucial to correct previous estimates of the social cost of carbon for national distributional policies.
D61|Equilibrium Trade in Automobile Markets|We introduce a computationally tractable dynamic equilibrium model of the automobile market where new and used cars of multiple types (e.g. makes/models) are traded by heterogeneous consumers. Prices and quantities are determined endogenously to equate supply and demand for all car types and vintages, along with the ages at which cars are scrapped. The model allows for transactions costs, taxes, flexible specifications of car characteristics, consumer preferences, and heterogeneity. We apply the model to two examples: a revenue-neutral replacement of the new vehicle registration tax with a higher fuel tax and a hypothetical “merger to monopoly” in an oligopolistic new car market. We show substantial gains in consumer welfare from the tax policy change, as well as important effects on government revenues, automobile prices, driving, fuel consumption and CO 2 emissions, while the merger leads to substantial welfare losses.
D61|Multi-Part Tariffs and Differentiated Commodity Taxation|We study commodity taxation in markets where firms, such as Internet Service Providers, energy suppliers and payment card platforms, adopt multi-part tariffs. We show that ad valorem taxes can correct underprovision and hence increase welfare, provided the government applies differentiated tax rates to the usage and access parts of the tariff. We obtain this result in different settings, including vertically interlinked markets, markets where firms adopt menus of tariffs to screen consumers and where they compete with multi-part tariffs. Our results suggest that exempting these markets from taxation may be inefficient.
D61|Publicly funded cultural institutions – a comparative economic valuation study|Cultural institutions are the main creators of cultural goods and services and are responsible for their accessibility; cultural institutions are also the main beneficiaries of public funds for culture. The aim of this study is to evaluate the division of public resources into different branches of culture that are rooted in political ‘adhocism’ and historical dependencies. Based on the observed visitations and their costs, a two-stage budgeting model is employed to investigate the change in consumer surplus related to the loss of access to the markets of cinemas, museums, and theatres in Warsaw, the capital city of Poland. The institutions vary in terms of public good characteristics and importance as public bodies, expressed in terms of subsidies. The inclusion of the entire markets of institutions helps to overcome the embedding effect, which affects many single-site valuations. It also enables a comparison between cultural sectors, which is rare in cultural economics. We find that people assign a positive value to the accessibility of all institutions and groups of institutions. However, the estimated value generated by each type of cultural institution is not aligned with the division of subsidies between these markets. For theatres, the total benefits exceed public support. Museums are found to deliver a lower level of benefits to society; the value they generate is outweighed by the subsidies they receive. Cinemas receive little direct support; however, they are valued twice as much as museums. The problem of cultural policy lies in the division of resources, which is much more equal relative to benefits attributed to groups of museums and theatres. At the same time the division between single institutions within all three branches of culture is unequal, with the significant exclusion of non-public institutions.
D61|Competition among high-frequency traders, and market quality|We study empirically how competition among high-frequency traders (HFTs) affects their trading behavior and market quality. Our analysis exploits a unique dataset, which allows us to compare environments with and without high-frequency competition, and contains an exogenous event - a tick size reform - which we use to disentangle the effects of the rising share of high-frequency trading in the market from the effects of high-frequency competition. We find that when HFTs compete, their speculative trading increases. As a result, market liquidity deteriorates and short-term volatility rises. Our findings hold for a variety of market quality and high-frequency trading behavior measures. JEL Classification: G12, G14, G15, G18, G23, D4, D61
D61|Bank Leverage, Welfare, and Regulation|We take issue with claims that the funding mix of banks, which makes them fragile and crisis-prone, is efficient because it reflects special liquidity benefits of bank debt. Even aside from neglecting the systemic damage to the economy that banksâ€™ distress and default cause, such claims are invalid because banks have multiple small creditors and are unable to commit effectively to their overall funding mix and investment strategy ex ante. The resulting market outcomes under laissez-faire are inefficient and involve excessive borrowing, with default risks that jeopardize the purported liquidity benefits. Contrary to claims in the literature that â€œequity is expensiveâ€ and that regulation requiring more equity in the funding mix entails costs to society, such regulation actually helps create useful commitment for banks to avoid the inefficiently high borrowing that comes under laissez-faire. Effective regulation is beneficial even without considering systemic risk; if such regulation also reduces systemic risk, the benefits are even larger.
D61|The endowment effect, discounting and the environment|There is a considerable body of evidence showing that our preferences exhibit both reference dependence and loss aversion, a.k.a. the endowment effect. In this paper, we consider the implications of the endowment effect for discounting, with a special focus on discounting future improvements in the environment. We show that the endowment effect modifies the discount rate via (i) an instantaneous endowment effect and (ii) a reference-updating effect. Moreover we show that these two effects often combine to dampen the preference to smooth consumption over time. What this implies for discounting future environmental benefits may then depend critically on whether environmental quality is merely a factor of production of material consumption, or whether it is an amenity. On an increasing path of material consumption, dampened consumption smoothing implies a lower discount rate. But on a declining path of environmental quality and where we derive utility directly from environmental quality, it implies a higher discount rate. On non-monotonic paths, loss aversion specifically can give rise to substantial discontinuities in the discount rate.
D61|The Minimum Income Scheme as a poverty reduction mechanism: the case of the Basque Country| This paper analyses the impact of a Minimum Income Scheme (MIS), which operates in the Basque Country, one of the 17 Spanish Autonomous Regions, by assessing its efficacy in fighting poverty. We evaluate the effect or the MIS with respect to two different poverty measures. The first one is that defined by the administrative criteria of eligibility. The second one corresponds to Sen’s poverty measure that permits a simple decomposition of poverty into three different components, incidence, intensity and inequality. The results show that the MIS has reduced substantially all dimensions of poverty, even though there is scope for improvement both in coverage and efficiency.
D61|Green Urban Areas|This paper studies the size and location of urban green areas across city spaces. Urban green areas offer amenities that affect residential choices, land consumption and land rent. This paper discusses the socially optimal sizes and locations of urban green areas within a city and their decentralized allocation through land markets. The main result is that the share of land dedicated to urban green areas is a concave function of the distance to the city center. This result is confirmed by the empirical study of urban structures in the 305 largest EU cities. The importance of urban green areas is finally assessed by a counterfactual analysis, where 50% of urban green areas are removed in each city.
D61|Shadow wages in cost-benefit rules for project and policy analyses: estimates for OECD countries|This paper extends the theory and empirics of shadow wages by explicitly distinguishing between an hours-of-work response and a labor-force participation response – a distinction relevant for projects and policies expected to create jobs – and both responses are considered for different types of labor. Our analysis rests on a general equilibrium model of a tax-distorted but otherwise perfectly competitive economy. The model establishes an unambiguous link between shadow wages, market wages, and parameters of a country´s fiscal regime. Using data on market wages and countries´ fiscal regimes, we quantify this link for 33 OECD countries. We find that even with perfect competition shadow wages are considerably lower than market wages. We conjecture that imperfect competition does not necessarily widen this gap.
D61|Entrepreneurship, outside options and constrained|The literature on search frictions has often adopted the assumption of free entry. In this paper we forgo of this restriction by proposing a more realistic framework in which individuals are constantly making the decision whether or not to open a firm. Namely, firms are created through endogenous choices and business-owners and workers are drawn from the same pool. We show that in this framework, the Nash bargaining parameter is crucial for internal dynamics. In particular, workers and business owners share the same outside-options. As a result, the wage is no longer unambiguously positively related to the value of unemployment. The constrained efficient solution to this model takes the same form as the standard search model implying the same form for the Hosios condition. However, at this efficient solution changes in the rate of unemployment are either exacerbated or muted conditional on the value of the match elasticity parameter.
D61|Market Power and Income Taxation|Does significant market power or the presence of large rents affect optimal income taxation, calling for greater redistribution due to tainted gains? Or perhaps less because of an additional wedge that distorts labor effort? Do concerns about inequality have implications for antitrust, regulation, trade, and other policies that influence market power, which contributes to inequality? This article addresses these questions in a model with heterogeneous abilities and hence a concern for distribution, markups, multiple sectors, ownership that is a function of income, allowance for any share of profits to be recoveries of investments (including rent-seeking efforts), endogenous labor supply, and a nonlinear income tax. In this model, proportional markups with no profit dissipation have no effect on the economy, and a policy that reduces a nonproportional markup raises (lowers) welfare when it is higher (lower) than a weighted average of other markups. With proportional (partial or full) profit dissipation, proportional markups are equivalent to a downward shift of the distribution of abilities, and the welfare effect of correcting nonproportional markups associated with nonproportional profit dissipation now depends also on the degree of dissipation and how that is affected by the policy. In all cases, optimal policies maximize consumer plus producer surplus, without regard to a policy’s distributive effects on consumers and profits or how markups and income taxation distort labor effort.
D61|Market Inefficiency and Household Labor Supply: Evidence from Social Security’s Survivors Benefits|We study the effects of the Social Security survivors benefits program on household labor supply and the efficiency implications for insurance and credit markets. We use U.S. population tax records and exploit a sharp age discontinuity in benefit eligibility for identification. We find that eligibility induces considerable reductions in labor supply both among newly-widowed households in the immediate post-shock periods and among already-widowed households whose benefit receipt is entirely predictable. The evidence points to liquidity constraints, rather than myopia, as a leading operative mechanism underlying household responses to anticipated benefits. Our findings identify important inefficiencies in the life insurance market and in the allocation of credit. Our results further highlight the protective insurance role of the social program and the importance of liquidity provided by the government, and they suggest potential gains from expanding and smoothing the program’s benefit schedule.
D61|Predicting High-Risk Opioid Prescriptions Before they are Given|Misuse of prescription opioids is a leading cause of premature death in the United States. We use new state government administrative data and machine learning methods to examine whether the risk of future opioid dependence, abuse, or poisoning can be predicted in advance of an initial opioid prescription. Our models accurately predict these outcomes and identify particular prior non-opioid prescriptions, medical history, incarceration, and demographics as strong predictors. Using our model estimates, we simulate a hypothetical policy which restricts new opioid prescriptions to only those with low predicted risk. The policy’s potential benefits likely outweigh costs across demographic subgroups, even for lenient definitions of “high risk.” Our findings suggest new avenues for prevention using state administrative data, which could aid providers in making better, data-informed decisions when weighing the medical benefits of opioid therapy against the risks.
D61|Are environmental tax policies beneficial?: Learning from programme evaluation studies|This paper provides a concrete example of how policy analysts can use empirical programme evaluation studies to perform ex-post assessments of environmentally related tax policies. A number of studies credibly identify causal effects of environmentally related tax policies, but do not necessarily provide all the information needed to fully inform the policy-making process. This paper argues that cost-benefit analysis (CBA) could enrich ex-post assessments of environmentally related tax policies, given that CBA provides decision makers with a broader perspective of social costs and benefits and allows the identification of potential trade-offs among policy objectives.
D61|The economy of well-being: Creating opportunities for people’s well-being and economic growth|As well-being has matured as a statistical and measurement agenda, it has become increasingly relevant as a “compass” for policy, with a growing number of countries using well-being metrics to guide decision-making and inform budgetary processes. One remaining challenge has consisted in providing policy-makers with a better understanding of the linkages between the drivers of well-being and economic growth. This paper develops the concept of an “Economy of Well-being” as a basis for highlighting these linkages and showing how policy can most effectively leverage them. The paper defines an economy of well-being around the idea of a “virtuous circle” in which individual well-being and long-term economic growth are mutually reinforcing. It also explores the characteristics of an economy of well-being and the conditions under which it can be sustained. Secondly, based on a survey of existing empirical evidence, the paper contributes to outline how economies of well-being can be built. It provides analysis of several important channels through which economic growth and well-being support and reinforce one another, focusing on the multidimensional impact of policies in four areas that research has shown to be important for well-being: Education and Skills; Health; Social Protection and Redistribution; and Gender Equality.
D61|The Minimum Income Scheme as a poverty reduction mechanism:the case of the Basque Country|This paper analyses the impact of a Minimum Income Scheme (MIS), which operates in the Basque Country, one of the 17 Spanish Autonomous Regions, by assessing its efficacy in fighting poverty. We evaluate the effect or the MIS with respect to two different poverty measures. The first one is that defined by the administrative criteria of eligibility. The second one corresponds to Sen’s poverty measure that permits a simple decomposition of poverty into three different components, incidence, intensity and inequality. The results show that the MIS has reduced substantially all dimensions of poverty, even though there is scope for improvement both in coverage and efficiency.
D61|The Impact of Product Qualities on Downstream Bundling in a Distribution Channel|Republished as CIE Working Papier 2019-10
D61|The Impact of Product Qualities on Downstream Bundling in a Distribution Channel|We study the impact of exogenous product qualities on a downstream firm’s decision to bundle and the welfare effects of downstream bundling. We consider a distribution channel with two downstream firms and two price-setting monopolistic upstream producers. One upstream firm sells its good 1 exclusively to one downstream firm and the other upstream firm sells its good 2 to both downstream firms. The downstream firms compete in prices and the two-product downstream firm has the option to bundle its goods. We find that downstream bundling aggravates the problem of double marginalization in the channel, but reduces the intensity of downstream competition. Finally, bundling is profitable for the two-product downstream firm only when the quality of good 2 exceeds the quality of good 1. However, bundling is always profitable when the production process is controlled by the downstream industry. The impact on total welfare is ambiguous and depends on the distribution of market power in the channel and the quality levels of the goods.
D61|Does Size influence Jail Efficiency?: A Metafrontier analyisis of local Jails in the United States|This study examines the efficiency of local jails for the year 2016. It employs a well-known non-parametric methodology (DEA) with metafrontiers. Metafrontiers envelop separate groups that have similar production technology and therefore allows for more accurate efficiency estimates. Using an input-oriented model with variable returns to scale, the results of this study suggest that, on average, jails could reduce or reallocate their inputs by 37% given their output level. Also, there are differences in efficiency between groups that operate on different production technologies. The group of small jails appears to operate more efficiently than the groups of large and mega-large jails. From a managerial perspective, this study presents evidence that jail managers need to assess more carefully how they allocate human and financial resources to try to improve operational efficiency. From a policy perspective, the results indicate that there is room for cost-saving approaches to maximize taxpayer dollars.
D61|Student-Project-Resource Matching-Allocation Problems: Game Theoretic Analysis|In this work, we consider a three sided student-project-resource matching-allocation problem, in which students have preferences on projects, and projects on students. While students are many-to-one matched to projects, indivisible resources are many-to-one allocated to projects whose capacities are thus endogenously determined by the sum of resources allocated to them. Traditionally, this problem is divided into two separate problems: (1) resources are allocated to projects based on some expectations (resource allocation problem), and (2) students are matched to projects based on the capacities determined in the previous problem (matching problem). Although both problems are well-understood, unless the expectations used in the first problem are correct, we obtain a suboptimal outcome. Thus, it is desirable to solve this problem as a whole without dividing it in two. In this paper, we first show that a stable (i.e., fair and nonwasteful) matching does not exist in general (nonwastefulness is a criterion related to efficiency). Then, we show that no strategyproof mechanism satisfies fairness and very weak efficiency requirements. Given this impossibility result, we develop a new strategyproof mechanism that strikes a good balance between fairness and efficiency, which is assessed by experiments.
D61|A Pareto Criterion on Systemic Risk|Perfect risk sharing is not an optimal design for financial system because it can increase systemic risk by facilitating risk contagion among financial institutions. However, risk sharing dominates betting according to most Pareto efficiency criteria. One reason for this might be that those Pareto criteria consider individual risk rather than systemic risk and neglect that betting may reduce systemic risk by segmenting the financial system and preventing financial contagion. Refining Pareto criterion to cover systemic risk, I pro- pose the systemic Pareto criterion which has two features: 1) satisfying facts that betting dominates risk sharing when systemic risk is considered. 2) be- ing applicable to scenarios with constant endowment to which current criteria cannot provide compelling suggestions. One implication from this paper is that betting can act as the stabilizer of the economy and prohibiting betting is not always helpful for financial stability.
D61|No country for old men? Increasing the retirement age in the Armed Forces|An ageing workforce due to low fertility rates and higher life expectancies challenges modern industrialized economies. To secure economic welfare and the balance of public budgets, governments worldwide implement reforms to increase the retirement age. This trend towards higher retirement age confronts a defense sector that for centuries has been in search of an age structure characterized by ‘youth and vigor’. We study the economic gains to society from increasing the special retirement age for military personnel in the Norwegian Armed Forces. By combining the literatures on pension, personnel, and military economics, we identify mechanisms crucial to the outcome of a special retirement age reform. Monte Carlo simulation is applied to illustrate the potential impact on the economic net gains of uncertain variables. We find that an increase in the retirement age provides substantial net benefits to society, even under fairly negative assumptions about the consequences for retention, motivation and efforts, and the value of elderly personnel in the Armed Forces.
D61|Assessment of the Impact on Household Welfare of Pressurized Potable Water Supply in Northern Cyprus|This paper first contains an estimation of the willingness to pay by for reliable potable water supply of households in a situation where a public water supply is available but the quality of the service is such that the water is neither reliable nor potable. This is a problem that plagues millions of households living cities in both low and middle income countries. The analysis is carried out by measuring the averting expenditures undertaken by households. Second, a cost-benefit analysis is conducted in order to measure the net benefit gained by households from investments to upgrade the existing municipal water distribution systems in Northern Cyprus so that it would be able to continuously deliver potable water to all households. It is found that average willingness to pay for reliable water supply is 22.4 TL/m3 (3.73 Euro/m3). On the basis of the economic cost-benefit analysis, we find that present value of total economic benefits of households are six times of the total investment costs of replacing all the water distribution system within the city of Famagusta. The present value of the net benefit per household is on average 23,644 TL (3,940 Euro). Each year, every household is losing 2,500 TL (416 Euro) if the completing of the rehabilitation is delayed.
D61|Social Value of Time for Investment Appraisal in Mozambique|This study aims to estimate social value of time for investment appraisal in Mozambique. In doing so, we estimate the social value of time for three categories of project that result in time savings. These include transportation sector (road), water supply and sanitation projects and social value of time for people using public services. The estimated social value of time savings in this study, reflects the average magnitude of the welfare improvement of passengers travelling by type of vehicles, welfare improvement of women and children hauling for water and sanitation project and welfare improvement of visiting public offices for commercial and non-commercial purposes in Mozambique. This welfare improvement comes about either through increased productivity of the individuals or through the increase in utility an individual would enjoy if waiting time is reduced by an hour in the Mozambique for immediate or future projects.
D61|Cost Benefit Analysis of a Regional Arterial PPP Toll Road Project: A Case Study of the Proposed R-1 Toll Road|Road infrastructure is of vital importance for the economic development of a country. Roads facilitate the movement of people, goods, services and resources. Traditionally, public infrastructure such as roads has been provided using national budgetary resources. Over time the participation of the private sector has increased in the procurement and provision of road infrastructure. Public authorities have been partnering with the private sector due to the limitation of capital to undertake such projects. Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs) of various forms have been used extensively in road transportation projects as an alternative to state and local government procurement and provision of road infrastructure. The objective of this study is to undertake an integrated investment appraisal of a proposed PPP toll road project in the Southern African country of Zimbabwe using Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA).
D61|Integrated Investment Appraisal of Water and Sanitation Projects: A Case of Senegal Water and Sanitation Project|This study is an appraisal of a rural water and sanitation project in Senegal. The Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA) done in this study employs the Integrated Investment Appraisal Approach (IIA) which typically includes the financial, economic, stakeholder and risk analyses of the project. The impacts on all major stakeholders are quantified. Senegal’s water supply coverage was 75 percent in 2004. Of the 75 percent of the total population. 64 percent of the rural population is covered, and 90 percent of the urban population has access to water. In the case of sanitation, however, with only 33 percent coverage of the entire population of Senegal. To further improve the water and sanitation sector of Senegal, especially in the rural areas, the African Development Bank (AfDB) decided to intervene with a series of engagements. This study is the appraisal of the first phase of the African Development Bank’s (AfDB) engagement in the rural water and sanitation in Senegal. This initiative is directed towards ensuring that Senegal reaches its millennium development goals. The intervention is structured such that addresses the needs of both the water supply and sanitation infrastructure.
D61|Potential Use of the Life Satisfaction Approach to Value Nonmarket Goods and Services|Economic analysis often faces challenges in the valuation of nonmarket goods and services. The traditional set of nonmarket valuation tools for measuring Marshallian economic surplus has limitations related to potential bias in stated preferences and endogeneity of nonmarket amenity placement in revealed preference studies. The life satisfaction approach offers a Hicksian compensating variationbased alternative, which uses self-reported subjective well-being to calculate the marginal rate of substitution of income for nonmarket amenities or services. The conceptual basis for the approach is explained and illustrated with an example from Iloilo, Philippines. Recommendations are offered for future application of the technique in the economic analysis of investment projects.
D61|Quadratic voting with multiple alternatives|Consider the following collective choice problem: a society of budget-constrained agents faces multiple alternatives and wants to reach an e¢ cient decision (i.e. to Nash implement the utilitarian maximum). In this paper, we propose a budget-balanced vote-buying mechanism for this setting: for each alternative, every voter can cast any number of votes, x, in support or against it, by transferring an amount x2 to the rest of the voters; and the outcome is determined by the net vote totals. We prove that as the society grows large, in every equilibrium of the mechanism, each agent's transfer converges to zero, and the probability that the mechanism chooses the socially efficient outcome converges to one.
D61|Multi-part Tariffs and Differentiated Commodity Taxation|We study commodity taxation in markets where firms, such as Internet Service Providers, energy suppliers and payment card platforms, adopt multi-part tariffs. We show that ad valorem taxes can correct underprovision and hence increase welfare, provided the government applies differentiated tax rates to the usage and access parts of the tariff. We obtain this result in different settings, including vertically interlinked markets, markets where firms adopt menus of tariffs to screen consumers and where they compete with multi-part tariffs. Our results suggest that exempting these markets from taxation may be inefficient.
D61|Heterogeneous welfare and emission effects of energy tax policies in Brazil|The consolidation of the energy sector as one of the main emitters of greenhouse gases in Brazil is directly related to the expansion of fuel consumption in passenger and cargo transport and to the higher use of thermal power plants for electricity generation. This fact reflects a detachment from the historical renewable energy and biofuels production and goes against the global efforts to reduce GHG emissions. Our paper analyzes the short run emissions and distributional effects of energy price changes in a partial equilibrium framework. Our findings suggest that taxes and subsidies in fuel prices (oil and diesel, respectively) are progressive, but have positive impact on total household emissions due to substitution effects. Despite being regressive, changes in electricity price have large effects on household emissions due to the characteristics of electric energy supply in Brazil. More environment-friendly policies that subsidize ethanol have a small but positive effect on the economy and tend to reduce households emissions. However, large substitution effects - due to an increase in the demand for CO2eq intensive goods, such as commuting and transportation services - when also taxing oil do not offset the reduction in emissions caused by a lower ethanol price. Therefore, understanding who benefits from energy price taxes and subsidies and their welfare impacts policies are key to gaining public support for a greener energy matrix.
D61|Inefficient fire-sales in decentralized asset markets|It is challenging to explain the collapse in the price of subprime mortgage-backed securities (MBS) during the Financial Crisis of 2008, using the existing models of fire-sale. I present a model to demonstrate that fire-sales may happen even when there is a relatively sizable pool of natural buyers and in the absence of asymmetric information, due to a coordination failure among buyers: buyers’ waiting to trade at a lower price tomorrow, can lead to a collapse in the price and trade volume today. In particular, I show that when trade is decentralized and participation is endogenous, a medium level of asset demand and liquidity needs that are expected to increase over time create complementarity among buyers’ decisions to wait. This complementarity makes competitive markets prone to coordination failures and fire-sales accompanied by a collapse in the trade volume. Fire-sales may also be inefficient. I also discuss various policy options to eliminate the risk of fire-sales in such a setup. JEL Classification: G01, G12, D61, D62, D83, E44
D61|Participatory Value Evaluation: a novel method to evaluate future urban mobility investments|Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA) is a widely applied economic appraisal tool to support the planning and decision-making process for transport projects. However, in the planning literature CBA has been criticized for at least three reasons: 1) CBA focuses on traditional transport system related planning goals and poorly considers the broader goals of urban transport planning such as social equity; 2) CBA corrodes and degrades the forward looking nature of the planning proficiency. The instrument can be conceived as a backward looking methodology as it assumes that people’s past decisions in a (private) market setting reflect their normative ideas regarding their preferred future urban mobility system; 3) CBA fails to recognize the specific (local) features of the problem which a transport project aspires to solve as practical CBA studies use generic price tags to value impacts of a transport project. Participatory Value Evaluation (PVE) is a novel evaluation approach specifically designed to overcome these criticisms while preserving the positive aspects that CBA brings to planning. This paper illustrates the PVE method with a case study on the evaluation of a transport investment scheme of the Transport Authority Amsterdam. In total 2,498 citizens participated in the PVE. We find that projects with the highest social value focus on safety and improvements for cyclists and pedestrians, whereas projects that focus on reducing travel times for car users have lower value. Moreover, we establish that PVE captures citizens’ preferences towards broader goals of transport planning such as improving health and the environment, fostering city cycling as well as the inclusion of ethical considerations such as spatial equality. PVE also allows for the inclusion of citizens’ normative ideas regarding their preferred future urban mobility system and local characteristics of the transport problem/solution.
D61|Uncertain Commitment Power in a Durable Good Monopoly|This paper considers dynamic pricing strategies in a durable good monopoly model with uncertain commitment power to set price paths. The type of the monopolist is private information of the firm and not observable to consumers. If commitment to future prices is not possible, the initial price is high in equilibrium, but the firm falls prey to the Coase conjecture later to capture the residual demand. The relative price cut is increasing in the probability of commitment as buyers anticipate that a steady price is likely and purchase early. Pooling in prices may occur for perpetuity if commitment is suciently weak. Polling for innity is also preserved if committing to a high price is endogenously chosen by the firm.
D61|Uncertain Commitment Power in a Durable Good Monopoly|This paper considers dynamic pricing strategies in a durable good monopoly model with uncertain commitment power to set price paths. The type of the monopolist is private information of the firm and not observable to consumers. If commitment to future prices is not possible, the initial price is high in equilibrium, but the firm falls prey to the Coase conjecture later to capture the residual demand. The relative price cut is increasing in the probability of commitment as buyers anticipate that a steady price is likely and purchase early. Pooling in prices may occur for perpetuity if commitment is suciently weak. Polling for innity is also preserved if committing to a high price is endogenously chosen by the firm.
D61|Valuing mortality risk in China: Comparing stated-preference estimates from 2005 and 2016|Abstract We estimate the marginal rate of substitution of income for reduction in current annual mortality risk (the “value per statistical life” or VSL) using stated-preference surveys administered to independent samples of the general population of Chengdu, China in 2005 and 2016. We evaluate the quality of estimates by the theoretical criteria that willingness to pay (WTP) for risk reduction should be strictly positive and nearly proportional to the magnitude of the risk reduction (evaluated by comparing answers between respondents) and test the effect of excluding respondents whose answers violate these criteria. For subsamples of respondents that satisfy the criteria, point estimates of the sensitivity of WTP to risk reduction are consistent with theory and yield estimates of VSL that are two to three times larger than estimated using the full samples. Between 2005 and 2016, estimated VSL increased sharply, from about 22,000 USD in 2005 to 550,000 USD in 2016. Income also increased substantially over this period. Attributing the change in VSL solely to the change in real income implies an income elasticity of about 3.0. Our results suggest that estimates of VSL from stated-preference studies in which WTP is not close to proportionate to the stated risk reduction may be biased downward by a factor of two or more, and that VSL is likely to grow rapidly in a population with strong economic growth, which implies that environmental-health, safety, and other policies should become increasingly protective.
D61|Is Public Sector Performance just a matter of money? The case of the Spanish regional governments|Efficient use of public resources is clearly a relevant issue to be studied from several points of view. Among others, it accounts for a significant share of the total economy activity and it deals with non market oriented activities. In Spain, the regional level is particularly relevant due to the progressive decentralization during the 200s of key public policies constituting the welfare state (as education, health, etc.). Consequently,it increased notably their financing needs but affecting asymmetrically because of the important differences in their fiscal capacity. Moreover, they mostly share (15 of 17) a common financing system in which an efficient use of resources is assumed but not evaluated. Our results show that normally a few of the regions tend to be the top performers, but there no regions performing poorly in every aspect. It is also worth noting that no dramatic changes can be seen in terms both of expenditure and performance during the recent Great Recession.
D61|The role of heterogeneity of patients’ preferences in kidney transplantation|We elicit time and risk preferences for kidney transplantation from the entire population of patients of the largest Italian transplant centre using a discrete choice experiment (DCE). We measure patients’ willingness-to-wait (WTW), expressed in months, for receiving a kidney with one-year longer expected graft survival, or low risk of complication. Using a mixed logit in WTW-space model, we find heterogeneity in patients’ preferences. Our model allows WTW to vary with the patient’s age and duration of dialysis. The results suggest that WTW correlates with age and duration of dialysis. The implication for transplant practice is that including individual preferences in kidney allocation protocols that assign “non-ideal” (expanded donor criteria) organs may not only increase the expected survival rates of patients with transplanted organs but also improve patients’ satisfaction.
D61|The potential economic role of regenerative therapy in the treatment of knee osteoarthritis|Background. Osteoarthritis (OA) is a chronic and degenerative pathology that affects joints in particular hands, knees, hip and lower back. The prevalence and incidence is in continuous increase for the advanced ageing of the population and the increasing presence of risk factors such as obesity. OA burden of disease implies high care costs and has an important social impact because it limits people’s every day activities causing pain and mobility reduction. Objectives. The aim of this work is to carry out an economic evaluation of the intra-articular (i.a.) use of the Platelet-Rich Plasma (PRP) therapy in the treatment for knee osteoarthritis. Recently the scientific literature has shown the effectiveness of this treatment. The comparator adopted is the Hyaluronic acid (HA) which represents the standard i.a. therapy. Both therapies can reduce pain, improving patient quality of life, and can help the patient to delay the joint surgery, that represents a high cost for the National Health System. Methods. A cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) were performed using a decision tree model. The effectiveness outcomes are reported in terms of Quality Adjusted Life Year (QALY). The costs are reported in Euro (€) currency evaluated in 2016. The adopted perspective is the Healthcare System and only direct cost have been included in the analyses. Deterministic and probabilistic sensibility analyses are reported in order to evaluate the robustness of the results and account for the different sources of uncertainty.The analyses have been carried out for three European country: Germany, Italy and France Results. The PRP therapy results more costly but also more effective than HA. Using a Willingness to pay thresholds of € 10,000/QALY, the PRP result the cost-effective therapy with respect to HA, for patient with moderate to severe knee OA.
D61|‘Quality food’ for cultural policies. Quality attributes in the non-market stated-preference based valuation of cultural goods|Evidence-based policies require well-established research and reliable data. One of the major difficulties in delivering ‘good quality food’ for cultural policies lies in measuring culture. Stated preference based non-market valuation is one of the privileged tools to reveal the benefits cultural goods deliver to the society for cost-benefit analysis. The prevalent problem in this kind of research are poorly defined, ambiguous goods. The challenge lies in describing their quality attributes. The article’s goal is to review the hitherto uses of quality measurements of arts and culture in stated preference based non-market valuation research, mostly dedicated to performing arts and cultural heritage.
D61|On Mechanisms for Costly Inclusion|We investigate mechanisms in a class of production environments where each group of agents can `win' for an associated monetary cost; examples include the allocation of an indivisible object and the provision of a pure public good. A mechanism is satisfactory if and only if it is surplus-maximizing and honesty is necessarily a dominant strategy for each agent; it is autonomous if and only if it is satisfactory and production is funded through voluntary contributions of the agents; it is equitable if and only if it is satisfactory and no agent prefers another's bundle to his own. First, we introduce the notion of inclusion cost coverage for cost functions, and prove that this condition is necessary and sufficient for the existence of autonomous mechanisms (Theorem 1). Second, we prove that the cost function is symmetric and convex if and only if there are equitable mechanisms (Theorem 2); in this case, we characterize both the class of equitable mechanisms (Theorem 3) as well as the class of autonomous and equitable mechanisms (Theorem 4). We discuss a variety of applications and additional topics.
D61|A modelling approach for the German gas grid using highly resolved spatial, temporal and sectoral data (GAMAMOD-DE)|Natural gas is the fossil fuel with lowest CO2-emissions, compared to coal, lignite or oil. Regarding the ongoing energy transition in Germany, the extend usage of natural gas provide advantages that might be built a bridge to a low carbon energy system until 2050. Against this backdrop, this paper introduces a model for the German natural gas market (GAMAMOD-DE) with focus on infrastructure utilisation. Following a linear optimization approach, the model considers a highly resolved grid structure of pipelines, storages and cross-border connections to neighbouring countries. The spatial and temporal resolved gas demand is divided into three different sectors: industry, heating and electricity. An application for the year 2012 shows the performance and validation of the proposed model. Results show the utilisation of infrastructure and enable an assessment of the level of security of supply during the considered time frame. In addition, the findings suggest that although European customers suffered on cold winter days in 2012, from a system part of view, the security of supply (SoS) was always ensured. Further research should focus on analysing SoS and resilience of gas networks in the mid- and long-term, especially when sector coupling between electricity and gas is far advanced.
D61|On the Optimality of Differential Asset Taxation|How should a utilitarian government balance redistributive concerns with the need to provide incentives for business creation and investment? Should they tax business profits, the (risk-free) savings of owners, or some combination of both? To address this question, this paper presents a model in which the desirability of differential asset taxation emerges endogenously from the presence of agency frictions. I consider an environment in which entrepreneurs hire workers and rent capital to produce output subject to privately observed shocks and have the ability to both divert capital to private consumption and abscond with a fraction of assets. To provide incentives to invest, the wealth of an agent must depend on the performance of his/her firm, leading to ex-post inequality in all efficient allocations. I show that the efficient stationary distribution of wealth exhibits a thick right (Pareto) tail, with the degree of inequality monotonically increasing in the number of workers per entrepreneur. The efficient allocation is then implemented in a general equilibrium model using history-independent linear taxes on risk-free savings and (reported) business profits. The tax on entrepreneurs’ savings may be positive or negative, while the tax on business profits depends solely upon the degree of private information and is independent of all technological and preference parameters.
D61|Risk Management for Sovereign Debt Financing with Sustainability Conditions|We develop a model of debt sustainability analysis with optimal financing decisions in the presence of macroeconomic, financial and fiscal uncertainty. We define a coherent measure of refinancing risk, and trade off the risks of debt stock and flow dynamics, subject to debt sustainability constraints and endogenous risk and term premia. We optimize both static and dynamic financing strategies, compare them with several simple rules and consol financing to demonstrate economically significant effects of optimal financing, and show that the stock-flow tradeoff can be critical for sustainability. We quantify the minimum refinancing risk and the maximum rate of debt reduction that a sovereign can achieve given its economic fundamentals, and extend the model to identify optimal timing for debt flow adjustments that allow the sovereign to go beyond these limits. We put the model to the data on three real-world cases: a representative euro zone crisis country, a low-debt country (Netherlands) and a high-debt country (Italy). These applications illustrate the use of the model in informing diverse policy decisions on sustainable public finance. The model is part of the European Stability Mechanism toolkit to assess debt sustainability and repayment capacity of member states in the context of financial assistance.
D61|Sharing a Polluted River under Waste Flow Control|When the cleaning up of a polluted transboundary river requires the cooperation of several agents (countries, regions, firms or cities) located along it, a challenging issue is how should the pollutant-cleaning costs be shared among them. An important factor ignored by literature so far concerns the ability for wastewater treatment of the river itself depending on both sediment types and ecological units (hydrophyte filter beds, aerobic digesters) in order to control waste flow from upstream to downstream. First, we introduce and implement a new cost sharing method for polluted river problems under waste ow control, called the Downstream Compensation method, which combines the two well-known conflicting theories in international river disputes, namely the Absolute Territorial Sovereignty and the Unlimitted Territorial Integrity. When the river does not have any wastewater treatment ability, the Downstream Compensation method coincides with the Downstream Equal Sharing method. At the other extreme case of full wastewater treatment within the river, the Downstream Compensation method corresponds to the Local Responsibility Sharing method. Second, we show that the Downstream Compensation method is obtained as the Shapley value of appropriately defined cooperative games with transferable utility. Finally, we prove that these games satisfy the concavity property, meaning that the proposed cost allocation scheme belongs to the core.
D61|Efficiency and Stability in Large Matching Markets|We study efficient and stable mechanisms in matching markets when the number of agents is large and individuals’ preferences and priorities are drawn randomly. When agents’ preferences are uncorrelated, then both efficiency and stability can be achieved in an asymptotic sense via standard mechanisms such as deferred acceptance and top trading cycles. When agents’ preferences are correlated over objects, however, these mechanisms are either inefficient or unstable even in an asymptotic sense. We propose a variant of deferred acceptance that is asymptotically efficient, asymptotically stable and asymptotically incentive compatible. This new mechanism performs well in a counterfactual calibration based on New York City school choice data.
D61|Optimal REDD+ in the carbon market|Unilateral actions to reduce CO2 emissions can be costly and may lead to carbon leakage through relocation of emission-intensive and trade-exposed industries (EITE). This paper examines the welfare effects of introducing an emission offset mechanism for the EITE sector, where EITE producers may have to acquire more than one offset credit to balance one ETS allowance. The analytical results suggest that under certain conditions it is globally welfare improving for a single region to introduce such an offset mechanism. Numerical simulations in the context of the EU ETS and REDD+ credits support the analytical findings, and suggest that it is optimal for the EU to require EITE producers to acquire several REDD+ credits to offset one EU ETS allowance.
D61|Is Prevention of Suicide Worth Less? -A Comparison of the Value per Statistical Life|This paper compares the value per statistical life (VSL) in the context of suicide prevention to that of prevention of traffic fatalities. We conducted a contingent valuation survey with questions on willingness to pay (WTP) in both contexts by administering a web questionnaire to 1038 individuals aged 18 to 80. We conjectured that WTP for a given impact on the number of fatalities would be lower for suicide prevention because suicide, at least to some degree, is the result of individuals’ own decisions. However, this hypothesis was not supported by the within- or between-sample estimates of VSL or by responses to direct questions. Hence, no support is provided for the use of a lower valuation of the impact of suicide prevention than for risk-reducing programs in other fields, such as traffic safety.
D61|The influence of individual characteristics and institutional norms on bureaucrats’ use of CBA in environmental policy: a model and a choice experiment|Social scientists regularly criticize the use of cost-benefit analysis (CBA), which has led to much focus being placed on investigating the possible biases related to its results. Recent research shows that CBA is not routinely done prior to environmental, energy, and climate policymaking in Sweden, and in countries where a CBA is made, the results have little influence on political decisions. This paper investigates obstacles to using CBA information with a focus on bureaucrats. We use empirical data from Sweden, where the ministries are small by international standards and hence government agencies have a sizeable influence on policymaking. We construct a theoretical model and then test the theoretical predictions with empirical data collected from five Swedish government agencies. The empirical results lend support both for the assertion that risk aversion concerning the environmental outcome, the bureaucrats’ environmental attitudes, and the cost of taking CBA information into account have a considerable impact on the probability of using information from a CBA. Hence risk averse and bureaucrats with strong environmental preferences are less likely and bureaucrats with low cost of doing a CBA more likely than other bureaucrats to use CBA information. Finally, a binding governmental budget constraint may positively influence a bureaucrat’s choice of undertaking a CBA. A tentative conclusion is therefore that it may be possible to increase the use of CBA by making the budgetary consequences of policies much clearer and demanding due consideration of costs.
D61|Envy-free Pricing for Impure Public Good|In this paper, we study optimal public good provision with congestion and user fees to exclude some agents under lump-sum tax/transfer, constrained by the condition of reduction of envy. We adopt the λ envy-free constraint proposed by Diamantaras and Thomson (1990), and employ the exclusion technique used in Hellwig (2005), i.e., the policymaker decides the level of provision and user fee paid by people accessing a public good, as well as a uniform level of tax/transfer. We characterize the optimal public sector pricing rule that depends on utilitarian distributive concerns and envy reduction concerns, which are in conflict with each other. We show that if the social welfare function is strictly increasing and strictly concave and the government is not concerned with reducing envy, the user fee is greater than the marginal congestion cost. Additionally, we show that if the government reflects the notion of equality of opportunity under the reduction of envy, the user fee is lower than the marginal congestion cost. These results imply that the two fairness concerns are countervailing with regard to the surcharge fee.
D61|Behavioral economics and the value of a statistical life|Abstract There are many possible connections between the value of statistical life (VSL) and behavioral economics. A list of topics includes endowment effects, risk salience, ambiguity aversion, present bias, reference groups, reference points, and experienced versus decision utilities. There are also nudges that connect to estimating or using VSL in government decisions, and cousins of behavioral economic research such as interpersonal heterogeneity, experiments, neuroeconomics, and the role of beauty or personal attractiveness in labor market outcomes. Current evidence suggests that VSL and behavioral economics best connect via (1) possible multi-attribute reference group effects and (2) a possible distinction between decision utility and experienced utility.
D61|Numeracy and Unemployment Duration|Governments are showing an increasing interest in quantitative models that give insights into the determinants of unemployment duration. Yet, these models oftentimes do not explicitly take into account that unemployment prospects are influenced by personality characteristics that are not being fully captured by variables in administrative data. Using German survey data linked with administrative data, we show that numeracy skills are strongly related to unemployment duration, while at the same time we confirm well-established patterns documented in the literature. Low numeracy is strongly related to a longer unemployment duration of workers below median age (33) in our sample, even after including a rich set of controls. We find that unrealistic reservation wages are not the main driver, nor do results seem to be driven by locking-in effects caused by programme participation. On the other hand, the absence of a relationship between numeracy and unemployment duration for older workers might well be driven by a locking-in effect for those with high numeracy, as they tend to commit more often to intensive training programmes. Another tentative explanation, which is supported by the data, is that younger people have fewer signals to send such that their cognitive abilities may have a higher relative signalling value.
D61|Catching up Is Hard to Do: Undergraduate Prestige, Elite Graduate Programs, and the Earnings Premium|"A commonly held perception is that an elite graduate degree can ""scrub"" a less prestigious but less costly undergraduate degree. Using data from the National Survey of College Graduates from 2003 through 2017, this paper examines the relationship between the status of undergraduate degrees and earnings among those with elite post-baccalaureate degrees. Few graduates of nonselective institutions earn post-baccalaureate degrees from elite institutions, and even when they do, undergraduate institutional prestige continues to be positively related to earnings overall as well as among those with specific post-baccalaureate degrees including business, law, medicine, and doctoral. Among those who earn a graduate degree from an elite institution, the present value of the earnings advantage to having both an undergraduate and a graduate degree from an elite institution generally greatly exceeds any likely cost advantage from attending a less prestigious undergraduate institution."
D61|Heterogeneous Impatience of Individual Consumers and Decreasing Impatience of the Representative Consumer|In a continuous-time equilibrium model of heterogeneous consumers, we formulate and prove the statement that the more heterogeneous the consumers are in their impatience, the more dynamically consistent the representative consumer is. We apply this result to interest rate models, and, in particular, accommodate heterogeneous impatience in the model of Cox, Ingersoll, and Ross (1985) to come up with a new form of short-rate processes.
D61|flexpaneldid: A Stata command for causal analysis with varying treatment time and duration|The paper presents a modification of the matching and difference-in-differences approach of Heckman et al. (1998) and its Stata implementation, the command flexpaneldid. The approach is particularly useful for causal analysis of treatments with varying start dates and varying treatment durations (like investment grants or other subsidy schemes). Introducing more flexibility enables the user to consider individual treatment and outcome periods for the treated observations. The flexpaneldid command for panel data implements the developed flexible difference-in-differences approach and commonly used alternatives like CEM Matching and difference-in-differences models. The novelty of this tool is an extensive data preprocessing to include time information into the matching approach and the treatment effect estimation. The core of the paper gives two comprehensive examples to explain the use of flexpaneldid and its options on the basis of a publicly accessible data set.
D61|Leisure time and labor productivity: A new economic view rooted from sociological perspective|Most economists measure labor productivity based on activities conducted at places of work and do not consider leisure time in their calculations. In contrast, psychologists and sociologists argue that leisure has a positive role in the production process: leisure can improve individuals' labor productivity by affecting their self-development. Using empirical data from 21 OECD countries, this study finds that leisure time has a dual effect on labor productivity in terms of per capita per hour GDP. Moreover, leisure time is nonlinearly associated with labor productivity (inverted U-shaped). When leisure time reaches the optimal level (5813 hours), leisure has a compensatory effect on work and can positively influence labor productivity, but when leisure time exceeds the optimal value, leisure has a substitution effect on work and can negatively influence labor productivity.
D61|Stochastic frontier analysis in higher education: A systematic review|This paper provides a systematic review of the literature that employs stochastic frontier analysis to measure the efficiency of higher education institutions. The overview opens with a look at the general development of the literature, before emphasis is laid on the methodical aspects. Focus is thereby placed on the necessary underlying assumptions and the employed specifications, discussing their advantages and drawbacks. Afterwards, the factors that were specified in the literature, including the input and output variables, as well as the determinants of efficiency, are discussed in detail. Based on the insights of the literature review, the paper highlights some of the existing deficiencies and ways forward. To our knowledge, the present study provides the first systematic review on the usage of the stochastic frontier analysis to measure efficiency in the higher education sector.
D61|Competitive screening and information transmission|"We consider a simple model of the competitive screening of students by schools and colleges. Students apply to schools which then perform costly screening procedures of the applicants to select those with high ability. Students who receive more than one offer may choose among those. Colleges select students and can observe the school which they attended. We show a channel through which students' preferences affect schools' screening decisions and outcomes: as schools increase the screening for high-ability students, a greater proportion of them is identified as such by multiple schools and are able to select one among them to attend. Schools' marginal gains from screening therefore depend on other schools' screenings and students' preferences. By focusing on the schools' screening choices (instead of the students' application decisions), we show how the competition for students between schools and colleges affect outcomes and students' welfare. We also show that, simply by observing which school a candidate attended, colleges can ""free-ride"" on the information produced by a fierce competition between schools for those students. Finally, we show that although colleges make full use of the information contained in the school a student attended, the extent to which students can improve the college that they are matched to by going to a (less desired) high-ranked school is fairly limited."
D61|Estimating the benefits of R&D subsidies for Germany|In Germany, R&D subsidies are an important tool to support innovation in the private sector. This paper studies the welfare effects of R&D subsidies distributed through the German federal government's thematic R&D programs between 1994 and 2011. The analysis is based on a structural model of the R&D subsidy process which allows to estimate the benefits of R&D subsides to the German economy. The model takes into account heterogeneous application costs of firms and identifies the effect of the subsidy on the federal government's utility as well as on firm profits. Assuming a welfare-maximizing federal government, the estimated average social rate of return is 34% for Germany in the period 1994 to 2011. Thereby effects on firm profits are similar to effects on spillovers to the rest of the German economy. Besides results show that the subsidy rate decision in Germany remained remarkably stable over time, and that application costs as well as the marginal profitability of subsidized R&D projects are lower after the year 2000 compared to the years before.
D61|Super-efficiency of education institutions: an application to economics departments|This paper investigates the efficiency of 188 economics departments around the world using data from RePEc. We go beyond the heavily used data envelopment analysis and utilize partial frontier analysis – specifically order-α and order-m – which addresses some of the drawbacks of the standard efficiency frontier analysis and allows for so-called super-efficient departments. We examine the particularities of these approaches and find that the super-efficient departments are not only the ‘usual suspects’. Furthermore, standard output rankings are not well correlated with our estimated efficiency rankings, which themselves are rather similar.
D61|Super-efficiency of education institutions: an application to economics departments| This paper investigates the efficiency of 188 economics departments around the world using data from RePEc. We go beyond the heavily used data envelopment analysis and utilize partial frontier analysis – specifically order-α and order-m – which addresses some of the drawbacks of the standard efficiency frontier analysis and allows for so-called super-efficient departments. We examine the particularities of these approaches and find that the super-efficient departments are not only the ‘usual suspects’. Furthermore, standard output rankings are not well correlated with our estimated efficiency rankings, which themselves are rather similar.
D61|The Welfare Implications of the European Trucks Cartel|We present a pragmatic approach to calculating the total economic loss induced by a cartel, focusing on the European trucks cartel (1997-2011). Overall, we estimate a net welfare loss up to € 15.5 bn. and an overcharge to the amount of 7.6%. Our approach builds on the theory of monopoly pricing and uses the publicly available profit data of the infringing companies. It is comprehensible, transparent, and applicable to collusion on list prices, what makes it particularly relevant for both policymakers and practitioners.
D61|Reconciling Emissions Trading and the Promotion of Renewable Energy|The EU emissions trading system (ETS) and the promotion of renewable energy are overlapping regulations. Although the resulting early development of renewables is associated with several advantages such an overlap may violate the path of optimal abatement. Subsidies may cause a too high share of renewables in electricity generation. This results in additional expenses and efficiency losses. We develop a control mechanism serving as thumb rule to limit additional expenses. Under optimal implementation the rule signicantly restricts additional expenses to a maximum of about 4 % of total abatement costs in worst case. This result holds for marginal abatement costs (MAC) approximated by any conical combination of weak convex power functions. This means high exibility of MAC leading to high validity of the results. Consequences of a non-optimal implementation of the mechanism are examined as well. An empirical application to German data shows that the promotion of renewable energy has not yet violated the path of optimal abatement. However, data is restricted because the ETS has not induced an additional emission reduction since 2010.
D61|Should Governments Fund Basic Science? Evidence from a Willingness-to-pay Experiment in Five Universities|Tax-payers are usually the ultimate funders of large-scale research infrastructures (RIs), but the expected discoveries of such projects often do not have any known use-value. By interviewing 1,022 undergraduates, we study the drivers of preferences for paying for basic research, which are still little known. We focus on the LHC at CERN, where the Higgs boson was discovered. Income, awareness, and positive attitudes towards science drive a positive willingness-to-pay for science. Students in social sciences and the humanities are willing to contribute to scientific curricula at least as much as their peers. Findings offer support to government funding of basic research as a public good.
D61|Bank Leverage, Welfare, and Regulation|We take issue with claims that the funding mix of banks, which makes them fragile and crisis-prone, is efficient because it reflects special liquidity benefits of bank debt. Even aside from neglecting the systemic damage to the economy that banks’ distress and default cause, such claims are invalid because banks have multiple small creditors and are unable to commit effectively to their overall funding mix and investment strategy ex ante. The resulting market outcomes under laissez-faire are inefficient and involve excessive borrowing, with default risks that jeopardize the purported liquidity benefits. Contrary to claims in the literature that “equity is expensive” and that regulation requiring more equity in the funding mix entails costs to society, such regulation actually helps create useful commitment for banks to avoid the inefficiently high borrowing that comes under laissez-faire. Effective regulation is beneficial even without considering systemic risk; if such regulation also reduces systemic risk, the benefits are even larger.
D61|Evidence-based policymaking: promise, challenges and opportunities for accounting and financial markets research| The use of evidence and economic analysis in policymaking is on the rise, and accounting standard setting and financial regulation are no exception. This article discusses the promise of evidence-based policymaking in accounting and financial markets as well as the challenges and opportunities for research supporting this endeavour. In principle, using sound theory and robust empirical evidence should lead to better policies and regulations. But despite its obvious appeal and substantial promise, evidence-based policymaking is easier demanded than done. It faces many challenges related to the difficulty of providing relevant causal evidence, lack of data, the reliability of published research and the transmission of research findings. Overcoming these challenges requires substantial infrastructure investments for generating and disseminating relevant research. To illustrate this point, I draw parallels to the rise of evidence-based medicine. The article provides several concrete suggestions for the research process and the aggregation of research findings if scientific evidence is to inform policymaking. I discuss how policymakers can foster and support policy-relevant research, chiefly by providing and generating data. The article also points to potential pitfalls when research becomes increasingly policy-oriented.
D61|Government Decentralization Under Changing State Capacity: Experimental Evidence From Paraguay|Standard models of hierarchy assume that agents and middle managers are better informed than principals about how to implement a particular task. We estimate the value of the informational advantage held by supervisors – middle managers – when ministerial leadership – the principal – introduced a new monitoring technology aimed at improving the performance of agricultural extension agents (AEAs) in rural Paraguay. Our approach employs a novel experimental design that elicited treatment-priority rankings from supervisors before randomization of treatment. We find that supervisors did have valuable information—they prioritized AEAs who would be more responsive to the monitoring treatment. We develop a model of monitoring under different allocation rules and roll-out scales (i.e., the share of AEAs to receive treatment). We semi-parametrically estimate marginal treatment effects (MTEs) to demonstrate that the value of information and the benefits to decentralizing treatment decisions depend crucially on the sophistication of the principal and on the scale of roll-out.
D61|Policy Experimentation, Redistribution and Voting Rules|We study conditions under which optimal policy experimentation can be implemented by a committee. We consider a dynamic bargaining game in which, each period, committee members choose to implement a risky reform or implement a policy with known returns. We first show that when no redistribution is allowed the unique equilibrium outcome is generically inefficient. When committee members are allowed to redistribute resources (even arbitrarily small amounts), there always exists an equilibrium that supports optimal experimentation for any non-collegial voting rule. With collegial voting rules, however, optimal policy experimentation is possible only with a sufficient amount of redistribution. We conclude that veto rights, not constraints on redistribution, constitute the main obstacle to optimal policy experimentation.
D61|Inequality and Market Concentration, when Shareholding is more Skewed than Consumption|Economic theory suggests that monopoly prices hurt consumers but benefit shareholders. But in a world where individuals or households can be both consumers and shareholders, the impact of market power on inequality depends in part on the relative distribution of consumption and corporate equity ownership across individuals or households. The paper calculates this distribution for the United States, using data from the Survey of Consumer Finances and the Consumer Expenditure Survey, spanning nearly three decades from 1989 to 2016. In 2016, the top 20 percent consumed approximately as much as the bottom 60 percent, but had 13 times as much corporate equity. Because ownership is more skewed than consumption, increased mark-ups increase inequality. Moreover, over time, corporate equity has become even more skewed relative to consumption.
D61|Discounting for Public Cost-Benefit Analysis|Standard U.S. practice for public cost-benefit analysis is to bound the discount rate with the interest rate paid by capital investment and rate received by consumers. These bounding cases arise when future benefits accrue to consumers in either a two-period model or as a perpetuity. We generalize to consider benefits paid in any future period. We find that the appropriate discount rate converges to the consumption rate for benefits in the distant future. More generally, the range of rates depends on the temporal pattern. Applied to CO2 damages, we estimate the appropriate discount rates of between 2.6 and 3.4 percent.
D61|Preterm Birth and Economic Benefits of Reduced Maternal Exposure to Fine Particulate Matter|Preterm birth (PTB) is a predictor of infant mortality and later-life morbidity. Despite recent declines, PTB rates remain high in the United States. Growing research suggests a relationship between a mother’s exposure to air pollution and PTB of her baby. Many policy actions to reduce exposure to common air pollutants require benefit-cost analysis (BCA), and it’s possible that PTB will need to be included in BCA in the future. However, an estimate of the willingness to pay (WTP) to avoid PTB risk is not available, and a comprehensive alternative valuation of the health benefits of reducing pollutant-related PTB currently does not exist. This paper demonstrates a potential approach to assess economic benefits of reducing PTB resulting from environmental exposures when an estimate of WTP to avoid PTB risk is unavailable. We utilized a recent meta-analysis and county-level air quality and PTB data to estimate the potential health and economic benefits of a reduction in air pollution-related PTB, with fine particulate matter (PM2.5) as our case study pollutant. Using this method, a simulated 10% decrease from 2008 PM2.5 levels resulted in a reduction of 5,016 PTBs and savings of at least $339 million, potentially reaching over one billion dollars when considering later-life effects of PTB.
D61|An Applied General Equilibrium Model for the Analysis of Environmental Policy: SAGE v1.0 Technical Documentation|SAGE is an applied general equilibrium model of the United States economy developed for the analysis of environmental regulations and policies. It is an intertemporal model with perfect foresight, resolved at the sub-national level. Each of the nine regions in the model, representing the nine census divisions,has five households based on income quintiles. A single government agent levies taxes on labor earnings, capital earnings, production, and consumption. As with many applied general equilibrium models used for the analysis of U.S. environmental and energy policies, the baseline is calibrated to the Energy Information Administration's Annual Energy Outlook. The model is solved as mixed complementarity problem (MCP) using the General Algebraic Modeling System (GAMS).
D61|Intuitive Solutions in Game Representations: The Shapley Value Revisited|We show that any transferable utility game can be represented by an assignment of facilities to players, in which it is intuitively obvious how to allocate the total cost of the facilities. The intuitive solution in the representation turns out to be the Shapley value of the game, and thus serves as an alternative justification of the value.
D61|Societal benefits and costs of International Investment Agreements: A critical review of aspects and available empirical evidence|This paper reviews alleged societal benefits and costs of International Investment Agreements (IIAs) as suggested by academia, governments, business and civil society. It sets out the wide range of issues that diverse actors have proposed in the context of assessing the societal benefits and costs of IIAs. The paper analyses and organises the available material generated by these sources to identify and classify the many different issues, summarises available empirical evidence and findings in these sources on the individual aspects, and assesses strengths and weaknesses of the approaches. The paper focuses in particular on the investor protection component of IIAs. The inventory finds that for many claims about the positive or negative impact of IIAs, little robust evidence has been generated to date. The paper highlights methodological challenges and suggests areas where further study would be required to draw firmer conclusions.
D61|Economic assessment and valuations of environmental and health impacts caused by Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and its salts|Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) is being used in fluoropolymer production, as surface treatment agents and for the manufacture of side-chain fluorinated polymers. However, there is evidence that PFOA and its salts have a number of hazardous properties that may cause harm to human health and the environment. This report evaluates existing economic assessments and valuations of impacts arising from PFOA and its salts.
D61|Assessing the economic valuation of the benefits of regulating chemicals: Lessons learned from five case studies|This paper reviews and compares five case studies on quantification and economic valuation of benefits in cost-benefit analyses (CBAs) of regulating phthalates, mercury, PFOA (perfluoro-octanic acid) and its salts, NMP (1 methyl-2-pyrroloidine) and formaldehyde. The case studies had all been carried out as part of the SACAME project, and the purpose of the present paper is to draw out cross-cutting findings from these studies.
D61|Evaluating the effectiveness of policy instruments for biodiversity: Impact evaluation, cost-effectiveness analysis and other approaches|This report provides an overview of methodologies to evaluate the effectiveness of policy instruments for biodiversity, covering impact evaluation, cost-effectiveness analysis and other more commonly used approaches. It then provides an inventory of biodiversity-relevant impact evaluation studies, across both terrestrial and marine ecosystems. The report concludes with lessons learned, policy insights and suggestions for further work.
D61|Endogenous Sunk Cost, Scale Economies, and Market Concentration|This paper offers a theoretical explanation of the recent sales concentration in the U.S. economy. The model is based on in-house R&D, which is involved in scale economies. An R&D subsidy helps the expansion of larger firms and allows them to take higher markups. Thus, it induces a concentrated market structure.
D61|Optimal fiscal equalisation and its application to Australia: updated|The first part of this paper develops a theoretical model of fiscal equalisation to derive an optimal equalisation formula that has general applicability for federations. If vertical equity is achieved by the central government and horizontal equity by interstate migration, the welfare-maximising role of fiscal equalisation is to support an efficient distribution of different labour types across states. The theoretical model further develops work by Boadway and Flatters and by Albouy with some Australian-oriented extensions. Under optimal equalisation, full equalisation is applied when a state government achieves a fiscal advantage by using source-based taxes to raise revenue from non-residents (e.g. mining royalties) or from spreading its fixed costs over a large population. However, efficiency also dictates that equalisation is limited to fiscal advantages arising from differences in state population composition when applied to revenue raised from residents (e.g. via labour or consumption taxes) or to the variable costs of government. Simplifying assumptions are discussed. The second part of this paper applies the optimal equalisation approach to Australia using, as a base, the Commonwealth Grants Commission (CGC) assessments for 2017/18 and 2018/19. 2016 Census data is used to measure the impact of each state’s population composition on its ability to raise revenue from residence-based taxes for use in applying limited equalisation. The gain in consumer welfare of moving from the current Australian full equalisation system to optimal equalisation is estimated. Policy alternatives that are found to be inferior to the current full equalisation system include no equalisation, half-equalisation and the donor relief equalisation schemes recently recommended by the Australian Productivity Commission.
D61|A second welfare theorem in a non-convex economy: The case of antichain-convexity|We introduce the notion of an antichain-convex set to extend Debreu (1954)’s version of the second welfare theorem to economies where either the aggregate production set or preference relations are not convex. We show that – possibly after some redistribution of individuals’ wealth – the Pareto optima of some economies which are marked by certain types of non-convexities can be spontaneously obtained as valuation quasiequilibria and equilibria: both equilibrium notions are to be understood in Debreu (1954)’s sense. From a purely structural point of view, the mathematical contribution of this work is the study of the conditions that guarantee the convexity of the Minkowski sum of finitely many possibly non-convex sets. Such a study allows us to obtain a version of the Minkowski\Hahn–Banach separation theorem which dispenses with the convexity of the sets to be separated and which can be naturally applied in standard proofs of the second welfare theorem; in addition – and equally importantly – the study allows to get a deeper understanding of the conditions on the single production sets of an economy that guarantee the convexity of their aggregate.
D61|Co-investments and African infrastructure deficit: Understanding and mitigating political risks in Conflicts Affected and Fragile States|This article through a qualitative assessment identifies political risks confronted by FDI in infrastructures project in African Conflicts Affected and Fragile (CAF) States and studies the structure for infrastructures financing which allows lessening political risks. Outside hydrocarbon sector which remains attractive even in a worse political context, African CAF regions infrastructures sector as other sectors remain unattractive to foreign investors. By considering global investors’ weak preferences for CAF countries infrastructures assets, due to high levels of political risks, we argue that: to fill the CAF States’ infrastructure gap and addressing at the same time political risks concern, an optimal solution is located in a strategic tricky balance between African SWFs as kick-started, Multi-Development Banks (MDBs) (like MIGA agency under the World Bank Group) and long-term institutional investors like foreign SWFs. In the initial phase, MDBs with both their flexibility and experience ought to help finance the riskiest phases of infrastructure projects after African SWFs have to identified bankable projects. In the second period, MDBs ought to disengage and transfer their mature green infrastructure projects to secure the path for a workable involvement of long-term institutional investors such as sovereign wealth funds. With the aim to foster a vast African infrastructure bonds’ markets in which the African CAF States could play a pivotal role, strengthening rules of law (regulatory and legal frames) should begin straightaway
D61|Re examination of Kinked Demand Oligopoly Market: Theory, Evidence and Policy Implications from Lakshadweep|There are number of markets discussed in the economic theory seems only as imaginative and lacks proper investigation on the existence in the real world situation and their validity. The kinked demand curve hypothesis is a famous one among them which is under crux among the economic researcher. In the past few decades the existence of this market in the real world economies and its impact is continue to be a puzzle and a very few attempts were made in this areas with a few oscillating conclusions. With this backdrop this attempt is made to fill this gap in economics literature of re examining the existence and the impact of the kinked demand theory hypothesis with a special reference to Lakshadweep islands of India.
D61|Why expected discount factors yield incorrect expected present values|Compound and discount factors determine the relationship between present and future values. When interest rates are stochastic, expected compound factors are computed by probability weighting all possible compound factors. It is customary to proceed likewise to compute expected discount factors. It has been noted that risk neutral certainty equivalent interest rates differ when computed from expected compound or expected discount factors, yielding alternative project rankings. This paper shows that expected discount factors yield incorrect expected present values because, unlike in the deterministic case, they are not the reciprocals of the corresponding expected compound factors.
D61|Cost-Benefit Analysis of Zimbabwe’s Livestock Development Program for the Reduction of Rural Poverty and Increasing of Income and Food Security on Beef, Dairy by Improving Hygiene in their Nutritional Practices and Building of Capacity|The Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA) conducted in this program was aimed at reducing rural poverty and that will increase the incomes and food security looking at the value chain on beef and dairy for farmers producing in small scale and also to improve their hygiene and nutritional practices and building the capacity that will enhance agricultural development. The results of the cost- benefit analysis (CBA). It shows that annual income for beef cattle farmers would increase by USD419. The financial returns are driven by the significant increase in the costs associated with adopting Good Animal Husbandry Practices (GAHPs). The Veterinary Costs will increase by 475% while feeding and labor costs increased by an estimated to be 169% and 148% respectively. There also will be an increase in employment as a result of the increase in labour cost in the Value Chain.
D61|Cost Effective Analysis of Interventions in Nigeria to Provide Access to Potable Water, Sanitation Services and to Promote Exclusive Breast Feeding Practices|The objective of the program being analyzed is to promote optimal nutrition of infants, provide water and sanitation access, and improve hygiene practices. This cost effectiveness analysis undertaken here, demonstrates that there is a substantial financial and economic gain from investing in integrated interventions that improve water and sanitation services as well as promote child health and nutrition through exclusive breastfeeding for infants under six months. The expected incremental health benefits far outweigh the incremental costs of investing in these interventions. The impact of this project has been substantial as demonstrated by the result of the cost effectiveness analysis. Disclaimer The contents of this report are the sole responsibility of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of USAID or the United States Government. bank which is likely to gather the NPLs of the banks but rather a reconstruction and development financing institution which can provide solutions and spin back into the economy economically viable projects.
D61|Socialising the losses and privatising the gains The case of Cyprus five years after the bail-in of bank deposits|Private sector indebtedness in Cyprus remains extremely high. Yet the Government and the banks in Cyprus continue to define the problem as being the non-performing loans (NPLs) and the proposed solution as being any tools and legislation which will improve repayment but also enable the banks to take these off their balance sheets. It is argued that reducing the NPLs in this manner is treating a symptom of the disease. Such sale of loans will not reduce the private debt which is the real problem of the Cyprus economy. On the contrary, it is likely to make private indebtedness a lot worse as the allowed provisions that the banks have been making will be used as discounts to entice the funds and other “investors” to buy them. This is likely to throw the country into a balance sheet recession. This means that because of the excessive and quite unprecedented levels of private debt (3 to 4 times the size of the country’s GDP) weighing on households and corporations alike, it is practically impossible for the country to overcome the recessionary effects of the austerity and forced repayment conditions that would be imposed through the adoption of such myopic and one sided Government policy. The article concludes that the government should not create a bad bank for the NPLs of the banks but rather should establish a reconstruction and development financing institution that will be able to provide solutions and spin back into the economy economically viable projects.
D61|Cost Benefit Analysis of Agricultural Interventions to Enhance the Production of Cowpea, Groundnuts, Maize and Soybeans Value Chains in Nigeria|This report presents the results of the cost-benefit analysis (CBA) of a series of agriculture production and productivity enhancing interventions in Nigeria. More than 20,000 impoverished farmers have received assistance under this program. A CBA was undertaken to assess the financial and economic benefits of adopting best agricultural practices by these farmers in growing crops. While these interventions do improve the households’ incomes across all VCs, the assistance alone will not allow the households to move above the poverty line threshold. Households need to rely on other economic activities, including livestock husbandry, or non-farm employment to graduate from extreme poverty. Acknowledgements This analysis was completed through the financial support of USAID’ through their “Learning, Evaluation, and Analysis Project (LEAP II). And its contract with the International Development Group. Contract Number: AID-OAA-I-12-00042/AID-OAA-TO-14-00046. The assistance of Abdoul Murekezi, during the completion of this report is greatly appreciated.
D61|Estimation of Households’ and Businesses’ Willingness to Pay for Improved Reliability of Electricity Supply in Nepal|For the decade prior to 2016 Nepal suffered from the worst electricity shortages in South Asia. During this period load shedding occurred for up to 18 hours a day when hydropower generation is low. This research uses parametric and non-parametric models to estimate households’ and businesses’ willingness to pay (WTP) for improved reliability of electricity services in Nepal. A contingent valuation (CV) survey was completed by 1,800 households and 590 businesses. The parametric models are estimated using Logit regressions. The median, Turnbull and the Kriström mean estimation approach were used for the non-parametric estimations. Both households and businesses are willing to pay more to get from a 50% reduction to a complete elimination of outages than they are willing to pay to get from their current situation to a 50% reduction in outages. This difference in the estimates of the WTP for these two options is even more important in the case of businesses than for households. It is estimated that the annual benefit in 2017 from improving the reliability of the electricity service would be approximately US$324 million with a present value over 20 years of between US$2 and 3.8 billion.
D61|Evaluation of the Economic Performance of Hydropower Developments Supported by the World Bank Group 1975 to 2015|One solution to the global energy challenge is the intensification of investment in hydropower projects that provide clean, reliable and affordable energy (IEA, 2012). Advocates of hydropower projects site their numerous benefits such as reduction in fossil fuel consumption, provision for water for irrigation and other uses, flood control and inland water transport. However, a common challenge often faced by hydropower projects is the issue of cost and time overruns. This study builds on the earlier work of Awojobi and Jenkins (2015) which examined the net economic benefits of 58 WBG financed hydropower projects between 1975 and 2005. It is thus important to evaluate the net benefits attached to hydropower projects constructed post-2005. This study extends the sample size by 10 more to cover 68 WBG financed hydropower projects and re-computes the results for the previous 58 hydro dams using a consistent set of data and assumptions. This extended sample will enable one to evaluate changes that might have taken place in project design and appraisal over time.
D61|Cost- Benefit Analysis of Zimbabwe for a Sustainable Poverty Reduction and Improvement of Food, Security, Nutrition and Hygiene Practices|The primary objective of this project is to enhance a sustainable reduction of rural poverty, and to improve the food security, nutrition, and hygiene of households on irrigation schemes and dry land sites. Trainings were provided for farmers to increase agricultural productivity to increase the volume of marketed surplus of cash and food crops, and improve the nutrition and hygiene of beneficiary households. The project concentrated on maize, groundnuts, green mealies, and tomatoes value chains. The CBA of these four crops cover two high- value crops of green mealies and tomatoes; and two staple food crops of maize and groundnuts. The project targeted doubling crops yields of horticultural produce.
D61|Integrated Investment Appraisal of a 400 Bed Hospital Project in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq Using FAST Modeling Standards|In undertaking this investigation, the aim was to improve economic and social development in the region by providing a financial, economic and risk analysis of a 400-bed hospital project development by the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG). The provision of healthcare services is one of the top priorities of the government. People living in this region have insufficient access to advanced healthcare services. This study is based on cost-effectiveness analyses employing the integrated investment appraisal technique. The strategy employed in this study is to move towards a more effective and better projection by carrying out the modeling of expected future healthcare service demands. This work focuses on a variety of internal and global policy areas such as financing, the fees charged by different earners and quality-adjusted life years. The conclusions should be of interest to those planning hospital projects in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq and guiding the Ministries of Planning and Health to develop targeted solutions to the critical issues faced by the KRG. The study was conducted from May 2017 through May 2018. The necessary data for this investigation was obtained from the Ministry of Health Kurdistan-Iraq, the KRG Statistics Office and the Galala Construction Contracting Holding Ltd.
D61|Introducing Severance Payment Systems in Japan ——A Proposal for Vacancy Decontrol——| In Japan, the court requires job restoration rather than a severance payment from a firm after it decides that a dismissal has been abusive. This results in a high settlement cost for termination. This paper makes two proposals for introducing severance payments to reduce settlement costs in Japan. The first applies to existing contracts and proposes to specify levels of severance payments that would replace the current job restoration requirement after the court determines that a case is abusive. The second applies to new employees either for a recently vacated position or a new position and proposes vacancy decontrol, which allows firms to set the levels of severance payments freely while also honoring the existing contracts. Within this category, this paper proposes government-assisted vacancy decontrol, a transitional measure, where the government sets a minimum level of statutory severance payment, which is equal to six months of wages for a worker who has worked for 20 years, following the Taiwan precedent. After the need for the transitional measure is dissolved, complete vacancy decontrol should be introduced, abolishing the statutory severance payment. We have proposed that even at this stage, the government should publicly set a default level of the severance payment, which a firm should observe unless an explicit agreement or contract stipulates otherwise. The government should immediately introduce some form of vacancy decontrol for senior workers who have already retired from a regular job.
D61|Welfare effects of an in-kind transfer program: evidence from Mexico|This paper shows how a theory-consistent demand system can be used to quantify recipient welfare under in-kind and cash transfers. Since welfare under an in-kind subsidy depends on the extent to which the transfer is extra-marginal, I compute the shadow prices at which a recipient would be as well off as with the in-kind transfer. Shadow prices are then used to compute the distribution of the willingness to pay for in-kind benefits among beneficiaries. As an application of this approach, I study the welfare effects of a governmental program which randomly transferred either a food basket or cash to poor households in rural Mexico. Results suggest that on average a recipient values the in-kind transfer at 80 percent of its face value. Despite the welfare loss, the in-kind transfer is more cost-efficient than cash. This is due to the fact that the food basket was significantly more expensive at the retail level than at the procurement level, which implies that a cash transfer of the same cost to the government could only buy a fraction of the food basket in recipient’s local markets. Because the food basket is mainly formed of normal goods, I also find that the willingness to pay is larger among recipients at the top of the income distribution, suggesting a regressive effect of the in-kind transfer.
D61|Unintended consequences: The snowball effect of energy communities|Following the development of decentralized generation and smart appliances, energy communities have become a phenomenon of increased interest. While the benefits of such communities have been discussed, there is increasing concern that inadequate grid tariffs may lead to excess adoption of such business models. Furthermore, snowball effects may be observed following the effects these communities have on grid tariffs. We show that restraining the study to a simple cost-benefit analysis is far from satisfactory. Therefore, we use the framework of cooperative game theory to take account of the ability of communities to share gains between members. The interaction between energy communities and the DSO then results in a non-cooperative equilibrium. We provide mathematical formulations and intuitions of such effects, and carry out realistic numerical applications where communities can invest jointly in solar panels and batteries. We show that such a snowball effect may be observed, but its magnitude and its welfare effects will depend on the grid tariff structure that is implemented, leading to possible PV over-investments.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D61|Missing money, missing policy and Resource Adequacy in Australia's National Electricity Market|From 2012 to 2017, 5000 MW of coal plant exited Australia's National Electricity Market (NEM) with an average notice period of just 5.2 months. Exit at-scale peaked just as imbalances in the market for natural gas emerged along with Renewable Energy entry lags due to policy discontinuity. By 2016–2017, the culmination of events produced more than 20 Lack of Reserve notices, two blackouts including a black system event, and forward prices at record levels. These conditions are traced to policy decisions a decade earlier. Lessons for other energy markets undergoing transformation include transparency over exit decisions, policy stability and limits to gas export capacity.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D61|On entry cost dynamics in Australia's National Electricity Market|In theory, well designed electricity markets should deliver an efficient mix of technologies at least-cost. But energy market theories and energy market modelling are based upon equilibrium analysis and in practice electricity markets can be off-equilibrium for extended periods. Near-term spot and forward contract prices can and do fall well below, or substantially exceed, relevant entry cost benchmarks and associated long run equilibrium prices. However, given sufficient time higher prices, on average or during certain periods, create incentives for new entrant plant which in turn has the effect of capping longer-dated average spot price expectations at the estimated cost of the relevant new entrant technologies. In this article, we trace generalised new entrant benchmarks and their relationship to spot price outcomes in Australia’s National Electricity Market over the 20-year period to 2018; from coal, to gas and more recently to variable renewables plus firming, notionally provided by – or shadow priced at – the carrying cost of an Open Cycle Gas Turbine. This latest entry benchmark relies implicitly, but critically, on the gains from exchange in organised spot markets, using existing spare capacity. As aging coal plant exit, gains from exchange may gradually diminish with ‘notional firming’ increasingly and necessarily being met by physical firming. At this point, the benchmark must once again move to a new technology set.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D61|Uncertain Length of Life, Retirement Age, and Optimal Pension Design|In this paper, we consider how the hours of work and retirement age ought to respond to a change in the uncertainty of the length of life. In a first best framework, where a benevolent government exercises perfect control over the individuals’ labor supply and retirement-decisions, the results show that a decrease in the standard deviation of life-length leads to an increase in the optimal retirement age and a decrease in the hours of work per period spent working. This result is robust, and is also derived in models of decentralized decision-making where individuals decide on their own consumption, labor supply, and retirement age, and where the government attempts to affect their behavior and welfare through redistribution and pension policy.
D61|How to Measure Research Efficiency in Higher Education? Research Grants vs. Publication Output|An ongoing debate in the literature on efficiency of higher education institutions concerns the indicator for research output in the empirical analysis. While several studies chose to use the number of publications, others rely on the overall amount of research grants. The present study investigates whether both lead to similar or different assessments of universities. Besides the amount of research grants and the absolute number of publications, the number of publications belonging to the 10% and 1% most frequently cited papers in the corresponding subject category and publication year are evaluated. We show that there is a high correlation of efficiency values between the estimations using these indicators; however, the concordance is partly lower. The results do not only provide a helpful guideline for researchers, but are also valuable for policy makers deciding which incentives to create through funding.
D61|Inequality and Market Concentration, When Shareholding is More Skewed than Consumption|Economic theory suggests that monopoly prices hurt consumers but benefit shareholders. But in a world where individuals or households can be both consumers and shareholders, the impact of market power on inequality depends in part on the relative distribution of consumption and corporate equity ownership across individuals or households. The paper calculates this distribution for the United States, using data from the Survey of Consumer Finances and the Consumer Expenditure Survey, spanning nearly three decades from 1989 to 2016. In 2016, the top 20 percent consumed approximately as much as the bottom 60 percent, but had 13 times as much corporate equity. Because ownership is more skewed than consumption, increased mark-ups increase inequality. Moreover, over time, corporate equity has become even more skewed relative to consumption.
D61|Wie effizient forschen Universitäten in Deutschland, deren Zukunftskonzepte im Rahmen der Exzellenzinitiative ausgezeichnet wurden?|In der vorliegenden Studie haben wir eine Effizienzanalyse von Universitäten in Deutschland vorgenommen, deren Zukunftskonzepte im Rahmen der Exzellenzinitiative ausgezeichnet wurden: RWTH Aachen, FU Berlin, HU Berlin, Uni Bremen, TU Dresden, Uni Freiburg, Uni Göttingen, Uni Heidelberg, Karlsruher Institut für Technologie (KIT), Uni Köln, Uni Konstanz, LMU München, TU München und Uni Tübingen. Für die Analyse wurden die Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) sowie die neuere und robustere Partial Frontier Analysis (PFA) verwendet. Als Input-Variablen haben wir die Ausgaben der Universitäten und die Anzahl der wissenschaftlichen Mitarbeiter/ innen verwendet; die Output-Variablen wurden durch die Anzahl der (hochzitierten) Publikationen sowie die Absolventen/-innen abgebildet. Die Ergebnisse der DEA zeigen, dass nahezu alle Universitäten entweder effizient oder sehr nah an der Effizienzlinie operieren. Die Ergebnisse der PFA deuten darauf hin, dass es keine super- effizienten Universitäten gibt. Insgesamt gesehen weisen die Ergebnisse auf ein homogenes Bild der in der Exzellenzinitiative ausgezeichneten Universitäten hin.
D61|How efficiently produce elite US universities highly cited papers? A case study based on input and output data|While output and impact assessments were initially at the forefront of institutional research evaluations, efficiency measurements have become popular in recent years. Research efficiency is measured by indicators that relate research output to input. The additional consideration of research input in research evaluation is obvious, since the output should be related to the input. The present study is based on a comprehensive dataset with input- and output-data for 50 US universities. As input, we used the amount of budget, and as output the number of highly-cited papers. We employed Data Efficiency Analysis (DEA), Free Disposal Hull (FDH), and two more robust models: the order-m and order-α approach. The results of the DEA and FDH analysis show that Harvard University and Rice University can be called especially efficient compared to the other universities. While the strength of Harvard University lies in its high output of highly-cited papers, the strength of Rice University is its small input. In the order-α and order-m frameworks, Harvard University remains efficient, but Rice University becomes super-efficient. We produced university rankings based on adjusted efficiency scores (subsequent to regression analyses), in which single covariates (e.g. the disciplinary profile) are held constant.
D61|The Completion Shift of German Universities of Applied Sciences|In research on higher education, the evaluation of completion and drop-out rates has generated a steady stream of interest for decades. While most studies only calculate quotes using student and graduate numbers for both phenomena, we propose to also consider the budget available to universities. We transfer the idea of the excellence shift from the research (Bornmann et al., 2017) to the teaching area, and particularly to the completion rate of educational entities. The completion shift shows institutions’ ability to produce graduates as measured against their basic academic teaching efficiency, thereby avoiding the well-known heterogeneity problem in efficiency measurement. Their politically determined focus on education makes German universities of applied science the perfect sample for evaluating this novel method. Using a comprehensive dataset covering the years 2008 to 2013, we show that the shift produces results, which correlate considerably with the results of the standard Data Envelopment Approach (DEA). Thus, we recommend the completion shift as an alternative method of efficiency measurement in the teaching area. Compared to DEA, the computation of the shift is easy and the results are understandable to non-economists.
D61|Retos asociados al uso del suelo: El dilema entre conservación y producción en los Bosques Andinos de Robles del Corredor Ecológico Guantiva-La Rusia-Iguaque|Preservar los Bosques Andinos de Robles es de gran importancia dado su valor intrínseco y los servicios ecosistémicos ofrecidos que favorecen el bienestar humano. No obstante, las prácticas de ganadería extensiva en el territorio nacional generan presión sobre su existencia. Aplicando un modelo de optimización dinámica que considera el valor del bosque por diversos servicios ecosistémicos, se busca entender el trade-off entre conservación y ganadería, así como las complejas relaciones entre los hombres y la naturaleza. De acuerdo a los resultados, debería conservarse entre el 62.7% y 99.4% del bosque dependiendo de la magnitud y valores de los parámetros. Finalmente, este documento busca aportar a la discusión sobre recomendaciones de política que favorezcan la conservación de los ecosistemas boscosos.
D61|On the estimation of the price elasticity of electricity demand in the manufacturing industry of Colombia|Abstract: This paper presents an estimation of the reaction of electricity demand to changes in price levels of forward contracts in the manufacturing industry of Colombia. To that end, a structural vector autoregressive (SVAR) model was developed, considering several economic activities at different voltage levels. The industrial sectors under study showed an electricity demand not significantly sensitive to price variations. However, the food and drink sectors, plastic and rubber manufacturing, as well as retail trade turned out to be more sensitive to price shocks than the chemical industry or textile manufacturing. Such inelasticity could be softened if information concerning prices and quantity demanded were of common knowledge, or if the forward curve were observable. Resumen En este artículo se presenta una estimación de la reacción de la demanda a niveles de precios de contratos forward de electricidad en la industria manufacturera de Colombia. Se desarrolló un modelo de vectores autorregresivos estructurales (SVAR) considerando varias actividades económicas a diferentes niveles de tensión. Los sectores industriales bajo estudio no mostraron una demanda de electricidad significativamente sensible a variaciones de precios. Sin embargo, los sectores de alimentos y bebidas, caucho y plástico, así como el sector comercial minorista resultaron ser más sensibles a choques de precios que la industria química o el sector de manufactura de textiles. Dicha inelasticidad podría suavizarse si la información concerniente a precios y cantidades demandadas fuera de conocimiento común, o si la curva forward pudiera ser observable.
D61|On the estimation of the price elasticity of electricity demand in the manufacturing industry of Colombia|This paper presents an estimation of the reaction of electricity demand to changes in price levels of forward contracts in the manufacturing industry of Colombia. To that end, a structural vector autoregressive (SVAR) model was developed, considering several economic activities at different voltage levels. The industrial sectors under study showed an electricity demand not significantly sensitive to price variations. However, the food and drink sectors, plastic and rubber manufacturing, as well as retail trade turned out to be more sensitive to price shocks than the chemical industry or textile manufacturing. Such inelasticity could be softened if information concerning prices and quantity demanded were of common knowledge, or if the forward curve were observable
D61|Una Estimación de la Tasa de Descuento para Proyectos Ambientales|La Tasa Social de Descuento utilizada en la evaluación de proyectos que afectan el medio ambiente y los recursos naturales es un tema crucial en la toma de decisiones económicas y, en particular, en la toma de decisiones de política ambiental. En Colombia se utiliza la misma tasa para el análisis costo-beneficio de proyectos ambientales como de los proyectos de inversión promedio. Eso conlleva a que muchos de los proyectos enmarcados en temas ambientales lleguen a tener retornos negativos al valorar más el consumo presente que futuro. En este trabajo se hace una estimación de una Tasa Social de Descuento que pueda ser utilizada en el análisis costo-beneficio de proyectos ambientales, la cual es de 3,1%, de acuerdo con el enfoque de Ramsey.
D61|Una Estimación de la Tasa de Descuento para Proyectos Ambientales|La Tasa Social de Descuento utilizada en la evaluación de proyectos que afectan el medio ambiente y los recursos naturales es un tema crucial en la toma de decisiones económicas y, en particular, en la toma de decisiones de política ambiental. En Colombia se utiliza la misma tasa para el análisis costo-beneficio de proyectos ambientales como de los proyectos de inversión promedio. Eso conlleva a que muchos de los proyectos enmarcados en temas ambientales lleguen a tener retornos negativos al valorar más el consumo presente que futuro. En este trabajo se hace una estimación de una Tasa Social de Descuento que pueda ser utilizada en el análisis costo-beneficio de proyectos ambientales, la cual es de 3,1%, de acuerdo con el enfoque de Ramsey
D61|Una Estimación de la Tasa de Descuento para Proyectos Ambientales|La Tasa Social de Descuento utilizada en la evaluación de proyectos que afectan el medio ambiente y los recursos naturales es un tema crucial en la toma de decisiones económicas y, en particular, en la toma de decisiones de política ambiental. En Colombia se utiliza la misma tasa para el análisis costo-beneficio de proyectos ambientales como de los proyectos de inversión promedio. Eso conlleva a que muchos de los proyectos enmarcados en temas ambientales lleguen a tener retornos negativos al valorar más el consumo presente que futuro. En este trabajo se hace una estimación de una Tasa Social de Descuento que pueda ser utilizada en el análisis costo-beneficio de proyectos ambientales, la cual es de 3,1%, de acuerdo con el enfoque de Ramsey.
D61|Estudio de comportamientos en Beneficios Económicos Periódicos -BEPS-|Este estudio tiene el objetivo analizar i) la vinculación y la fidelidad a BEPS y ii) los determinantes, motivadores y riesgos (choques) que afectan a i). Con estos insumos, y a partir de Grupos Focales y Entrevistas a Profundidad se analizó el sistema y el entorno en el que se desenvuelven los beneficiarios de BEPS, con base en lo cual se realizaron recomendaciones sobre la vinculación y fidelidad para los Beneficios Económicos Periódicos (BEPS) a cargo de Colpensiones.
D61|Clusters Of International Eq-5d Health-States Valuations|PURPOSE: Countries without EQ-5D general-population surveys might use valuations from another country with similar health valuations. This study aimed to identify whether there are groups of countries with similar health-state valuations. METHODS: A cluster analysis was performed for the 242 states of the EQ-5D valuations for 23 studies in 18 countries, excluding the perfect-health state. Clusters were identified by means of the Ward algorithm with the Euclidean measure and hierarchical clustering. RESULTS: 5 clusters were identified. Valuations are sensitive to the preference elicitation methodology. Some countries in the same cluster have cultural similarities but a particular cluster included otherwise dissimilar countries and methodologies. Using the states associated to diabetes and breast cancer, the choice of cluster is shown to be relevant for cost-utility analysis. CONCLUSIONS: Health-state valuations tend to be clustered in a few groups of countries. The clusters found might be useful for performing cost-utility analysis in countries without such valuations.
D61|Can environmental taxes and payments for ecosystem services regulate pollution when the resilience of water bodies is surpassed?|Resumen: La naturaleza incierta de la propiedad de resiliencia de los cuerpos de agua y los efectos acumulativos de la polución hacen que los instrumentos económicos tradicionales de regulación ambiental no sean suficientes para asegurar la provisión sostenible de agua potable. Los Pagos por servicios ecosistémicos (PSA) no valoran todos los servicios que los ecosistemas proveen y hay incentivos escasos a demandarlos dada su naturaleza de bienes públicos. Se requieren impuestos ambientales más altos que consideren que los cuerpos de agua tienen un nivel muy bajo de capacidad de resiliencia. / Abstract : The uncertain nature of the resilience of water bodies and the cumulative effects of pollution make traditional economic instruments for environmental regulation not enough to ensure the provision of drinking water. Payments for ecosystem services (PES) do not value all the services that ecosystems provide and there are scarce incentives to demand them given its nature of public good. High environmental taxes that consider water bodies to have a very low level of resilience will be required.
D61|Should CBAâ€™s include a correction for the marginal excess burden of taxation?|According to economic theory, taxation drives a wedge between private and public benefits, which distorts labour supply, consumption and investment and leads to loss of welfare. One would therefore expect that in cost-benefit analysis (CBA) of public expenditure a correction is made for the costs of taxation, i.e. for the marginal excess burden of taxation (MEB). However, looking at CBA practice all over the world, textbooks on CBA and various specific CBA guidelines no consensus exists about such a correction. This paper provides for the first time an overview of the theoretical, empirical and practical arguments in favor or against a MEB correction. It argues that in general the best approach for CBAâ€™s is to assume that the MEB is broadly counterbalanced by the benefits of redistribution of these taxes. This assumption is consistent with the preferences for equality in a countryâ€™s current tax system and is a simple, pragmatic and politically neutral assumption. This assumption does not imply that the tax system is optimal or that CBAâ€™s should be distributionally weighted. As a consequence, the preferred approach is to assume in general that the marginal cost of public funds is equal to one and then no correction is needed in CBAs for the MEB. Choosing an alternative source of financing, i.e. other than general tax revenues, should be regarded as a separate policy measure that should be analysed separately in a CBA.
D61|Economic Decision Problems in Multi-Level Flood Prevention: a new graph-based approach used for real world applications|Flood prevention policy is of crucial importance to the Netherlands. We assess economical optimal flood prevention where multiple barrier dams and dikes protect the hinterland against sea level rise and peak river discharges. Current optimal flood prevention methods only consider dike rings with no dependencies between dikes. We propose a graph-based model for a cost-benefit analysis to determine optimal dike heights with multiple dependencies between dikes and barrier dams. Our model provides great flexibility towards the modelling of flood probabilities, damage costs and investments cost. Moreover, our model is easy to implement and can be solved quickly to proven optimality. Our model is developed for and applied to important policy decisions in the Netherlands for the Lake IJssel and Lake Marken region. Two barrier dams together with the dikes surrounding these two lakes protect a large part of the Netherlands. The area contains 17 dike ring areas, including the City of Amsterdam. Our model and application shows the importance of taking into account dependencies between dikes and barrier dams. The results of our model were used for major Dutch flood protection policy decisions, i.e. the decision how to control the water levels in Lake IJssel and Lake Marken and what economic efficient flood protection standards apply to barrier dams and dikes. Dependencies between barrier dams and dike rings have a large impact on economically optimal flood standards. On the basis of our model, the Dutch government has decided not to increase the water level of Lake IJssel with up to 1,5 meter. This saved both the current landscape around Lake IJssel and billions of euros in coming decades.
D61|Firm-Specific Training|This paper introduces two complementary models of firm-specific training: an informational model and a productivity-enhancement model. In both models, market provision of firm-specific training is inefficient. However, the nature of the inefficiency depends on the balance between the two key components of training, namely productivity enhancement and employee evaluation. In the informational model, training results in a proportionate increase in productivity enhancement and employee evaluation, and training is underprovided by the market. In the productivity-enhancement model, training results in an increase in productivity enhancement but no change in employee evaluation, and training is overprovided by the market. In both models, turnover is inefficiently low.
D61|Policy Experimentation, Redistribution and Voting Rules|We study conditions under which optimal policy experimentation can be implemented by a committee. We consider a dynamic bargaining game in which committee members choose to implement either a risky reform or a safe alternative with known returns each period. We find that when no redistribution is allowed the unique equilibrium outcome is generically inefficient. When committee members are allowed to redistribute resources (even arbitrarily small amounts), there always exists an equilibrium that supports optimal experimentation for any voting rule with no veto players. With veto players, however, optimal policy experimentation is possible only with a sufficient amount of redistribution. We conclude that veto rights are more of an obstacle to optimal policy experimentation than constraints on redistribution.
D61|Pay for locally monitored performance? A welfare analysis for teacher attendance in Ugandan primary schools|To achieve the twin objectives of incentivizing agent performance and providing information for planning purposes, public sector organizations often rely on reports by local monitors that are costly to verify. Received wisdom has it that attaching financial incentives to these reports will result in collusion, and undermine both objectives. Simple bargaining logic, however, suggests the reverse: pay for locally monitored performance could incentivize desired behavior and improve information. To investigate this issue, we conducted a randomized controlled trial in Ugandan primary schools that explored how incentives for teachers could be designed when based on local monitoring by head teachers. Our experiment randomly varied whether head teachers' reports of teacher attendance were tied to teacher bonus payments or not. We find that local monitoring on its own is ineffective at improving teacher attendance. However, combining local monitoring with financial incentives leads to both an increase in teacher attendance (by 8 percentage points) and an improvement in the quality of information. We also observe substantial gains in pupil attainment, driven primarily by a reduction in dropouts. By placing a financial value on these enrollment gains, we demonstrate that pay for locally monitored performance passes both welfare and fiscal sustainability tests.
D61|Intuitive Solutions in Game Representations: The Shapley Value Revisited|We show that any transferable utility game can be represented by an assignment of facilities to the players, in which it is intuitively obvious how to allocate the total cost of the facilities. The intuitive solution in the representation turns out to be the Shapley value of the game.
D61|The economics of sharing macro-longevity risk|Pension funds face macro-longevity risk or uncertainty about future mortality rates. We analyze macro-longevity risk sharing between cohorts in a pension fund as a risk management tool. We show that both the optimal risk-sharing rule and the welfare gains from risk sharing depend on the retirement age policy. Welfare gains from sharing macro-longevity risk measured on a 10-year horizon in case of a fixed retirement age are between 0.2 and 0.3 percent of certainty equivalent consumption after retirement. Cohorts experience a similar impact of macro-longevity risk on post retirement consumption and it is not optimal for young cohorts to absorb risk of older cohorts. However, in case the retirement age is fully linked to changes in life expectancy, the welfare gains are substantially higher. The risk bearing capacity of workers is larger when they use their labor supply as a hedge against macro-longevity risk. As a result, workers absorb risk from retirees in the optimal risk-sharing rule, thereby increasing the welfare gain up to 2.7 percent.
D61|Business investment in EU countries|The article analyses recent developments in business investment for a large group of EU countries, using a broad set of analytical tools and data sources. We find that the assessment of whether or not investment is currently low varies across benchmarks and countries. At the euro area level and for most countries, the level of business investment is broadly in line with the level of overall activity. However rates of capital stock growth have slowed down since the crisis. The main cyclical determinants of investment developments in the euro area include foreign and domestic demand, uncertainty and financial conditions. Uncertainty seems to have played a negative role during the financial and sovereign debt crises; however, given its low levels more recently, it has not acted as a drag on business investment overall during the recovery. Credit constraints appear to have hindered investment during the twin crises, especially in stressed countries. Aside from cyclical developments, important secular factors – relating to demographics, the changing nature and location of production, and the business environment – have influenced investment. Another factor that may have amplified the decline in private investment, particularly in countries that were hit hardest by the sovereign debt crisis, is the low level of public investment. This is because when public investment enhances the productivity of the private sector, there may be positive spillovers from the former to the latter, including across countries. Finally, intra-sector capital misallocation, measured as the within-sector dispersion across firms in the marginal revenue product of capital, has been increasing in Europe since 2002, which may in turn have exerted a significant drag on total factor productivity dynamics, and hence on aggregate output growth. JEL Classification: E32, E52, E62, D24, D61
D61|Redistribution through Markets|When macroeconomic tools fail to respond to wealth inequality optimally, regulators can still seek to mitigate inequality within individual markets. A social planner with distributional preferences might distort allocative efficiency to achieve a more desirable split of surplus, for example, by setting higher prices when sellers are poor--effectively, using the market as a redistributive tool. In this paper, we seek to understand how to design goods markets optimally in the presence of inequality. Using a mechanism design approach, we uncover the constrained Pareto frontier by identifying the optimal trade-off between allocative efficiency and redistribution in a setting where the second welfare theorem fails because of private information and participation constraints. We find that competitive equilibrium allocation is not always optimal. Instead, when there is substantial inequality across sides of the market, the optimal design uses a tax-like mechanism, introducing a wedge between the buyer and seller prices, and redistributing the resulting surplus to the poorer side of the market via lump-sum payments. When there is significant within-side inequality, meanwhile, it may be optimal to impose price controls even though doing so induces rationing.
D61|High unknowability of climate damage valuation means the social cost of carbon will always be disputed|"The social cost of carbon (SCC), a carbon price calculated from cost-benefit based integrated assessment models and used to inform some climate policies, will always be highly disputed, partly because a key model assumption, the centennial climate damage valuation function (CDF), will ""always"" be highly unknowable. Current disputes are highlighted here by the huge range of SCCs resulting from alternative values of key parameters like discount rates, climate sensitivity and the CDF; by the implausibility to climate scientists of a leading model's warming projections; and by strong criticisms of mainstream CDFs by many climate economists. The claim that statistical analyses of ""weather"" impacts on local economies can improve centennial CDFs rests on untestable out-of-sample extrapolation. Compared to astronomy, geology and other earth sciences, prediction testing in climate science is generally harder because of Earth's uniqueness, and the unprecedented range and speed of likely centennial climate change, but stable underlying laws make modelling based on past observations meaningful. By contrast, the added complexity of human behaviour means there are no reliable laws for modelling centennial CDFs. For this reason alone, SCCs will always be disputed. I suggest instead more use of carbon prices based on marginal abatement costs, computed on cost-effective paths that achieve socially agreed, physical climate targets. Downplaying the SCC approach to carbon prices poses challenges to many economists, and a cost-effectiveness approach is no panacea, but it avoids the illusion of optimality, and allows more detailed analysis of many current climate policies."
D61|Discounting Disentangled|The economic values of investing in long-term public projects are highly sensitive to the social discount rate (SDR). We surveyed over 200 experts to disentangle disagreement on the risk-free SDR into its component parts, including pure time preference, the wealth effect and return to capital. We show that the majority of experts do not follow the simple Ramsey Rule, a widely-used theoretical discounting framework, when recommending SDRs. Despite disagreement on discounting procedures and point values, we obtain a surprising degree of consensus among experts, with more than three-quarters finding the median risk-free SDR of 2 percent acceptable.
D61|New Estimates of the Elasticity of Marginal Utility for the UK|Abstract This paper provides novel empirical evidence on the value of the elasticity of marginal utility, $$ \eta $$ η , for the United Kingdom. $$ \eta $$ η is a crucial component of the social discount rate (SDR), which determines the inter-temporal trade-offs that are acceptable to society. Using contemporaneous and historical data, new estimates are obtained using four revealed-preference techniques: the equal-sacrifice income tax approach, the Euler-equation approach, the Frisch additive-preferences approach and risk aversion in insurance markets. A meta-analysis indicates parameter homogeneity across approaches, and a central estimate of 1.5 for $$ \eta $$ η . The confidence interval excludes unity, the value used in official guidance by the UK government. The term structure of the SDR is then estimated. The result is a short-run SDR of 4.5% declining to 4.2% in the very long-run. This is higher and flatter than the UK official guidance. The difference stems from incorrect calibration of social welfare and estimation of the diffusion of growth. Other things equal, the results suggest that current UK guidance might need to be updated.
D61|The Many Decompositions of Total Factor Productivity Change|Total factor productivity change, here defined as output quantity change di- vided by input quantity change, is the combined result of (technical) efficiency change, technological change, a scale effect, and input and output mix ef- fects. Sometimes allocative efficiency change is supposed to also play a role. Given a certain functional form for the productivity index, the problem is how to decompose such an index into factors corresponding to these five or six components. A basic insight offered in the present paper is that mean- ingful decompositions of productivity indices can only be obtained for indices which are transitive in the main variables. Using a unified approach, we ob- tain decompositions for Malmquist, Moorsteen-Bjurek, price-weighted, and share-weighted productivity indices. A unique feature of this paper is that all the decompositions are applied to the same dataset of a real-life panel of decision-making units so that the extent of the differences between the various decompositions can be judged.
D61|Unintended consequences: The snowball effect of energy communities|Following the development of decentralized generation and smart appliances, energy communities have become a phenomenon of increased interest. While the benefits of such communities have been discussed, there is increasing concern that inadequate grid tariffs may lead to excess adoption of such business models. Furthermore, snowball effects may be observed following the effects these communities have on grid tariffs. We show that restraining the study to a simple cost-benefit analysis is far from satisfactory. Therefore, we use the framework of cooperative game theory to take account of the ability of communities to share gains between members. The interaction between energy communities and the DSO then results in a non-cooperative equilibrium. We provide mathematical formulations and intuitions of such effects, and carry out realistic numerical applications where communities can invest jointly in solar panels and batteries. We show that such a snowball effect may be observed, but its magnitude and its welfare effects will depend on the grid tariff structure that is implemented, leading to possible PV over-investments.
D61|Missing money, missing policy and Resource Adequacy in Australia’s National Electricity Market|From 2012-2017 more than 5000MW of coal plant exited Australia’s National Electricity Market (NEM). The average plant exit notice period was 5.2 months. Exit at scale peaked just as imbalances in the market for natural gas emerged. Compounding matters were Variable Renewable Energy (VRE) plant entry lags due to policy discontinuity in prior periods. By 2016/17, the culmination of coal plant exit, gas market imbalances and VRE entry lags produced more than 20 Lack of Reserve events across the NEM, three blackouts including a black system event in the South Australian region. Spot and forward electricity prices rose to record levels, viz. $90-$130/MWh compared to an historic average of $42.50. In this article, the lead-up to these abnormal trading conditions are traced back to policy decisions a decade earlier in the markets for electricity, natural gas and renewable energy. Lessons for other energy markets undergoing transformation include i). transparency over lumpy plant exit decisions, ii). climate change policy stability, and iii). clear policy limits to gas export capacity vis-à-vis domestic supply.
D61|On entry cost dynamics in Australia’s National Electricity Market|In theory, well designed electricity markets should deliver an efficient mix of technologies at least-cost. But energy market theories and energy market modelling are based upon equilibrium analysis and in practice electricity markets can be off-equilibrium for extended periods. Near-term spot and forward contract prices can and do fall well below, or substantially exceed, relevant entry cost benchmarks and associated long run equilibrium prices. However, given sufficient time higher prices, on average or during certain periods, create incentives for new entrant plant which in turn has the effect of capping longer-dated average spot price expectations at the estimated cost of the relevant new entrant technologies. In this article, we trace generalised new entrant benchmarks and their relationship to spot price outcomes in Australia’s National Electricity Market over the 20-year period to 2018; from coal, to gas and more recently to variable renewables plus firming, notionally provided by – or shadow priced at – the carrying cost of an Open Cycle Gas Turbine. This latest entry benchmark relies implicitly, but critically, on the gains from exchange in organised spot markets, using existing spare capacity. As aging coal plant exit, gains from exchange may gradually diminish with ‘notional firming’ increasingly and necessarily being met by physical firming. At this point, the benchmark must once again move to a new technology set.
D61|Cost Efficiency of European Cooperative Banks|This paper investigates the size–efficiency relation of European cooperative banks during the 2006-2015 period. We employ the Stochastic Frontier Analysis in order to obtain inefficiency estimates and its determinants on the set of 183 cooperative banks from 12 European countries. This work extends the existing literature by focusing on shape of size-efficiency relationship and examining also the post-crisis period after the fall of Lehman Brothers in 2008. Our results show that smaller European cooperative banks are significantly more cost efficient than their bigger peers and that the size-efficiency relation is linear. Interestingly, inefficiency remained roughly stable during the whole observation period without any substantial changes, not even on sub-samples of individual countries. These results imply that no significant consolidation of European cooperative banks can be expected in the near future. We conclude that for cooperatives, it is more efficient to remain small in size rather than to expand. From a policy perspective, we recommend regulators to reflect special nature of cooperative banks and allow them to operate at a small scale enabling their efficiency. As a result, we believe that one-size-fits-all regulation is harmful for efficient operations of cooperative banks in Europe.
D61|Evaluating Large Projects when there are Substitutes: Looking for Possible Shortcuts|This paper discusses how to evaluate a large project when there is a substitute. The new large project causes discrete price adjustments in the substitute market. For example, a new high-speed rail may shift the demand curve for flight tickets to the left and reduce their price, in turn shifting the demand curve for train tickets to the left. There are several different ways to handle this complication, and we hopefully provide some guidance how to proceed. In particular, we point at an approach that captures the general equilibrium effects of a considered project in its output market. In theory at least, this approach provides a simple short-cut in cost-benefit analysis of (infrastructure and other) projects that are so large that they have a noticeable impact on equilibrium prices in other markets. A similar shortcut for transport projects that affect time costs is also supplied.
D61|Optimal Paternalistic Health and Human Capital Policies|We study optimal human and health linear policies when there is a paternalistic motive to overcome present bias problems of agents with heterogeneous cognitive skills. The paternalistic intervention is meant to reward individuals for physical capital accumulation and the combined effect of health and human capital on future earnings. Our results highlight a novel effect of paternalistic policies due to the interaction between present-biased preferences and cognitive skills. We show that a single policy on the agent's earnings captures all the corrections that would be required if the planner were to implement other policy instruments, for instance, subsidies targeting human and health capital separately or current biased decisions. A numerical exercise illustrates that this policy package is the most effective, requiring lower tax revenues to correct for present bias and agents misperception of their own cognitive skills problems. We analyze the relevance of agent's cognitive skills and present-biased preferences for the determination of first-best and constrained first-best optimal policies.t technologies. Welfare is higher if consumer auditing is the only tax enforcement policy.
D61|Top Income Concentration and Volatility|Measures of income concentration—such as the share of income received by the highest income families—may be biased by pro-cyclical volatility in annual income. Permanent income, though, can smooth away such volatility and sort families by their usual economic resources. Here, we demonstrate this bias using rolling 3-year panels of IRS tax records from 1997 to 2013 as a proxy for permanent income. For example, one measure of 2012 income concentration—the share of income received by the top 0.1 percent—falls from 11.3 percent to 8.9 percent when families are organized by permanent income instead of annual income. However, the growth in income concentration cannot be explained by this volatility, as growth rates are comparable in the permanent income and annual income groupings during our sample period. Further, the probability of remaining in the highest income groups, while relatively low at the very top of the distribution, increased slightly during our sample period, suggesting that top incomes have become less volatile in this dimension. These results are confirmed using household income data measured in the Survey of Consumer Finances (SCF)—a household survey with a large oversample of high-income households and a unique measure of permanent income.
D61|Heterogeneous Jobs and the Aggregate Labor Market|This paper analyzes a simple search and matching model with heterogeneous jobs. First, I derive an explicit formula that ensures the social efficiency of the equilibrium outcome. This formula generalizes the well-known Hosios condition and clarifies the role of externalities across labor markets for different types of jobs. Second, business cycle fluctuations with heterogeneous jobs are analyzed. Heterogeneity in productivity and job stability plays an important role in generating strong labor-market responses to the aggregate labor market to productivity shocks.
D61|Allocating the costs of cleaning a river; estimating responsibilities versus incentive compatibility|We model a river as a segment divided into subsegments, each occupied by one region, from upstream to downstream. The waste is transferred from one region to the next at some rate t. Given that t may be unknown, Alcalde-Unzu et al. (2015) proposed the UR method to allocate the costs of cleaning a river in which each region pays the responsibility that it would have if t was its expected value. We prove in this paper that this allocation di ers from the expected responsibility of each region and propose and characterize a new solution, the EUR, that assigns to each region precisely its expected responsibility. We show that although this new solution improves the estimation of responsibilities, there is a trade-o in terms of incentive compatibility: meanwhile with the EUR solution it is possible that a region can reduce the cost allocated to it by discharging more waste, this could not happen with the UR. Moreover, the UR solution is, between the ones that do not have this problem in a general family, the solution that minimizes the bias with respect to the EUR.
D61|Peeling back the onion: Using latent class analysis to uncover heterogeneous responses to stated preference surveys|We develop validity tests for application to stated-preference estimates of WTP to reduce mortality risk, i.e., value per statistical life (VSL), and apply these to data obtained by surveying a representative sample of French adults over the internet. These tests (WTP nearly proportional to risk reduction, insensitive to small differences in baseline risk, increasing in income, and consistent with budget constraints) are satisfied by a conventional single-regression analysis of our data. Using latent class analysis (LCA), we identify important differences between respondents in their consistency with the validity tests and control for much of this heterogeneity. Estimates of VSL from the latent class that is consistent with the validity tests are smaller than estimates from the standard analysis. We estimate mean VSL for adults of about 2 million € and for children (based on parents' WTP) of about 6 million €.
D61|Beyond Truth-Telling: Preference Estimation with Centralized School Choice and College Admissions|We propose novel approaches to estimating student preferences with data from matching mechanisms, especially the Gale-Shapley deferred acceptance. Even if the mechanism is strategy-proof, assuming that students truthfully rank schools in applications may be restrictive. We show that when students are ranked strictly by some ex ante known priority index (e.g., test scores), stability is a plausible and weaker assumption, implying that every student is matched with her favorite school/college among those she qualifies for ex post. The methods are illustrated in simulations and applied to school choice in Paris. We discuss when each approach is more appropriate in real-life settings.
D61|Discounting transport infrastructure investments|The main aim of the study is to advice the Swedish national guidelines on cost-benefit analysis (CBA) of transport infrastructure investments, ASEK about the appropriate set of discount-rates (currently 3.5% for all investments). To this end, first a literature review with a theoretical focus along with some new perspectives are provided. Second the conclusions are applied to Swedish infrastructure transport CBA, using the current proposition of a new HSR line as a case. Based on empirical research concerning parameter values new discount rates are estimated, and sensitivity analysis performed. The best estimate of the social discount rate in the present study, for land transport infrastructure investment in Sweden, is about 5.1%.
D61|Emission price, output-based allocation and consumption tax: Optimal climate policy in the presence of another country’s climate policy|The allowances in an emission trading system (ETS) are commonly allocated for free to the sector, e.g., in the form of output-based allocation (OBA). The reason is the risk of carbon leakage exposure such as relocation of emission-intensive and trade-exposed industries (EITE). A prime example of this is the EU ETS, where the policymakers have stated that they will continue this practice. However, lately a third approach, combining OBA with a consumption tax, has been proposed to mitigate carbon leakage, and it has been shown to have an unambiguously global welfare improving effect. This paper presents the potential outcome of climate policy, by examining the Nash equilibrium of a policy instrument game between regions who regulate their emissions separately. In particular, we investigate the case when a policymaker can choose to supplement her ETS with OBA and/or with a consumption tax, based on another policymaker’s optimal choice for her ETS. We show analytically the optimal rate of OBA and consumption tax in the presence of a climate polices in another region. Finally, we present the results from a numerical simulation in the context of the EU ETS and the Chinese ETS.
D61|Evaluating Large Projects when there are Substitutes: Looking for Possible Shortcuts|This paper discusses how to evaluate a large project when there is a substitute. The new large project causes discrete price adjustments in the substitute market. For example, a new high-speed rail may shift the demand curve for flight tickets to the left and reduce their price, in turn shifting the demand curve for train tickets to the left. There are several different ways to handle this complication, and we hopefully provide some guidance how to proceed. In particular, we point at an approach that captures the general equilibrium effects of a considered project in its output market. In theory at least, this approach provides a simple shortcut in cost–benefit analysis of (infrastructure and other) projects that are so large that they have a noticeable impact on equilibrium prices in other markets. A similar shortcut for transport projects that affect time costs is also supplied.
D61|Uncertain Length of Life, Retirement Age, and Optimal Pension Design|In this paper, we consider how the hours of work and retirement age ought to respond to a change in the uncertainty of the length of life. In a first best framework, where a benevolent government exercises perfect control over the individuals’ labor supply and retirement-decisions, the results show that a decrease in the standard deviation of life-length leads to an increase in the optimal retirement age and a decrease in the hours of work per period spent working. This result is robust, and is also derived in models of decentralized decision-making where individuals decide on their own consumption, labor supply, and retirement age, and where the government attempts to affect their behavior and welfare through redistribution and pension policy.
D61|Market power and price discrimination in the US market for higher education|We estimate an equilibrium model of private and state college competition that generates realistic pricing patterns for private colleges using a large national data set from the National Postsecondary Student Aid Study (NPSAS). Our analysis distinguishes between tuition variation that reflects efficient pricing to students who generate beneficial peer externalities and variation that reflects arguably inefficient exercise of market power. Our findings indicate substantial exercise of market power and, importantly, sizable variation in this power along the college quality hierarchy and among students with different characteristics. Finally, we conduct policy analysis to examine the consequences of increased availability of quality public colleges in a state.
D61|Redistribution through Markets|When macroeconomic tools fail to respond to wealth inequality optimally, regulators can still seek to mitigate inequality within individual markets. A social planner with distributional preferences might distort allocative efficiency to achieve a more desirable split of surplus, for example, by setting higher prices when sellers are poor--effectively, using the market as a redistributive tool. In this paper, we seek to understand how to design goods markets optimally in the presence of inequality. Using a mechanism design approach, we uncover the constrained Pareto frontier by identifying the optimal trade-off between allocative efficiency and redistribution in a setting where the second welfare theorem fails because of private information and participation constraints. We find that competitive equilibrium allocation is not always optimal. Instead, when there is substantial inequality across sides of the market, the optimal design uses a tax-like mechanism, introducing a wedge between the buyer and seller prices, and redistributing the resulting surplus to the poorer side of the market via lump-sum payments. When there is significant within-side inequality, meanwhile, it may be optimal to impose price controls even though doing so induces rationing.
D61|What Makes a Locality Attractive? Estimates of the Amenity Value of Parks for Victoria|This paper provides the first estimates of the effects of parks on house prices within Victoria. We estimate hedonic regressions of house prices on the distance to six types of parks as well as a wide range of other amenities that may impact on house prices. We find some types of parks can have substantial positive impacts on house prices, particularly in regional Victoria. The results of this work can be used to construct estimates of the amenity value of a park for a rapid cost‐benefit analysis.
D61|Reallocation and the Role of Firm Composition Effects on Aggregate Wage Dynamics|Aggregate wages display little cyclicality compared to what a standard model would predict. Wage rigidities are an obvious candidate but a recent strand of the literature has emphasized the need to take into account the growing importance of worker composition effects during downturns. With reference to the Italian case we document that also firm composition effects increasingly matter in explaining the aggregate wage dynamics, i.e. aggregate wage growth has been lifted up by the increase in the employment weight of high wage firms. To the extent that this reallocation occurs towards more productive firms, the composition effects may also reflect an efficiency enhancing mechanism. We use a newly available dataset based on social security records covering the universe of Italian employers be-tween 1990 and 2013 and employ a standard measure of allocative efficiency on wages paid across firms. We show that this measure has improved over time since prior to the recent downturn and that it is aligned, at the sectoral level, with measures of productivity growth and market openness to competition. We then focus on the recent downturn and find that large firms were able to adjust wages more than small firms, and that small firms instead adjusted employment to a larger extent. Finally, we document that the continued improvement in the measure of allocative efficiency over this period correlates positively with measures of economic activity (evolution of employment and value added) across sectors.
D61|A Pigouvian Approach to Congestion in Matching Markets|"Recruiting agents, or ""programs"" costly screen “applicants” in matching processes, and congestion in a market increases with the number of applicants to be screened. To combat this externality that applicants impose on programs, application costs can be used as a Pigouvian tax. Higher costs reduce congestion by discouraging applicants from applying to certain programs; however, they may harm match quality. In a multiple-elicitation experiment conducted in a real-life matching market, we implement variants of the Gale-Shapley Deferred-Acceptance mechanism with different application costs. Our experimental and structural estimates show that a (low) application cost effectively reduces congestion without harming match quality."
D61|Borrowing constraints and saving in Turkey|The Turkish macroeconomic experience since 2002 has been characterized by three striking trends: (1) an accelerated growth rate of income, (2) a sharp decline in the real interest rate, and (3) a sustained fall in the saving rate of different age-groups. During the same period, there has also been a significant increase in access to credit by Turkish households. In this paper, we argue that a model which incorporates a borrowing constraint mechanism together with the observed increases in the expected growth rate of income and the substantial declines in the real interest rate is able to explain the change in saving across cohorts in Turkey over the last decade. We provide both micro-level evidence on the age-saving profile for Turkey as well as quantitative results from a simple three-period OLG framework with borrowing constraints to account for the change in the saving rate for different age-groups between 2004 and 2014.
D61|Intertemporal efficiency does not imply a common price forecast: a leading example|We define an efficient temporary equilibrium (ETE) within the framework of a two period economy. We show by example that ETE in this setting can lead to intertemporally efficient allocations without the agents forecasts being coordinated on a perfect foresight price. There is a one dimensional set of such efficient allocations for generic endowments.
D61|Intertemporal effiiency does not imply a common price forecast|Do price forecasts of rational economic agents need to coincide in perfectly com- petitive complete markets? To address this question, we define an efficient tempo- rary equilibrium (ETE) within the framework of a two period economy. Although an ETE allocation is intertemporally efficient and is obtained by perfect competition, it can arise without the agents forecasts being coordinated on a perfect foresight price. We show that there is a one dimensional set of such Pareto efficient allocations for generic endowments.
D61|Efficient Implementation with Interdependent Valuations and Maxmin Agents|We consider a single object allocation problem with multidimensional signals and interdependent valuations. When agents signals are statistically independent, Jehiel and Moldovanu show that efficient and Bayesian incentive compatible mechanisms generally do not exist. In this paper, we extend the standard model to accommodate maxmin agents and obtain necessary as well as sufficient conditions under which efficient allocations can be implemented. In particular, we derive a condition that quantifies the amount of ambiguity necessary for efficient implementation. We further show that under some natural assumptions on the preferences, this necessary amount of ambiguity becomes sufficient. Finally, we provide a definition of informational size such that given any nontrivial amount of ambiguity, efficient allocations can be implemented if agents are sufficiently informationally small.
D61|What's in a wedge? Misallocation and Taxation in the Oil Industry|Resource misallocation explains a large part of cross-country productivity differences. Measuring differences in marginal revenue products of labor and capital across countries and firms allows for a quantification of the extent of this misallocation, but is typically uninformative of its source. We address this problem by using novel, firm-level data from the oil industry. We confirm the existence of sizeable gaps in marginal revenue products across countries and firms relative to the US, but show that these disappear once we account for revenue taxation. Differences in tax policies are thus sufficient to account for cross-country gaps in marginal products.
D61|Productivity and Misallocation in General Equilibrium|We provide a general non-parametric formula for aggregating microeconomic shocks in general equilibrium economies with distortions such as taxes, markups, frictions to resource reallocation, and nominal rigidities. We show that the macroeconomic impact of a shock can be boiled down into two components: its “pure” technology effect; and its effect on allocative efficiency arising from the associated reallocation of resources, which can be measured via changes in factor income shares. We also derive a formula showing how these two components are determined by structural microeconomic parameters such as elasticities of substitution, returns to scale, factor mobility, and network linkages. Overall, our results generalize those of Solow (1957) and Hulten (1978) to economies with distortions. To demonstrate their empirical relevance, we pursue different applications, focusing on markup distortions. For example, we operationalize our non-parametric results and show that improvements in allocative efficiency account for about 50% of measured TFP growth over the period 1997-2015. We also implement our structural results and conclude that eliminating markups would raise TFP by about 40%, increasing the economywide cost of monopoly distortions by two orders of magnitude compared to the famous 0.1% estimates of Harberger (1954).
D61|Implementation by vote-buying mechanisms|A vote-buying mechanism is such that each agent buys a quantity of votes x to cast for an alternative of her choosing, at a cost c(x), and the outcome is determined by the total number of votes cast for each alternative. In the context of binary decisions, we prove that the choice rules that can be implemented by vote-buying mechanisms in large societies are parameterized by a positive parameter rho, which measures the importance of individual preference intensities on the social choice: The limit with rho= 0 is majority rule, rho = 1 is utilitarianism, and rho?8 is the Rawlsian maximin rule. We show that any vote-buying mechanism with limit cost elasticity (1 rho)/rho as x?0 implements the choice rule defined by rho. The utilitarian efficiency of quadratic voting (Lalley and Weyl, 2016) follows as a special case.
D61|What’s in a wedge? Misallocation and Taxation in the Oil Industry|Resource misallocation explains a large part of cross-country productivity differences. Although measuring gaps in marginal products of labor and capital across plants can quantify the extent of this misallocation, it cannot account for its source. We address this problem by using novel microdata from the oil industry (that includes information on taxation) to pin down both the extent and the source of misallocation in the rest-of-the-world versus the United States. We confirm the existence of sizeable gaps in marginal products across production units. However, once differences in direct taxation are accounted for, these gaps largely disappear. This provides strong evidence that gaps in marginal products - and hence productivity - are largely driven by differences in tax policies rather than more indirect distortions.
D61|A Bottom-up Approach to Environmental Cost-Benefit Analysis|Cost-Benefit Analysis is a method to assess the effects of policies and projects on social welfare. CBAs are usually applied in a top-down approach, in the sense that a decision-making body first decides on which policies or projects are to be considered, and then applies a set of uniform criteria to identifying and valuing relevant cost and benefit flows. This paper investigates the possible advantages, prerequisites and limitations of applying CBA in what may be considered an alternative, “bottom-up” manner. Instead of starting out with a pre-defined policy option, the suggested approach begins with the underlying environmental problem, and then assesses costs and benefits of strategies and solutions as identified by local and directly affected stakeholders. For empirical case studies concerning two river catchments in Sweden and Latvia, the bottom-up CBA approach utilises local knowledge, assesses plans which are not only developed for local conditions but are also likely to be more acceptable to local society, and sheds additional light on possible distributional effects. By not only benefitting from, but also supporting participatory environmental planning, bottom-up CBA is in line with the growing trend of embedding stakeholder participation within environmental policy and decision-making.
D61|Pricing and hedging GDP-linked bonds in incomplete markets|We model the super-replication of payoffs linked to a country’s GDP as a stochastic linear program on a discrete time and state-space scenario tree to price GDP-linked bonds. As a byproduct of the model we obtain a hedging portfolio. Using linear programming duality we compute also the risk premium. The model applies to coupon-indexed and principal-indexed bonds, and allows the analysis of bonds with different design parameters (coupon, target GDP growth rate, and maturity). We calibrate for UK and US instruments, and carry out sensitivity analysis of prices and risk premia to the risk factors and bond design parameters. We also compare coupon-indexed and principal-indexed bonds.
D61|Risk management for sovereign financing within a debt sustainability framework|The mix of instruments used to finance a sovereign is a key determinant of debt sustainability through its effect on funding costs and risks. We extend standard debt sustainability analysis to incorporate debt-financing decisions in the presence of macroeconomic, financial, and fiscal risks. We optimize the maturity of debt instruments to trade off borrowing costs with refinancing risk. Risk is quantified with a coherent measure of tail risk of financing needs, conditional Flow-at-Risk. A constraint on the pace of reduction of debt stocks is also imposed, and we model the effect of debt stocks on the yield curve through endogenous risk and term premia. On a simulated economy, we show that the cost-risk and flow-stock trade-offs embedded in issuance decisions are key determinants of the evolution of debt dynamics and are economically significant. Comparing three alternative optimizing strategies and some simple fixed-issuance rules, we also draw lessons on when and why optimizing matters the most. This depends on the risk tolerance level, the size, cost, and maturity of legacy debt, and the sensitivity of interest rates to debt. Our model quantifies thresholds for the minimum level of refinancing risks and the maximum pace of debt reduction that a sovereign could reach given its economic fundamentals. Going beyond those thresholds is only feasible through adjustments of gross financing needs, and an extension of the baseline model identifies the hot spots for these adjustments, computing their minimum size and optimal timing. Our findings inform policy decisions concerning both official sector borrowing and public finance, with a focus not only on minimizing interest payments but also on managing refinancing risks and increasing debt dynamics.
D61|The economic determinants of risk-adjusted social discount rates|In theory, the measurement of the social value creation of any investment project requires estimating its consumption-based CAPM beta in order to compute its associated risk-adjusted discount rate. In order to assist evaluators to perform this task, we link this social beta to the underlying technical and economic environment of the project, such as the price and income elasticities of the supply and demand for the flow of goods and services generated by the investment. When the consumers’ willingness to pay and the variable production cost are Cobb-Douglas in aggregate income and quantity, the beta of the infrastructure has a flat term structure, and is positive for a normal good. But when the infrastructure has a limited capacity, the term structure of the beta is decreasing. Finally, as an illustration, we explain why an investment in a transfrontier trading infrastructure line should have a negative beta for the country that most often uses the line to export its cheaper good (such as electricity).
D61|Path and speed of spectrum management reform under uncertain costs and benefits|The unsolved question in spectrum management is no longer if a reform is necessary to enable higher market participation but the optimal path and speed of reform. We offer an expression to determine when to choose a gradual or big bang reform depending on current and expected technology and an expression to determine whether to wait or not for new technology. Gradual is better if the technological advance coefficient is high, the reversibility of the reforms is costly, the duration of the second reform is long, the probability of an outcome lower than expected is considerable or the reforms are not too complementary.
D61|Implementation by vote-buying mechanisms|Simple majority voting does not allow preference intensities to be expressed, and hence fails to implement choice rules that take them into account. A vote-buying mechanism, instead, permits preference intensities to be revealed since each agent can buy any quantity of votes x to cast for an alternative of her choosing at a cost c(x) and the outcome is the most voted alternative. In the context of binary decisions, we characterize the class of choice rules implemented by vote-buying mechanisms. Rules in this class can assign any weight to preference intensities and to the number of supporters for each alternative.
D61|The Midpoint-Constrained Egalitarian Bargaining Solution|A payoff allocation in a bargaining problem is midpoint dominant if each player obtains at least one n-th of her ideal payoff. The egalitarian solution of a bargaining problem may select a payoff configuration which is not midpoint dominant. We propose and characterize the solution which selects for each bargaining problem the feasible allocation that is closest to the egalitarian allocation, subject to being midpoint dominant. Our main axiom, midpoint monotonicity, is new to the literature; it imposes the standard monotonicity requirement whenever doing so does not result in selecting an allocation which is not midpoint dominant. In order to prove our main result we develop a general extension theorem for bargaining solutions that are order-preserving with respect to any order on the set of bargaining problems.
D61|Club good mechanisms: from free-riders to citizen-shareholders, from impossibility to characterization|Consider a community that shares a technology for producing a club good (Buchanan, 1965): any group of agents can “win” for an associated monetary cost. Who should win, and how should production be funded? To address this question, we seek rules (that is, direct mechanisms) where each agent participates voluntarily and is incentivized to report his valuation honestly, and where these reports are used to select winners efficiently without running a deficit. We find that whether or not there are such rules depends on the production technology. If costs are even “somewhat concave,” then there are no such rules: the free-rider problem (Wicksell, 1896; Samuelson, 1954; Green and Laffont, 1979) persists even when agents who do not contribute can be excluded. If costs are symmetric and convex, however, then there are such rules that moreover satisfy no-envy-in-trades (Kolm, 1971; Schmeidler and Vind, 1972). We characterize this class, whose Pareto-worst member is the familiar minimum-price Walrasian rule (Vickrey, 1961; Clarke, 1971; Groves, 1973; Demange, 1982; Leonard, 1983); the other rules do better by treating the agents as equal shareholders in the technology and offering social dividends (Lange, 1936).
D61|Income inequality and the international transfer of environmental values|How the valuation of environmental goods is related to income is a key question for economics, but the role of income inequality is often neglected. We study how income inequality affects the international transfer of the estimated value of environmental goods from a study to a policy site - a practice called value or benefit transfer. Specifically, we apply theory-driven, structural transfer factors to examine whether adjusting for income inequality affects errors made in benefit transfer, drawing on a multi-country valuation study on water quality improvement. Our convergent validity analysis shows that the structural income inequality adjustment reduces benefit transfer errors by more than 1.5 percentage points on average across all transfers. The adjustment for inequality is particularly important when income is distributed more unequally at the policy site relative to the study site, yielding reductions in transfer errors of up to 33 percentage points. Our results highlight the importance of taking the effects of economic inequality into account and are relevant for environmental valuation as well as public policy appraisal.
D61|Relative prices and climate policy: How the scarcity of non-market goods drives policy evaluation|We study how the scarcity of non-market goods, such as environmental amenities, affects the economic appraisal of climate policy. To this end, we perform a comprehensive analysis of the change in relative prices of non-market goods in the widespread climate-economy model DICE. We show that DICE already contains relative prices implicitly and that the impact of the scarcity of non-market goods on climate policy evaluation is therefore more pervasive than previously suggested. We calibrate DICE based on empirical evidence and propose a plausible range for relative price changes. The uncertainty is substantial, with relative price changes ranging from 1.3 to 9.6 percent in 2020. For our central calibration, the relative price change amounts to 4.4 percent in 2020. Neglecting relative prices leads to an underestimation of the social cost of carbon in 2020 of more than 40 percent. Accounting for these changes is equivalent to a decrease in pure time preference by more than a half percentage point. Our findings support initiatives to consider relative prices in governmental project appraisal and offer guidance for the evaluation of climate policy.
D61|The deadweight loss of christmas - Reply|"In this paper, we study the welfare effects of Christmas presents with a focus on the effect of presents for gift-givers. Based on a survey among students at the University of Göttingen, Germany, we find that the vast majority of gift-givers prefers in-kind gifts compared to gifts of money. The average present in our survey has a price of 36 Euro and results in a ""giver's surplus"" of 10 Euro. This indicates a welfare gain of approximately 143% from the average giver's perspective. The welfare gain for presents to friends and partners is lower than for presents to close family members. Our empirical analysis shows a negative effect of a present's price on the welfare gain for gift-givers."
D61|Talent Discovery, Layoff Risk and Unemployment Insurance|In talent-intensive jobs, workers’quality is revealed by their performance. This enhances productivity and earnings, but also increases layoff risk.Firms cannot insure workers against this risk if they compete fiercely for talent. In this case, the more risk-averse workers will choose less quality-revealing jobs. This lowers expected productivity and salaries. Public unemployment insurance corrects this inefficiency, enhancing employment in talent-sensitive industries and investment in education. The hypothesis that the generosity of unemployment insurance should be positively correlated with the share of workers in talent-sensitive industries is consistent with international and U.S. evidence.
D61|Beyond the Spanish MIR with consent: (Hidden) cooperation and coordination in matching|Sequential mechanisms to solve matching problems are useful to promote (hidden) cooperation between agents. Taking as a starting point the MIRC mechanism, employed in Spain to match medical students and residency programs in privately owned hospitals, we find that:(1)In the current system, where the number of students that each program might enroll is limited, the unique equilibrium allocation can be unstable.(2)When the above limit is not (formally) imposed, instability is not expected to occur. Nevertheless, the multiplicity of equilibria shows that coordination failure might emerge, generating a social welfare loss.(3)When the role of students and hospitals is reversed in the MIRC mechanism, (hidden) cooperation is guaranteed. Moreover, coordination failure disappears.
D61|Alternative organizations in finance: commoning in complementary currencies|The commons are alternative social and economic practices for fostering community development and regeneration. While the role of finance is increasingly criticized as a trigger for individualism, community currencies (CCs) are one of the financial initiatives that aim to reorganize finance in the collective interest. We analyze to what extent these alternative systems allow finance to constitute common goods, or ‘commons’. To this end, we investigate the commoning practices through which resources are created, distributed and consumed in a way that promotes new collectives. We analyze the extent to which CCs can be considered as commons. Our findings suggest that, although these monetary services are privately used and consumed, they have strong collective attributes such as community-building as well as the insertion of solidarity and cooperative values in money. Finally, we inquire into the limits and ambiguities of these alternatives relative to the capitalist system.
D61|The decision on unconstitutionality of earmarking and its impact on the housing access: Evidence from SÃ£o Paulo State, Brazil|An important challenge in the earmarking literature is to isolate causal effects of earmarking decisions on public goods supply. Following the Brazilian Supreme Courtï¿½s decision on unconstitutionality of Sï¿½o Paulo Stateï¿½s earmarking policy to face housing deficit, in September 1997, earmarked resources to fund the CDHU were forbidden. The Supreme Courtï¿½s decision created an uncertain housing policy scenario,especially, to households with a housing deficit. The Supreme Court intervention can be assumed to be exogenous to a housing deficit econometric model. The decision on unconstitutionality of the earmarking mechanism for housing construction by the Brazilian Court allows identifying an exogenously determined pre and post treatment situation, with the households between zero and five-minimum wages and households between five and six-minimum wages defining the treatment-group and control-group, respectively, along the lines of the eligibility rule by the CDHU. We apply a difference-in-difference empirical model with non-linear estimators. Our results suggest that low-income households under uncertainty face an average increase of 1.8% in the probability to remain in a housing deficit condition and indicate that low-income households depend on the government earmarking policy.
D61|Treatment cost and life expectancy of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL): a discrete event simulation model on a UK population-based observational cohort|Abstract Background Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is the commonest non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Previous studies examining the cost of treating DLBCL have generally focused on a specific first-line therapy alone; meaning that their findings can neither be extrapolated to the general patient population nor to other points along the treatment pathway. Based on empirical data from a representative population-based patient cohort, the objective of this study was to develop a simulation model that could predict costs and life expectancy of treating DLBCL. Methods All patients newly diagnosed with DLBCL in the UK’s population-based Haematological Malignancy Research Network ( www.hmrn.org ) in 2007 were followed until 2013 (n = 271). Mapped treatment pathways, alongside cost information derived from the National Tariff 2013/14, were incorporated into a patient-level simulation model in order to reflect the heterogeneities of patient characteristics and treatment options. The NHS and social services perspective was adopted, and all outcomes were discounted at 3.5 % per annum. Results Overall, the expected total medical costs were £22,122 for those treated with curative intent, and £2930 for those managed palliatively. For curative chemotherapy, the predicted medical costs were £14,966, £23,449 and £7376 for first-, second- and third-line treatments, respectively. The estimated annual cost for treating DLBCL across the UK was around £88–92 million. Conclusions This is the first cost modelling study using empirical data to provide ‘real world’ evidence throughout the DLBCL treatment pathway. Future application of the model could include evaluation of new technologies/treatments to support healthcare decision makers, especially in the era of personalised medicine.
D61|Ambiguous implementation: the partition model|Abstract In a partition model, we show that each maximin individually rational and ex ante maximin efficient allocation of a single good economy is implementable as a maximin equilibrium. When there are more than one good, we introduce three conditions. If none of the three conditions is satisfied, then a maximin individually rational and ex ante maximin efficient allocation may not be implementable. However, as long as one of the three conditions is satisfied, each maximin individually rational and ex ante maximin efficient allocation is implementable. Our work generalizes and extends the recent paper of de Castro et al. (Games Econ Behav 2015. doi: 10.1016/j.geb.2015.10.010 ).
D61|A monotonic and merge-proof rule in minimum cost spanning tree situations|Abstract We present a new model for cost sharing in minimum cost spanning tree problems to allow planners to identify how many agents merge. Under this new framework, in contrast to the traditional model, there are rules that satisfy the property of Merge-proofness. Furthermore, strengthening this property and adding some others, such as Population Monotonicity and Solidarity, makes it possible to define a unique rule that coincides with the weighted Shapley value of an associated cost game.
D61|Rotten spouses, family transfers, and public goods|Abstract We show that once interfamily exchanges are considered, Becker’s rotten kids mechanism has some remarkable, hitherto unnoticed, implications. Specifically, Cornes and Silva’s (J Polit Econ 107(5):1034–1040, 1999) result of efficiency in the contribution game amongst siblings extends to a setting where the contributors (spouses) belong to different families. More strikingly still, the mechanism may also have dramatic redistributive implications. In particular, we show that the rotten kids mechanism combined with a contribution game to a household public good may lead to an astonishing equalization of consumptions between and within families, even when their parents’ wealth levels differ. The most striking results obtain when wages are equal and when parents’ initial wealth levels are not too different. For very large wealth differences, the mechanism must be supplemented by a (mandatory) transfer that brings them back into the relevant range. When wages differ but are similar, the outcome will be near efficient (and near egalitarian).
D61|No-envy and egalitarian-equivalence under multi-object-demand for heterogeneous objects|Abstract We study the problem of allocating heterogeneous indivisible tasks in a multi-object-demand model (i.e., each agent can be assigned multiple objects) where monetary transfers are allowed. Agents’ costs for performing tasks are their private information and depend on what other tasks they are obtained with. First, we show that when costs are unrestricted or superadditive, then there is no envy-free and egalitarian-equivalent mechanism that assigns the tasks efficiently. Then, we characterize the class of envy-free and egalitarian-equivalent Groves mechanisms when costs are subadditive. Finally, within this class, under a bounded-deficit condition, we identify the Pareto-dominant subclass. We show that the mechanisms in this subclass are not Pareto-dominated by any other Groves mechanism satisfying the same bounded-deficit condition.
D61|Sharing an increase of the rent fairly|Abstract We characterize the family of non-contestable budget-monotone rules for the allocation of objects and money as those obtained by maximizing a maxmin social welfare function among all non-contestable allocations. We provide three additional seemingly independent approaches to construct these rules. We present three applications of this characterization. First, we show that one can “rectify” any non-contestable rule without losing non-contestability. Second, we characterize the preferences that admit, for each budget, a non-contestable allocation satisfying a minimal or maximal individual consumption of money constraint. Third, we study continuity properties of the non-contestable correspondence.
D61|The External Validity of Consequential Stated Preference Studies: a comment|Mounting evidence suggests that Consequential Discrete Choice Experiments (CDCEs) are internally valid i.e. they elicit a de-facto revealed preference. This comment asks whether CDCEs are always externally valid. For instance, when it comes to existence values, policy makers require a valuation of the benefit that derives from passively experiencing the continued existence of a good, whereas CDCEs measure the value that derives from actively intervening to maintain or increase the supply of a good. We show that CDCEs will recommend suboptimal levels of Pigovian taxes and public goods provision. We suggest potential alternatives to CDCEs that future research should consider.
D61|Personality and economic choices|There is substantial variation in individual preferences for public goods, yet much of that variation remains poorly understood. However, simple measures of personality can help to explain economic values and choices in a systematic way. In this paper, we examine the effects of personality on individual economic choices over public environmental goods. Based on three datasets from three separate stated preference studies, we use a hybrid choice econometric framework to examine the effects of personality on preferences for the status quo, changes in environmental quality, and costs of investing in environmental improvements. We find effects that are consistent across all datasets. Personality, a stable feature of an individual's character that is simple to measure, enriches explanations of why the demand for environmental goods varies across people, provides an indication of how different people are likely to react to the introduction of environmental policies, and explains substantial differences in Willingness to Pay.
D61|Decomposing Value Added Growth into Explanatory Factors|A method for decomposing nominal value added growth is presented, which identifies the contributions from efficiency change, growth of primary inputs, changes in output and input prices, technical progress and returns to scale. In order to implement the decomposition, an estimate of the relevant cost constrained value added function for the two periods under consideration is required. This is taken to be the free disposal hull of past observations. Aggregation over sectors is also considered. The methodology is illustrated using U.S. data for two sectors over the years 1960-2014.
D61|Improving matching under hard distributional constraints|Distributional constraints are important in many market design settings. Prominent examples include the minimum manning requirements at each Army branch in military cadet matching and diversity considerations in school choice, whereby school districts impose constraints on the demographic distribution of students at each school. Standard assignment mechanisms implemented in practice are unable to accommodate these constraints. This leads policymakers to resort to ad-hoc solutions that eliminate blocks of seats ex-ante (before agents submit their preferences) to ensure that all constraints are satisfied ex-post (after the mechanism is run). We show that these current solutions ignore important information contained in the submitted preferences, resulting in avoidable inefficiency. We then introduce new dynamic quotas mechanisms that result in Pareto superior allocations while at the same time respecting all distributional constraints and satisfying important fairness and incentive properties. We expect the use of our mechanisms to improve the performance of matching markets with distributional constraints in the field.
D61|Obvious Mistakes in a Strategically Simple College Admissions Environment|In a centralized marketplace that was designed to be simple, we identify participants whose choices are dominated. Using administrative data from Hungary, we show that college applicants make obvious mistakes: they forgo the free opportunity to receive a tuition waiver worth thousands of dollars. At least 10 percent of the applicants made such mistakes in 2013. Costly mistakes have externalities: they transfer tuition waivers from high- to low-socioeconomic status students, and increase the number of students attending college. To shed light on the mechanisms underlying mistakes, we exploit a reform that substantially increased the selectivity of admission with financial aid in some fields of study. Increased admission selectivity raises the likelihood of making obvious mistakes, especially among high-socioeconomic status and low-achieving applicants. Our results suggest that mistakes are more common when their expected cost is lower. Still, the average cost of a mistake in 2013 was 114-365 dollars.
D61|Bridges|We use spatial maize prices to estimate to what extent bridges in Mozambique lead to transport cost reductions and attribute these reductions to road distance and road quality. The applied methodology allows for potentially oligopolistic traders with spatially varying mark-ups. For identification we exploit the introduction of a road bridge over the Zambezi river, which creates variation in trading itineraries between markets. Estimations are based on monthly maize prices, in 24 markets, for five years before and after the introduction of the bridge. Estimates of the reduction of transport costs, averaged over itineraries, vary from 6% to 10%. Results are robust for non-random bridge placement and various other threats, and supported by observed transport cost data. Reduction in transport costs for particular itineraries varies more (up to 21%) and is roughly for two-third due to road distance and for one-third due to road quality.
D61|Allocating essential inputs|Regulators must often allocate essential inputs, such as spectrum rights, transmission capacity or airport landing slots, which can transform the structure of the downstream market. These decisions involve a trade-off, as provisions aimed at fostering competition and lowering prices for consumers, also tend to limit the proceeds from the sale of the inputs. We first characterize the optimal allocation, from the standpoints of consumer and total welfare. We then note that standard auctions yield substantially different outcomes. Finally, we show how various regulatory instruments can be used to implement the desired allocation.
D61|Application Costs and Congestion in Matching Markets|A matching market often requires recruiting agents, or ``programs,'' to costly screen ``applicants,'' and congestion increases with the number of applicants to be screened. We investigate the role of application costs: Higher costs reduce congestion by discouraging applicants from applying to certain programs; however, they may harm match quality. In a multiple-elicitation experiment conducted in a real-life matching market, we implement variants of the Gale-Shapley Deferred-Acceptance mechanism with different application costs. Our experimental and structural estimates show that a (low) application cost effectively reduces congestion without harming match quality.
D61|Framing individual choice behaviour in uncertain environmental settings: An analysis of tourist preferences in the face of global warming|Unlike current stated preference studies, this paper examines the existence of framing effects from varying information about the environmental features characterizing the decision-making context where respondents are asked to state their preferences. Thus, it adds to the existing literature on framing effects which has usually been focused on analysing the welfare impacts derived from changing information relating to substitute goods and individuals’ budget constraint, the attributes defining the good to be valued and the complexity of the choice task. In particular, and through a novel choice experiment design, the paper investigates the impacts on the willingness-to-pay (WTP) from varying information about the degree of uncertainty over an expected global warming-derived increase in the temperature of a traditional summer holiday destination. Results show that the WTP increases with the magnitude of the expected temperature change and its associated probability of occurrence. Thus, they evidence that the degree of uncertainty over an expected environmental phenomenon can affect preferences for policies aimed at adapting to the environmental conditions resulting from such phenomenon. The implications of the results for decision-making in traditional sun and beach tourism destinations are also discussed.
D61|Improving Drinking Quality in South Korea: A Choice Experiment|Increased pollution leads to a constant decrease of drinking water quality worldwide. Due to safety concerns, unpleasant taste and odour only about 3% of the population in South Korea is drinking untreated tap water. The present study uses choice experiments and cost-benefit analysis to investigate the feasibility of installing advanced water treatments in Cheongju waterworks in South Korea. The waterworks is situated in the middle of the country and is providing more than half a million people with drinking water. The study shows that the lower bound of the median WTP for installing a new advanced water treatment system is about $2 US/month, which is similar to the average expenditures for bottled water per household in South Korea. Scenarios under which the instalment of the advanced water treatments is feasible are discussed together with environmental solutions in the long-run.
D61|Challenged by Migration: Europe’s Options|This paper examines the migration and labor mobility in the European Union and elaborates on their importance for the existence of the EU. Against all measures of success, the current public debate seems to suggest that the political consensus that migration is beneficial is broken. This comes with a crisis of European institutions in general. Migration and labor mobility have not been at the origin of the perceived cultural shift. The EU in its current form and ambition could perfectly survive or collapse even if it solves its migration challenge. But it will most likely collapse, if it fails to solve the mobility issue by not preserving free internal labor mobility and not establishing a joint external migration policy.
D61|Rates of return to antipoverty transfers in Uganda|A growing literature measures the impact of antipoverty transfer programmes on variables of interest among participants in low- and middle-income countries. To date, few studies provide information on net benefits or rates of return from these programmes. This paper constructs estimates of rates of return to an antipoverty transfer programme in Uganda using appropriate welfare weights. Survey and experimental methods empirically validate the range of welfare weights applied. We find that rates of return estimates applying appropriate prioritarian welfare weights are significantly higher than utilitarian rates of return.
D61|Assessing the cost of supplying water for agriculture: the food supply cost curve|As part of a “Regional Initiative on Water Scarcity in the NENA Region”, the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) has been proposing a practical tool for the assessment of investment projects, called the Food Supply Cost Curve (FSCC). This chapter illustrates the concept of the Food Supply Cost Curve, and which steps need to be taken to practically implement an FSCC evaluation exercise. It concludes by commenting on some preliminary findings obtained at the FAO when the FSCC has been employed in some countries in the Near East and North Africa.
D61|Stato sociale, lavoro e welfare aziendale ai tempi del Jobs Act|Evocare, nel titolo di un Seminario, lo Stato sociale, nel 2017, rischia di far emarginare lo stesso come unÕoccasione nostalgica. Molti ritengono in effetti, che lo Stato sociale non esista pi o quantomeno abbia perso molto del suo smalto, tipico del secolo scorso e ora non pi sostenibile finanziariamente dai diversi Stati. E da tempo, anche da quelli che, come le socialdemocrazie del Nordeuropa, hanno costruito le proprie fortune sul rispetto di due cardini della convivenza civile: alto livello di imposte e forti interventi in termini di benessere per la popolazione. Ebbene oggi tutto ci˜ non cÕ pi , o cÕ di meno, specie nel nostro paese, dove una sorta di furia iconoclasta per un welfare generalissimo e statale ma, contradditoriamente, fondato su un solo asse, quello pensionistico, ha portato ad un vero e proprio disastro economico-finanziario, dal quale faticosamente si potrˆ, forse, uscire con ben altri strumenti e intenti. Di tutto questo, sebbene in modo limitato nei tempi ma non di meno efficace, si voluto occupare il Seminario qui presentato e si occupano queste Note di ricerca. Dopo una panoramica di ci˜ che resta, in veritˆ molto, dello Stato sociale italiano, con particolare riferimento agli istituti che vengono riportati al loro significato e impatto originario (integrazioni salariali, pensioni di vecchiaia e non pi di anzianitˆ, trattamenti di disoccupazione degni di questo nome, incentivi alla autoimprenditorialitˆ); e quindi dei residui spazi di movimento economico-finanziario, posto non bisogna dimenticare che solo da poco pi di un ventennio si tornati ad un, cos“ si afferma, sistema pensionistico contributivo, cui doveva e dovrebbe affiancarsi la previdenza complementare; dopo tali relazioni di premessa gli interventi si sono dunque soffermati sul c.d. Ònuovo che avanzaÓ. Che, al di lˆ di facili slogan e di volumi pi o meno divulgativi, segnala la rilevanza del tema affrontato: il welfare aziendale. Da intendersi, riteniamo, come qualsivoglia strumento attraverso il quale la funzione previdenziale lato sensu considerata viene svolta non pi ed esclusivamente dallo Stato o comunque da Enti pubblici non economici, bens“ dalle stesse imprese; che in tal modo da un lato godono di benefici e sgravi fiscali e contributivi, riportando tuttavia il ÒcostoÓ di simili operazioni in carico alla collettivitˆ; e in seconda battuta ÒinvestonoÓ significativamente nelle ÒpersoneÓ dei propri collaboratori (e non solo lavoratori subordinati). Insomma, sin da subito appare evidente come il c.d. welfare aziendale orienti anche verso una diversa concezione dellÕimpresa, meno conflittuale e maggiormente cooperativa, per la quale lo Stato investe s“, ma non genericamente, bens“ con un obiettivo ben chiaro: ridurre il proprio intervento diretto e indiscriminato, e favorire il ruolo ÒsocialeÓ dellÕimpresa, quasi rivista come istituzione o quantomeno acceleratore di benessere dei propri collaboratori. Cos“, dopo una disamina dei problemi macro del welfare statale, gli interventi si sono rivolti specificamente ai temi e alla cronaca del welfare aziendale, da un lato con unÕanalisi degli strumenti normativi ÒpossibiliÓ e utilizzabili da parte delle imprese; dallÕaltra con un approfondimento diretto su alcune significative realtˆ imprenditoriali del territorio. Il tutto condito da un Òavviso ai navigantiÓ da parte del mondo della consulenza del lavoro, primo momento di verifica delle soluzioni astrattamente prospettabili. Di qui anche alcune curiose esperienze, in particolar modo attinenti ai servizi alla genitorialitˆ, ben oltre i tradizionali e tipici benefits, e valutandosi ovviamente lÕulteriore incentivo conseguente alla possibilitˆ di trasformare i premi di risultato, in tutto o in parte, in welfare aziendale. Quali prime, e ovviamente provvisorie, conclusioni possono dunque raggiungersi? Anzitutto, appare possibile decretare lÕavvenuto consolidamento del welfare aziendale rispetto a quello statale. Il quale ultimo non certo finito ma sconta la crisi economica, i dati demografici, forse anche un eccesso di benessere, visto come condizione insopprimibile nel mondo occidentale ma, appunto, non pi sostenibile. In secondo luogo, il welfare aziendale mostra una sua poliedricitˆ e una sorta di adattamento alle concrete esigenze delle imprese e dei lavoratori/cittadini. Infine, ci sembra, come giˆ anticipato, che tali politiche imprenditoriali, in uno con il sempre pi marcato intervento, incentivato normativamente, della contrattazione collettiva aziendale, non possa che favorire la creazione di un clima, micro e macro, di collaborazione tra le due parti del contratto di lavoro subordinato, ma anche tra la sempre pi massiccia presenza di lavoratori non subordinati, quali protagonisti anche della riscoperta della industria manifatturiera (c.d. 4.0) nel nostro Paese.
D61|Management of knee osteoarthritis in Italy. A cost-utility analysis of Platelet-Rich-Plasma dedicated kit versus Hyaluronic acid for the intra-articular treatment of knee OA|Background. Osteoarthritis (OA) is a chronic and degenerative pathology that affects joints in particular hands, knees, hip and lower back. It is one of the main causes of disability in most of advanced economy countries. Its prevalence and incidence are increasing for the ageing of population and the presence of risk factors. OA burden of disease implies high costs of care and it has an important social impact. Although more high-quality evidence is needed, recent studies indicate that intra-articular Platelet-Rich Plasma (i.a. PRP) injections can relieve pain, improving knee function and quality of life, especially in younger patients and mild OA cases. Objectives. The aim of this work is to develop a preliminary economic evaluation of i.a. PRP therapy in the treatment of knee OA. The comparator adopted is the Hyaluronic acid (HA) which represents the standard therapy. Both therapies can reduce pain and can help the patient to delay the total knee replacement (TKR) surgical intervention. Methods. A Cost-Utility Analysis (CUA) was performed using a decision tree model. Outcomes are reported in terms of Quality Adjusted Life Year (QALY), while costs are reported in Euro (Û) currency. The adopted perspective is the National Healthcare System. Deterministic and probabilistic sensibility analyses are reported to evaluate the robustness of results under uncertainty. Results. The i.a. PRP-based therapy is cost-effective with respect to HA. Future clinical studies should provide more evidence on the major effectiveness and considering a longer patient follow-up there could be the delay of TKR, reducing consequently the eventual prosthesis revision and reducing costs of knee OA for National Healthcare System.
D61|Entry and Exit, Multiproduct Firms, and Allocative Distortions|Most studies quantifying the gains from reversing allocative distortions are static in nature. We propose a model of firm dynamics featuring entry, exit, and multiproduct firms to understand the contribution of these dynamic factors in shaping the welfare and long-run productivity gains from removing distortions. We find that while the entry and exit of firms and their product-portfolio choices exert countervailing forces over long-run total factor productivity (TFP), they reinforce each other in shaping the welfare gains from reversing misallocation. Welfare gains, which account for transition dynamics, become more than twice as high as the long-run changes in TFP.
D61|Does neighbourâ€™s grass matter? Exploring spatial dependent heterogeneity in technical efficiency of Italian hospitals|With respect to the other dimensions of hospital behaviour, studying the presence of interaction effects on efficiency involves the issue of which approach is most appropriate to incorporate the spatial dependence in the empirical efficiency model. Using a large sample of Italian hospitals, this paper explores the presence of spatial dependence in technical efficiency. To this purpose, we employ a Spatial Stochastic Frontier Analysis (SSFA) that allows us to robustly estimate the efficiency of each hospital while considering the presence of spatial dependence. Furthermore, we employ both standard spatial contiguity matrix and spatial matrixes exploring the idea of institutional contiguity. Overall, the results suggest an insignificant role for spatial dependence in the efficiency of Italian hospitals, regardless of the specific form of spatial dependence implicit in the weights matrix.
D61|Challenged by migration: Europe's options|This paper examines the migration and labour mobility in the European Union and elaborates on their importance for the existence of the EU. Against all measures of success, the current public debate seems to suggest that the political consensus that migration is beneficial is broken. This comes with a crisis of European institutions in general. Migration and labour mobility have not been at the origin of the perceived cultural shift. The EU in its current form and ambition could perfectly survive or collapse even if it solves its migration challenge. But it will most likely collapse, if it fails to solve the mobility issue by not preserving free internal labour mobility and not establishing a joint external migration policy.
D61|Labour as a utility measure reconsidered|In Stated Preference studies for the appraisal of environmental projects in poor countries or regions it often turns out that the stated willingness to pay of people for environmental improvements, which is used as measure of individual welfare changes, is very low. This is often interpreted as the result of extremely tight budget constraints, which make it impossible that people express their true appreciation of an environmental project in terms of their willingness to pay for it. Therefore, it is sometimes suggested to use labour contributions instead of money as a numeraire to measure utility in such studies. In this paper we show theoretically and empirically that this suggestion is not compatible with the principles of welfare theory because of several inconsistencies. We also illustrate the validity of our arguments empirically based on the results of a Contingent Valuation study conducted in a rural area in northern Vietnam.
D61|The Blessing of Cash|This study investigates the benefits of cash in a general context. First, we explicitly address the arguments of cash critics, who are calling for cash to be abolished altogether. Second, we show that cash plays a crucial role in the current two-tier banking system. Third, we are discussing a number of selected benefits of cash, inter alia its use in financial crisis and the provision of privacy. We conclude that the abolition of cash would have major drawbacks and could entail undesirable consequences.
D61|Willingness to Pay for Solar Panels and Smart Grids|It is expected that the renewable share of energy generation will rise considerably in the near future. The intermittent and uncertain nature of renewable energy (RE) calls for storage and grid management technologies that can allow for increased power system flexibility. To assist policy makers in designing public policies that incentivize RE generation and a flexible power system based on energy storage and demandside management, better knowledge as to the willingness to pay for the corresponding devices is required. In this paper, we appraise the willingness of a household (HH) to pay for a 1.9 kW peak photovoltaic (PV) system and smart grid devices, namely, a smart meter and a home storage battery. Results indicate that having access to a storage device is key for the HH decision to install a smart meter. We also find that it is beneficial for the HH to install the PV system regardless of the pricing scheme and the ownership of the battery pack. It is, nevertheless, barely desirable to install the battery pack regardless of the presence of the PV system; an outcome pointing to the fact that the high cost of storage is a drawback for the wider use of these systems. When storage is constrained in such a way that only the generated power can be stored, the willingness to install the battery pack reduces even further. The investment decisions made when legislation prohibits net-metering are also analyzed.
