D69|Leben in Schleswig-Holstein: subjektive Einschätzungen als Teil der Wohlfahrtsmessung|"In recent years, the debate about alternative measures of welfare (“beyond GDP”) has con-siderably gained momentum in Germany. This was the case not only on the national level: The demand for such measures has risen on the federal states level, too. For that reason, and in the context of a study whose main purpose was to calculate the Regional Welfare Index (RWI) for Schleswig-Holstein (SH), we also analyzed survey data from the Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) for SH and – in order the compare and classify the results – for the rest of Germany. The observation period ranges from 1984 to 2014 (SOEP v31). The research topics include satisfaction (life in general/specific areas; current/anticipated), concerns, im-portance, interest for politics and feelings. The evaluation shows among other findings that… – overall life satisfaction in SH has increased significantly in recent years, – the people in SH are on average a little more satisfied than in the rest of Germany, – the trust in the future in SH reached in 2014 its highest level, – people in SH are less concerned about economic issues, but more concerned about ""peacekeeping"", ""health"" and ""environmental protection"", – social aspects are particularly important to people in SH, – the importance of social engagement in 2014 is as highly valued in SH as never be-fore, – people in SH were happier in 2014 than in the medium-term average. At the end of this contribution, the trends of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), the Region-al Welfare Index (RWI) and the current general life satisfaction are compared. They differ significantly from each other Die Debatte um (andere) Indikatoren zur Messung gesellschaftlicher Wohlfahrt und eines „guten Lebens“ hat in den vergangenen Jahren deutlich an Fahrt aufgenommen. Und das nicht nur auf Bundesebene. Auch auf der Ebene der Bundesländer wächst die Nachfrage nach solchen Indikatoren. Im Rahmen einer Studie zur Berechnung des Regionalen Wohlfahrtsindex (RWI) wurden deswegen auch subjektive Befragungsdaten des Sozio-Ökonomischen Panels (SOEP) für das Bundesland Schleswig-Holstein (SH) ausgewertet.1 Neben SH-spezifischen Auswertungen wurden zur Einordnung der Ergebnisse auch bundesdeutsche Werte (exkl. SH) berechnet. Betrachtet werden für den Zeitraum 1984-2014 (SOEP v31) die Bereiche Zufriedenheit (allgemein/Bereiche), Sorgen, Wichtigkeit, Interesse für Politik und Gefühle.Die Auswertungen ergeben unter anderem, dass…– die allgemeine Lebenszufriedenheit in SH in den letzten Jahren deutlich gestiegen ist;– die Menschen in SH im Durchschnitt etwas zufriedener sind als im Rest Deutschlands;– die Zukunftszuversicht in SH im Jahr 2014 Höchstwerte erreichte;– die Menschen in SH sich weniger Sorgen um wirtschaftliche Themen, dafür mehr Sorgen um „Friedenserhaltung“, „Gesundheit“ und „Umweltschutz“ machen;– den Menschen in SH soziale Aspekte besonders wichtig sind;– die Wichtigkeit von gesellschaftlichem Engagement im Jahr 2014 in SH so hoch eingeschätzt wurde wie nie;– die Menschen in SH im Jahr 2014 häufiger glücklich waren als im mittelfristigen Durchschnitt.Schließlich werden die Entwicklungen des Bruttoinlandsprodukts (BIP), des Regionalen Wohlfahrtsindex (RWI) und der allgemeinen Lebenszufriedenheit in SH für den Zeitraum 1999-2014 miteinander verglichen. Bei diesem Vergleich zeigen sich deutliche Unterschiede."
D69|Repeated shocks and preferences for redistribution| A society that believes wealth to be determined by random “luck” rather than by merit, demands more redistribution. The theoretical literature shows that any increase in the volatility of income caused by unpredictable adverse shocks implies a higher support for redistribution. We present evidence of this behavior by exploiting a natural experiment provided by the L’Aquila earthquake in 2009, which hit a large area of Central Italy through a series of destructive shakes over eight days. Matching detailed information on the ground acceleration registered during each shock with survey data about individual opinions on redistribution we show that the average intensity of the shakes is associated with subsequent stronger beliefs that, for a society to be fair, income inequalities should be levelled by redistribution. The shocks, however, are not all alike. We find that only the last three shakes - occurred on the fourth and the eighth day of the earthquake - have a statistically significant impact. Overall, we find that the timing and repetition of the shock play a role in shaping redistributive preferences. Revision posted January 24, 2019. A previous version of this paper circulated under the title “Natural disasters and demand for redistribution: lessons from an earthquake”.
D69|United we stand: On the benefits of coordinated punishment| Coordinated punishment requires a specific number of punishers to be effective (otherwise, no damage is inflicted on the target) but it also exhibits returns to scale. While societies often rely on this punishment device, its benefits are unclear compared with uncoordinated punishment, where punishment decisions are substitutes. We argue that coordinated punishment can prevent the free-riding of punishers and show, both theoretically and experimentally, that this may be beneficial for cooperation in a team investment game, compared with uncoordinated punishment. Nevertheless, efficiency is not enhanced since punishment is more extensively used when it is coordinated.
D69|Potential Use of the Life Satisfaction Approach to Value Nonmarket Goods and Services|Economic analysis often faces challenges in the valuation of nonmarket goods and services. The traditional set of nonmarket valuation tools for measuring Marshallian economic surplus has limitations related to potential bias in stated preferences and endogeneity of nonmarket amenity placement in revealed preference studies. The life satisfaction approach offers a Hicksian compensating variationbased alternative, which uses self-reported subjective well-being to calculate the marginal rate of substitution of income for nonmarket amenities or services. The conceptual basis for the approach is explained and illustrated with an example from Iloilo, Philippines. Recommendations are offered for future application of the technique in the economic analysis of investment projects.
D69|Claiming the Usefulness of Relative Welfare Indicators in General Equilibrium Analysis:A Comprehensive Comparison of VAT Reforms|The evaluation of welfare effects should be clear and presented in an easy to interpret manner. In this paper, we show that on these grounds the true index of cost of living, first introduced by Konüs (1939), is preferable to the standard absolute indicators when evaluating welfare effects in static applied general equilibrium models i.e. the equivalent and the compensated variations. In these applied models, it is customary to use linearly homogeneous utility functions such as Cobb-Douglas or the more general CES specification. Under this class of utilities, the Konüs index is independent of the reference level of utility. This makes this index an unambiguous cost of living indicator. Lastly, to show the convenience of using the Konüs index in empirical work, we have carried out an original exercise with a novel data set for the Spanish economy. We report the macroeconomic and welfare impacts of two alternative Value-Added Tax Reforms through the application of an original simulation strategy.
D69|Reaganomics: A Historical Watershed|The socio-economic impact of Reaganomics and its long-run deleterious legacy is documented. The preponderance of data indicate that economic growth was not particularly impressive in the wake of the tax cuts of 1981 or 1986. GDP did snap back to potential but failed to accelerate beyond the rates achieved in prior or subsequent decades. The supposed incentives of supply-side economics failed to materialize. People did not work more, they did not save or invest more than they did before, and the benefits trickled down like molasses and got stuck at the very top of the income distribution. Instead, Reagan’s presidency was a watershed in U.S. economic development in the sense that it reversed many of the accomplishments of the New Deal and inaugurated an era in which low-skilled men’s wages began a long period of decline, and labor’s share of GDP continued to fall. Reagan’s true legacy is a dual economy that accompanied the hollowing out of the middle class, a more business-friendly regulatory and oversight framework for Wall Street that ultimately led to the financial crisis, a stupendous increase in the national debt from 30% to 50% of GDP that put it on a path such that by 2012 it exceeded 100%, anti-statism that contributed to the rise of Trumpism, a remarkable rise in inequality that gave rise to an oligarchy, and the benign neglect of blue-collar workers who eventually became Hillary Clinton’s “deplorables.” Reagan put the economy on a trajectory to ultimately, even if not inevitably, led to the triumph of Trumpism and an economy of malaise.
D69|SAM and AGEM of Mexico and Taxes on Hydrocarbons Extraction|No abstract is available for this item.
D69|Repeated Shocks and Preferences for Redistribution|A society that believes wealth to be determined by random “luck” rather than by merit, demands more redistribution. The theoretical literature shows that any increase in the volatility of income caused by unpredictable adverse shocks implies a higher support for redistribution. We present evidence of this behavior by exploiting a natural experiment provided by the L’Aquila earthquake in 2009, which hit a large area of Central Italy through a series of destructive shakes over eight days. Matching detailed information on the ground acceleration registered during each shock with survey data about individual opinions on redistribution we show that the average intensity of the shakes is associated with subsequent stronger beliefs that, for a society to be fair, income inequalities should be levelled by redistribution. The shocks, however, are not all alike. We find that only the last three shakes - occurred on the fourth and the eighth day of the earthquake - have a statistically significant impact. Overall, we find that the timing and repetition of the shock play a role in shaping redistributive preferences.
D69|Il tempo condiviso in Italia|"Shared time is the set of moments that we are free to use in connection with others. Our research asks where Italians use their shared time in similar ways. Based on the proportion of time spent in shared activities, we have identified ten ""lifestyles"". Each ""style"" unites people who have a similar distribution of shared time among activities. Between 2003 and 2008 all Italian macro- regions moved in the same direction and roughly the same size. The inhabitants of various areas tend to converge on the normal ""lifestyle"", eliminating the particularities that differentiate one type from the other. In the following period, which runs from 2008 to 2013, Italy appears fossilized on the choice made during the previous phase: the polygons enclosing the trajectories of the two years overlap, and all the trajectories are shortened. The whole decade can thus be captured by the expression ""fossilized normalization"" of the uses of shared time."
D69|Long-run Effects of Lottery Wealth on Psychological Well-being|We surveyed a large sample of Swedish lottery players about their psychological well-being and analyzed the data following pre-registered procedures. Relative to matched controls, large-prize winners experience sustained increases in overall life satisfaction that persist for over a decade and show no evidence of dissipating with time. The estimated treatment effects on happiness and mental health are significantly smaller, suggesting that wealth has greater long-run effects on evaluative measures of well-being than on affective ones. Follow-up analyses of domain-specific aspects of life satisfaction clearly implicate financial life satisfaction as an important mediator for the long-run increase in overall life satisfaction.
D69|Status and Progress in Cross-Border Portability of Social Security Benefits|The importance of cross-border portability of social benefits is increasing in parallel with the rise in the absolute number of international migrants and their share of the world population, and perhaps more importantly, with the rising share of world population that for some part of their life is working and/or retiring abroad. This paper estimates how the rising stock of migrants is distributed over four key portability regimes: those with portability through bilateral social security arrangements (regime I); those with potential exportability of eligible benefits from abroad (regime II); documented workers with no access to national schemes but no contribution payment either (regime III); and undocumented workers with no access to any scheme (regime IV). Estimates for 2000 and 2013 are compared. The results indicate a modest but noticeable increase in the share of migrants under regime I, from 21.9 percent in 2000 to 23.3 percent in 2013. The biggest change occurred under regime III, which almost doubled to 9.4 percent. Regime II reduced by 3.0 percentage points but remains the dominant scheme (at 53.2 percent). The estimates suggest that the scope of regime IV (informality) reduced by 2.9 percentage points, accounting for 14.0 of all migrants in 2013. This trend is positive, but more will need to be done to progress on benefit portability.
D69|Long-run Effects of Lottery Wealth on Psychological Well-being|We surveyed a large sample of Swedish lottery players about their psychological well-being and analyzed the data following pre-registered procedures. Relative to matched controls, large-prize winners experience sustained increases in overall life satisfaction that persist for over a decade and show no evidence of dissipating with time. The estimated treatment effects on happiness and mental health are significantly smaller, suggesting that wealth has greater long-run effects on evaluative measures of well-being than on affective ones. Follow-up analyses of domain-specific aspects of life satisfaction clearly implicate financial life satisfaction as an important mediator for the long-run increase in overall life satisfaction.
D69|Peer Advice on Financial Decisions: A case of the blind leading the blind?|Previous research shows that many people seek financial advice from non-experts, and that peer interactions influence financial decisions. We investigate whether such influences are beneficial, harmful, or simply haphazard. In our laboratory experiment, face-to-face communication with a randomly assigned peer significantly improves the quality of private decisions, measured by subjects' ability to choose as if they properly understand their opportunity sets. Subjects do not merely mimic those who know better, but also make better private decisions in novel tasks. People with low financial competence experience greater improvements when their partners also exhibit low financial competence. Hence, peer-to-peer communication transmits financial decision-making skills most effectively when peers are equally uninformed, rather than when an informed decision maker teaches an uninformed peer. Qualitative analysis of subjects' discussions supports this interpretation. The provision of effective financial education to one member of a pair influences the nature of communication but does not lead to additional improvements in the quality of the untreated partner's decisions, particularly in novel tasks.
D69|Natural disasters and demand for redistribution: lessons from an earthquake|Abstract The literature shows that when a society believes that wealth is determined by random “luck” rather than by merit, it demands more redistribution. Adverse shocks, like earthquakes, strengthen the belief that random “bad luck” can frustrate the outcomes achieved with merit. We theoretically illustrate that individuals react to such shocks by raising support for redistribution. We then present evidence of this behavior by exploiting a natural experiment provided by one of the strongest seismic events that occurred in Italy in the last three decades, the L’Aquila earthquake in 2009. We assemble a novel dataset by matching information on the ground acceleration registered throughout the National Strong Motion Network during the earthquake with survey data about individual opinions on redistribution collected a few months later. The empirical analysis illustrates that the intensity of the shakes is associated with subsequent stronger beliefs that, for a society to be fair, income inequalities should be levelled by redistribution.
D69|Optimal Partial Privatization in the Presence of Foreign Competition: The Role of Efficiency Differentials and Unemployment|This paper studies the privatization policy on a domestic state-owned enterprise (SOE), by incorporating the features of unemployment and efficiency differentials-both exogenous and endogenous-between the SOE and a foreign-owned firm, in a partial-equilibrium mixed oligopoly setting. We characterize and compare the optimal privatization policies under different scenarios, and find that the presence/absence of labor efficiency differentials and unemployment interact in an interesting way. In addition, when there is unemployment, the trading of between labor inefficiency and unemployment in privatization decision depends on the magnitude of damage on the labor efficiency due to an increase in state ownership of the SOE, but not so under full employment.
D69|The Mobile Sprout Wagon - an innovative new approach to improving pupil?s health through interdisciplinary hands-on food activities|In today?s society there is a tendency that children are increasingly more and more detached and disconnected from the food they are eating; the origins of its components, and the process ?farm to fork?. This is an issue with wide-reaching consequences to health. In this paper we will seek to answer the questions: How is it possible to create new innovative and interdisciplinary teaching approaches, that enhances the pupils? understanding of food and a healthier lifestyle? And how can we develop interdisciplinary methods and learning tools that can be implemented as hands-on activities in multiple school subjects? To answer these questions we will introduce Learn4Health, an EU Erasmus+ Strategic Partnership with the aim of creating, strengthening and sustaining health, nutrition and food literacy among pupils in primary and secondary schools in Europe. We will discuss three of the projects created within Learn4Health, and their content, structure and use, and further, analyse their innovative and interdisciplinary approaches to the issues at hand. Next, we will highlight one of these projects, the mobile Sprout Wagon as a prime example. The Sprout Wagon, with its unique mobile construction provides pupils with hands-on learning contexts in multiple school subjects, placing food, nutrition and health on the schedule, and we will discuss how this new, innovative and interdisciplinary approach, can be used as an effective tool inside the classroom to support and facilitate learning in multiple school subjects. Finally, on this background we will present the detailed instructional guides and teaching material which will be developed during the process of the Sprout Wagon and the other Learn4Health projects and which will all be included in the HOFA Handbook - an instructional handbook which will be freely available on the Learn4Health website at the end of the project period. This dissemination strategy will ensure that the insights, innovative approaches, knowledge and experiences will be shared across the borders, thereby securing sustainability of the project and creating wide-reaching impact ? and, ultimately, happier, more food literate children.
D69|Income and Wealth Inequality in America, 1949-2016|This paper introduces a new long-run dataset based on archival data from historical waves of the Survey of Consumer Finances. The household-level data allow us to study the joint distributions of household income and wealth since 1949. We expose the central importance of portfolio composition and asset prices for wealth dynamics in postwar America. Asset prices shift the wealth distribution because the composition and leverage of household portfolios differ systematically along the wealth distribution. Middle-class portfolios are dominated by housing, while rich households predominantly own equity. An important consequence is that the top and the middle of the distribution are affected differentially by changes in equity and house prices. Housing booms lead to substantial wealth gains for leveraged middle-class households and tend to decrease wealth inequality, all else equal. Stock market booms primarily boost the wealth of households at the top of the distribution. This race between the equity market and the housing market shaped wealth dynamics in postwar America and decoupled the income and wealth distribution over extended periods. The historical data also reveal that no progress has been made in reducing income and wealth inequalities between black and white households over the past 70 years, and that close to half of all American households have less wealth today in real terms than the median household had in 1970.
D69|Animal welfare and human ethics: A personality study|We elicit concern for animal welfare in an incentivized, direct and real setup that allows us to separate genuine interest in animal welfare from confounding factors like advertisement, replacement arguments or image concerns. Subjects choose between intensive farming and organic living conditions for a laying hen. Opting for better living conditions is costly, but guarantees better food, daylight, and more space to the hen. Hence subjects have to trade off a selfish benefit (money) against the welfare of a hen. Our data shed light on a long-standing philosophical debate about the relationship between animal welfare and human ethics. We confirm that subjects with higher interests in the hen's well-being exhibit higher moral standards towards humans. Supporters of intensive farming are significantly less prosocial and open-minded, and more Machiavellian than others.
D69|Dimensions of Quality of Life in Germany: Measured by Plain Text Responses in a Representative Survey (SOEP)|"This paper demonstrates how quality of life can be measured by plain text in a representative survey, the German Socio Economic Panel Study (SOEP). Furthermore, the paper shows that problems that are difficult to monitor, especially problems like the state of the European Union, long-term climate change but also the national debt or problems with the quality of consumer goods (like food) and services (like medical treatment), are not issues of particular importance to the majority of people. Developments and risks that are difficult to monitor and only have long-term effects should be left primarily to the discourse conducted by experts and the politically-minded ""elites"", the avant garde. And in representative democracies it is ultimately the parliamentarians who must decide. Parliamentarians are likely able to make somewhat better decisions using modern representative surveys and national dialogues than they would be without these instruments of civic participation. Nevertheless, improved civic participation cannot replace parliaments."
D69|Explicit vs implicit proprietorship: Can endowment effect theory explain exchange asymmetry?|Plott and Zeiler (2007) manage to extinguish exchange asymmetry—but as a result of failing to control for whether the items are presented sequentially or simultaneously. This study examines the effect of timing. It finds that exchange asymmetry emerges when the timing is sequential, even when we follow the Plott/Zeiler methodology, i.e., use lottery.
D69|Is it vulnerability or economic insecurity that matters for health?|This paper contrasts the mental and physical health impacts of vulnerability and economic insecurity. An individual is vulnerable if they are at risk of future absolute material deprivation, while they are insecure if they are threatened by losses in relative status. Using data from the first eleven waves of the Australian HILDA panel, we generate four alternative measures of real or perceived downside economic risk and employ panel data models to estimate their impacts on SF-36 mental and physical health indices. We test our hypotheses using a series of polynomial interactions which allow the effect sizes to vary non-linearly with income. Baseline estimates show that economic risks have consistently negative consequences for both mental and physical health, with the former effect being around three times the size of the latter. However our main finding is that increasing incomes do little to mitigate the sensitivity of health to these risks. This suggests it is mostly the prospect of loss rather than deprivation that impacts upon wellbeing. The finding is important as it helps distinguish between competing models (i.e. Beveridge vs Bismarck) for social insurance.
D69|Civic capital and support for the welfare state|Abstract We model how the interplay between tax surveillance institutions and civic capital shapes taxpayers’ support for the welfare state. We show that, when tax surveillance is tight, rational civic-minded individuals express greater support for welfare spending than uncivic ones. We provide empirical evidence of these preferences using data from Italy, a country that has long posed a puzzle for public economists for its limited civic capital and large welfare state.
D69|Fairness and the unselfish demand for redistribution by taxpayers and welfare recipients|We illustrate how the desire to live in a fair society that rewards individual effort and hard work triggers an unselfish though rational demand for redistribution. This leads the well off to prefer higher taxes and the poor to reject extreme progressivity. We then provide evidence of these behaviors using a nationally representative survey from Italy. Our empirical analysis confirms that a stronger aversion to unfair distributive outcomes is associated with a higher support for redistribution by individuals with high income and to a lower demand for redistribution by those with low income.
D69|Fairness and the unselfish demand for redistribution by taxpayers and welfare recipients|We illustrate how the desire to live in a fair society that rewards individual effort and hard work triggers an unselfish though rational demand for redistribution. This leads the well off to prefer higher taxes and the poor to reject extreme progressivity. We then provide evidence of these behaviors using a nationally representative survey from Italy. Our empirical analysis confirms that a stronger aversion to unfair distributive outcomes is associated with a higher support for redistribution by individuals with high income and to a lower demand for redistribution by those with low income.
D69|Dimensions of Quality of Life in Germany: Measured by Plain Text Responses in a Representative Survey (SOEP)|This paper demonstrates how quality of life can be measured by plain text in a representative survey, the German Socio Economic Panel study (SOEP). Furthermore, the paper shows that problems that are difficult to monitor, especially problems like the state of the European Union, long-term climate change but also the national debt or problems with the quality of consumer goods (like food) and services (like medical treatment), are not issues of particular importance to the majority of people. Developments and risks that are difficult to monitor and only have long-term effects should be left primarily to the discourse conducted by experts and the politically-minded “elites”, the avant garde. And in representative democracies it is ultimately the parliamentarians who must decide. Parliamentarians are likely able to make somewhat better decisions using modern representative surveys and national dialogues than they would be without these instruments of civic participation. Nevertheless, improved civic participation cannot replace parliaments. In diesem Beitrag wird gezeigt, dass es heutzutage gut möglich ist, die Wichtigkeitgesellschaftlicher Ziele und dem Stand der Lebensqualität in der Bevölkerung mit Hilfe einesrepräsentativen Surveys (hier: dem Sozio-oekonomischen Panel, SOEP) mit offenen Fragenund Klartextantworten zu erheben und sinnvoll auszuwerten. Dabei zeigt sich, dasslangfristig wichtige, aber zugleich aktuell wenig spürbare Themen wie Klimawandel,Staatsverschuldung oder die Europäische Unionkaum genannt werden. Wir ziehen dieSchlussfolgerung, dass langfristig wirkende Entwicklungen und Gefahren auch weiterhinvorwiegend dem Diskurs der Fachleute und der politisch denkenden „Avantgarde“zugewiesen werden sollten. Undam Ende müssen in einer repräsentativen Demokratie dieParlamente entscheiden. Auf Basis von modernen repräsentativen Erhebungen undBürgerdialogen können Parlamente vermutlich etwas besser entscheiden als ohne dieseInstrumente der Bürgerbeteiligung. Aber auch eine noch so effektive Bürgerbeteiligung kannParlamente nicht ersetzen.
D69|The moral dilemma of normative economics|"During the 20th century the cyclic transition in forming of the key categories of normative economics was observed: from objective to subjective explanation of personal utility, and again — toward more general objective criteria (capabilities). The article is devoted to socio-philisophical background of these processes. In our opinion, behind this conversion the dominance of ethical subjectivism or objectivism, respectively, the values of individual freedom or of well-being was hidden, that can be estimated externally (by an ""impartial spectator"", legislation or public discussion)."
D69|Mikroekonomická analýza malé důchodové reformy v České republice (tzv. I. pilíř)<BR>[A Microeconomic Analysis of Small Pension Reform in the Czech Republic (the So-Called First Pillar)]|The paper deals with the so-called small pension reform in the Czech Republic in response to the findings of the Constitutional Court Pl. US 8/07. Through microeconomic modelling of the situation with the help of valid retro data, the development of solidarity and equivalence in the ongoing pension system is analysed in detail, both before and after the so-called small pension reform of basic pension benefits carried out from 2005-2016 in the Czech Republic. The analytical calculations are focused on properly calculating retirement in accordance with Act No. 155/1995 Coll. on pension insurance, as amended, from the perspective of different situations of typified individuals with different incomes (five) and their individual replacement ratio from the perspective of the Czech pension system, which is funded on an ongoing basis. The results quantify the individual replacement rates and are analysed from the perspective of model situations where, despite the enactment of these small pension reform, a high individual replacement ratio still remains for lowincome individuals compared with high-income individuals. The analysis shows that the lower the pre-retirement income is, the higher the individual pension benefit itself is in comparison with preretirement higher income, and the more it manifests itself in a higher rate of solidarity with the higher individual replacement ratio. Conversely, with an increase in the pre-retirement pension, the benefit income rises, but increases more slowly in relation to the pre-retirement income and the individual replacement ratio decreases significantly. Low-income individuals have a tendency to increase the nationwide replacement rate, while high-income individuals tend to reduce it. In conclusion, the paper also points out the difficulty of achieving ongoing financial sustainability of the pension system in the Czech Republic, where a considerable increase in the so-called awaited dependency ratio (per 100 people) is expected from the 2015 value of 26.6 to 47.8 in 2080 (ceteris paribus).
D69|Animal Welfare and Human Ethics: A Personality Study|We revisit the long-standing question whether there is a relation between animal welfare and human ethics. Therefore, we elicit concern for animal welfare in an incentivized, direct, and real setup: Subjects choose between intensive farming versus organic living conditions for a hen. Guaranteeing organic living conditions is costly, but implies organic feed, access to daylight, and more space. We compare the interest in animal welfare with morally relevant dispositions in subjects, relying on well-established measures such as Machiavellianism scores and the Big 5 personality test. The data confirm a strong, positive relation between caring for animal welfare and moral dispositions.
D69|Leben in Nordrhein-Westfalen: subjektive Einschätzungen als Teil der Wohlfahrtsmessung|In recent years, the debate about alternative measures of welfare (“beyond GDP”) has con-siderably gained momentum in Germany. This was the case not only on the national level: The demand for such measures has risen on the federal states level, too. For that reason, and in the context of a study whose main purpose was to calculate the Regional Welfare Index (RWI) for North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW), we also analyzed survey data from the So-cio-Economic Panel (SOEP) for NRW and – in order the compare and classify the results – for the rest of Germany. The observation period ranges from 1984 to 2013 (SOEP v30). The re-search topics include satisfaction (life in general/specific areas; current/anticipated), con-cerns, importance, interest for politics and feelings. The evaluation shows among other find-ings that in 2013 the current general life satisfaction (+0,1) and the anticipated general life satisfaction in five years (+0,2) were slightly but significantly higher in NRW than in the rest of Germany. At the same time, people in NRW voiced higher concerns about the issues “im-migration to Germany”, “global terrorism” and “crime in Germany”. At the end of this con-tribution, the trends of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), the Regional Welfare Index (RWI) and the current general life satisfaction are compared. They differ significantly from each other.
D69|Determinants of privatization in China: The role of the presence of foreign firms|This study investigates how the presence of foreign firms in a sector influences the privatization policy of domestic firms in that sector in China. We consider several variables to proxy for such a presence, from the perspective of the relative production scale, R&D and marketing, and labor productivity. By using the enterprise surveys carried out by the World Bank in 2005 of nearly 12,400 Chinese firms located in over 100 cities, we find that a rise in the presence of foreign firms increases the extent of the private ownership of domestic firms in a nonlinear fashion. Additionally, we apply IV-Tobit estimation with valid instruments and Tobit estimation with lagged key variables to deal with the possible endogeneity in the relationship between the presence of foreign firms and the privatization decision. Empirical evidence supports the main findings.
D69|Local happiness and firm behavior: Do firms in happy places invest more?|We examine a previously unexplored relationship between local happiness and firm investment. We looked at investment in general and R&D intensity in particular, as the relatively intangible nature of the latter may make it more subject to the effects of sentiment and affect. We find that average local happiness is positively correlated with both R&D intensity and firm investment, after controlling for firm and local area characteristics. This positive relationship may be due to the optimism and longer term perspectives that are typically associated with higher levels of life satisfaction/happiness. We also look at inequality in happiness levels and find that the effect of local happiness is stronger in places with more equal happiness distributions. Younger firms’ investment behavior is also more strongly correlated with local happiness levels. The results remain robust to a battery of robustness tests including the use of residual and hedonic measures of happiness, analysis of a sample of relocated firms, and a test for reverse causality.
D69|Carry a big stick, or no stick at all|We investigate the effect of costly punishment in a trust game with endowment heterogeneity. Our findings indicate that the difference between the investor and the allocator’s initial endowments determines the effect of punishment on trust and trustworthiness. Punishment fosters trust only when the investor is wealthier than the allocator. Otherwise, punishment fails to promote trusting behavior. As for trustworthiness, the effect is just the opposite. The higher the difference between the investor and the allocator’s initial endowments, the less willing allocators are to pay back. We discuss the consistency of our findings with social preference models (like inequality aversion, reciprocity), the capacity of punishment (i.e., the deterrence hypothesis) and hidden costs of punishment (i.e., models of intrinsic and extrinsic motivation). Our results are hardly coherent with the first two (inequality aversion and deterrence), but roughly consistent with the latter.
D69|Do bilateral social security agreements deliver on the portability of pensions and health care benefits? A summary policy paper on four migration corridors between EU and non-EU member states|Abstract This policy paper summarizes four corridor studies on bilateral social security agreements (BSSAs) between four European Union (EU) member and two nonmember states, draws conclusions on their results, and offers recommendations. BSSAs between migrant-sending and migrant-receiving countries are seen as the most important instrument to establish portability of social security benefits for internationally mobile workers. Yet, only about 23 % of international migrants profit from BSSAs and their functioning has been little analyzed and even less assessed. The four corridors studied (Austria-Turkey, Germany-Turkey, Belgium-Morocco, and France-Morocco) were selected to allow for comparison of both similarities and differences in experiences. The evaluation of these corridors’ BSSAs was undertaken against a methodological framework and three selected criteria: fairness for individuals, fiscal fairness for countries, and bureaucratic effectiveness for countries and migrant workers. The results suggest that the investigated BSSAs work and overall deliver reasonably well on individual fairness. The results on fiscal fairness are clouded by conceptual and empirical gaps. Bureaucratic effectiveness would profit from information and communication technology-based exchanges on both corridors once available. JEL Classification: D69, H55, I19, J62
D69|Perspectiva sobre la sostenibilidad de los recursos naturales a largo plazo: caso industria camaronera ecuatoriana<BR>[Perspective on the sustainability of natural resources in the long term: shrimp industry in the Ecuadorian case]|Considering the relevance that has taken the welfare of human beings focus on sustainability, both in Latin America and in Ecuador, this paper explores the effects of extractive action and exploitation of natural resources used by the Ecuadorian shrimp industry. The analysis is directed through the concept of sustainable development and the tragedy of the commons, with the aim of harmonizing long-term vision of sustainability in this specific sector. The results show an aggressive expansion of the shrimp industry, which has displaced mangrove forests by pools for shrimp farming and reduced the extent of these forests by 70% from 1980 to 2013; also taking into account the tragedy of the commons, can predict a similar future for this industry, the stage lived in 1999 after the presence of WSV virus, the sector fell by 80% in just one year with serious consequences for local economy. The importance of generating collective and cooperation between those involved actions through legal and regulatory mechanisms that promote a balance between the interaction of nature and humans, replacing the pursuit of individual economic benefit from the social benefit at the prospect arises.
D69|Economic Science Going Through a Painful Time Confronted with Societal Evolution|In the globalised world of the past decade, the characteristic movement of the real economy in Europe has been in the lower amplitudes of the economic cycle and has been complicated by the low effectiveness of fiscal and monetary policy tools and instability on the financial markets, which, in relation to the real economy, display features of autonomy and virtuality. The exchange rates of the euro, rouble and Czech crown display exceptional volatility, while the yields from financial instruments are at a historic minimum. These phenomena are the result of the stagnation of the European economy, a high level of indebtedness and an inability to effectively solve escalating political problems, such as military conflicts, terrorism, mass migration, economic sanctions, etc.
D69|The Economic Paradigms Need to Be Updated|This contribution deals with the current problems of the stagnating European economy: a high level of debt, political instability and a lower level of ethics. The growth of the income gap in society is viewed as one of the most pressing problems. Reference is made to the ineffectiveness of traditional fiscal and monetary policy, the problematic nature of solutions based on new tools, such as quantitative easing, and the low level of the effectiveness of implemented regulatory projects, which reduce the efficiency of regulated business. In a quest for new approaches to correcting economic paradigms, the authors recommend greater anticipation of empirical and behavioural approaches, or, possibly, even a return to the beginning - ie. to the ideas of the free market.
D69|Změny finančních nástrojů rodinné politiky v letech 2006-2015 a jejich potenciál měnit natalitní chování<BR>[Changes in the Financial Instruments of Family Policy in 2006-2015 and their Potential to Change Fertility Behaviour]|The aim of this paper is to contribute to the discussion about the influence of family policy on family behaviour. The paper analyses the impact of parametric and system changes introduced in family and social benefits and tax reliefs in 2006-2015 on the income level of families with different demographic characteristics, and evaluates the potential of those changes to infl uence reproductive and partnership behaviour. The analytical part takes selected instruments of financial support to the family and shows the size of the financial provision families can claim depending on their previous earned income, to what extent that income is being compensated (family benefits), and how the net income is influenced (tax reliefs). Effects of the studied changes vary for different income categories and are more pronounced in the case of low-income families. This differentiation corresponds to the fertility by mother’s education, which is tightly linked to the family’s income. The analysis has shown that certain instruments have the potential to influence family behaviour, however in diverse ways.
D69|Demographic dynamics and long-run development: insights for the secular stagnation debate|Abstract This paper takes a global, long-run perspective on the recent debate about secular stagnation, which has so far mainly focused on the short term. The analysis is motivated by observing the interplay between the economic and demographic transition that has occurred in the developed world over the past 150 years. To the extent that high growth rates in the past have partly been the consequence of singular changes during the economic and demographic transition, growth is likely to become more moderate once the transition is completed. At the same time, a similar transition is on its way in most developing countries, with profound consequences for the development prospects in these countries, but also for global comparative development. The evidence presented here suggests that long-run demographic dynamics have potentially important implications for the prospects of human and physical capital accumulation, the evolution of productivity, and the question of secular stagnation.
D69|Household Saving Rates and Social Insurance Retirement Income: An International Comparison of the OECD Countries|The motivation for this research is to examine the debate about the effect of social insurance on private savings as suggested by Feldstein (1974) and Leimmer and Lesony (1982). The null hypothesis is whether expected social insurance benefits in retirement displace household private savings. We use a panel data comprised of most OECD countries (driven by data availability), incorporating 2004-2014. We also reconsider the G7 countries (Mozayeni, 2015) with the data currently available. In both cases, our dependent variable is the Household Saving Rate (HS), measured as the percentage of Disposable Income, as reported in the National Income Accounts. The dependent variables are: the Gross Replacement Rate (GRR) for retirement benefits, which had become available for 2004-2014; the Long Term Interest Rate, which is the daily average for ten year-governments? bond rates, and two fixed-effect variables, which account for the specific effects of the countries and the years in the data. Overall, our models predicts the relationships well, with R2 =0.88 for the OECD panel and 0.94for G7. We first discuss our results for the OECD panel and then the G7. In the OECD regression, the sign for HS varies year to year and from county to country. The significant levels are high only for 11of 26 countries in the sample. With an F value of 26.94, compared to 4.052 for ?=0.01, the ANOVA test strongly rejects the null hypothesis that between-groups and within-groups variations are the same. We therefore reject the null hypothesis that ?1= ?2 ,?, ?j = 0 and accept the alternative hypothesis ??0 for at least one value of the overall test. Our results show NO systematic dependence of household savings on retirement benefits. Our G7 regression produces an F test of 36.55, R2 = 0.94, and negative signs for all the years in the data and positive signs for the Country effect for some and negative for others--for Germany, Japan, United Kingdom and US, the signs are negative; whereas for France and Italy are positive. The Country significance levels are high only for Italy and UK. In conclusion, we reject the proposition that expected social security income in retirement displaces household savings for the OECD countries and G7 in our sample. We methodically consider any specific effect the period in our data may have on households? saving behavior.
D69|Regulation of trades based on differences in beliefs|Some trades based on differences in beliefs might cause more harm than good. Should they be restricted? If yes, how? We propose three properties ensuring that regulation does not prevent beneficial trade and is consistent: Unanimity – the regulator should not object to trades with identical beliefs; Merge-Proofness of Autarky – if the regulator does not object to finitely many unrelated trades, all with identical beliefs, then it should not object to the mere juxtaposition of the trades; and Independence of Irrelevant Trade – if the regulator does not object to the juxtaposition of two unrelated trades, then it should not object to any of the two trades standing alone. We show that there is a unique policy having these three properties, namely laissez-faire.
D69|Engineering an incentive to search for work: A comparison groups approach|Social comparisons are important in the employment sphere. A “culture of unemployment” may evolve and prevail because it is optimal for an individual to remain unemployed when other unemployed individuals constitute his main reference group. We advance the idea that by making the receipt of unemployment benefits conditional on engagement in an incentive-enhancing activity (for example, work under state-sponsored employment schemes or participation in work-site-based training programs), a government can engineer a revision of the reference groups of an unemployed individual in order to induce him to seek work.
D69|In brief: Business cycle blues|People do not psychologically benefit from economic expansions nearly as much as they suffer from recessions, according to research by JanEmmanuel De Neve and colleagues.
D69|European Identity and Redistributive Preferences|How important is spatial identity in shifting preferences for redistribution? This paper takes advantage of within-country variability in the adoption of a single currency as an instrument to examine the impact of the rescaling of spatial identity in Europe. We draw upon data from the last three decades of waves of the European Values Survey and we examine the impact of joining the single currency on preferences for redistribution. Our instrumentation strategy relies on using the exogenous effect of joining a common currency, alongside a battery of robustness checks and alternative instruments. Our findings suggest that joining the euro has a boosting effect on European identity; an opposite and comparable effect is found for national pride. We find that European identity increases preferences for redistribution, and that national pride exerts an equivalent reduction in preferences for redistribution.
D69|The Effect of Tax Havens on Host Country Welfare|Multinational corporations can shift income into low-tax countries through transfer pricing and debt financing. While most developed countries use thin capitalization rules to limit the extent to which a subsidiary can be financed with internal debt, a number of developing countries do not. In this paper, we analyze the effect on FDI and host country welfare of thin capitalization rules when multinationals can also shift income via transfer prices. We show that while permissive thin capitalization limits may be needed in developing countries to attract FDI, the amount of debt financing allowed by the permissive limits facilitates more aggressive transfer pricing and results in lower host country welfare.
D69|European identity and redistributive preferences|How important is spatial identity in shifting preferences for redistribution? This paper takes advantage of withincountry variability in the adoption of a single currency as an instrument to examine the impact of the rescaling of spatial identity in Europe. We draw upon data from the last three decades of waves of the European Values Survey and we examine the impact of joining the single currency on preferences for re-distribution. Our instrumentation strategy relies on using the exogenous effect of joining a common currency, alongside a battery of robustness checks and alternative instruments. Our findings suggest that joining the euro has a boosting effect on European identity; an opposite and comparable effect is found for national pride. We find that European identity increases preferences for redistribution, and that national pride exerts an equivalent reduction in preferences for redistribution.
D69|European identity and redistributive preferences|How important is spatial identity in shifting preferences for redistribution? This paper takes advantage of within-country variability in the adoption of a single currency as an instrument to examine the impact of the rescaling of spatial identity in Europe. We draw upon data from the last three decades of waves of the European Values Survey and we examine the impact of joining the single currency on preferences for redistribution. Our instrumentation strategy relies on using the exogenous effect of joining a common currency, alongside a battery of robustness checks and alternative instruments. Our findings suggest that joining the euro has a boosting effect on European identity; an opposite and comparable effect is found for national pride. We find that European identity increases preferences for redistribution, and that national pride exerts an equivalent reduction in preferences for redistribution.
D69|The Asymmetric Experience of Positive and Negative Economic Growth: Global Evidence Using Subjective Well-Being Data|Are individuals more sensitive to losses than gains in terms of economic growth?We find that measures of subjective well-being are more than twice as sensitive to negative as compared to positive economic growth. We use Gallup World Poll data from over 150 countries, BRFSS data on 2.3 million U.S. respondents, and Eurobarometer data that cover multiple business cycles over four decades. This research provides a new perspective on the welfare cost of business cycles, with implications for growth policy and the nature of the long-run relationship between GDP and subjective well-being.
D69|Wealth Distribution within Couples|While most studies on wealth inequality focus on the inequality between households, this paper examines the distribution of wealth within couples. For this purpose, we make use of unique individual level micro data from the German socio-economic panel study. In married and cohabiting couples men's net worth, on average, is 33,000 euros higher than women's. We look at five different sets of factors (demographics, income, labor market, inheritances, financial decision-making in the partnership) that might explain this wealth gap. We find that all factors contribute to the explanation of the wealth gap within partnerships, with inheritances and income being particularly relevant. Furthermore, we find that specific characteristics (e.g., self-employment, no migration background, inheritances, high income) that decrease the wealth gap for women increase it for men. For men the respective coefficients are even stronger in absolute terms. When examining intra-partnership financial decision-making, we find the gap to be significantly smaller when the female partner manages the money and larger if the male partner has the last word in financial decisions.
D69|Wealth distribution within couples|While most studies on wealth inequality focus on the inequality between households, this paper examines the distribution of wealth within couples. For this purpose, we make use of unique individual level micro data from the German socio-economic panel study. In married and cohabiting couples men’s net worth, on average, is 33,000 euros higher than women’s. We look at five different sets of factors (demographics, income, labor market, inheritances, financial decision-making in the partnership) that might explain this wealth gap. We find that all factors contribute to the explanation of the wealth gap within partnerships, with inheritances and income being particularly relevant. Furthermore, we find that specific characteristics (e.g., self-employment, no migration background, inheritances, high income) that decrease the wealth gap for women increase it for men. For men the respective coefficients are even stronger in absolute terms. When examining intra-partnership financial decision-making, we find the gap to be significantly smaller when the female partner manages the money and larger if the male partner has the last word in financial decisions. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
D69|Paradox of Plenty or Resources Curse?|The article aims to present the situation of the countries rich in resources, whose paradox is that they are spoiled of their natural gifts, and thus remaining increasingly poorer as for their standard of living, and level of the economic development. The aim of this research is to point out these aspects in order to contribute to the awareness of anyone would be interested in this important matter. As for the theoretical framework it is circumscribed to the development economics area. The concepts used to present the problems faced by these countries are: resources curse, Duch disease, and banana republic. The novelty element of this research is the problem of Romania in this matter. The goal of this trial is to bring into attention this topic, and to see what could be done in order to change to better the present situation. The means of proving these evidences are different, depending on the problems that the countries are facing, and their level of economic development. The results of our research stand in the pertinent conclusions that are in the final part of the study.
D69|The Limitations of Reductive Wealth Redistribution Strategies for Curtailing Inequality in the Era of Global Capitalism|Poverty and inequality are in all likelihood the most pernicious problems in contemporary life. They contribute greatly to a wide and diverse range of suffering, injustice, and social ills. They have existed since the incipient forms of society emerged, and have plagued nearly every society. They have provoked criticism and resistance across millennia and geographic regions, and were inciting factors for many revolutions and social movements. There is evidence that inequality is rising globally, with economic growth and global capitalism as the primary culprits. Marx’s theory of infinite accumulation and Ricardo’s scarcity principle relate inherent structural qualities of wealth in capitalism to inequality and divergence in income and wealth. Abundant evidence shows that inequality will continue to increase unless there are political and economic measures to oppose it, and that inequality has increased since industrialization. The aims of these strategies is to promote income convergence, usually via reforms to taxes, redistribution, or minimum wage. Two of the most prominent proposals to curtail inequality are Piketty’s global tax rate and Standing’s basic income. However, neither sufficiently accounts for structural limitations in capitalism, such as those described by Marx and Ricardo, as well as Piketty’s study of greater growth rate of capital over income (r>g) and free market ideology. They fundamentally rely upon reductive redistribution and particularly money and income, which do not necessarily contribute to parity in wealth. In structural Marxism, inequality is created and perpetuated by the structural base and super-structure, and both must be somehow reformed or altered to achieve lasting and significant equality. In this paper, I approach inequality with this in mind, and propose a form of paternalism as a means of ensuring wealth redistribution achieves lasting equality.
D69|Foreign Loans and Development in the Twentieth Century India: An Over View of Conceptual Issues and Implications|The flow of foreign loans occupies a critical position in the economic development of the developing and under developed countries. Some writers view it in terms of the “dependency theory”, which states that foreign economic assistance is a tool through which the “center” exploits the “periphery” and so, the latter continues to remain undeveloped. Here, the center is donor and the periphery is the capital-receiving country. Less income levels, resources, inherited poverty, lack of good governance, political instability are some of the reasons for countries to inter into the trap of foreign loans. The article explains various definitions of foreign loans, its varieties and features. It examines into the needs which compels the countries go for foreign loans and also the donors, their characteristics and nature. Further it looks into the implications of foreign loan on the economy, social sector, agriculture, environment and politics of a country.
D69|Modelling economic hysteresis losses caused by sunk adjustment costs| Transition from one economic equilibrium to another as a consequence of shocks is often associated with sunk adjustment costs. Firm-specific sunk market entry investments (or sunk market exit costs) in case of a reaction to price shocks are an example. These adjustment costs lead to a dynamic supply pattern similar to hysteresis. In analogy to “hysteresis losses” in ferromagnetism, the authors explicitly model dynamic adjustment losses in the course of market entry and exit cycles. They start from the micro level of a single firm and use explicit aggregation tools from hysteresis theory in mathematics and physics to calculate dynamic losses. The authors show that strong market fluctuations generate disproportionately large hysteresis losses for producers. This could give a reason for the implementation of stabilizing measures and policies to prevent strong (price) variations or, alternatively, to reduce the sunk entry and exit costs.
D69|Sectoral FDI, Absorptive Capacity and Economic Growth — Empirical Evidence from Egyptian Governorates|Using a novel panel dataset of Egyptian governorates for the period 1992–2007, we investigate the effects of aggregate and sectoral foreign direct investment (FDI) on Egypt’s economic growth. We distinguish between FDI in the manufacturing, agriculture and service sector. The similarity of governorates in terms of institutional characteristics like culture, language, and legal framework and the consistency of the data collection process enables an effective estimation of the effect of FDI on Egypt’s economic growth. Employing General Methods of Moments (GMM) panel estimations, we find that neither aggregate nor sectoral FDI has an unconditional effect on economic growth. We also reject human capital as a channel of absorptive capacity, but reveal an interesting effect of FDI in the service sector on economic growth in interaction with domestic private investment (DPI). Service FDI promotes economic growth only if the host governorate has a minimum threshold of DPI to absorb foreign knowledge and technology.
D69|Portability of Pension, Health, and Other Social Benefits: Facts, Concepts, and Issues|Portability of social benefits across professions and countries is an increasing concern for individuals and policy makers. Lacking or incomplete transfers of acquired social rights are feared to negatively impact individual labor market decisions as well as capacity to address social risks with consequences for economic and social outcomes. The paper gives a fresh and provocative look on the international perspective of the topic that has so far been dominated by social policy lawyers working within the framework of bilateral agreements; the input by economists has been very limited. It offers an analytical framework for portability analysis that suggests separating the risk pooling, (implicit or actual) pre-funding, and redistributive elements in the benefit design, and explores the proposed alternative approach for pensions and health care benefits. This promising approach may serve both as a substitute and complement to bi- and multilateral agreements. (JEL code: D690).
D69|Changing patterns of food consumption in Sri Lanka: 1985–2009|This paper examines the patterns of food consumption in Sri Lanka from 1985 to 2009 using the food disappearance data published by the Food and Agriculture Organization. Trends in per capita daily calorie, protein and fat supply have been examined. The study finds that grain food products are the main source of calories and protein, while fat-calories were mainly sourced from non-grain vegetable products and animal food products. Calories derived from protein were less than the recommended intake for Sri Lankans. During the period studied, there has been a shift away from roots and tubers, fruits and cereals, towards sugars, pulses, oils and animal products. The contributions from animal products were relatively low, being less than 8 per cent.
D69|Beyond Non-Satiation: Needs and Requirements|The hypothesis of non-satiation of rational choice theory is very seldom posed under scrutiny, maybe because it is taken as an anthropologic reality. Looking closer to that, we discover that it is taken for granted only in economic theory, and that it has become a reality as a result of a cultural process. This paper makes a brief story of this axiom, and looks at how it recently shifted into a modification of the original concept of adaptation. Using theoretical research in psychology, we find out that non-satiation is indeed not a natural feature of human beings, but a challenge to their happiness and a potentially pathological sign. The distinction between needs and requirements provides a new and solid ground on which we can discuss the quality of human needs, which is, according to Keynes, a key concept to define what the ‘economic problem’ is.
D69|Character in Alfred Marshall’s work: not so commonplace?|Character is commonly recognised as a crucial notion in Alfred Marshall’s thought, and more broadly in Victorian thought. However, this concept is never intrinsically defined. This paper offers an intellectual reconstruction of the notion of character in Marshall’s thought. While not denying that Marshall’s ideas evolve between his early writings and his later writings, this reconstruction focuses on the unchanged elements of his thought. This reconstruction is also an opportunity to re-examine Marshall’s conception of social ideal, on the basis of archives documents: Marshall conceives character as a complex of psychological, moral and cognitive faculties that – in a somewhat circular way – both makes sense in the light of his social ideal and serves his social ideal.
D69|"""Personal network"" and retirement: Is retirement bad for friendship and good for family relationships?"|What shapes the size of a personal network of family and friends? We concentrates here on the effect of retirement from the work force. Retirement provides time to develop personal relationships; but it deprives from a potential supply of colleague friends. We draw evidence from a new question on the number of confidants in the 4th wave of the Survey of Health, Ageing and Retirement in Europe. The survey allows to take into account many potential determinants of personal relations. A first result is that being retired decreases friendship ties, while it increases family ties. Economic resources influence the number of confidants. We estimate that the negative effect of being retired on the number of friends is reduced by one half when we control for permanent income. The differences among countries and cohorts in retirement age regulation provide an instrument to get closer to a retirement effect. We find that the retirement decision can be endogenous. The result from the IV strategy is that the negative effect of retirement on the number of friends is erased for men, not for retired women who do have less friends than employed women, cet. par. . Finally the size of the personal network is found to have a positive but small impact on life satisfaction. Family ties are more important than friends for women and both types of ties seem equally important for men.
D69|Trust, welfare states and income equality: Sorting out the causality|The cross-country correlation between social trust and income equality is well documented, but few studies examine the direction of causality. We show theoretically that by facilitating cooperation, trust may lead to more equal outcomes, while the feedback from inequality to trust is ambiguous. Using a structural equation model estimated on a large country sample, we find that trust has a positive effect on both market and net income equality. Larger welfare states lead to higher net equality but neither net income equality nor welfare state size seems to have a causal effect on trust. We conclude that while trust facilitates welfare state policies that may reduce net inequality, this decrease in inequality does not increase trust.
D69|Do we need to worry if people bowl alone? Results from a field experiment with voluntary association members|Trust in strangers is key for economic development. Social capital theory posits that participation in associations is essential to propagate trust in society, because membership instils trust both towards other members and generalised others. We provide an experimental test for this thesis. We measure members' trust and trustworthiness when interacting with fellow members or with people from the general population, who are not association members. We find that members trust and reward trust more than non- members, and do not discriminate between members and the general population. However, we find no correlation between the intensity of associational participation and increased pro-sociality.Length: 17
D69|Housing Provision, Finance, and Well-Being in Europe|This paper explores the role of housing in households’ increasing financial activities. First, I build on quantitative work on the growth of housing related debt across Europe carried out under WP5 by presenting data on rates of homeownership, levels and types of mortgage debt, and house prices (and, by implication, housing wealth). I find that, although there is a general tendency for all to increase, differences in the structures of housing provision across countries lead to significant variation in both the data, and what can be drawn from it, across countries. Second, I consider accounts of households’ growing financial activities that attribute a central role to housing, including Lapavitsas and Dos Santos’s ‘financial expropriation’ thesis, and a growing body of literature that sees Europe as moving towards a housing asset-based welfare model. I argue that both, in different ways, are insufficiently attentive to the way in which housing provision, the role of finance within it, and the relationship of both to the reproduction of labour power more generally, are all uniquely and distinctly structured in different countries. I also show that even in the UK, where the role of finance in housing and welfare provision is thought to be most advanced, the restructuring of housing and welfare in favour of finance remains limited and contradictory. Finally, I outline some preliminary findings on the impact that a growing tendency to treat one’s home as an asset has had on well-being.
D69|Empirical social choice: an introduction|The year 2012 was the 30th anniversary of William H. Riker’s modern classic Liberalism against populism ( 1982 ) and is marked by the present special issue. In this introduction, we seek to identify some core elements and evaluate the current status of the Rikerian research program and its empirical applications. Special attention is given to three phenomena and their possible empirical manifestations: The instability of social choice in the form of (1) the possibility of majority cycles, (2) the non-robustness of social choices given alternative voting methods, and (3) the possibility of various forms of manipulation of the decisions (heresthetics). These topics are then connected to the contributions to the current special issue. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
D69|Economic Models of Environment Monitoring under Imperfect Information and High Costs|The paper considers monitoring of environmental change as the central element of environmental regulation. Monitoring, as each kind of principal-agent relations, easily gives rise to corruptive behavior. In the paper we analyze economic models of environmental monitoring with high costs, incomplete information and corruption. These models should be the elements of environmental economics and are needed to create an effective system of nature protection measures.
D69|Behavioural and Empirical Topics for Discussion on Economic Science Paradigms|The authors of the article point out that the theory of economics has failed to yield a solid theoretical background in such critical situations of the current financial and economic crisis. Theorists cannot look to controversial mathematical modelling for help, especially in regulatory projects. The challenge for today’s theoretical economists is to find a new concept for today’s global era in the sense of behavioural and empiric attitudes. The criticism of fair insurance premium is included.
D69|Consumption Decisions When People Value Conformity|In this paper we assume that for some commodities individuals may wish to adjust their levels of consumption from their normal Marshallian levels so as to match the consumption levels of a group of other individuals, in order to signal that they conform to the consumption norms of that group. Unlike Veblen’s concept of conspicuous consumption this can mean that some individuals may reduce their consumption of the relevant commodities. We model this as a three-stage game in which individuals first decide whether or not they wish to adhere to a norm, then decide which norm they wish to adhere to, and finally decide their actual consumption. We present a number of examples of the resulting equilibria, and then discuss the potential policy implications of this model.
D69|Weekends and Subjective Well-Being|This paper exploits the richness and large sample size of the Gallup/Healthways US daily poll to illustrate significant differences in the dynamics of two key measures of subjective well-being: emotions and life evaluations. We find that there is no day-of week effect for life evaluations, represented here by the Cantril Ladder, but significantly more happiness, enjoyment, and laughter, and significantly less anxiety, sadness, and anger on weekends (including public holidays) than on weekdays. We then find strong evidence of the importance of the social context, both at work and at home, in explaining the size and likely determinants of the weekend effects for emotions. Weekend effects are twice as large for full-time paid workers as for the rest of the population, and are much smaller for those whose work supervisor is considered a partner rather than a boss and who report trustable and open work environments. A large portion of the weekend effects is explained by differences in the amount of time spent with friends or family between weekends and weekdays (7.1 vs. 5.4 h). The extra daily social time of 1.7 h in weekends raises average happiness by about 2 %. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2014
D69|Learning and coordinating in a multilayer network|We introduce a two layer network model for social coordination incorporating two relevant ingredients: a) different networks of interaction to learn and to obtain a pay-off, and b) decision making processes based both on social and strategic motivations. Two populations of agents are distributed in two layers with intralayer learning processes and playing interlayer a coordination game. We find that the skepticism about the wisdom of crowd and the local connectivity are the driving forces to accomplish full coordination of the two populations, while polarized coordinated layers are only possible for all-to-all interactions. Local interactions also allow for full coordination in the socially efficient Pareto-dominant strategy in spite of being the riskier one.
D69|Piracy and Copyright Enforcement Mechanisms|Much debate exists around the impact that illegal file sharing may have on the creative industries. Similarly, opinions differ regarding whether the producers of artistic works should be forced to accept any weakening of intellectual property rights resulting from illegal file sharing, or if governments should intervene to protect these rights. This chapter seeks to inform these questions by outlining what we do and do not know from existing academic research.We first discuss whether file sharing displaces sales of media goods and then discuss whether such displacement will lead to reduced incentives to produce new creative works. We continue by summarizing recent findings on what businesses can do to compete with piracy and the effectiveness of antipiracy interventions on encouraging consumers to migrate from illegal to legal consumption channels. We conclude by demonstrating that without additional empirical evidence, it will be difficult to determine the socially optimal set of strategies and government copyright policies in the digital era.
D69|Piracy and Copyright Enforcement Mechanisms|Much debate exists around the impact that illegal file sharing may have on the creative industries. Similarly, opinions differ regarding whether the producers of artistic works should be forced to accept any weakening of intellectual property rights resulting from illegal file sharing, or if governments should intervene to protect these rights. This chapter seeks to inform these questions by outlining what we do and do not know from existing academic research.We first discuss whether file sharing displaces sales of media goods and then discuss whether such displacement will lead to reduced incentives to produce new creative works. We continue by summarizing recent findings on what businesses can do to compete with piracy and the effectiveness of antipiracy interventions on encouraging consumers to migrate from illegal to legal consumption channels. We conclude by demonstrating that without additional empirical evidence, it will be difficult to determine the socially optimal set of strategies and government copyright policies in the digital era.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D69|Evidence of the effect of wealth observed by criminals on the risk of becoming a victim of property crimes|The objective of this paper is to measure the effect of wealth on property victimization risk. Using data from two household victimization surveys conducted in São Paulo city and a measure of spending as a proxy for wealth observed by criminals, the conclusion was reached that wealth level is one of the determinants of victimization risk. This risk increases with this variable, but it reaches a maximum level from which it declines as wealth levels increase.
D69|Constructing validity for capabilities-related indicators|Amartya Sen’s approach to Welfare Economics argues evaluation of individual advantage should occur in the informational space of the freedom of choice individuals have in achieving valuable human functionings, that is in the space of capabilities. Furthermore, the identification of what is valuable involves taking into account ethical reasoning in the explanation of actual human behaviour, that is agency freedom, as well as the variety of human values. Despite of the recognition of such contribution to Economic Theory, unavailability of appropriate data and indicators challenges empirical investigations. This paper aims at overcoming such shortcoming through an assessment of the validity of an indicator measuring agency freedom as empowered autonomous choice. The empirical investigation is conducted on a random sample of 136 women in a rural patriarchal village in Uttar Pradesh, India, through a multi-topic survey instrument. Results indicate agency freedom differs across domains. In particular, individuals ranking high in the domain of resources simultaneously rank lower in the domain of empowerment. Furthermore, empirical evidence suggests a phenomenon of social exclusion of those more autonomous. Therefore, policy prescriptions at the community level identify enhancing collective capabilities as a viable strategy to accommodate the simultaneous coexistence of empowerment and social inclusion as well as the enhancement of principles of social justice rooted in a freedom-related metric.
D69|Elasticidad precio de la demanda y su relevancia en materia de bienestar en un mercado monopolista<BR>[Price elasticity of demand and its relevance in terms of welfare in a monopolistic market]|Este documento analiza a la luz de una situación monopólica, el efecto sobre el bienestar de los consumidores derivado de cambios en la magnitud de la elasticidad precio de la demanda. En el artículo se asume una función de demanda con elasticidad precio de la demanda constante y rendimientos constantes a escala asociados a la firma productora del bien o servicio. Se encuentra que entre más elástico sea el mercado, mayor será la porción de excedente del consumidor que es tomado por la firma, en términos relativos al excedente del consumidor en una situación perfectamente competitiva. This document analyzes since a monopolistic situation the effect in terms of consumer welfare derived of changes in the price elasticity of demand. The paper assumes a constant price elasticity of demand function and constant return of scale associated with the seller of the service of good firm. It is found that a greater level of elasticity, greater the level of profits of the monopolistic firm in relative terms to the consumer surplus in perfect competition.
D69|Carry a big stick, or no stick at all An experimental analysis of trust and capacity of punishment|We investigate the effect of punishment in a trust game with endowment heterogeneity in which the investor may punish the allocator at a cost. Our results indicate that the effect of the punishment crucially depends on the investor’s capacity of punishment, that is measured in our experiment by the proportion of the allocator’s payoffs that the investor can destroy. We find that punishment fosters trust when the capacity of punishment is high (i.e., when the cost of punishing is relatively low). Otherwise, punishment fails to promote trusting behavior, crowding out intrinsic motivation to trust. Trustworthiness is higher with punishment than without punishment, except if investors have a high capacity of punishment
D69|Wealth distribution within couples and financial decision making|While most studies on wealth inequality focus on the inequality between households, this paper examines the distribution of wealth within couples. For this purpose, we make use of unique individual level micro data from the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP).In married and cohabiting couples, men have, on average, 33,000 Euro more net worth than women. We look at five different sets of factors (demographics, income, labor market, inheritances, financial decision making in the partnership) that might explain this wealth gap. We find that all factors contribute to the explanation of the wealth gap within partnerships, with inheritances and income being particularly relevant. Furthermore, we find that specific characteristics (e.g. self-employment, no migration background, inheritances, high income) that decrease the wealth gap for women increase it for men. For men the respective coefficients are even stronger in absolute terms. When examining intra-partnership financial decision making, we find the gap to be significantly smaller when the female manages the money and larger if the male partner has the last word in financial decisions.
D69|How wrong can you be, without noticing? Further evidence on speci cation errors in the Conditional Logit|Discrete choice models such as the conditional logit model are widely used tools in applied econometrics and, particularly, in the eld of environmental valuation and welfare measurement in order to provide policymakers with sound information for making strategic choices. Monte Carlo simulations are used in this study to analyze biases due to omitted relevant variables and functional form misspeci cation in the conditional logit model. Using an easy-to-estimate speci cation test is effective to reduce the risks for large biases. One somewhat discouraging result is, however, that a moderate bias can be found even when the omitted variable is orthogonal to the explanatory variables included. This result is particularly interesting considering the increasing interest in using randomized experiments to obtain causal interpretations of key parameters. Randomization, with independence between included and omitted variables, does not guarantee unbiased estimates in the conditional logit model.
D69|The (α, β)-multi-level α-Gini decomposition with an illustration to income inequality in France in 2005|We propose a generalization of the decomposition by population subgroups of the α-Gini index, the so-called multi-level subgroup decomposition. We demonstrate that all components obtained from the decomposition, can integrate in their functional form a parameter of inequality sensitivity being either related to overall inequalities (α) or to between-group non-overlappings (β). We prove that a decision maker who behaves in accordance with the α-Gini indices is sensitive to the inequalities between the groups when this sensitivity may differ for each partition of groups. For that purpose, we check the axiomatic foundations of this new family of measures providing also a characterization for the α-Gini indices where α>2. An illustration of the multi-level α-Gini decomposition is performed for the analysis of the income disparities in France in 2005.
D69|A theory of self-control and naïveté: The blights of willpower and blessings of temptation|We model self-control conflict as an agent’s stochastic struggle against a visceral influence that impels the agent to act sub-optimally. The agent holds costly pre-commitment technology to avoid the conflict altogether and may decide whether to procure pre-commitment or to confront the visceral influence. We examine naïve expectations for the strength of the visceral influence; naïve expectations lead the agent to exaggerate the expected utility of resisting temptation and so mistakenly forego pre-commitment. Contrary to accepted wisdom, our analysis reveals conditions under which higher willpower—and lower visceral influence—reduces welfare. Our analysis, therefore, calls into question policy measures that influence willpower and visceral influences.
D69|Evolución de las condiciones socioeconómicas de los hogares en el programa Oportunidades|This paper presents empirical evidence that allows us to understand how does the welfare level of beneficiary households of the conditional cash transfer program Oportunidades evolve, both in the short and in the medium term. Understanding this evolution is relevant in order to design efficient exit mechanisms for this type of programs —something that concerns at least 27 conditional cash transfer programs worldwide. Using administrative data of the universe of beneficiary households, we study changes in welfare levels of rural and urban households in the short and medium term. Furthermore, recognizing that the evolution of each household’s welfare level might be heterogeneous, we analyze the paths different types of households have followed over time. Our results confirm the existence of heterogeneity in the evolution of welfare levels among households. The data shows that poorer households have achieved greater improvements in their welfare level than (relatively) better off households.// Este artículo muestra evidencia empírica que permite comprender cómo evoluciona el bienestar de los hogares beneficiarios del programa de transferencias monetarias condicionadas Oportunidades en el corto y mediano plazos. Entender esta evolución resulta relevante para elaborar mecanismos eficaces de salida del programa —algo que preocupa al menos a 27 programas de este tipo en el mundo—. Con datos administrativos del universo de beneficiarios, estudiamos cambios en el bienestar de hogares rurales y urbanos en el corto y mediano plazos. Además, reconociendo que puede existir heterogeneidad en la evolución del bienestar de los hogares, investigamos los caminos que han seguido diversos tipos de hogares en el tiempo. Los resultados confirman la existencia de heterogeneidad en la evolución del bienestar de los hogares. Los datos muestran que los hogares más pobres presentan mejoras más relevantes en su bienestar que hogares menos pobres.
D69|Trust, Welfare States and Income Equality: What Causes What?|The cross-country correlation between social trust and income equality is well documented, but few studies examine the direction of causality. We show theoretically that by facilitating cooperation, trust may increase efficiency and lead to more equal outcomes, while the feedback from inequality to trust is ambiguous. Using a structural equations model estimated on a large country sample, we find that trust has a positive effect on both market and net income equality. Larger welfare states lead to higher net equality but neither net income equality nor welfare state size seems to have a causal effect on trust. We conclude that while trust facilitates welfare state policies that may reduce net inequality, this decrease in inequality does not increase trust.
D69|Wealth Distribution within Couples and Financial Decision Making|While most studies on wealth inequality focus on the inequality between households, this paper examines the distribution of wealth within couples. For this purpose, we make use of unique individual level micro data from the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP). In married and cohabiting couples, men have, on average, 33,000 Euro more net worth than women. We look at five different sets of factors (demographics, income, labor market, inheritances, financial decision making in the partnership) that might explain this wealth gap. We find that all factors contribute to the explanation of the wealth gap within partnerships, with inheritances and income being particularly relevant. Furthermore, we find that specific characteristics (e.g. self-employment, no migration background, inheritances, high income) that decrease the wealth gap for women increase it for men. For men the respective coefficients are even stronger in absolute terms. When examining intra-partnership financial decision making, we find the gap to be significantly smaller when the female manages the money and larger if the male partner has the last word in financial decisions.
D69|Aggregating Local Preferences to Guide Marginal Policy Adjustments|"We propose a social choice rule for aggregating preferences elicited from surveys into a marginal adjustment of policy from the status quo. The mechanism is: (i) symmetric in its treatment of survey respondents; (ii) ordinal, using only the orientation of respondents' indifference surfaces; (iii) local, using only preferences in the neighborhood of current policy; and (iv) what we call ""first-order strategy-proof,"" making the gains from misreporting preferences second order. The mechanism could be applied to guide policy based on how policy affects responses to subjective well-being surveys."
D69|Can Marginal Rates of Substitution Be Inferred from Happiness Data? Evidence from Residency Choices|We survey 561 students from U.S. medical schools shortly after they submit choice rankings over residencies to the National Resident Matching Program. We elicit (a) these choice rankings, (b) anticipated subjective well-being (SWB) rankings, and (c) expected features of the residencies (such as prestige). We find substantial differences between choice and anticipated-SWB rankings in the implied tradeoffs between residency features. In our data, evaluative SWB measures (life satisfaction and Cantril's ladder) imply tradeoffs closer to choice than does affective happiness (even time-integrated), and as close as do multi-measure SWB indices. We discuss implications for using SWB data in applied work.
D69|Elasticidad precio de la demanda y su relevancia en materia de bienestar en un mercado monopolista|Este documento analiza a la luz de una situación monopólica, el efecto sobre el bienestar de los consumidores derivado de cambios en la magnitud de la elasticidad precio de la demanda. En el artículo se asume una función de demanda con elasticidad precio de la demanda constante y rendimientos constantes a escala asociados a la firma productora del bien o servicio. Se encuentra que entre más elástico sea el mercado, mayor será la porción de excedente del consumidor que es tomado por la firma, en términos relativos al excedente del consumidor en una situación perfectamente competitiva.
D69|Current Changes in the Role of the Insurance Sector|The authors analyze changes resulting from impacts of the globalization process and the crisis on the financial markets, particularly on the conservative insurance sector, which is forced to accelerate the dynamics of structural changes. The adequacy of the current regulatory measures for the financial/banking markets, and the insurance sector in particular, is discussed, together with the consequences of implementing measures aimed at consumer protection/anti-discrimination measures, including the search for balance between higher internal stability and client safety on the one side, and efficiency of insurance for clients and effectiveness of the activity itself on the other side. Furthermore, the article addresses current internal problems of the sector. An opinion is expressed in conclusion that the insurance sector has potential to remain a stable sector, in spite of the outlined problems.
D69|Vývoj ekonomického a sociálního zatížení a stárnutí populace<BR>[Development of Economic and Social Dependency and Population Ageing]|The ageing of population and its economical, social and political consequences is a topic very frequently discussed. This paper contains the analysis of consequences of the ageing of the Czech population during this century based on the population projection using the latest available data reflecting the results of the last census in 2011. Besides the usual simple (and of course very crude) measures of economic dependency in the population (e.g. various dependency ratios) the paper contains a computation of a more sophisticated measure - the ratio of social dependency - which takes into account not only the amount of personal consumption but also costs of education and health care.
D69|Trust, Reciprocity, and Guanxi in China: An Experimental Investigation|We examine the influence of social distance on levels of trust and reciprocity in China. Social distance, reflected in the indigenous concept of guanxi, is of central importance to Chinese culture. In Study 1, some participants participated in two financially salient trust games to measure behavior, one with an anonymous classmate and the other with an anonymous, demographically identical nonclassmate. Other participants, drawn from the same population, completed hypothetical surveys to gauge both hypothetical behavior and expectations of others. Social distance effects on actual and hypothetical behavior were statistically consistent. The results together corroborated the hypothesized negative relationship between trust and social distance. However, reciprocity was not responsive to social distance. Study 2 found that affect-based trust, but not cognition-based trust, played a mediating role in the relationship between social distance and interpersonal trust in a hypothetical scenario. We conclude that close guanxi ties in China engender affect-based trust, which is extended to shouren classmates. This is true despite the fact that no more cognition-based trust is placed nor reciprocity received or expected from classmates compared to demographically identical shengren nonclassmates.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D69|Trust, Reciprocity, and Guanxi in China: An Experimental Investigation|We examine the influence of social distance on levels of trust and reciprocity in China. Social distance, reflected in the indigenous concept of guanxi, is of central importance to Chinese culture. In Study 1, some participants participated in two financially salient trust games to measure behavior, one with an anonymous classmate and the other with an anonymous, demographically identical nonclassmate. Other participants, drawn from the same population, completed hypothetical surveys to gauge both hypothetical behavior and expectations of others. Social distance effects on actual and hypothetical behavior were statistically consistent. The results together corroborated the hypothesized negative relationship between trust and social distance. However, reciprocity was not responsive to social distance. Study 2 found that affect-based trust, but not cognition-based trust, played a mediating role in the relationship between social distance and interpersonal trust in a hypothetical scenario. We conclude that close guanxi ties in China engender affect-based trust, which is extended to shouren classmates. This is true despite the fact that no more cognition-based trust is placed nor reciprocity received or expected from classmates compared to demographically identical shengren nonclassmates.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D69|The Sadness of Bulgaria|There is a significant positive statistical connection between GDP per capita and the satisfaction rate. However, Bulgaria, being a middle income economy, is one of the saddest places on Earth. We try to identify possible reasons for this phenomenon and we put forward some policy implications. The evolution of fertility rates, income per capita and income distribution during the democratic era help to understand the Bulgarian sadness.
D69|Sustainability and the measurement of wealth|We develop and apply a consistent and comprehensive theoretical framework for assessing whether economic growth is compatible with sustaining wellbeing over time. Our approach differs from earlier approaches by concentrating on wealth rather than income. Sustainability is demonstrated by showing that a properly defined comprehensive measure of wealth is maintained through time. Our wealth measure is unusually comprehensive, capturing not only reproducible and human capital but also natural capital, health improvements and technological change. We apply the framework to five countries: the United States, China, Brazil, India and Venezuela. We show that the often-neglected contributors to wealth – technological change, natural capital and health capital – fundamentally affect the conclusions one draws about whether given nations are achieving sustainability. Indeed, even countries that display sustainability differ considerably in the kinds of capital that contribute to it.
D69|Balancing ‘full life’: An economic approach to the route to happiness|This paper presents a formalization and modification of Martin Seligman’s concept of full life, employing basic microeconomics. A class of Stone–Geary utility functions is proposed as an analytical tool for scrutinizing individual decision making with respect to a pleasant, engaged and meaningful life. Using this specification of Seligman’s concept, we explain why people may differ with respect to the levels of a pleasant, engaged and meaningful life that they are trying to achieve. Moreover, we modify Seligman’s full life to the concept of balanced full life. This extension requires that, in addition to differences in people’s preferences regarding various aspects of life, differences in their time opportunity costs also be taken into account. Finally, the unique role of a meaningful life is discussed.
D69|Análisis de trayectorias de los hogares beneficiarios del programa Oportunidades|When beneficiary households of the Oportunidades program are surveyed again, it can occur that: (i) they keep their eligibility, (ii) they keep their eligibility with a lower cash transfer, or (iii) they are not eligible anymore. We use administrative records of the program to show what factors determine transitions from one state to other. Very poor households or those that live in very poor localities have low mobility among eligibility states. The education of the households’ head and number of children in the household have the greatest weight to determine eligibility in the short run.
D69|A che cosa servono i modelli di microsimulazione? Tre applicazioni usando microReg|MicroReg è un classico modello di microsimulazione, tax-benefit, costruito per la Regione Toscana dall’Irpet. L’obiettivo è quello di garantire al policy maker regionale un adeguato strumento di valutazione e programmazione delle politiche fiscali e di welfare, siano esse attuate a livello nazionale e/o regionale. Diversamente da tutti gli altri modelli di microsimulazione sviluppati nel nostro paese, microReg ha un campo di applicazione multiregionale. Esso fornisce una adeguata base di calcolo, a seguito di un qualche intervento di natura pubblica, dei seguenti aspetti: i) distribuzione dei guadagni e delle perdite fra individui e famiglie; ii) impatto sulle misure di povertà e disuguaglianza; iii) differenze nei costi e nei benefici tra le regioni; variazioni di gettito nazionali e regionali. Il lavoro presenta la struttura del modello e tre applicazioni empiriche.
D69|Beyond Happiness and Satisfaction: Toward Well-Being Indices Based on Stated Preference|"This paper proposes foundations and a methodology for survey-based tracking of well-being. First, we develop a theory in which utility depends on ""fundamental aspects"" of well-being, measurable with surveys. Second, drawing from psychologists, philosophers, and economists, we compile a comprehensive list of such aspects. Third, we demonstrate our proposed method for estimating the aspects' relative marginal utilities—a necessary input for constructing an individual-level well-being index—by asking ~4,600 U.S. survey respondents to state their preference between pairs of aspect bundles. We estimate high relative marginal utilities for aspects related to family, health, security, values, freedom, happiness, and life satisfaction."
D69|Financial Literacy and Risk-Taking of Households in the Hungarian Central Great Plain|The intense innovational activity typical of the financial sector in the last 30 years requires households to have increasingly comprehensive and complex financial knowledge. The main objective of our study, therefore, was to assess and evaluate risk management activity, which is an integral part of financial literacy, using the questionnaire survey focusing on households of the Central Great Plain and conducted by the Kossuth College of Lakitelek as basis. We have determined that the households examined are conservative with respect to their finances and strive to minimise risks as much as possible, which is commendable. Unfortunately, however, they lack the financial knowledge to make prudent decisions. In truth, risk management strategy based on inadequate knowledge, but thought to be sound is nothing more than a substitution of risk types, the significance of which households are unable to assess realistically as they lack necessary financial knowledge.
D69|Contemporary Economics Dilemma: High Ethics or More Extensive Governing?|The authors of the article point out that economic theory has failed to yield a solid theoretical background in critical situations such as the current financial and economic crisis and the transformation of post-communist economies. Mainly the present crisis opens the question of the unsatisfactory status of economic science. While classical liberal or Keynesian concepts are failing, theorists cannot look to mathematical modelling for help. It seems that traditional concepts malfunction, and the financial market is particularly predisposed for this process. The application of mathematical models is overvalued. The article calls attention to the possible influence and adequacy of regulatory attitudes on a return to equilibrium. It seems that the part of ethics must be upgraded decidedly. The challenge for today´s theoretical economists is to find a new paradigm of economic science for today´s global era.
D69|On feedback nash equilibrium and cooperation in the neoclassical growth model|Far away from any ideological point of view, our aim in this paper is to study, in a differential-game-theoretical approach, the standard growth model. Our baseline model comes from Kaitala y Pohjola (2009) based on the original ideas of Lancaster (1973). We focus on the computation of feedback strategies and we use history-dependent strategies, such as trigger strategies, in which to begin by cooperating and will cooperate as long as the rivals do, and upon observing a defection, it will immediately imply to revert to a period of punishment of specified length in which everyone plays non-cooperatively. We show that trigger strategies are employed by both groups to sustain cooperation as equilibrium. Then, we conclude that players’ memory strategies are the key for attaining the maximum economic growth.
D69|Beyond Gdp: How the Times Are Changing for Italian Families|This paper describes the evolution of the main indicators of economic wellbeing and inequality in Italy from the aftermath of World War II onwards, showing that their dynamics have differed over time periods and population subgroups. It also presents some reflections on the adequacy of per capita Gdp as a measure of well-being. We argue that economic resources play a significant role in accounting for the well-being of a population, but other dimensions, such as subjective indicators of well-being and inequality measures, should be considered too.
D69|Informal employment and happiness: Model with endogenous regressors|In the paper relation between the unregistered employment and life satisfaction is investigated. Endogeneity of the employment status and income is described by the system of simultaneous equations with random individual effects. The system is estimated with maximum likelihood on the Russia Longitudinal Monitoring Survey of HSE (RLMS-HSE) data. The key result of the paper is that informal status does not necessary decrease the level of life satisfaction. For example, if income were fixed, men would be more satisfied with their lifes in the unregistered employements in comparison with the registered jobs, ceteris paribus. The same are for women, but only in the cases when earnings are unfixed (they are a bit higher in the unregistered unemployement).
D69|The Effect of Climate Change, CO2 Fertilization, and Crop Production Technology on Crop Yields and Its Economic Implications on Market Outcomes and Welfare Distribution| Many studies have done econometric estimates of how climate alters crop yields and or land rents in an effort to gain information on potential effects of climate change. However, an important related factor, the atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) concentration, and in fact a driver of climate change is ignored. This means the prior econometric estimates are biased as they infer what will happen under climate change from observations in the recent past, but without consideration of CO2 effects. Furthermore although CO2 has been varying, it has proceeded at a very linear pace and cannot be disentangled from technological progress using historical crop yield data. This paper is designed to overcome this issue and estimate the consequences that CO2 has and will have in conjunction with climate change. The paper also partitions yield growth into temporal CO2 and climate change affected components and begins to address an issue of how climate change and its drivers will affect rates of technological progress. Moreover, we also factor in a number of conditions regarding to extreme events. This allows us 1) to estimate the consequences of such factors on yields; 2) to project given forecasts of climate change induced shifts in those factors what the implications are for yield distributions; and 3) carry this into welfare and technological change analyses. First, we use a stochastic production function approach of the type suggested by Just and Pope (1978, 1979) estimated with a three-step feasible generalized least squares approach to estimate the effect of climate change and CO2 fertilization on crop yields. The observational data of crop yields and planted acreage are collected from the USDA-National Agricultural Statistics Service. State-level climate data used in this study are obtained from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The free-air CO2 enrichment (FACE) experimental data are obtained from the USDA Agricultural Research Service and SOYFACE, University of Illinois. Next, to investigate the implication of future climate change on crop yield and its variability, we employ our estimated coefficients together with future climate change projected by standard GCMs used in the IPCC (2007) with the IPCC SRES scenario A1B. Finally, to explore the market outcomes and welfare implications of economic units given climate-induced shifts in yields across US regions, we plug in our projected percentage changes of mean crop yields into the agricultural sector model (ASM), a price endogenous, spatial equilibrium mathematical programming of the agricultural sector in the US. Our initial results find that yields of C-3 crops, soybeans, cotton, and wheat, positively respond to the elevated CO2, while yields of C-4 crops, corn and sorghum do not. However, we find that C-4 crops indirectly benefit from elevated CO2 in times and places of drought stress. We find the effect of crop technological progress to mean yields is non-linear with inverted-U shape in all crops, except cotton. Our study also reveals that ignoring the atmospheric CO2 in econometric model of crop yield studies is likely to overestimate the pure effect of climate change on crop yields as CO2 enhances those yields. For climate change impact, the average climate conditions and their variability appear to contribute in a statistically significant way to both average crop yields and their variability. Moreover, generally we find that the effect of CO2 fertilization generally outweighs the effect of climate change on mean crop yields in many regions. In terms of market outcomes and welfare distribution, we find the yield growth under the combined climate change and CO2 effect tends to decrease price in 2050. Planted acreage of all crops in North Plains, except wheat winter, is projected to increase, while it tends to decrease in South Plains, Lake States, Delta States, Southeast, and Mountains for almost all crops. Overall consumers’ surplus is projected to increase, while producers’ surplus is heterogeneously affected across US regions, but in total decreases by about $ 4.72 billion. Overall the total US welfare is increased about $ 2.27 billion compared to the base scenario. There are several clear implications of above findings. For example, 1) returns to agricultural research should be reevaluated in the light of climate change influences as for example aggressive CO2 mitigation will decrease returns; 2) models using econometric methods to predict future crop yields should be aware that ignoring CO2 fertilization may overestimate the real effect of climate change on crop yields; and 3) welfare losses for producers under climate change are likely with consumers gaining.
D69|Providing and Financing the Social Services in the Community – International Experience, Bulgarian Practice, Opportunities for Changes|The goal of the paper is to systemize and suggest scientific arguments to support the transition in Bulgaria from the model of financing social services based on the principle “money follows the supplier” to the alternative model based on the principle “money follows the client”. Object of the study is the financing of the social services in the community. The paper focuses on learning lessons from the international experience (Netherlands, Great Britain) and from the Bulgarian practice. It suggests possible solutions for a change of the model of financing the social services.
D69|Economía de los servicios públicos domiciliarios, más allá del mercado y del Estado|El artículo contribuye a la discusión sobre la equidad y la eficiencia como aporte al análisis económico, en el marco de los servicios públicos domiciliarios en Colombia. A partir de una revisión crítica se encuentra que el criterio de equidad como derecho en la prestación de estos servicios no se alcanza, porque el prestador entiende el servicio desde la visión del mercado (la prestación se centra en la demanda) y no desde el beneficio social que su consumo representa. Asimismo, la regulación y la forma como se gestionan los recursos de manera descentralizada han generado diversos resultados en términos de eficiencia y equidad en las regiones, debido a que no se han tenido en cuenta las diferencias en cuanto a densidad poblacional, características culturales y el conocimiento de los ciudadanos para participar activamente en los procesos de cambio.
D69|La protección de los conocimientos tradicionales desde una perspectiva económica|El artículo se centra en la propuesta de protección de los conocimientos tradicionales (CCTT) plasmada en los documentos elaborados por la secretaría del Comité Intergubernamental sobre Propiedad Intelectual y Recursos Genéticos, Conocimientos Tradicionales y Folclore, de la Organización Mundial de la Propiedad Intelectual. En un primer momento, se destacan los rasgos de esa propuesta de protección que pueden resultar más determinantes desde el punto de vista económico. En segundo lugar, se analiza cómo pueden desarrollarse los distintos tipos de intercambios bajo esa protección. Respecto de los intercambios en los que la transferencia de conocimientos desempeña un papel destacado, el artículo subraya los problemas de asimetrías informativas que pueden operar en contra de los intereses de las comunidades. De donde se desprende que puede ser muy conveniente por lo general que las comunidades cuenten con algún apoyo externo, preferentemente público. Respecto de los intercambios de productos derivados de los CCTT se argumenta que otras medidas de desarrollo más directas que la protección pueden ser más efectivas. Y se subraya la ayuda que los signos distintivos como las marcas colectivas, las denominaciones de origen protegidas y las indicaciones geográficas protegidas pueden prestar. En una sección posterior, se compara, contraponiéndolas, la orientación y justificación de la protección propuesta en la documentación mencionada con la visión que la Economía del Bienestar ofrece de la propiedad intelectual e industrial. El artículo finaliza sugiriendo que, no obstante lo anterior, el proceso de internacionalización del sistema de la propiedad intelectual e industrial puede justificar, por razones de reciprocidad, medidas o sistemas de protección de los CCTT.
D69|Men among men do not take norm enforcement seriously|While there is ample evidence of a society-wide cooperation norm, it is not as clear who upholds this norm. In the present paper, we investigate whether there are gender differences with respect to norm enforcement. We let 1403 subjects play games of punishment and reward, individually or in groups with varying gender composition. Broadly, the results indicate that there are no clear gender differences: men are about as inclined as women to punish norm-breakers. However, behavior is context-dependent: men acting among other men are less inclined to uphold a cooperation norm than are women, or men in gender-mixed groups.
D69|Characteristics of Terrorism|The Handbook on the Economics of Conflict conveys how economics can contribute to the understanding of conflict in its various dimensions embracing world wars, regional conflicts, terrorism and the role of peacekeeping in conflict prevention.
D69|Characteristics of terrorism|The Handbook on the Economics of Conflict conveys how economics can contribute to the understanding of conflict in its various dimensions embracing world wars, regional conflicts, terrorism and the role of peacekeeping in conflict prevention.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D69|Naïve and Capricious: Stumbling into the ring of self-control conflict|We model self-control conflict as a stochastic struggle of an agent against a visceral influence, which impels the agent to act sub-optimally. The agent holds costly pre-commitment technology to avoid the conflict altogether and may decide whether to procure pre-commitment or to confront the visceral influence. We examine naïve expectations for the strength of the visceral influence; underestimating the visceral influence may lead the agent to exaggerate the expected utility of resisting temptation, and so mistakenly forego pre-commitment. Our analysis reveals conditions under which higher willpower—and lower visceral influence—reduces welfare. We further demonstrate that lowering risk aversion could reduce welfare. The aforementioned results call into question certain policy measures aimed at helping people improve their own behavior.
D69|Naïve and capricious: Stumbling into the ring of self-control conflict|We model self-control conflict as a stochastic struggle of an agent against a visceral influence, which impels the agent to act sub-optimally. The agent holds costly pre-commitment technology to avoid the conflict altogether and may decide whether to procure pre-commitment or to confront the visceral influence. We examine naïve expectations for the strength of the visceral influence; underestimating the visceral influence may lead the agent to exaggerate the expected utility of resisting temptation, and so mistakenly forego pre-commitment. Our analysis reveals conditions under which higher willpower – and lower visceral influence – reduces welfare. We further demonstrate that lowering risk aversion could reduce welfare. The aforementioned results call into question certain policy measures aimed at helping people improve their own behavior.
D69|Eliciting Preferences on Multiattribute Societies with a Choquet Integral|This paper aims at reexamining the construction of indicators of standards of living, by focussing on the challenges raised by the subjectivity and the multidimensionality of living conditions. For that purpose, we propose to apply Choquet integral-based multiattribute value theory to the elicitation, from rankings of multiattribute hypothetical societies, of individual's preferences on different dimensions of living conditions. A simple application of the proposed approach highlights the existence of complementarities and redundancies between different dimensions of standards of living, and reveals a strong heterogeneity of individual preferences on hypothetical societies. We explore also how elicited preferences can be used to cast a new light on the ranking of actual multiattribute societies.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D69|Diktátor a barátom? A barátság és a méltányosság kapcsolata<BR>[Is my friend a dictator? The relation between friendship and impartiality]|"Az elmúlt évtizedekben számos tanulmány mutatott rá, hogy némely helyzetben az önérdekkövetésnél jóval erősebb motivációt jelentenek a mások jólétét figyelembe vevő preferenciák. E preferenciák - például a méltányosság, altruizmus és reciprocitás - jó néhány kísérleti közgazdaságtani eszközöket alkalmazó kutatás témáját adták. Számos - a viselkedést befolyásoló - tényező állt e kutatások középpontjában, azonban az egyik legegyszerűbb emberi kapcsolat mégis kívül maradt e kutatások látókörén. Ez a kapcsolat a barátság. A szerző ezt a hiányt igyekszik pótolni két játék - a kísérleti gazdaságtanból ismert ultimátum- és diktátorjáték - alkalmazásával. Megállapítja, hogy a méltányos viselkedés nem puszta ""egyenlőséget"" jelent, hanem annál sokkal összetettebb normarendszeren alapul, amelyben meghatározó szerepet tölt be a személyek közti kapcsolat. Kísérleti eredmények alátámasztják azt a feltételezést, hogy az emberek a barátaikkal önzetlenebben osztozkodnak, mint idegenekkel, azaz a méltányos osztozkodás mást és mást jelent attól függően, hogy kivel történik. Emellett az eredmények azt mutatják, hogy a méltányosnak ítélt osztozkodás és a másokkal szembeni követelmények is kapcsolatban vannak egymással. Journal of Economics Literatrure (JEL) kód: C91, D63, D69."
D69|A capability approach to the analysis of rural households' wellbeing in Nigeria|Rural households in Nigeria have been characterized as poor, and with little opportunity for development. Many studies have equated poverty with well being, however empirical literature on well being is less researched. This paper attempts bridge the knowledge gap in the empirical literature of well being studies and specifically the use of the capability approach in its application in the Nigerian well being context which is not as well researched as poverty studies. The study made use of the Nigerian Core welfare indices survey questionnaires of 2006 to provide data relevant to capability well being dimensions. The dimensions include housing, health, nutrition, education, asset ownership/economic, information flow and security. The first part of the study involve developing indices of well being using the fuzzy set in order to generate a composite well being index by the elementary indicators of the well being dimensions. The second part of the study used a logistic regression to explore the variability in achieving the composite well being index value by a set of Conversion factors. The fuzzy set result revealed that the capability to attain a desired state of well being is highest with respect to asset ownership and lowest with respect to security. The logistic analysis shows that the predicted probability of attaining the mean capability well being level increases for male headed rural households, increasing educational level and age of the head, increasing household size, employment in the public sector and residence in any other geopolitical zone except the Northwestern zone.
D69|Child Wellbeing in Two-Parent Families: How Do Characteristics and Relationships Matter?|We use data from the Fragile Families and Child Wellbeing Study to examine the role of individual and family characteristics, as well as mother-father and parent-child relationships, with regard to differences in wellbeing for children living with their biological mother and either their biological father or a social father. We find that accounting for these factors produces a large decrease in the association between two-parent family type and cognitive skills, but does little to explain the association between family type and externalizing behavior problems, given suppressor effects of several of the father characteristics and relationship measures. Furthermore, results from Blinder-Oaxaca decompositions suggest that differences in cognitive skills can largely be explained by differences in the characteristics and behaviors of the individuals comprising biological- and social-father families, whereas differences in externalizing behavior problems predominantly reflect differences in returns to (effects of) these characteristics and behaviors for children in the two family types.
D69|Identity Salience and Involvement among Resident and Nonresident Fathers|The literature on father involvement suggests that the value men ascribe to the father role is important for understanding their involvement with their children, yet this theory has received only limited empirical attention. Using data from the Fragile Families and Child Wellbeing Study (N = 3,554), I examined the association between fathers? identity salience reported at their child?s birth and their involvement (accessibility, engagement, and responsibility) when their child was about 1, 3, and 5 years old, carefully considering the role played by fathers? residence status. I found that fathers? identity salience predicted future levels of engagement net of a large number of fathers? characteristics, and that fathers with high identity salience were more likely to reside with their child, which facilitated their involvement. These results suggest that programs designed to enhance the salience of the father role would be useful for teaching men to become more involved fathers.
D69|ATTENTION AND SCHOOL SUCCESS: The Long-Term Implications of Attention for School Success among Low-Income Children|This study examined the longitudinal associations between sustained attention in preschool and children?s school success in later elementary school within a low-income sample (N = 2,403). Specifically, two facets of sustained attention (focused attention and lack of impulsivity) at age 5 were explored as independent predictors of children?s academic and behavioral competence across eight measures at age 9. Overall, the pattern of results indicates specificity between the facets of attention and school success, such that focused attention was primarily predictive of academic outcomes while impulsivity was mainly predictive of behavioral outcomes. Both facets of attention predicted teacher ratings of children?s academic skills and approaches to learning, which suggests that they jointly influence outcomes that span both domains of school success. Patterns of association were similar for children above and below the poverty line. Implications of these findings for interventions targeting school readiness and success among at-risk children are discussed.
D69|Cost study of the clinical management of prostate cancer in France: results on the basis of population-based data|No abstract is available for this item.
D69|On measuring vulnerability to poverty|There is a growing interest on dynamic and broader concepts of deprivation such as vulnerability, which takes in to account the destitution of individuals from future shocks. We use the framework of decision making under uncertainty to arrive at a new measure of vulnerability to poverty. We highlight the importance of current standard of living to better capture the notion of vulnerability. In conceptualizing the new class of measures of vulnerability we thus move beyond the standard expected poverty measures that is commonly found in the literature. We also axiomatically characterize the new class of measure and discuss some of it's properties.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D69|On the Natural and Economic Difficulties to Fulfilling the Human Right to Water|We present, to the best of our knowledge, the first economic model of the human right to water using a nonrenewable resource model inclusive of a backstop technology. The right is interpreted as a minimum consumption requirement the government is obligated to fulfill in the event that any one household cannot do so independently. Differing by income levels, households maximize utility by purchasing a composite consumption good and water from two distinct, government-owned sources. Facing physical and financial constraints, the government uses fiscal policy to address potential human rights violations. Reducing the analysis to two-periods, we develop a novel approach to compare total welfare levels from a joint human rights and economics perspective. We define a human rights welfare standard and discuss cases where traditional social welfare measures would meet, surpass, or violate this standard. We thus offer a unique way to merge economic analysis with human rights research.
D69|Tracking the Historical Evolution of States' Compliance with their Economics and Social Rights Obligations of Result: Insights from the Historical SERF Index|The International Covenant for Economic Social and Cultural Rights, ICESCR, commits states to progressively realize the economic and social rights enumerated in the Covenant. This poses a challenge to measurement. It is not enough to assess the extent to which rights are enjoyed in a country or whether rights enjoyment has increased over time. Evaluating the extent to which a State is compliant with its obligations of result at any given time requires that one assess the level of rights enjoyment relative to the extent of the state's obligation at that time. In as much as a state is obligated to fulfill economic and social rights to the maximum of available resources, the level of a state's obligation depends on its resource capacity, and this changes over time. Thus, the principle of progressive realization poses two challenges to gauging the extent to which countries are compliant with their obligations of result under the Covenant. First, a country's level of obligation must be benchmarked at the initial time period of concern and second, the country's level of obligation must be benchmarked as its resource capacity evolves over time. A key insight of the 2010 Human Development Report is the tremendous improvement over the past thirty some years in the enjoyment of critical economic and social rights. But the resource capacity of most countries has increased as will implying their capacity to improve rights enjoyment has expanded. Here we adapt the SERF Index methodology (Fukuda-Parr et al. 2009, Randolph et al. 2010) to examine whether country’s fulfillment of their economic and social rights obligations of results have improved or deteriorated over the past four decades. That is, we consider whether the enjoyment of economic and social rights has increased in relation to the capacity to expand rights enjoyment.
D69|Les perceptions sur les causes du chômage et sur ses solutions : le cas de la France|This article deals with the subjective perceptions of the causes and consequences of unemployment in France. The analysis is realized using a survey of the research department of labour Ministry based on a representative sample of the French population. We make the hypothesis that a better knowing of such mechanisms by the potential beneficiaries of the employment policies can improve its targeting. The results show that for the interviewed the main causes of unemployment are due to industrial relocations, low growth and high level of wages employers contributions. Diminishing contributions and boosting consumption are then considered as the better ways to improve employment level. Otherwise the mechanisms favouring the return to work of unemployed are well known but also seem to be overestimated. It might come from the fact that the mechanisms of incentives tend to become a social norm in the public debate about unemployment. Lastly we note that if the absence of diploma reduces the probability for an individual to say that she or he knows correctly the instruments of employment policies, having a high diploma level do not reveal a better effective knowledge of all instruments. JEL Classification: J08, J20, E24, I38, D69.
D69|The Optimal Babel - An Economic Framework for the Analysis of Dynamic Language Rights|We analyze various normatively determined distributions of language rights in multilingual settings. A general model for the analysis of language rights over time in a model with overlapping generations is set up. This model is then first used to find efficient allocations of rights in the tradition of Wicksell. It is shown that, when rights today influence the status of a language in the future, the “naïve” static analysis has to be augmented in favor of further-reaching minority rights in order to take into account the dynamic aspect. It is then demonstrated that a traditional welfare-economic analysis generally goes even further in the support of minority rights. If a possible externality on other communities is taken into account, however, these results are reversed in a pure efficiency analysis. If redistribution arguments are taken into account, this provides an effect in the opposite direction again.
D69|Demokrasinin Temel Ilkeleri ve Modern Demokrasi Kuramlari|Genel olarak bakildiginda, halkin yonetimi anlamina gelen demokrasinin tarih boyunca farkli toplumlar tarafindan farkli uygulamalarla bugune geldigi gorulur. Toplumlar, demokrasiyi kendi sosyo-ekonomik, politik ve hukuksal yapilarina gore farkli bir bicimde yasamislardir. Demokrasi, klasik Yunan doneminden bugune degin, farkli bakis acilarindan irdelenmis ve ancak 20yy’da itibar gormeye baslamistir. Bugun, saygin bir yere sahip olan demokrasi, bir siyasal rejim olarak insan haklarinin gerceklestigi duzeni temsil etmektedir. Demokrasinin temel ilkeleri olan; ozgurluk ve esitlik, siyasal temsil, siyasal katilim ve haklar demokrasinin hicbir zaman prosedurlere ya da kurumlara indirgenemez olma ozelligini ortaya koymaktadir. Demokrasi realist demokrasi kuramlarinda yer aldigi gibi, yani demokratik olarak kabul edilen mevcut yonetim bicimlerinin ortak ozellikleri olan asgari usul sartlarina gore degerlendirildigi takdirde demokrasi kavrami yeterince anlasilmamis olur. Cunku siradan bir demokrasi bu sartlardan cok daha fazla niteliklere sahiptir. 20yy’dan once ortaya cikan modern demokrasi kuramlarinin onculleri bugune kadar tartisilan klasik demokrasi kuramlaridir. Gelismis demokrasi bakis acisindan incelendiginde bu kuramlarin kendine ozgu belli kisitlamalari oldugu goze carpmaktadir. Modern demokrasi kuramlari bu eksikligi ortaya koymakla birlikte kuramlar karsilastirildiginda bunlarinda zayif ve guclu yonleri ortaya cikmaktadir. Bugun genel kabul goren ve gerek siyasi gerek akademik ve gerekse sosyal platformlarda sik sik tartisilan demokrasi kavrami yaygin bir sekilde sorun cozucu olarak bakilmaktadir. Diger taraftan tum yonleri ile alindiginda sorun uretici yani da gozlemlenebilmektedir.
D69|Personal Income Tax Structure: Theory and Policy|The eminent contributors (including Altshuler, Creedy, Freebairn, Gravelle, Heady, Kalb, Sørensen and Zodrow) investigate the beneficial directions for medium-term tax reform in the light of global developments and lessons from the latest taxation research. In addressing this issue, they review recent advances in both the theoretical and empirical tax literature and reform evidence from individual countries. Topics covered include the impact of taxes on economic performance; international and corporate taxation; personal tax and welfare systems; environmental taxation; and country-specific tax reform experiences.
D69|Welfare change of China's cotton supply chain under the shock of financial crisis|Purpose - The financial crisis, which broke in the USA has impacted greatly on the world economy, especially on China's cotton supply chain. It is necessary to understand the welfare change of the cotton chain under this shock of financial crisis in order for relevant policy decisions to be made. The purpose of this paper is to measure the welfare change of all the consumers, producers, circulation and farmers in the cotton supply chain under the shock of financial crisis. Design/methodology/approach - There is no existing mature method to calculate the welfare change of a special supply chain, such as the cotton supply chain. The method most used in such situations is the equilibrium displacement model, created by Muth, and developed by Gardner. Findings - The financial crisis has had important impacts on China cotton industry. Farmers' losses are bigger than people estimate. Circulation link's loss is a little lower than cotton farmers'. Producers' loss is far lower than circulation and cotton farmers. Consumers' loss is the biggest loss in the whole cotton supply chain: however, some of these are foreign consumers – especially foreign wholesalers and retailers. Originality/value - This paper is the first to study the quantitative welfare change of China's cotton supply chain under the shock of financial crisis, providing useful information for government and company decision making.
D69|La Reconversión de la Izquierda Latinoamericana|"Inequality is the keyword to understand why Latin-America Left, restructured as democratic and dialogging, emerged after the sinking of communist bastions and their mutation, as the new Chinese ""Market-based socialism"". Latin-America history shows a strong and fighting Left, featuring the heroic deeds of Ernesto Guevara and Fidel Castro. But Monroe Doctrine and the Dependency promotion, by the foreign and inner enemies, thwarted that hope of the divers Lefts, now in the Government, now making opposition, now seeking for a weapon-based taking of power. Eventually the Right won and the Lefts got spread by the Region. Then the Leftist people understood that any Dictatorship would restrict freedom to most of citizens. They also learned from the capitalist game, that concentrated interests, specially in Latin-America make much more power, so they had need dialogue, consensus and negotiation toward to reach the power and govern. Nowadays, democratic Leftist Governments, try to make gradual changes, by mean of local, autonomous, heterogeneous and dynamic policies."
D69|On Measuring Vulnerability to Poverty|There is a growing interest on dynamic and broader concepts of deprivation such as vulnerability, which takes in to account the destitution of individuals from future shocks. We use the framework of decision making under uncertainty to arrive at a new measure of vulnerability to poverty. We highlight the importance of current standard of living to better capture the notion of vulnerability. In conceptualizing the new class of measures of vulnerability we thus move beyond the standard expected poverty measures that is commonly found in the literature. We also axiomatically characterize the new class of measure and discuss some of its properties.
D69|Intergenerational Mobility of Income and Schooling: Chile 1996-2006|In this paper we analyze intergenerational income and schooling mobility during the 1996-2006 decade in Chile. Using the countries most extended household panel survey, we overcome some of the limitations of the previous Chilean studies by using observed income data for both parents and children, as opposed to observed income data only for children and income data that is generated for parents from the information given by their children retrospectively. Following the recent literature, we control our estimates for time-series variation (Lee and Solon, 2009). Our results show high intergenerational income elasticities in comparison to other developing countries, and these values are higher for sons than for daughters. The same results hold for educational mobility. Trends analysis show that the transmission of economic status have remained constant during the last years in Chile, while educational mobility has increased.
D69|Examining the gender wealth gap|Economic research on the determinants of gender differences in economic outcomes particularly in income and consumption is well established. Extending these investigations to other outcomes such as wealth up till now has been limited due to lack of individual-level data. Using the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) we find a significant ‘raw’ gender wealth gap of 50,000€ for married partners. Decomposition analyses reveal that the gap is largely driven by differences in characteristics between men and women (observables), particularly by individual’s own income and labour market experience. This is especially true at the bottom and at the top of the wealth distribution, which we show using semi-parametric decomposition techniques. Differences in the lower half of the distribution are mostly driven by the wealth function, i.e., the way in which women transform their characteristics into wealth.
D69|Examining the gender wealth gap| Economic research on the determinants of gender differences in economic outcomes particularly in income and consumption is well established. Extending these investigations to other outcomes such as wealth up till now has been limited due to lack of individual-level data. Using the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) we find a significant 'raw' gender wealth gap of 50,000€ for married partners. Decomposition analyses reveal that the gap is largely driven by differences in characteristics between men and women (observables), particularly by individual's own income and labour market experience. This is especially true at the bottom and at the top of the wealth distribution, which we show using semi-parametric decomposition techniques. Differences in the lower half of the distribution are mostly driven by the wealth function, i.e., the way in which women transform their characteristics into wealth. Copyright 2010 Oxford University Press 2010 All rights reserved, Oxford University Press.
D69|Estimação da Perda de Bem-Estar Causada pela Criminalidade: O Caso da Cidade de João Pessoa – PB|O presente estudo analisa o impacto da criminalidade sobre o bem-estar individual e social. A perda de bem-estar é estimada pela disposição a pagar dos indivíduos relativamente a uma cesta de serviços de segurança, captada pelo Método de Avaliação Contingente e calculada com regressão logit. Os resultados das regressões sugerem que a segurança pública é um bem normal e comum. Pode-se inferir que o valor monetário da perda de bem-estar associado ao sentimento de insegurança justifica a adoção de políticas públicas de combate à criminalidade.
D69|Pessimism Or Optimism: A Justification To Voluntary Contributions Toward Environmental Quality|This article analyses the determinants of voluntary contribution to environmental quality by introducing the perception of environmental risk. We consider individuals who are aware both of the impact of their voluntary contributions and of the quality of the current environment on the future quality of environment. Their preferences are represented by the RDU model. We distinguish three kinds of effect: environmental quality, wealth and risk perception. The first effects are not always sufficient to explain agents' implication in the improvement of environmental quality.
D69|Decision Processes of a Suicide Bomber – Integrating Economics and Psychology|This paper provides a theoretical analysis regarding the rationality of suicide attacks from an economist’s point of view. It is argued that although a terrorist gives up future utility from consumption by committing a suicide attack, this loss can be overcompensated by the utility he derives from the attack. Some individual cases of suicide bombers are presented in order to elucidate the diversity of motivations behind the attacks. We derive conditions under which a rational agent might decide to become a suicide bomber – or to announce the attack and defect later. The paper shows why the decision to commit a suicide attack can be time-inconsistent and what mechanisms might prevent time-inconsistency. Integrating the psychological concepts of cognitive dissonance and terror management theory into our economic analysis, we demonstrate why – although predicted by standard economic theory – defection is a phenomenon rarely observed. We finally present some policy implications. In the light of our analysis, policies that focus on material well-being seem less promising than policies that address non-monetary benefits of suicide attacks. The paper concentrates on two policy strategies: offering alternatives – with respect to the aims of terrorism as well as the means to attain them – and reducing the information bias – with respect to the availability as well as the access to information.
D69|Fathers' Religious Involvement and Early Childhood Behavior|Previous research suggests that many men increase their religious involvement after the birth of a new child. This study extends this research by examining whether fathers maintain a higher rate of religious participation as children get older and how fathers' religiosity may influence children's behavior. Results suggest that many fathers maintain a higher level of religious participation during the early years of their child's life. Although fathers' religious involvement does not appear to directly influence children's behavior, there is evidence that fathers' religiosity moderates the influence of other family characteristics on children. Parental relationship quality and mothers' religiosity are associated with fewer problem behaviors among children when fathers believe that religion is important to family life. Results also suggest that being raised by a non-religious father is associated with increased externalizing problem behavior among young children. Overall, this study suggests that religious communities may be a source of support that encourages fathers to be more active in their family life and promote positive development among children.
D69|Religious Heterogamy and Relationship Stability: A Comparison of Married and Cohabiting Unions|Many studies have explored dynamics within religiously heterogamous marriages, but little is known about religiously heterogamous cohabiting unions. Using data from the Fragile Families Study, this study examines the influence of religious heterogamy on union stability among married and cohabiting couples. Results suggest that religious heterogamy is more common in cohabiting unions than marriages. Results also suggest that cohabiting unions are more likely to dissolve than marriages, and the risk of separation is higher for religiously heterogamous cohabiting unions (especially those in which one partner is religious and the other is not) than religiously heterogamous marriages. Finally, there is evidence showing that some religiously heterogamous cohabiting couples have a higher risk of relationship dissolution than religious heterogamous married couples due to lower relationship quality. Overall, this study extends the religion and family literature by showing that religious differences may lead to greater instability for cohabiting relationships than marriages.
D69|Mothers' Investments in Child Health in the U.S. and U.K.: A Comparative Lens on the Immigrant 'Paradox'|Research on the immigrant paradox healthier behaviors and outcomes among more socioeconomically disadvantaged immigrants is mostly limited to the U.S. Hispanic population and to the study of birth outcomes. Using data from the Fragile Families Study and the Millennium Cohort Study, we expand our understanding of this phenomenon in several ways. First, we examine whether the healthier behaviors of Hispanic immigrant mothers extend to other foreign-born groups, including non-Hispanic immigrant mothers in the U.S. and white, South Asian, black African and Caribbean, and other (largely East Asian) immigrants in the U.K, including higher SES groups. Second, we consider not only the size of the paradox at the time of the child's birth, but also the degree of its persistence into early childhood. Third, we examine whether nativity disparities are weaker in the U.K., where a much stronger welfare state makes health information and care more readily accessible. Finally, we examine whether differences in mothers' instrumental and social support both inside and out of the home can explain healthier behaviors among the foreign-born. The results suggest that healthier behaviors among immigrants are not limited to Hispanics or to low SES groups; that nativity differences are fairly persistent over time; that the immigrant advantage is equally strong in both countries; and that the composition and strength of mothers? support plays a trivial explanatory role in both countries. These findings lead us to speculate that what underlies nativity differences in mothers? health behaviors may be a strong parenting investment on the part of immigrants.
D69|Religiosity and happiness: an ever-winning couple? An answer from India|The link between individual religiosity and happiness has been studied with respect to different aspects. The general conclusion is that religiosity helps people to feel happier. However the extant studies have never taken into account how belonging to a discriminated religious group in a tense environment affects happiness. This paper analyzes this in India, a multireligious country, characterized by religious conflicts. The results show that membership to a discriminated group is source of unhappiness provided that the group represents a minority in a specific territory. Instead, when a religious community is a minority in the country, but it is represents the majority of the population in some specific region(s) membership to it increases individual's happiness. A religiousbased federalism could appease the conflicts and increase people's happiness.
D69|From full life to balanced life: Extending Martin Seligman's route to happiness|In this paper, a formalization of Martin Seligman's concept of full life is presented by employing basic microeconomics. With the formalized version of the concept, it can be explained why people differ with respect to the levels of pleasant, engaged and meaningful life they are trying to realize. Moreover, it is suggested to extend Seligman's concept of full life to the concept of balanced life. This extension requires that in addition to differences in people's preferences regarding aspects of life also differences in the time opportunity costs are to be taken into account. Finally, a scorecard-approach is proposed to track personal advancement in the process of life balancing.
D69|Examining the Gender Wealth Gap in Germany|Welfare-oriented analyses of economic outcome measures such as income and wealth generally rest on the assumption of pooled and equally shared resources among all household members. Yet the lack of individual-level data hampers the distribution of income and wealth within the household context. Based on unique individual-level wealth data from the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP), this paper challenges the implicit assumption of internal redistribution by considering an alternative definition of the aggregation unit and by controlling its effect on distribution and inequality analysis. We find empirical evidence for a significant gender wealth gap of about 30,000 euros in Germany, which amounts to almost 50,000 euros for married partners. Decomposition analyses reveal that this gap is mostly driven by differences in characteristics between men and women, the most important factor being the individual’s own income and labor market experience, and particularly so at the bottom and top of the wealth distribution. However, this finding can only be shown with nonparametric decomposition techniques. Differences for those in the middle of the distribution appear to be mostly driven by the wealth function, i.e., the way in which women transform their characteristics into wealth.
D69|Happiness, Economic Well-being, Social Capital and the Quality of Institutions|Since Jeremy Bentham, utilitarians have argued that happiness, not just income or wealth, is the maximand of individual and social welfare. By contrast, Rawls and followers argue that to share a common perception of living in a just society is the “ultimate good” and that individuals have a moral ability to evaluate just institutions. In this paper we argue that just institutions, apart from their intrinsic value, also have an instrumental value, both in economic performance and in happiness. Thus happiness -- or subjective well being -- is analyzed as being a function of economic well-being, the quality of public institutions and social ties. Cross section individual data from citizens in OECD countries show that income, education and the perceived quality of institutions have the highest impact on life satisfaction, followed by social capital. Country analysis shows a non linear but positive influence of per capita GDP on life satisfaction, but also that unemployment and inflation reduce average happiness, the former effect being stronger. Finally, better quality public institutions and having more social capital also bring more happiness. We conclude with some policy implications.
D69|Examining the Gender Wealth Gap in Germany|Welfare-oriented analyses of economic outcome measures such as income and wealth generally rest on the assumption of pooled and equally shared resources among all household members. Yet the lack of individual-level data hampers the distribution of income and wealth within the ousehold context. Based on unique individual-level wealth data from the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP), this paper challenges the implicit assumption of internal redistribution by considering an alternative definition of the aggregation unit and by controlling its effect on distribution and inequality analysis. We find empirical evidence for a significant gender wealth gap of about 30,000 euros in Germany, which amounts to almost 50,000 euros for married partners. Decomposition analyses reveal that this gap is mostly driven by differences in characteristics between men and women, the most important factor being the individual's own income and labor market experience. However, this finding holds only for the upper part of the wealth distribution and can be shown only with non-parametric decomposition methods due to the mean orientation of the parametric Oaxaca-Blinder technique. Differences in the lower part of the wealth distribution appear to be driven mostly by the wealth function, i.e., the way in which women transform their characteristics into wealth.
D69|National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme in India - A Review|This paper presents results on the participation of rural workers in the National Rural Employment Guarantee Program based on a pilot survey of three villages in Udaipur district, Rajasthan, India. Three villages (Dhundiya, Karanpur and Prithvisingh Ji Ka Khera) were covered. Total number of households interviewed in December, 2007, was 340. Here the focus is on participation in NREG of different socio-economic groups and the determinants of the participation of these groups. It is discovered that the mean participation was 59 days and that targeting was efficient with other labour, self employed in agriculture, SC and ST as well as those with smaller landholdings benefiting the most from the program. Thus the performance of the National Rural Employment Guarantee program has been far from dismal.
D69|National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme in India - A Review|This paper presents results on the participation of rural workers in the National Rural Employment Guarantee Program based on a pilot survey of three villages in Udaipur district, Rajasthan, India. Three villages (Dhundiya, Karanpur and Prithvisingh Ji Ka Khera) were covered. Total number of households interviewed in December, 2007, was 340. Here the focus is on participation in NREG of different socio-economic groups and the determinants of the participation of these groups. It is discovered that the mean participation was 59 days and that targeting was efficient with other labour, self employed in agriculture, SC and ST as well as those with smaller landholdings benefiting the most from the program. Thus the performance of the National Rural Employment Guarantee program has been far from dismal.
D69|National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme in Andhra Pradesh: Some Recent Evidence|This paper, a sequel to our earlier paper on Rajasthan, presents results on the participation of rural workers in the National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme based on a pilot survey of three villages in the Chittoor district, Andhra Pradesh, India. These villages are Kaligiri, Obulayyapale and Reddivaripalle and were surveyed in December 2007. In contrast to Rajasthan, SC and ST participated in higher numbers in AP, but in both states these groups participated for slightly lower spells than the residual group of 'Others'. We find that AP performed better than Rajasthan in terms of targeting poorer caste and income groups such as SC, ST and landless households. The number of days worked on average was much higher than suggested by other assessments. Our econometric analysis further reinforces the view that not only disadvantaged groups are more likely to participate but also for longer spells. Thus the performance of the National Rural Employment Guarantee programme has been far from dismal.
D69|Flexibility of choice versus reduction of ambiguity|This paper explores the problem of a social planner willing to improve the welfare of individuals who are unable to compare all available alternatives. The optimal decision trades off the individuals' desire for flexibility versus their aversion towards ambiguous choice situations. We introduce an axiom system that formalizes this idea. Our main result characterizes the preference maximizing opportunity set. It is a maximal set that consists of mutually comparable alternatives. It also has the property that it maximizes the sum of the distances between its ordered elements for some appropriate metric imposed on the set of possible choices.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D69|Cláusulas sociales y mercados tutelados: herramientas para la competitividad de las empresas de inserción|Work integration social enterprises are at a competitive disadvantage in the market due to their idiosyncratic nature. Social clauses and protected markets may provide a way of balancing this disadvantage. This article analyses the measures put in place by the Authorities to promote social and work integration processes. However, this analysis refers only to the measures that the Authorities can adopt in their role as a client or market for products or services, and to measures that are aimed particularly at work integration social enterprises: social clauses and protected markets. Both of these measures are rescaled into a single dimension labelled social clauses, quantifying their restrictive impact in the light of the problem of whether or not said clauses are used.
D69|Factores estratégicos de éxito de las empresas de inserción|Work integration social enterprises are an emerging reality in the Spanish State, and both the number of such enterprises and the resources allocated to this area by the different regional Authorities are increasing exponentially. However, the studies carried out to date are largely descriptive or explanatory, and have hardly touched on aspects relating to the management of these enterprises. In this article we set out to identify the fundamental factors linked to the business success of work integration social enterprises as an evaluation of the efficiency of such projects. The proposed hypothesis links a set of factors taken from the literature, which are considered independent variables, with the dependent variable of success. The hypotheses have been proven by an empirical analysis based on a telephone survey.
D69|Appraising diversity with an ordinal notion of similarity: An axiomatic approach|This paper provides an axiomatic characterization of two rules for comparing alternative sets of objects on the basis of the diversity that they offer. The framework considered assumes a finite universe of objects and an a priori given ordinal quadernary relation that compares alternative pairs of objects on the basis of their ordinal dissimilarity. Very few properties of this quadernary relation are assumed (beside completeness, transitivity and a very natural form of symmetry). The two rules that we characterize are the maxi-max criterion and the lexi-max criterion. The maxi-max criterion considers that a set is more diverse than another if and only if the two objects that are the most dissimilar in the former are weakly as dissimilar as the two most dissimilar objects in the later. The lexi-max criterion is defined as usual as the lexicographic extension of the maxi-max criterion. Some connections with the broader issue of measuring freedom of choice are also provided.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D69|Risk perceptions, voluntary contributions and environmental policy|This article study the impact of risk perception on environmental policy. The environmental quality is uncertain and can be improved by voluntary contributions. We introduce then an heterogeneity in individuals' risk perceptions. In this context, the social optimum can be decentralized by tax financed government subsidies to private provision. We distinguish the case of a government who represents perfectly agents' preferences from the case of a government with its own risk preferences. In the two cases, we show that neutrality still holds.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D69|Crisis of US Capitalism or the Crisis of the US Wage and Salaried Worker?|The Collapse of Capitalism (COC) Theory, usually supported by leftist people, is being denied by economic fundamentals facts and corporate profit data. Any constrictive or critical circumstance claimed as threatening the status quo has been efficiently redirected toward labour force exploitation. The way in which capitalist model can survive and improve is by mean of slow growth of wages and salaries (progressive decrease of their real purchasing power) and the labour rights removal, even inside richest countries, as the United States.
D69|Estimating Linear Birth Cohort Effects. Revisiting the Age-Happiness Profile|This paper provides a simple way of accounting for linear birth cohort effects, together with linear age and calendar time effects. It relies on the discreteness of the data and on the fact that not all individuals are born/interviewed in the same day. This creates an exogenous source of age variation within the same cohort that breaks the linear dependence between the three variables. This method is applied to a happiness equation and shows that, once a linear birth cohort term is included in the regression equation, together with linear age and calendar time terms, the robustly found U-shape profile of happiness in age disappears.
D69|The Mirror-Neuron Paradox: How Far is Sympathy from Compassion, Indulgence, and Adulation?|The mirror-neuron system (MNS) becomes instigated when the spectator empathizes with the principal’s intention. MNS also involves imitation, where empathy is irrelevant. While the former may attenuate the principal’s emotion, the latter paradoxically reinforces it. This paper proposes a solution of the contradictory attenuation/reinforcement functions of fellow-feeling by distinguishing two axes: “rationality axis” concerns whether the action is efficient or suboptimal; “intentionality axis” concerns whether the intention is “wellbeing” or “evil.” The solution shows how group solidarity differs from altruism and fairness; how revulsion differs from squeamishness; how malevolence differs from selfishness; and how racial hatred differs from racial segregation.
D69|Hedonic Housing Price Indices: The Turinese Experience|This study presents the methodology used by the Agenzia del territorio to produce real-estate indices for the analysis of the housing market in the Turinese area districts. The importance of an index is highlighted by the fact that a significant percentage of national wealth is the property sector. To this end, we use a rich and detailed database on transaction prices which allows us to study the dynamics of the residential housing market through the estimation of hedonic price indexes for Turin. This study carried out an hedonic methodology, not yet applied in Italy, on data collected and aggregates in homogeneous areas for the city of Turin. The results obtained appear to be of valid significance in the ratios, also in terms of values. Home price increased 40 percent from first semester of 2003 through the second semester of 2007.
D69|Which market protocols facilitate fair trading?|We study the performance of four market protocols with regard to their ability to equitably distribute the gains from trade among two groups of participants in an exchange economy. We test the protocols by running (computerized) experiments. Assuming Walrasian tatonemment as benchmark, there is a clear-cut ranking from best to worst: batch auction, nondiscretionary dealership, the hybridization of a dealership and a continuous double auction, and finally the pure continuous double auction.
D69|Vertrauen und Sozialkapital an einer wirtschaftswissenschaftlichen Fakultät der Universität der Bundeswehr München und in Deutschland: Eine empirische Studie|"Dieser Beitrag ist das Ergebnis eines sechs Monate langen Studienprojekts, durchgeführt an der Fakultät für Wirtschafts- und Organisationswissenschaften (WOW) an der Universität der Bundeswehr München. Gemeinsam mit 17 (männlichen und weiblichen) Studenten hat das ""akademische Team"", bestehend aus Friedrich L. Sell and Martin Reidelhuber, die theoretischen Grundlagen der (auch) in den Wirtschaftswissenschaften verwendeten Begriffe ""Vertrauen"" and ""Sozialkapital"" erarbeitet, um anschließend einen umfangreichen Fragebogen zu erstellen, der sich an den Pionierarbeiten der ""World Value Surveys"" (verschiedene Jahrgänge) sowie der ""Fundación BBVA"" (2006) orientiert hat. Der Fragebogen wurde elektronisch mit Hilfe des online tools ""2ask"" von 319 der 529 (männlichen und weiblichen) WOW-Studenten (die zugleich Offiziere und Offizierinnen der Deutschen Bundeswehr sind) ausgefüllt. Absicht der Befragung war es vor allem, das Ausmaß und verschiedene Aspekte des Vertrauens und des Sozialkapitals bei den WOW-Studenten zu ermitteln. Ebenfalls war es uns möglich, die eigenen, bei der Umfrage erzielten Resultate mit den Ergebnissen der BBVA zu vergleichen, die ein Jahr zuvor eine ähnliche (repräsentative) Umfrage u. a. unter 1300 Deutschen durchgeführt hatte. Drei Ergebnisse stechen hervor: Erstens haben die WOW-StudentInnen offenbar nicht sehr andersartige Vorstellungen als eine repräsentative Auswahl der deutschen Bevölkerung in der BBVA-Studie zu den Themen ""Vertrauen"" und ""Sozialkapital"". Zweitens hat sich ergeben, dass beide Untersuchungsgruppen systematisch (mehr oder weniger abstrakten) Institutionen deutlich stärker ""trauen"" als den ausführenden Repräsentanten dieser Institutionen. Drittens hat sich gezeigt, dass die untersuchte WOW-Gruppe in Teilen intensiver, in anderen Teilen weniger intensiv in soziale Netze eingebunden ist als die gesamtdeutsche Bevölkerung. Das ist vor allem ihrer besonderen Berufs- und Lebenssituation – sie sind zugleich Studenten und als Offiziere Angehörige der Bundeswehr – geschuldet."
D69|More about economic and non-economic determinants of (mutual) trust and trustworthiness|The aim of this paper is threefold: we first discuss the appropriateness of the traditional trust-game-tree for the analysis of trust relationships. Following the definition put forward by Lee et al. (2005) that confident expectations and a willingness to be vulnerable are critical components of all definitions of trust, we relate these criteria to the subjective probabilities given by Coleman's inequality. Then, we develop the trust-tree-game further to a psychological trust game in the vein of Dufwenberg (2002). Here, we complement the concept of trust responsiveness with the idea of honouring trust responsiveness which enables us to consider the issue of mutuality in trustrelationships. In a second step, we move on to the concept of mutual trust (which is more than some degree of mutuality in a trust relationship), where each individual can be both trustor and trustee. This aspect is visualized within the two-person optimal intertemporal consumption choice model.The corresponding creditor-debtor-game reproduces the well known prisoner's dilemma. In a third step we analyse in depth how the intertemporal elasticity of substitution is related to trust and trust worthiness in (inter)national credit contracts. The fact that we observe multiple creditor-debtor-relationships in an economy seems to reflect not only the gains from cooperation in repeated games, but also the existence of generalized trust in the society.
D69|Vertrauen: Substitut oder Komplement zu formellen Institutionen?|In this paper, we take trust as a specific, cooperative investment. The trustor is mainly interested in the possibility to rely on the trustee (“reliance”), while the trustee’s object is to receive a trustworthy sig-nal (“trust responsiveness”). The value of a trust relationship amounts and equals to not less than the social surplus which it can generate. On the one hand, a social optimal solution is feasible in the case where both parties agree on “liquidated damages” (perfect jurisdiction). Yet, it is also possible, on the other hand, to achieve a second best solution in a non-perfect jurisdiction world when “trust respon-siveness” comes into play.
D69|Allocation chômage : entre efficacité et égalité|This paper reconsiders the trade-off between efficiency and equality of unemployment insurance in a job search model with precautionary saving. Contrary to Cahuc and Lehmann [2000], we show that a decreasing profile of unemployment benefits is able to alleviate this trade-off when agents can save. It is due to a change in saving time profile and an increase in job search effort. The short term unemployed begins to save when unemployment benefits become declining. When the unemployment episode expands, he becomes long term unemployed and dissaves which enables to support his consumption to a higher level.
D69|L'influence de la connaissance du genre du partenaire dans les relations de confiance et de réciprocité: une étude expérimentale<BR>[Gender bias in trustworthiness]|Gender differences are often observed in real life-situations. We implement an experiment on the investment game which explores the influence of knowledge of partner's gender in trust and reciprocity by means of two treatments of information: the first one, without knowledge of partner's gender and the second treatment where gender's partner is common knowledge. A great heterogeneity of individuals’ behaviors is observed: from selfish behavior to complete trust and trustworthiness. Knowledge of responder’s gender does not imply different sending, even if men trust more their partners than women. However, a phenomenon of gender bias dominates in trustworthiness behavior.
D69|Allocation chômage : entre efficacité et égalité|This paper reconsiders the trade-off between efficiency and equality of unemployment insurance in a job search model with precautionary saving. Contrary to Cahuc and Lehmann [2000], we show that a decreasing profile of unemployment benefits is able to alleviate this trade-off when agents can save. It is due to a change in saving time profile and an increase in job search effort. The short term unemployed begins to save when unemployment benefits become declining. When the unemployment episode expands, he becomes long term unemployed and dissaves which enables to support his consumption to a higher level.
D69|Early Decisions: A Regulatory Framework|We describe a regulatory framework that helps consumers who have difficulty sticking to their own long-run plans. Early Decision regulations help long-run preferences prevail by allowing consumers to partially commit to their long-run goals, making it harder for a momentary impulse to reverse past decisions. In the cigarette market, examples of Early Decision regulations include restricting the locations or times at which cigarettes are sold, delaying the receipt of cigarettes following purchase, and allowing a consumer to choose in advance the legal restrictions on her own cigarette purchases. A formal model of Early Decision regulations demonstrates that Early Decisions are optimal when consumer preferences are heterogeneous. Intuitively, each consumer knows his own preferences, so self-rationing - which is what Early Decisions enable - is better than a one-size-fits-all regulation like a sin tax. Of course, Early Decision regulations incur social costs and therefore require empirical evaluation to determine their net social value.
D69|Vulnerability of Consumption Growth in Rural India|The fragility of livelihoods and hence the vulnerability of consumption growth due to aggregate shocks in the Indian rural sector have been highlighted recently. However, as yet there exist no estimates of the vulnerability of consumption growth in rural India. This paper attempts to fill this lacuna by providing certainty equivalent growth of consumption in 14 major states of India over the period 1958-1997, corresponding to NSS Rounds 13th to 53rd. The extant debates around poverty-growth elasticities are premised on the assumption of a state of world without any risks and uncertainties. In the real world in which the poor actually live they are subject to risks - both general and idiosyncratic - which affect their welfare. Thus poverty should not be viewed in static terms but within a framework that allows for changing states of the world. This paper shows that certainty equivalent consumption growth in rural India has been much lower than average real per capita consumption growth - indeed, in some cases, it has been negative. This points to the poor performance of consumer-perceived average welfare in India's rural sector and should be a matter of urgent policy concern.
D69|Emerging Opportunities for Australia in India's Paper and Paperboard Market|Radical economic reform programs initiated in India have led to a sharp rise in the trend rate of growth for India's economy. The rapid economic growth and socio-economic developments in India have boosted the country's consumption of many goods and services, including paper and paperboard. As the rapid economic growth and other developments continue, consumption of paper and paperboard in India will accelerate. The paper industry of India has however not been able fully to meet the consumption needs of its domestic market. Nor is it likely to do so for the foreseeable future when the country's consumption will be even greater. This is mainly because the industry is beset with problems such as a shortage of domestic supply of papermaking fibre, obsolete technology, and comparatively high cost of production. The situation thus presents a potential opportunity for the forest products industries of Australia and other countries to benefit from India's domestic market for paper, paperboard, pulp, recovered paper, pulpwood and related services.
D69|L'influence de la connaissance du genre du partenaire dans les relations de confiance et de réciprocité: une étude expérimentale|Ce travail étudie l'influence de la connaissance du genre du partenaire dans les relations de confiance et de réciprocité. Il rend compte d’une expérience en laboratoire sur le jeu de l'investissement qui compare les données résultant de deux traitements : le premier, sans connaissance du genre du partenaire, et le second, qui est tel que tant les « envoyeurs » que les « répondants » connaissent le genre de la personne à laquelle ils sont appariés. Les résultats obtenus montrent une grande hétérogénéité des comportements individuels, qui va du comportement théorique d’égoïsme pur à une confiance et une réciprocité totale. La connaissance du genre du répondant par les envoyeurs n'implique pas d'envois différents, même si les hommes semblent faire plus confiance en leur partenaire que les femmes. Au niveau de la réciprocité, un phénomène de « solidarité de sexe » semble dominer : les individus ont tendance à honorer d'avantage la confiance de leur partenaire s'il est du même genre qu'eux. Le genre de l'envoyeur exerce une influence significative sur les retours lorsque celui-ci est connu des répondants. Mais la croyance usuelle selon laquelle les femmes seraient plus loyales que les hommes n'est pas confirmée par l’expérience.
D69|Determinacion del indice fisico de calidad de vida en el Estado de Tabasco|La distincion de Sen entre medios y fines al abordar la medicion de los niveles de vida es el punto de partida del presente trabajo. En el se propone la construccion del indice Fisico de Calidad de Vida (IFCV) para los 17 municipios del estado de Tabasco a partir de variables demograficas y educativas, con una variante: la utilizacion del metodo de componentes principales. Los resultados del ejercicio sugieren la necesidad de tener una vision mas cautelosa de la relacion entre crecimiento economico, bienestar y distribucion de la renta en terminos espaciales y confirma la virtualidad de un enfoque del desarrollo economico de caracter normativo.
D69|Vertrauen : Substitut oder Komplement zu formellen Institutionen?|"In diesem Beitrag diskutieren wir den in der Literatur heftig umstrittenen Aspekt, ob Vertrauen (Institutionen) nur ein Komplement zu formellen Institutionen (Vertrauen) sein oder diese(s) möglicherweise sogar substituieren kann (können). Wir fassen Vertrauen als spezifische, kooperative Investition auf. Dem Vertrauensgeber geht es dabei um die Verlässlichkeit des Vertrauensnehmers (""reliability""). Der Wert einer Vertrauensbeziehung besteht in nicht weniger als in dem sozialen Überschuss, den sie entstehen lassen kann. Ohne weiteres (Reputationseffekte, Trigger Strategien etc.) kommt diese Beziehung aber nicht zustande. Auch anreizkompatible Verträge können das Dilemma nicht lösen. Dafür aber kann die Zahlung des individuell geregelten Schadensersatzes (perfekte Jurisdiktion) dafür Sorge tragen, die Parteien zur Realisierung der sozial optimalen Lösung zu bewegen. Ein ähnlich hoher sozialer Überschuss kann auch dann erreicht werden, wenn bei imperfekter Jurisdiktion der Vertrauensgeber den größeren Teil dieses Überschusses verantwortet."
D69|Labour Market Frictions, Social Policies, and Barriers to Technology Adoption|Barriers to technological changes have recently been shown to be a key element in explaining differences in output per worker across countries. This study examines the role that labour market features and institutions have in explaining barriers to technology adoption. I build a model that includes labour market frictions, capital market imperfections and heterogeneity in workers' skills. I found that the unemployment rate together with the welfare losses that workers experiment after displacement are key factors in explaining the existence of barriers to technology adoption. Moreover, I found that none of these factors alone is sufficient to build these barriers. The theory also suggests that welfare policies like the unemployment insurance system may enhance these kinds of barriers while policies like a severance payment system financed by an income tax seem to be more effective in eliminating them.
D69|Are We Better Off if Our Politicians Have More Information?|The model of public policy studied in this paper has heterogeneous citizens/voters and two public goods: one (roads) chosen directly by an elected policy‐maker, and the other (pollution) stochastically dependent on the amount of roads. Both a one‐country and a two‐country version of the model are analyzed; the latter displays externalities across the countries which create incentives for free riding and strategic delegation. The welfare effects of providing the policy‐maker with information about the relationship between roads and pollution are investigated, and it is shown that more information hurts some—sometimes even all—citizens. In particular, the opportunity not to create an institution for information gathering can serve as a commitment device for a country, although with the unfortunate effect of making the overall outcome even worse. Implications for the welfare effects of “informational lobbying” are also discussed.
D69|Minority Opinion and Herd Behaviour|Is majority opinion a better guide to action than a minority view? This paper demonstrates that a direct application of rational herding theory to this novel area can produce a surprisingly counter-intuitive result: given (i) the minority has a clear conformist view and (ii) decision-makers learn through observation as in a herding model, then size does not matter when evaluating whether some groups make better decisions than others. Extending this further we argue that it may be advantageous for risk averse agents to support a form of positive discrimination, that new generations have a largely ambiguous impact, and that the use of electoral colleges can be supported on informational grounds.
D69|Extremes and Moderates: A Characterization and an Application to Lobbying| Abstract: In a society where individuals differ in their valuation of different social policies, when might one consider a given individual as having references that are extreme relative to the others? And how important are such preferences in determining eventual policy? In this paper, we describe an individual as being extreme if her views differ from the mainstream to the extent that the rest of the society is able to unanimously agree on a compromise policy that they strictly prefer to what might have been the outcome if such an individual has her own way. Relying on the intermediate property of preferences due to Grandmont [1978] we provide a simple geometric characterization of extreme preferences. Furthermore, we also present an illustrative positive model of lobbying activity where we apply our characterization result to show that every equilibrium social policy is determined only by the activities of those holding extreme preferences even when they are a minority
D69|Burden Sharing in NATO|During the period of cold war, NATO alliance was producing defence commodity to protect its members from the common threat of ex-Soviet Union. The paper examines the problem of burden sharing among NATO allies. It is shown that larger countries are benefited more than smaller countries from the production of the public good i.e defence, if the income elasticity of marginal utility of income is greater than one in absolute value. Complete demand systems are employed for estimating the income elasticity of marginal utility of income.
D69|When quality today affects service needs tomorrow|Quality in the human services has long term effects. Reduced quality of service now increases the service recipients’ future service needs and other social costs. This paper shows that such effects should be considered when a government designs contracts with a for-profit service provider. If the contract relies on verifiable information only, short contract periods fail to give the provider proper incentives to internalize future effects of quality. Long term contracts are problematic if the effects of quality are not over time indicated by verifiable measures. Relational contracts seem more robust to changes in the model’s informational assumptions and rely on trust to deal with holdups. Long term quality effects matter for the relative merits of intergrated provision and contracting out, and may create adverse quality incentives if a for-profit provider has market power.
D69|Value Preservation through Risk Management - A Shariah Compliant Proposal for Equity Risk Management|This paper makes a case for the preservation of Muslim Wealth through risk management. It provides an exposition of risk management techniques used in conventional finance and outlines the limitations faced by Muslim fund managers and businesses. This limitation arises from the proscription of key risk-management tools, in particular financial derivatives. Though the reasons for the prohibition are diverse, the overriding concern appears to be that they encourage speculative behaviour. As such the emphasis of Islamic risk management has been on, On Balance Sheet methods. The problem with On Balance Sheet methods is that they require the restructuring of business transactions which can render businesses less competitive and subject to residual risk. The paper proposes a portfolio insurance scheme that uses the logic and mechanics of conventional Index Put Options but in a Shariah compliant manner. The proposal is intended to strike a balance between the need to avoid speculation and the genuine need for hedging equity risks.
D69|Návraty dr. Bernarda Mandevilla aneb počestní darebové v ekonomické transformaci<BR>[Come-backs of dr. Bernard Mandeville: virtuous knaves in economic transformation]|"The author undertakes in his essay a risky experiment as he tries to look at the present-time-economic-transformations in the view of the great thinker of 18th century, Dr. Bernard Mandeville, who famed by his Fable of the Bees, or Private Vices and Public Benefits. The philosophy of Mandeville, as is well known, influenced besides others, F. A. Hayek and J. M. Keynes, the former by ascribing Mandeville the primacy of the idea of spontaneity in evolution and the latter by assesing luxury in promoting the spending. In the course of economic reforms the truthfullnes of the so-called Mandevill paradox has been widely afirmed; knaves were becoming virtuous and property conferred respect and authority upon the ""nouveau riche""."
D69|Bernard de Mandeville, Adam Smith a počestní darebové naší doby<BR>[Bernard de Mandeville, Adam Smith and virtuous knaves of our times]|"This is the reaction on the article of Václav Klusoň ""Come-Backs of Dr. Bernard Mandeville: Virtuous Knaves in Economic Transformation"". I put in contrast economic thinking of B. Mandeville and A. Smith and argue that both Smith's social and moral philosophy and his economic thought is more relevant for our present time. Smith's system of natural liberty - free trade and free enterprise - brings the invisible hand of the markets to work and transform self-interests of individuals into social benefits. I doubt that knaves were becoming virtuous in the process of transformation and privatization. Rather it is the other way around: virtuous men are becoming knaves in our present social, political and economic system of excessive taxation and regulations. The state is so much involved in bureaucratic, regulative and redistributive activities that it fails to function as the guardian of law and order."
D69|Do more equal slices shrink the cake? An empirical investigation of tax-transfer reform proposals in Italy|A crucial issue in efficiency-equality evaluations of tax reforms resides in the possibility that the level as well as the distribution of welfare may change, where the household-specific measures of welfare capture the value of income as well as the value of leisure. A better-designed redistribution and income support system may not only foster equality but also improve the configuration of incentives and by this route contribute in its turn to efficiency. This paper presents an empirical analysis of the welfare effects for married couples of replacing the Italian tax system by three alternative hypothetical reforms: a flat tax, a negative income tax, and a work fare scheme. We employ a microeconometric model of household labour supply that represents partners’ simultaneous choices, allows for constraints in the choice of hours of work, and is sufficiently flexible to capture a large variety of supply responses. These features appear to be crucial in the evaluation of reform effects. The results suggest that there is scope for improving upon the current system under both the efficiency and the equality criterion. The benefits from the reforms, however, come from unexpected directions since the largest labour supply contribution come from poor and middle class households whereas rich households appear to be much less responsive to changes in the tax rates. The simulation results reveal that a crucial role in shaping the results is played by the relatively higher behavioural responsiveness of married women living in low and average income households. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2004
D69|Razionalità e libertà|Completeness and transitivity of preferences go a long way towards detennining what it is rational to do. This risks reducing being free to being rational or to being irrational. It is argued that in fact, preferences, and in particular abilities to perceive and evaluate, are, at least in part, chosen. Freedom is acquired by deciding which abilities of perception to endow oneself with and which criteria of evaluation to give preminente to, with all the problems of incommensurability and incompleteness this entails. So be free is to choose how to complete the orderings one arrives at, and to assume responsibility for this.
D69|Confidence and the Erosion of Confidence : Economic Functions and Effects|"""Trust"" or likewise ""confidence"" (the term preferred in this paper) are notions which have received considerable attention by economists in the last 8-10 years. In this contribution, much emphasis is put on the understanding what we really mean by ""confidence"", what the differences between optimism and confidence are and how the onset of confidence can possibly be explained. Also, we analyze the economic effects of a lack of or the erosion of confidence. The paper intends to provide a comprehensive view on the major effects of confidence on economic growth, the business cycle, its relation to income distribution, etc. Finally, the contribution of confidence to social capital is discussed and the erosion of confidence within, between and towards business enterprises as a consequence of the widespread scandals in the US and other industrialised countries at the beginning of the new millennium is portrayed."
D69|Democracia y mercado|El trabajo parte de una pregunta fundamental: ¿La democracia es funcional a la racionalidad propuesta a las sociedades desde la economía de mercado capitalista?. Darle salida a este interrogante exige asumir dos presupuestos teóricos: 1) no asumir una equiparación lineal y estática entre capitalismo y mercado, es decir, el mercado no se puede reconocer como una condición exclusiva del capitalismo.2) Lo que se ha llamado Estado capitalista, ha sufrido transformaciones en su organización institucional a lo largo de la evolución del capitalismo, matizándolo con formas altamente intervencionistas (Estado Benefactor) y formas de Estados liberales (Estados Gendarmes).Lo anterior remite a sustentar la conclusión final que hace explícito el reconocimiento de la existencia de democracia dentro del contexto de la economía de mercado, fundamentalmente en las economías de corte social, cuyo escenario de realización se formaliza en el rol del Estado intervencionista, que actualmente se le ha pretendido renovar desde distintas acepciones teóricas inscritas en enfoques neokeynesianos, postcapitalistas y socialdemócratas, identificándose escenarios de democratización de la sociedad en los que conceptos como el de sociedad civil y ciudadanía adquiere un papel clave en su explicación
D69|Burden Sharing In Nato|During the period of cold war, NATO alliance was producing defence commodity to protect its members from the common threat of ex-Soviet Union. The paper examines the problem of burden sharing among NATO allies. It is shown that larger countries are benefited more than smaller countries from the production of the public good i.e defence, if the income elasticity of marginal utility of income is greater than one in absolute value. Complete demand systems are employed for estimating the income elasticity of marginal utility of income.
D69|Rationality without Transitivity|No abstract is available for this item.
D69|Longer-Term Effects of Head Start|Specially collected data on adults in the Panel Study of Income Dynamics are used to provide evidence on the longer-term effects of Head Start, an early intervention program for poor preschool-age children. Whites who attended Head Start are, relative to their siblings who did not, significantly more likely to complete high school, attend college, and possibly have higher earnings in their early twenties. African-Americans who participated in Head Start are less likely to have been booked or charged with a crime. There is some evidence of positive spillovers from older Head Start children to their younger siblings. (JEL J24, I38)
D69|Modelling the trade-off between profits and principles|Corporations discover that social responsibility pays off. However, sometimes doing what is ethical will prove costly to a company. The purpose of this article is to clarify this trade-off by developing an economic model that describes the choice between profits and principles. The model is used to analyse how external factors like a change in consumer interests and competitiveness affect the relationship between profits and principles.
D69|On the value of households' recycling efforts|Do households' recycling efforts represent a social cost, which should be taken into account in cost-benefit analyses of alternative waste treatment systems? Some argue that it should not, since recycling efforts are to a large extent voluntary. We demonstrate that if the government can indirectly increase voluntary recycling efforts through appeals to the public or through similar means, then the use of these means does impose a cost on households. This cost can be higher or lower than the environmental gain resulting from the increased recycling. Norwegian data indicates a willingness to pay to let others take over the individual's sorting of household waste corresponding to a cost of about USD 87 per tonne, which is significant compared to the total treatment costs.
D69|Are We Better Off If Our Politicians Have More Information?|This paper studies a model of public policy with heterogenous citizens/voters and two public goods: one (roads) is chosen directly by an elected policymaker, and the other (pollution) depends stochastically on the amount of roads. Both a one-country and a two-country version of the model are analyzed, the latter displaying externalities across the countries which creates incentives for free riding and strategic delegation. The welfare effects of providing the policymaker with information about the relationship between roads and pollution are investigated, and it is shown that more information hurts some – sometimes even all – citizens. In particular, the absence of an institution for information gathering can serve as a commitment device for a country, helping it avoid the free-riding problem. Implications for the welfare effects of “informational lobbying” are discussed.
D69|The Distributional Component of the Price of the Tax Avoidance Service|The traditional avoidance literature undeservedly neglects tax base distribution as a factor affecting the avoidance price, and generally assumed to be equal to the avoidance cost. In reality, avoidance providers are usually either high-skilled specialists or insiders. The strong collusion thus, naturally seems to be an assumption of the behavior of avoidance providers. Within such a framework, income distribution, which forms an avoidance demand together with tax codes, plays a very essential roll for the outcome of both avoidance price and quantity. My article models an economy with a monopolistic avoidance provider and imperfect information, and illustrates possible consequences of tax base changes. The paper examines the relationship between inequality and a government's ability to collect tax revenue, and also considers the possible outcome of a tax base broadening. Furthermore, it provides an additional explanation for the secession decision.
D69|Efficiency Criteria and the Sen-type Social Welfare Function|Most of the Social Welfare Functions available in the literature are Paretian, that is increase in anybody's income in the society is welfare augmenting. The Sen type social welfare function possesses this property as well. However, Paretianity is normative criteria and might not be accepted by everybody. This paper has demonstrated this problem of Paretianity and proposes an alternative Social Welfare Function.
D69|The Trend Of Welfare Disparity Among Subgroups Of Population In Australia 1983-84 - 1993-94|The aim of this paper is to estimate the trend of social welfare for Australia using 1983-84, 1988-89 and 1993-94 Household Expenditure Survey data. The functional form of the Social Welfare Function (SWF) was derived by Sen, Degum, Yitzhaki and Shesinski (all independently). Since the function contains the Gini coefficient as the inequality parameter, it could not be formally disaggregated by subgroups of population. This paper, using a method of subgroup decomposition of the Gini coefficient developed by Podder, attempts to disaggregate the SWF. With this method it is now possible to identify disadvantaged groups by their relative shares in total welfare. In addition the method is used to determine effect of economic growth on specific subgroups, and in turn, on total social welfare. This study is based on the Australian economy. We identify distribution of relative shares of total social welfare among various regional groups, groups determined by occupational status and groups determined by country of birth. The effect on society's welfare for a percentage change in income of a group and the trend of relative welfare of a specific group are also computed. This information can be used in a variety of social decision making situations, including cost benefit analysis.
D69|A Generalized Social Welfare Function, its Decomposition and Application|It is easy to demonstrate that Sen's SWF satisfies Pareto criteria. This paper questions the philosophy of this concept and shows that it is possible to formulate a generalized SWF, which can be non-Paretian under special circumstances. This paper also demonstrates a method of decomposition of the proposed SWF by subgroups of population using a Gini decomposition method developed by Podder. The method is applied to investigate the trend of welfare in Australia at regional level using the Household Expenditure Survey data of 1983-84 to 1993-94. It is found that the states NSW, Victoria and Queensland, with the maximum total income share, had almost 70 percent of the share of total welfare. The elasticity of welfare with respect to mean income showed a prominent increasing trend for NSW. It is also observed that the relative share of welfare decreased for NSW, Victoria, South Australia, Queensland and Australian Capital Territory and increased for Tasmania and Northern Territory.
D69|Changes In Social Welfare In Singapore - 1982-1999|This paper examines the changes in social welfare in Singapore using Labour Force Survey data. To study the changes and dominance, both ordinal and cardinal measures are used. By Lorenz Dominance social welfare in Singapore during 1999 is less than in 1991 while unambiguous conclusion cannot be made on the welfare ranking of 1982 and 1991 or of 1982 and 1999. 1999 ranks first according to the Generalized Lorenz Dominance; however, this criterion is also unable to make any unambiguous ranking between 1982 and 1991. The ranking based on Sen-Dagum-Yitzhaki-Sheshinski Social Welfare Function shows a continuous increase in the social welfare in Singapore. But when a more general Social Welfare Function is used a different ordering might occur.
D69|A Generalised Social Welfare Function and its Disaggregation by Components of Income: The Method and Application|The Social Welfare Function (SWF) is a decision rule to rank alternative social states in a complete fashion in terms of social welfare. This paper questions the philosophy of Paretian Principle as a desirable property of the SWF. It shows that it is possible to generalize the widely used Sen SWF, which can be non-Paretian under special circumstances. Also, it demonstrates the disaggregation method of this SWF by components of income using the Gini decomposition process. The method is applied to Australian Household Expenditure Survey data to estimate the trend of welfare of total income and its components in Australia from 1984 to 1993-94.
D69|Profts and principles: Four perspectives|This article clarifies the relationship between profits and principles by distinguishing four alternative perspectives: the win-win perspective in which ethical behaviour generates the highest profits; a licence-to-operate perspective in which a minimum ethical performance is required to receive legitimation from the society; an acceptable profits perspective, in which an acceptable profitability is required to assure the financial continuity; and an integrated perspective. These four perspectives are illustrated by statements from Shell reports and from interviews with managers of a large European retail company.
D69|Acceptability of Accounting Learning and Teaching through the World Wide Web|This paper considers the effectiveness of web-based learning and teaching and appraises whether it could provide the appropriate medium to create an efficient and robust learning environment for accounting students. Changes in learning styles of students were evaluated and it is suggested that the model put forward in this paper has engendered a move to more autonomous learning on the students.
D69|Activity Based Costing in Universities - an inappropriate technique?|The technique of ABC has been widely adopted by universities in the UK, with the assumption that the more accurate identification of costs makes them more manageable. It is the purpose of this paper to consider this question of manageability through identification and allocation in the university sector and to question this as a basis for decision making and resource allocation.
D69|Sex Workers in Calcutta and the Dynamics of Collective Action. Political Activism, Community Identity and Groupe Behaviour|This paper explores the nature of collective action and group behaviour through a case study of a highly successful political organization of poorer sex workers in Calcutta.
