D79|Sharing Government|This paper develops a simple theoretical framework to study a set of regions, each with its own regional government, who share a union or central government. These governments must decide whether to implement or discard a large number of projects that produce local benefits for the region that implements them, and externalities for the rest of the regions. Conflict or disagreement arises since different regions value projects differently. The classic assignment problem consists of deciding who decides these projects, either the union or the regional governments. It is well known that regional governments are insensitive to externalities. The key observation here is that the union government is insensitive to local benefits. Thus, each government maximizes only a piece of the value of projects, and disregards the other one. This observations leads to simple and clear rules for solving the assignment problem.
D79|Sharing a Government|This paper develops a simple theoretical framework to study a set of regions, each with its own regional government, who share a union or central government. These governments must decide whether to implement or discard a large number of projects that produce local benefits for the region that implements them, and externalities for the rest of the regions. Conflict or disagreement arises since different regions value projects differently. The classic assignment problem consists of deciding who decides these projects, either the union or the regional governments. It is well known that regional governments are insensitive to externalities. The key observation here is that the union government is insensitive to local beneÃ?ts. Thus, each government maximizes only a piece of the value of projects, and disregards the other one. This observations leads to simple and clear rules for solving the assignment problem.
D79|Fake news and propaganda: Trump's Democratic America and Hitler's National Socialist (Nazi) Germany|This paper features an analysis of President Trump's two State of the Union addresses, which are analysed by means of various data mining techniques including sentiment analysis. The intention is to explore the contents and sentiments of the messages contained, the degree to which they differ, and their potential implications for the national mood and state of the economy. In order to provide a contrast and some parallel context, analyses are also undertaken of President Obama's last State of the Union address and Hitler's 1933 Berlin Proclamation. The structure of these four political addresses is remarkably similar. The three US Presidential speeches are more positive emotionally than Hitler's relatively shorter address, which is characterized by a prevalence of negative emotions. However, it should be said that the economic circumstances in contemporary America and Germany in the 1930s are vastly different.
D79|Jury Theorems|We give a review of jury theorems, including Condorcet's (1785) classic theorem and several later refinements and departures. The review comes with a critique of jury theorems from a social-epistemology perspective. We assess the plausibility of the theorems' conclusions and premises and the potential of jury theorems to serve as formal arguments for the 'wisdom of crowds'. In particular, we argue (i) that there is a fundamental tension between voters' independence and voters' competence, hence between the two premises of typical jury theorems; (ii) that the (asymptotic) conclusion that 'huge groups are infallible', reached by many jury theorems, is an artifact of unjustified premises; and (iii) that the (non-asymptotic) conclusion that 'larger groups are more reliable', also reached by many jury theorems, is not an artifact and should be regarded as the more adequate formal rendition of the 'wisdom of crowds'.
D79|Sharing a Government|This paper develops a simple theoretical framework to study a set of regions, each with its own regional government, who share a union or central government. These governments must decide whether to implement or discard a large number of projects that produce local benefits for the region that implements them, and externalities for the rest of the regions. Conflict or disagreement arises since different regions value projects differently. The classic assignment problem consists of deciding who decides these projects, either the union or the regional governments. It is well known that regional governments are insensitive to externalities. The key observation here is that the union government is insensitive to local benefits. Thus, each government maximizes only a piece of the value of projects, and disregards the other one. This observations leads to simple and clear rules for solving the assignment problem.
D79|Sharing a government|This paper develops a simple theoretical framework to study a set of regions, each with its own regional government, who share a union or central government. These governments must decide whether to implement or discard a large number of projects that produce local beneÖts for the region that implements them, and externalities for the rest of the regions. Conáict or disagreement arises since di§erent regions value projects di§erently. The classic assignment problem consists of deciding who decides these projects, either the union or the regional governments. It is well known that regional governments are insensitive to externalities. The key observation here is that the union government is insensitive to local benefits. Thus, each government maximizes only a piece of the value of projects, and disregards the other one. This observations leads to simple and clear rules for solving the assignment problem.
D79|All or Nothing: State Capacity and Optimal Public Goods Provision|We study the provision of public goods. Different public goods can be bundled provided there is enough capacity, i.e. resources to pay for all the public goods in the bundle. The analysis focuses on the all-or-nothing-mechanism: Expand provision as much as resource feasible if no one vetoes - otherwise stick to the status quo. We show that the probability of the all-outcome converges to one as the capacity becomes unbounded. We also provide conditions under which the all-or-nothing-mechanism is ex ante welfare-maximizing - even though, ex post, it involves an overprovision of public goods.
D79|Intuitive Solutions in Game Representations: The Shapley Value Revisited|We show that any transferable utility game can be represented by an assignment of facilities to the players, in which it is intuitively obvious how to allocate the total cost of the facilities. The intuitive solution in the representation turns out to be the Shapley value of the game.
D79|The Present and Future of Judgement Aggregation Theory. A Law and Economics Perspective|This chapter briefly reviews the present state of judgment aggregation theory and tentatively suggests a future direction for that theory. In the review, we start by emphasizing the difference between the doctrinal paradox and the discursive dilemma, two idealized examples which classically serve to motivate the theory, and then proceed to reconstruct it as a brand of logical theory, unlike in some other interpretations, using a single impossibility theorem as a key to its technical development. In the prospective part, having mentioned existing applications to social choice theory and computer science, which we do not discuss here, we consider a potential application to law and economics. This would be based on a deeper exploration of the doctrinal paradox and its relevance to the functioning of collegiate courts. On this topic, legal theorists have provided empirical observations and theoretical hints that judgment aggregation theorists would be in a position to clarify and further elaborate. As a general message, the chapter means to suggest that the future of judgment aggregation theory lies with its applications rather than its internal theoretical development.
D79|Intuitive Solutions in Game Representations: The Shapley Value Revisited|We show that any transferable utility game can be represented by an assignment of facilities to players, in which it is intuitively obvious how to allocate the total cost of the facilities. The intuitive solution in the representation turns out to be the Shapley value of the game, and thus serves as an alternative justification of the value.
D79|Fighting alone or fighting for a team: Evidence from experimental pairwise contests|People who compete alone may entertain different psychological motivations from those who compete for a team. Using a real-effort experiment, we examine the behavioural consequences of these psychological motivations, absent strategic interdependence and uncertainty among team members. We exploit a dynamic pairwise team contest in which strategic uncertainties among team members play a minimised role in individual rational behaviour; and we create strategically-equivalent individual contests to isolate the pure psychological effects of team situation on individual competitive behaviour. We find that behaviour in individual contests and in sterile team contests follows a psychological momentum effect in which leaders work harder than trailers. In contrast, in team contests enriched with intra-team communication, behaviour follows a neutral effect. We discuss the implications of our results for theoretical modelling of contests and practical implications for the optimal design of team incentive schemes and personnel management.
D79|Corruption vs reforms: Why do voters prefer the former?|In this paper, we address the question of why voters tolerate corrupt politicians. Standard economic techniques such as expected utility maximization under uncertainty are employed. We show that a corrupt politician is less likely to institute reforms which can cause short-term losses for voters during a transitional period or lead with some probability to non-success. Voters' higher risk aversion causes an increased fear of reforms and higher tolerance for corruption. We also show that during an economic crisis the corruptionists' optimal strategy is not to institute reforms, as models with honest politicians predict, but to reduce the level of corruption. Using panel data techniques, we show that such a strategy is in line with the empirical CIS data; however, it follows with a short delay.
D79|Highlighting the Relations between Interaction Types in Meetings and Group Performance|Are some types of interactions beneficial or harmful to team performance? Should conflict among members be promoted or avoided in teams to achieve better results? Many questions arise when trying to understand how group dynamics impact its performance. The present study intends to highlight the kinds of verbal interactions which influence the performance of a team during a meeting. A two-phase (design and building) videotaped decision-making experiment was organised with 41 teams. All interactions were then coded with the INSIDE TEAMS3D (IT3D) coding system. Three dimensions of interactions were considered: their functional meaning, the convergence among interactions (including content or process conflict) and their interpersonal emotional meaning (including indications of relational conflict). Performance was measured for each group as an assignment result. It was positively associated with the total number of interactions shared. The results support that some functional meaning categories are positively associated with performance: thus, groups which shared more interactions aiming at offering an opinion or a suggestion on the content, get on average better outcomes. Socialization categories (making jokes, fostering the conversation) were also positively correlated with performance. The study of interactions convergence within groups also provides significant results, showing that disagreements on the content have positive relations with team performance. Negative interpersonal emotional meaning is also showing positive relations with performance, which are discussed in the paper. On top of these considerations on interaction types, the research reveals that the groups with balanced contributions between members during the exercise got higher performance than those facing great heterogeneity. More generally, this paper provides methodological insights about a way to study group dynamics and gather data on interactions and performance.
D79|Satisfaction and Perception of Conflict in Teams: Understanding their Relationship and the Importance of Interaction Types|This paper aims at understanding how interactions are connected with instrumental and social satisfaction, and perceived task and relationship conflict. Participants were 264 students divided into 41 teams and involved in a design and building group experiment which was videotaped and integrally coded with the IT3D coding system. We highlight the significant positive relationship between socialization interactions and satisfaction. We notice that when interactions carrying task conflict (content) are increasing, instrumental and social satisfactions are lower. In contrast, process conflict and relationship conflict show no relationship with team member satisfaction. We also investigate the relationship between observed conflictual interactions in groups and the perception of conflict by their members. Only the perception of task conflict is related to the proportion of observed interactions opposing ideas in the group, whereas interactions showing signs of weak relationship conflict are not globally perceived as such. Finally, the study of team member satisfaction and perception of conflict confirms that perceived task conflict is harmful to instrumental and social satisfaction, whereas perceived relationship conflict also impacts negatively social satisfaction.
D79|Negative advertising and electoral rules: an empirical evaluation of the Brazilian case|This paper assesses how electoral institutions shape candidatesâ€™ incentives about their political advertising strategies. Taking advantage of a discontinuity in the assigment of brazilian municipal election rules, we use a RDD approach to assess how the candidates campaign tone is affected by a shift from a single-ballot to a runoff system. Using an unique database about litigations involving mayor candidates in the elections of 2012 and 2016, results show that 2nd and 3rd placed candidates in the first round of a runoff election have a probability more than 50 p.p. higher of being part in a litigation regarding negative advertising when compared to a single round election.
D79|Does sequential decision-making trigger collective investment in automobile R&D? Experimental evidence|We conduct a framed laboratory experiment to gain in-depth insights on factors that drive collective research and development efforts among firms located along the automotive value chain. In particular, we employ a public goods experiment and analyze the influence of sequential decision-making on the willingness to engage in cooperation and on economic welfare. By using a linear value chain setting with three suppliers and one OEM, we analyze vertical R&D cooperation. Our results reveal that contributions increase in situations with sequential decision-making and that sequential decisions increase the overall welfare, even in case of unequally distributed R&D budgets.
D79|Voting Rules in Bankruptcy Law|We empirically evaluate creditors’ voting conditions and the bankruptcy voting rules of 90 countries. The severity of a voting rule is determined by the threshold values of the majority-voting rules by which creditors impose their interests. The higher the threshold values, the higher is the severity degree of the rule. We find that the bankruptcy laws of countries with German and French legal origin tend to have the least severe voting rules. The Nordic countries have moderate rules. The laws of the common law countries have the most severe rules. These results hold for secured and unsecured claimants. The court’s legal right of overcoming the voting result is granted more often by bankruptcy laws of French and German legal origin. The severity of the voting rules can influence the recovery of creditors’ debt. We show that a coalition of creditors that has a common interest can use the severity of the voting rule to influence the approval of a reorganization plan that provides a higher recovery rate of the creditors’ debt.
D79|The Big Five personality traits and partisanship in England|We propose a new framework for the study of the psychological foundation of party identification. We draw a distinction between the part of an individual's party preference that is stable throughout adult life and the dynamic part responding to lifecycle events and macro shocks. We theorize that the Big Five personality traits exert a causal effect on the stable part of an individual's party preference and provide evidence from a large nationally representative English panel dataset in support of this theory. We find that supporters of the major parties (Labour, the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats) have substantively different personality traits. Moreover, we show that those not identifying with any party, who are close to holding the majority, are similar to those identifying with the Conservatives. We show that these results are robust to controlling for cognitive skills and parental party preferences, and to estimation on a subsample of siblings. The relationship between personality traits and party identification is stable across birth cohorts.
D79|How Can Contingent Valuation Inform the Bioethics Debate? Evidence from a Survey on Hereditary Cancers in France|BRCA1/2 carriers have a higher risk of developing breast and ovarian cancer at a younger age.?Preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) and prenatal diagnosis (PND) are two of the few options available to avoid transmitting the mutation.?To inform the bioethics debate about authorization, a contingent valuation survey elicited preferences regarding access to PGD and PND from a sample of 460 unaffected by cancer BRCA1/2 carriers (GENEPSO cohort).?We find that the respondents can be classified into three groups: one opposed to PGD/PND (28.3%), one strongly in favour of PGD/PND (45.8%), and one in an intermediate position (25.9%).?We look for the determinants of these preferences, especially of the willingness to pay for PGD/PND.?Overall, we find that BRCA1/2 carriers support access to PGD/PND, which has implications for recommendations to decision-makers. JEL Codes: C01, C83, D04, D79, I19.
D79|Sen is not a capability theorist| This paper aims to clarify the status of capability in Sen’s idea of justice. Sen’s name is so widely associated with the concept of capability that commentators often assume that his contribution to the study of justice amounts to a capability theory, albeit underdeveloped. We argue that such a reading is misleading. Taking Sen’s reticence about operationalization seriously, we show that his contribution is inconsistent with a capability theory. Instead, we defend the idea that the capability approach plays a heuristic role: capability is a step in his argument against alternative materials, but is not meant as a definitive end. Sen defends a critical perspective primarily to encourage public reasoning and respect for agency as regards the definition of what should count in the evaluation of social states.
D79|Public good provision and social loss under polarization|This paper considers a population divided into two significantly-sized groups regarding the preferences its members have about a single public good. The public good equilibrium amount is that of the majority group in such a way that it is far from the Pareto-efficient one. This allows us to characterize a social loss function, which depends on the inter-group heterogeneity and the relative size of each group, parameters which also compound the degree of polarization. Our main conclusion is that, in general, higher levels of polarization do not imply higher social losses. This happens whenever the higher polarization is associated with higher inter-group heterogeneity, and the change in the amount of the public good in equilibrium implied is low enough.
D79|The Influence of Peer Genotypes and Behavior on Smoking Outcomes: Evidence from Add Health|We introduce a novel use of genetic data for studying social influences on behavior: Using data from the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent to Adult Health (Add Health), we deploy the distribution of genotypes in a given grade within a school to instrument the influence of peer smoking on an individual’s own smoking behavior. We argue that this design alleviates many problems inherent to estimating peer effects. Using this approach, we find the relationship between peer smoking and individual smoking to be larger than that estimated by prior studies. Further, we explore the reduced form relationship between peer genotypes and ego smoking and find that the impact of peers’ genetic risk for smoking on ego’s smoking behavior is at least half as large as the effect of individual’s own genotype and sex, and 30% the effect of age. Moreover, peer influence on smoking appears heterogeneous by race: although whites and non-whites are equally susceptible to peer influence with respect to smoking, white egos are more likely to be influenced by white alters. This analysis suggests a promising way that genetic information can be leveraged to identify peer effects that avoids the reflection problem, contextual effects and selection into peer groups.
D79|Student Evaluation of Teaching (SET), social influence dynamics, and teachers' choices: An evolutionary model|The issue of student evaluation of teachers (SET) has been explored by a large literature across many decades. However, the role of social influence factors in determining teachers' responses to a given incentive and evaluation framework has been left basically unexplored. This paper makes a first attempt in this vein by considering an evolutionary game-theoretic context where teachers face a two-stage process where their rating depends on both students' evaluation of their course and on retrospective students' evaluation of their teaching output in view of students' performance in a related follow-up course. We find that both high effort (difficult course offered) and low effort (easy course effort) outcomes may emerge, and that may either lead to a socially optimal outcome for teachers or not, according to cases. Moreover, there may be a potential conflict between the optimal outcome for students and for teachers. We also consider possible ways to generalize our model in future research.
D79|Altruistic Norm Enforcement and Decision-Making Format in a Dilemma: Experimental Evidence|Past research has shown that people often take punitive actions towards norm violators even when they are not directly involved in transactions. However, it at the same time suggests that such third-party punishment may not be strong enough to enforce cooperation norms in dilemma situations. This paper experimentally compares the effectiveness of third-party punishment between different enforcement formats. Consistent with past studies, our data shows that having an individual third-party punisher in a group does not make one’s defection materially unbeneficial because of the weak punishment intensity. It also shows that third-party punishment is not effective when two individuals form a pair as a punisher and jointly decide how strong third-party punishment they impose. However, third-party punishment can be sufficiently strong to enforce cooperation norms when a third-party punisher’s action choice is made known to another individual third-party punisher in a different group, or when there are two independent individual third-party players in a group.
D79|Conditional Punishment in England|A large body of literature has shown that peer-to-peer punishment is effective in enforcing cooperation norms in dilemmas. Kamei [2014, Economics Letters 124, pp.199-202] provides experimental evidence on the prevalence of heterogeneous conditional punishment types by conducting an experiment with a strategy method in the United States. This note reports a replication experiment using subjects in England. As consistent with Kamei (2014), the experiment indicates that people's punishment decisions are on average positively proportional to the others' punishment toward the target. However, it also indicates interesting cross-country differences in the distribution of human conditional punishment types.
D79|The Role of Corporate Governance and Its Impact on Risk and Firm Performance of Consumer Industry: Apollo Food Holdings Berhad|The purpose of this study is to examine the overall performance of Apollo Food Holdings Berhad with specific risk and macroeconomic factor on profitability performance. The data and information get from annual report of Apollo Food Holdings Berhad starting from 2011-2015. The measurement of liquidity ratio and operating ratio used to see the overall performance of Apollo Food Holdings Berhad in 5 years. Besides that, to measure is the asset size, the variable has negative and no significant relationship with liquidity risk. To see relationship of risks factors to the profitability, this paper is utilizing GDP, operational ratio and liquidity ratio. Data was analysed by utilizing regression and bivariate correlation. The regression and bivariate correlation shows only one factors of probability is significant to operating ratio which is ROA with the highest impact to the profitability. However, the liquidity and GDP is not significant to profitability with low impact to the profitability.
D79|Essays in Honor of Robert J. Lalonde|This paper reviews Robert Lalonde's contributions to labor economics and introduces a set of papers that were written in his honor and presented to him in the spring of 2015 at a conference held in his honor in Chicago.
D79|Determinants and Effects of Negative Advertising in Politics|This paper assesses the determinants of negative advertising between candidates in electoral races ruled by majority vote, and also the effects of this type of advertising in the voter’s behavior. We evaluate, for example, how the number of candidates and how electoral rules (single-ballot versus runoff election) affects the negativity level of campaigns. We use data from Brazil’s Judiciary system for 2012 mayors election, which allows us to assess how these determinants affect differently the decision of going negative when attacker-attacked candidates were 1st-2nd or 2nd-3rd, for example, in the final vote share.
D79|Nash implementing social choice rules with restricted ranges|Abstract We consider Nash implementation of social choice rules with restricted ranges, i.e., where some of the available alternatives are chosen at no preference profile. We show that the appropriate adaptation of Maskin monotonicity to this context depends on the range of the mechanisms: the wider is this range, the weaker is the monotonicity condition to be used. As a result, mechanisms employing outcome functions which allow for out-of-range alternatives at off-equilibrium messages can Nash implement social choice rules which fail to be Nash implementable by mechanisms whose ranges are restricted to the range of the social choice rule to be implemented. The Walrasian social choice correspondence is a particular instance of this. Moreover, social choice rules which are not Maskin monotonic can be “monotonized” by the addition of artificial out-of-range alternatives—a point we illustrate through Solomon’s Dilemma.
D79|Do Significant Labour Market Events Change Who Does the Laundry? Work, chore allocation, and power in Australian households|In this paper, we examine how men and women in mixed-gender unions change their allocation of time to housework in response to promotions and terminations in the labour market. Operating much like raises, such events have the potential to alter power dynamics within the household, as well as labour force commitments. Using Australian panel data on married and cohabiting couples, we first show evidence that promotions and terminations are plausibly exogenous to housework time allocations, then estimate gender and couple-specific fixed effects models of housework time as a function of both own and partner’s labour market events. Of the four types of labour market events we examine – male and female promotion, and male and female termination – female promotion is the strongest predictor of housework time allocation adjustments. These adjustments are in part due to concurrent changes in paid work time, but gender power relations also appear to play a role. Further results indicate that although large gender gaps in housework time exist regardless of labour market activity, households holding more liberal gender role attitudes, and those that are less time-constrained, are those most likely to adjust their housework time allocations after female promotion events. Power dynamics cannot, however, explain all the results. Supporting the sociological theory that partners may ‘do gender’ ( i.e., try to compensate behaviourally for phenomena that run contrary to gender stereotypes), we find that in households with more traditional gender role attitudes that experience a male termination event, his housework time falls while hers rises.
D79|How Fundamentalism Takes Root: A Simulation Study|We report agent-based simulations of religiosity dynamics in a spatially dispersed population. Agents' religiosity responds to neighbours via pairwise interactions as well as via club goods effects. A simulation run is deemed fundamentalist if the final distribution contains a sizable minority of very high religiosity together with a majority of lesser religiosity. Such simulations are more prevalent when parameter values shift from values reflecting traditional societies towards values reflecting the modern world. The simulations suggest that the rise of fundamentalism in the modern world is boosted by greater real income, lower relative prices for secular goods, less substitutability between religious and secular goods, and less time spent with neighbours. Surprisingly, the simulations suggest little role for the rise of long distance communication and transportation.
D79|Technology adoption under time-differentiated market-based instruments for pollution control|Peak concentrations of ground-level ozone pose health risks to millions of U.S. citizens across the U.S. In order to reduce peak ozone concentrations, nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions from the power sector, among others, have been regulated with technology-based standards or, more commonly in recent years, market-based instruments such as cap-and-trade programs. However, the lack of temporal flexibility in current designs of these market-based instruments limits their cost-effectiveness on days forecasted to have the highest levels of pollution, including ozone precursors such as NOx, and as further emission reductions are sought, the marginal cost of these approaches increases dramatically. In this paper, we compare three regulatory schemes for reducing NOx emissions on high-ozone days: time-differentiated pricing, which prices NOx emissions only on days with high-ozone concentrations; undifferentiated pricing, which represents current NOx emission regulations; and technology-based standards. We develop a novel model that captures for the first time both the short- and long-term response of generators, through redispatching and control technology adoption, to a dynamic pricing scheme such as time-differentiated pricing. Unlike prior studies on time-differentiated pricing, the heart of our model, a unit commitment model, accounts for inter-temporal constraints on power generation that may be crucial to accurately capturing the response of generators to a transient price signal. We apply this model to the Texas power system and find that while control technology adoption (specifically selective catalytic reduction) does occur at very high time-differentiated prices, time-differentiated pricing mainly affects emissions and costs through redispatching of gas- for coal-fired generation. Furthermore, we show that time-differentiated pricing, due to its targeted pricing mechanism, provides a more cost-effective approach than undifferentiated pricing or technology-based standards for reducing NOx emissions on high-ozone days, but is not cost-effective at reducing summer-wide NOx emissions. Our results illustrate the trade-offs between these regulatory approaches and suggest that states should consider dynamic pricing schemes such as time-differentiated pricing for achieving further reductions in peak ozone concentrations.
D79|A two-agent model of sequential search and choice|This paper extends the standard sequential search model by allowing the agent who compiles the choice set via search (the “searcher”) to differ from the agent who chooses from the set (the “chooser”). I show for a general joint distribution of the agents’ preferences that the searcher's optimal policy is a threshold rule. In contrast to the standard model, the threshold is weakly decreasing in time (i.e., exhibits the “discouragement effect”), although the search horizon is infinite and the search environment stationary. I characterise the threshold and discuss the testable implications of the discouragement effect. The characteristics of my model differ from two single-agent search models that feature a time-varying threshold (convex search costs or deadline). In particular, my model features a threshold that decreases endogenously over time and never generates return to an item rejected earlier, in contrast to the other models.
D79|Can buyer “mobility” reduce aggregation failures in land-assembly?|In this paper we examine whether site-development competition can be used to facilitate land assembly, in the absence of contingent contracts. In particular, we attempt to determine (1) whether competition can be induced among prospective sellers, (2) whether or not competition increases aggregation rates, and (3) what effects competition has on the distribution of surplus among the bargaining parties. We also study the incidence with which a buyer (endogenously) chooses to deal with a single “large parcel” owner vs. multiple “small parcel” owners. To do so, we make use of a laboratory experiment where all the relevant information about the project is common knowledge and landowner valuations are private information. Our results show that competition more than doubles aggregation rates, with aggregation rates of approximately 40% in the baseline, and at least 84% in the competitive treatments. We also find that developers have a strong preference to make transactions with landowners who have consolidated land holdings, doing so in 24/27 successful aggregations, providing empirical evidence that there is a link between the transactions cost associated with land-assembly and suburbanization, as suggested by Miceli and Sirmans (2007).
D79|Rationing Rules and Stable Coalition Structures| We consider a coalition formation model in which agents have the possibility of forming part of several coalitions but are limited to participate in only one of them. Coalitions of agents produce outputs to be distributed among their members according to their aspirations and to a rationing rule prevailing in society. The outcome of such a process is a hedonic game. Using monotonicity and consistency we characterize the continuous rationing rules that induce core-stable hedonic games.
D79|Violence and Child Health Outcomes: Evidence from Mexican Drug War|An emerging literature finds that early life exposure to conflict has important effects on subsequent physical and cognitive development. While this literature focuses on large-scale violent events and low intensity conflicts, there is a lack of studies examining high levels of criminal violence. This discrepancy is important as many areas in the world, particularly Central and South America, experience consistently high levels of organized crimes. This study examines whether these health effects also extend to criminal violence setting by focusing on the sharp increase in homicide rates in Mexico since 2007-08. Using sibling fixed effects, I study whether the levels and timing of municipality homicide rates affect children's physical health and cognitive and non-cognitive development in Mexico. The results show a strong effect of in utero exposure (depending on the trimester) on the physical health and cognitive development and no effect on socio-emotional behavior and chronic illnesses. Specifically, an average increase in the homicide rate between the pre-escalation period of 2005-06 and 2009 while in utero reduces both height-for-age Z-scores (HAZ) and cognition (measured by Raven’s scores) by 0.08 standard deviation (SD). The results further provide suggestive evidence about maternal stress and prenatal care use as potential channels.
D79|Personality Traits and the Gender Gap in Ideology|What explains the gender gap in ideology, i.e. the observation that women tend to be more leftist than men? We provide new evidence showing that personality traits play a key role. Using a novel high-quality data set, we show that the mediating (i.e. indirect) effects of gender operating through personality traits by far dominate the direct effects of gender. They also dominate other potential differences between the sexes like income or education as explanatory factors. Our findings suggest that women tend to be more leftist than men mainly because they have different personalities, which, in turn, shape their expressed ideology. Taking such mediating effects of personality traits into account explains over three quarters of the observed gender gap in general ideological preferences.
D79|Negative Advertising and Political Competition|Why is negative advertising such a prominent feature of competition in the US political market? We hypothesize that two-candidate races provide stronger incentives for going negative relative to non-duopoly contests: when the number of competitors is greater than two, airing negative ads creates positive externalities for opponents that are not the object of the attack. To investigate the empirical relevance of the fewness of competitors in explaining the volume of negative advertising, we exploit variation in the number of entrants running for US non-presidential primaries from 2000 through 2008. Duopolies are over twice as likely to air a negative ad when compared to non-duopolies, and the tendency for negative advertising decreases in the number of competitors. The estimates are robust to various specification checks and the inclusion of potential confounding factors at the race, candidate, and advertisement levels. (JEL D72, D79, L10, L19)
D79|Methodological Aspects of Qualitative-Quantitative Analysis of Decision-Making Processes|The paper aims at recognizing the possibilities and perspectives of application of qualitative-quantitative research methodology in the field of economics, with a special focus on production engineering management processes. The main goal of the research is to define the methods that would extend the research apparatus of economists and managers by tools that allow the inclusion of qualitative determinants into quantitative analysis. Such approach is justified by qualitative character of many determinants of economic occurrences. At the same time quantitative approach seems to be predominant in production engineering management, although methods of transposition of qualitative decision criteria can be found in literature. Nevertheless, international economics and management could profit from a mixed methodology, incorporating both types of determinants into joint decision-making models. The research methodology consists of literature review and own analysis of applicability of mixed qualitative-quantitative methods for managerial decision-making. The expected outcome of the research is to find which methods should be applied to include qualitative-quantitative analysis into multicriteria decision-making models in the fields of economics, with a special regard to production engineering management.
D79|El modelo del sistema viable: una referencia estratégica para el estudio organizacional del sector cooperativo chileno<BR>[The viable system model: a strategic reference for the organizational study of the Chilean cooperative sector]|El Sector Cooperativo Chileno (SCCh) puede ser explicado como un sistema de actividad humana de alta complejidad, el cual persigue mantener una existencia autónoma, es decir, ser viable. Desde esta perspectiva, el Modelo del Sistema Viable (MSV), como referencia conceptual, presenta una oportunidad real para estudiar la organización sectorial del cooperativismo en Chile. El objetivo central del trabajo, se refiere a estudiar la viabilidad del SCCh en un contexto de organización sectorial, considerando el entramado social, legal y económico del país en la actualidad. Para ello, soportado por una metodología sistémica, se realizaron: una caracterización de la situación problema del sector -identificando algunos factores relevantes en los ámbitos de estructura de mercado, regulaciones legales, e inter cooperación-, un diagnóstico organizacional y la propuesta de un conjunto de orientaciones para su desarrollo. De lo anterior se concluye que existe una pertinencia entre las características del caso de estudio y el enfoque teórico metodológico. La metodología, toma herramientas probadas en otras prácticas organizacionales, tal como VIPLAN, y las aplica al SCCh. Su aporte en el campo de estudio se orienta en torno a una mirada holística de la organización y la promoción de su viabilidad, generando de este modo un enfoque que entrega estrategias concretas de desarrollo sectorial, superando la aproximación de caracterización descriptiva. Así, entregamos un modelo diagnóstico del Sector Cooperativo Chileno y proponemos lineamientos que apoyen su desarrollo organizacional.
D79|Ação Coletiva e Delegação de Poder no Semiárido Nordestino: papel de lideranças locais e assessores externos numa comunidade rural| This paper examines the collective experience developed since the mid 1980 in a rural community of Northeastern semi-arid region - Lagoa dos Cavalos (Russas, Ceará). The land tenure pattern is based on fragmentation by inheritance, and its formal registration enables a peculiar form of organization that ensures the population certain autonomy in collective decisions on local development. The goal of this article is to check who has power and responsibility in the process of collective action coordination, the profile and the role of these actors. The method is based on qualitative research, combining the use of witness statements, documentary and bibliographical sources. Intentional non-probability sampling was used for the definition of the actors to be interviewed. The conclusion points that power and responsibility are delegated to two types of local leaders, who hold the recognition and legitimacy to meet the demands inherent in the work of collective activities coordination or for mediation between the location, the external advisors and the world, keeping on autonomy. The external advisors provide technical and political support, and facilitate the access to financial resources. Both local and external advisors leaders play an important role in local development, but are dependent on the local organization that has created mechanisms to build cooperation and coordination of action of those involved.
D79|Collective beliefs and horizontal interactions between groups: the case of political parties|Groups matter in our ordinary folk psychology because a part of our social interactions is done with collective entities. In our everyday life, we indeed sometimes ascribe mental states to social groups as a whole or to individuals as members of groups in order to understand and predict their behavior. The aim of this paper is to explore this aspect of social interactions by focusing on the concept of ‘collective belief’ in a non-summative sense and, more precisely, on collective belief of a specific kind of group: the political party. How can the concept of ‘collective belief’ help to understand the interactions which involve these kinds of collective entities? After providing an epistemic description of political parties, this paper focuses on the collective belief in a non-summative sense. As Gilbert says, a group believes that p, if its members are jointly committed to believe that p as a body. It is argued, with the help of an example from the political history of France, that this view can enable us to understand the interaction between political parties. More precisely, it can help clarify the way in which a political party use the rational constraints on the party as a whole and/or the social and epistemic constraints on the behavior of the group's members in order to destabilize or weaken other political parties.
D79|Optimal VCG mechanisms to assign multiple bads|For the problem of assigning economic “bads” (for example, costly tasks or undesirable objects), Vickrey–Clarke–Groves (VCG) mechanisms achieve efficient allocations via money transfers. However, they can produce arbitrarily large budget surpluses or deficits. We construct a performance index for a VCG mechanism to measure its budget surplus and deficit in the worst-case. Using this index, we develop mechanisms whose surpluses or deficits vanish as the number of participants increases, for both cases of bads and goods. We find that individual rationality creates an asymmetry between surplus and deficit, particularly in the case of bads. When the number of agents is large enough, a minute amount of deficit can replace unit surplus to achieve a budget balance. For the case of economic goods, unit surplus can only be replaced with unit deficit, regardless of individual rationality. This result shows that the model with bads differs fundamentally from the model with goods.
D79|Elections as a conflict processing mechanism|We examine the conditions under which societal conflicts are peacefully processed by competitive elections when the contending parties can revert to force as an alternative. We show that the viability of the electoral mechanism depends on the balance of military force, the sharpness of divisions within a society, and institutions that moderate policies implemented by winners of elections. For elections to be held and their outcomes to be respected, the probabilities that they would be won by incumbents must bear an inverse relation to the magnitude of policy changes resulting from elections. Elections are competitive when their outcomes make some but not too much difference. Constraining the scope of policy divergence increases the range of the balance of force under which elections are competitive in divided, but not in homogeneous, societies. Hence, competitiveness of elections and constitutional constraints on policies – the norms being promoted as essential for democracies – do not always go together.
D79|Revisiting Methodological Individualism in Game Theory: The Contributions of Schelling and Bacharach|"The purpose of this contribution is to illustrate how both Schelling and Bacharach’s methodologies can help scholars bring a new approach to behavioral game theory in which the nature of usual standard methodological individualism is insufficiently questioned. I aim to show that both Schelling and Bacharach question the nature of interactive rationality. They provide original insight concerning (i) the conditions of possibility of the existence of determinate solutions and (ii) the resolution process of games. Furthermore, their questioning of the methodological implications of the well-known trio of standard game theory (common knowledge, the transparency of reasons and the reduction of ""strategic uncertainty"" to ""physical uncertainty"") offers some ideas on how to build an alternative theory of games. As forerunners, they open an ongoing research program which can still be a fruitful source of methodological innovation regarding interactive rationality and its collective determinants."
D79|Tax morale and reciprocity. A case study from Vietnam|Understanding the effects of reciprocity on tax morale is crucial to explain tax compliance behavior. However, there is only little research about which sources of reciprocity affect tax morale most. Thus, this paper for the first time gauges the effects from two sources of reciprocity on tax morale in an empirical study. The first source, vertical reciprocity, measures how tax payers value their contributions to the government. The second source, horizontal reciprocity, examines the impact of the perceived compliance behavior of other tax payers. The focus of the study is on Vietnam. The country seems to be a promising spot for this type of research because it exhibits an exceptional high level of tax morale and collectivism but only has low tax audit probabilities. This analysis is based on a consumer survey in the City of Hue which combines and extends questions from previous versions of the European and the World Value Survey. The result shows that both reciprocity measures are significantly correlated with tax morale but that vertical reciprocity prevails.
D79|Political Bias in Court? Lay Judges and Asylum Appeals|Several countries practice a system where laymen, who lack legal education, participate in the judicial decision making. Yet, little is known about their potential influence on the court rulings. In Sweden lay judges (namndeman) are affiliated with the political parties and appointed in proportion to political party representation in the last local elections. This paper investigates the influence of their partisan belonging when ruling in asylum appeals in the Migration Courts, where laymen are effectively randomly assigned to cases. The results show that the approval rate is affected by the policy position of the laymen's political parties. In particular, asylum appeals are more likely to be rejected when laymen from the anti-immigrant party the Swedish Democrats participate, and less likely to be rejected when laymen from the Left Party, the Christian Democrats or the Green Party participate. This indicates that asylum seekers do not receive an impartial trial, and raises concerns that laymen in the courts can compromise the legal security in general.
D79|West versus Islam|The present times have been overshadowed by a general crisis of values, with a highlight between Islam and the western countries. Some theoreticians argue that a shock therapy is imperative so as to come out of this crossroad of ignorance and vanity, the clash between two civilizations.When looking in the past, a practical solution would be to notice what the shared past was and what exactly one could supply to the other.
D79|Public choice, social choice, and political economy|Since World War II a large literature has arisen that uses the methodology of economics to examine the behavior of governments and the actors in them. Some scholars refer to their research as public choice, some as social choice, and still others as political economy. This article discusses the distinctions among these three terms. It concludes that all of the research falling under these three headings has much in common, and that people who refer to their work as public choice or political economy are essentially employing identical methodologies. Contributions to public choice, narrowly defined, are more often positive and empirical analyses of government behavior than those in social choice, narrowly defined. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
D79|Interfaith Conflict and Political Development in Nigeria: The Zangon Kataf Conflict|The goals and objectives of this research, are to investigate and analyze the different ways the Zangon Kataf interfaith conflict poses a great deal of threat to the political development of Nigeria and also to try and understand what mechanisms can be put in place to prevent a future occurrence of such conflict. The research identified that the economic disparities in terms of wealth acquisition and trading advantage the Hausa Muslims had over the Atyap Christians for decades and also religious intolerance by both Muslims and Christians were the major problems of the research. The research adopted the qualitative method of research and also a descriptive research methodology was used. Data was collected through the use of questionnaires made up of closed ended questions. The major findings of the research demonstrates that the slow response by the security agencies to immediately restore peace, law and order in Zangon Kataf and the economic advantage by the Hausa Muslims as against the Atyap Christians were highlighted as the major findings. However this research recommends that community leaders need to promote the need for dialogue as a tool used in the settlement of disputes among conflicting parties. Also religious leaders need to emphasize on religious tolerance that is to say the need for one religion to tolerate the religious values of other religions and finally there is a need for government to formulate economic policies that will be favorable amongst the various religious and ethnic groups of the Nigerian state.
D79|Girl-Child Education and Entrepreneurship in Nigeria|In Nigeria, girl-child education has been facing a number of challenges such as early marriage and economic hardship. That fewer women apply for entry to universities is a result of their being fewer girls completing secondary education and this problem has its roots in primary school. In the context of an evolving market-oriented, competitive and private-sector driven economy, corporate capitalism and globalization, education is expected to produce women that are versatile enough to acquire competitive positions as well as generate their own employment. However, the schools are often characterized by outmoded operational processes and management structures which are largely incapable of producing female entrepreneurs with the capacity to generate ideas and to turn such ideas to profitable and emotionally satisfying ventures through perseverance and hard work. Education for women and girls therefore, should aim at reversing the trend of gender discrimination by ensuring full empowerment of women in the true sense of raising their status.
D79|Strategy-proof location of public facilities|Consider the problem of locating a public facility taking into account the agents' preferences. To construct strategy-proof social choice rules, we propose a new preference domain that allows agents to have any single-peaked or any single-dipped preference on the location of the facility such that the peak/dip of the preference is in her own location. We characterize all strategy-proof rules in this general framework and study the conditions under which this family of strategy-proof rules includes non-dictatorial rules that have more than two alternatives in the range or that are Pareto efficient. Finally, we characterize for some focal cases all strategy-proof and Pareto efficient rules.
D79|Resetting the EU Strategic Vision: Context, Rationale and Preliminary Results [Resetarea viziunii strategice a Uniunii Europene: context, argumente şi rezultate preliminare]|During the recent years, a number of EU internal and external factors, associated with a threefold failure – that of markets, institutions and economic governance – have contributed to heightened risks, uncertainties and vulnerabilities and thus the propagation of long-lasting tensions inside the union and also in its relationship with iits first-rate partners.
D79|Soft Law And the Discourse of Gender-Based Violence in the European Union Agenda - the Case of FRA`s Violence Against Women|Since the Treaties of Rome, European gender equality policy has been evolving towards a nondistributive character of justice. A particular example of this is the growing interest in violence against women, or the gender-based violence, which the European Commission lists among the core issues to be tackled in reaching equality throughout the Union. The European gender equality policy, which had been also evolving in the form of soft law, brings new discoursive frameworks for gender-based violence. This contribution deals with the discoursive limits which help to conceptualize violence against women and create representations of victims of violence via the analysis of a survey on violence against women published by the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights (FRA).
D79|Empirical Investigation On The Corporate Financing For Sport Development In E.U|Assuming the increasing part that sport economics plays nowadays in research and pragmatic fields, the main objective of the present study is to investigate on the companies’ role for supporting sport development through sponsorships and donations, as one main component of the private financing for sport. The fundamental premise that stays behind this research is the potential of sport for inducing competitive advantages for the companies that assign corporate resources for this social domain. The research was conducted for the EU member countries by using secondary data freely available in official documents and databases. The comparative analysis highlighted the factors that generate significant differences between the investigated countries. The results showed that, although corporate financing for sport purposes is well-developed only in few EU countries, its part is constantly increasing as companies in different economic, social and cultural contexts are becoming aware of the strategic potential of sport on medium and long terms. The findings are presented in detail at country level.
D79|Институциональные Условия Достижения Политического Компромисса В Теориях Демократии<BR>[Institutional conditions for achievment of political compromise in theories of democracy]|В статье рассматриваются ключевые подходы к концептуализации политического комп ромисса. Рассматриваются модели демократии и соответствующий институ-циональный дизайн обеспечения оптимального уровня политического участия. При этом политический компромисс понимается неодинаково. Он может отождествляться с консенсусом, когда акцент делается на единодушных решениях, или же исходить из допущения политического противостояния, при котором тем не менее возможно достижение modus vivendi. Особое внимание авторы уделяют теории консоциативной демократии, предлагающей способ решения конфликтов в многосоставных обществах The paper reviews the key approaches to the conceptualization of political compromise. Each model of democracy - aggregative (G. Almond), deliberative (J. Rawls, J. Habermas), consociate (A. Lijphart) and agonistic (Ch.Mouffe) suggests its own institutional design to ensure an optimal level of political participation. In the theories which describe these mod-els, political compromise is understood in a different ways: in some, it is identified with the consensus, the other are based on an assumption that political contestation is inevitable, which nevertheless makes the achievement of modus vivendi possible. The authors pay par-ticular attention to the theory of consociational democracy, developed by Arendt Lijphart. This theory proposes a way to solve conflicts in the multipartite societies
D79|Don't Know What You Got: A Bayesian Hierarchical Model of Neuroticism and Nonresponse|No abstract is available for this item.
D79| Opening up the strategy-making process: Comparing open strategy to open innovation| In this paper we compare the emerging field of open strategy to the established field of open innovation in order to facilitate their cross-fertilisation both in research and practice. Taking a communication-centred perspective, we argue that in both fields ‘openness’ concerns opening-up the communication process towards previously excluded individuals. On the basis of our review of the literature, we introduce a general framework that distinguishes between two dimensions of openness in terms of the direction that communication takes: sharing communication content with external participants and audiences and receiving communication content from external participants and audiences. Using the two dimensions of sharing and receiving, we map documented cases of empirical research in both fields and identify different forms of openness in processes of open innovation and open strategy. As we will show, in the material that we examined, in most of the cases of open strategy sharing and receiving are combined, while in many cases of open innovation we identified only one dimension. We suggest that this difference arises because, unlike innovation, open strategy typically involves joint sensemaking and thus a bidirectional communication process. Drawing on our findings, we put forward three propositions to provide a foundation for future empirical research on phenomena of open innovation and open strategy
D79|Farmers’ Management Capacities As A Success Factor In Agriculture: A Review| Farms operating under more or less similar environmental and socio-economic conditions often reflect significant differences in production and economic results they achieve. Such differences are most commonly attributed to: biological factors, the level of specialization, the intensity of production, the size of farms and/or implemented production practice, etc. It is considered that the differences in achieved results, that is, the success of a farm can be, to a large extent, explained by variations in farmers’ management capacities. Management capacities can be defined as possession of appropriate personal characteristics and capabilities of farmers (managers) to cope with specific problems and opportunities at the right time and in the right way. With the changes taking place within the modern agricultural production, it is becoming more and more difficult to maintain competitive advantages, thus the farmers are progressively confronted with the requirements for certain management capacities which will enable them to take advantage of the existing conditions in the best possible way, i.e. to choose and implement the optimal production practice. As the management capacities are rarely explicitly defined and quantified, particularly when it comes to agricultural producers, the aim of this study is to provide a review of the previous research in this field while highlighting the significance of these issues.
D79|Prediction Markets as an Example of Crowdsourcing|The aim of of this article is present the idea of crowdsourcing by defining this phenomenon and to provide basic typology of crowdsourcing. In the next step, the author presents in detail the prediction markets, which are a practical example of the implementation of the idea of crowdsourcing. The article is descriptive and systematizing knowledge of the prediction markets.
D79|"Challenging Standard Non-Cooperative Game Theory? From Bacharach's ""Variable Frame Theory"" to ""Team Reasoning"""|"The paper purports to stress how the two major contributions of Bacharach: ""Variable Frame Theory"" (VFT) and ""Team Reasoning"" (TR) improve Standard Non-Cooperative Game Theory in some relevant aspects which I point out. The aims are to show: (i) how Bacharach respectively justifies coordination and cooperation within these theories, and (ii) how these improvements in both VFT and TR involve a new conception of players and their rationality. I underline how coordination and cooperation rely on contextual and social determinants, which challenge and even contradict some pillars of standard individual rationality in terms of subjective expected utility, in games. Even if Bacharach's conceptual and methodological choices within these theories induce numerous difficulties, I try to show that Bacharach’s work underlines some of the implications and related problems induced by the mere foundations of standard non-cooperation game theory."
D79|A survey of allocation rules for the museum pass problem|In this paper, we consider the problem, introduced by Ginsburgh and Zang (Games Econ Behav 43:322–325, 2003 ), of sharing the income from the sell of passes that allow the entrance in a set of museums. First, we recall some allocation rules and some properties presented in Ginsburgh and Zang (Mus Manag Curatorship 19:371–383, 2004 ), Béal and Solal (Rev Econ 61:1099–1109, 2010 ), Estévez-Fernández et al. ( 2010 ), and Casas-Méndez et al. (Eur J Oper Res 215:161–168, 2011 ). Then, we discuss them, finding the properties satisfied by each allocation rule. The analysis of a real-world example concludes the paper. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
D79|A regra da maioria como agregação de preferências: problemas e soluções [Majority rule as aggregation of preferences: questions and answers]|Anchored in the rationalist approach, but with the impossibility of consensus rule and seeking to show the characteristics of the majority rule and some of its problems, as the Condorcet paradox, and solutions to these problems, such as logrolling, this article intends to review and synthesize theory about it, based on the main contributions to the theme. The study is justified because, as a process of preference aggregation, majority rule is used for election purposes and internal political processes in a large number of nations.
D79|When do conflicting parties share political power? An experimental study|"We conduct a laboratory experiment to study the incentives of a privileged group to share political power with another group when the two have conflicting interests. There are two groups of participants, the ""yellows"" and the ""blues"". The yellows collectively choose the voting rule for a general election: a simple-majority rule that favors them, or a proportional rule. In two control treatments the blues can use a costly punishment option: they can punish the yellows after the outcome of the election, or after the choice of the electoral rule, but before the election. We find that the yellow group shares power voluntarily only to a small extent, but is more inclined to do so under the threat of punishment, despite the fact that punishment is not optimal in the continuation game. The blue group conditions punishment both on the voting rule and the electoral outcome: They are more inclined to punish an unfavorable outcome under the proportional rule. The evidence suggests that power sharing arises from the (suboptimal) willingness of the minority to punish selfish behavior."
D79|Risk Assessments for Construction projects in the KSA|The construction market of Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) is significantly huge in the Middle East, which is currently estimates to be >$122 Billion per year (in recent times) and this is anticipated to reach >$610 Billion in next five years. Construction projects in residential sector is too positive than commercial sector. However, data on the actual percentage of success rate and vital risk factors in aforementioned projects are still limited. Accordingly, this study estimates risk evaluation of recent construction projects in the KSA. Consequently, this paper presents a new risk evaluation method for recent construction projects: this analysis constructed on new liner decision?making model. Whilst, this study also investigates the practical applications of risk management in the trade of construction projects of both national and international companies.
D79|A model of state secularism|This paper posits a minimalist state interested in taxation and religion and explores the conditions conducive to the separation of state and religion. It shows that a ruler is secular and does not favour his religion as the state religion if he is absolutely tolerant, he faces a homogeneous, co-religionist society, and/or punishing violations of the state’s religious policy is prohibitively costly. Secular rulers are accordingly classified into three types: innately, coincidentally, and instrumentally secular. In the short run, individuals are equally well-off under different secular regimes. But among rulers, instrumentally secular rulers are relatively worse-off. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2014
D79|Learning and coordinating in a multilayer network|We introduce a two layer network model for social coordination incorporating two relevant ingredients: a) different networks of interaction to learn and to obtain a pay-off, and b) decision making processes based both on social and strategic motivations. Two populations of agents are distributed in two layers with intralayer learning processes and playing interlayer a coordination game. We find that the skepticism about the wisdom of crowd and the local connectivity are the driving forces to accomplish full coordination of the two populations, while polarized coordinated layers are only possible for all-to-all interactions. Local interactions also allow for full coordination in the socially efficient Pareto-dominant strategy in spite of being the riskier one.
D79|Monkey see, monkey do: Truth-telling in matching algorithms and the manipulation of others|We test the effect of the amount of information on the strategies played by others in the theoretically strategy-proof Top Trading Cycles (TTC) mechanism. We find that providing limited information on the strategies played by others has a negative and significant effect in truth-telling rates relative to full or no information about others' strategies. Subjects report truthfully more often when either full information or no information on the strategies played by others is available. Our results have potentially important implications for the design of markets based on strategy-proof matching algorithms.
D79|Application of Transactional Analysis in Bullwhip Effect Analysis|Starting from the problem of supply chain’s effectiveness dependency on good coordination of participants, this paper builds a theoretical and methodological tool for studying the quality of communication between parties in the process. The aim of the study, qualitative and explorative in its nature, was twofold. First, beer game simulation was used on students, to demonstrate the bullwhip effect, and to enable them learning from their own experience not only economical but also psychological effects of lack of cooperation. Second, there was an idea to analyze communication of parties in supply chain by observing interaction and interviewing participants and then categorizing their communication using a transactional analysis terminology as a system of classification. The hypothesis that transactional analysis can be used as a theoretical framework and methodological procedure for diagnosing and understanding social interactions was explored. As the study revealed some patterns, well described by transactional analysis concepts, psychological theory has a potential to improve understanding and practical realization of supply chain coordination and to provide some suggestions for overcoming communicational problems in supply chains of future managers.
D79|Eficacia y asimetrías de los programas de delación en un contexto multimercado: un análisis del caso colombiano en el marco del TLC con Estados Unidos|El presente documento busca analizar los posibles efectos de las asimetrías en los programas de delación en diversas jurisdicciones territoriales sobre el comportamiento anticompetitivo de los agentes en un contexto multi-mercado. En particular, este trabajo analiza el programa de delación de Colombia y lo contrasta con el de Estados Unidos para identificar posibles diferencias entre ellos que pudieran incidir en la efectividad de la política de delación.
D79|How Can Latin America Help the World to Cope with Climate Change?|Latin America has a comparative advantage in deforestation compared to other forms of climate change mitigation. Thus, to the extent that Latin America should engage in mitigation, the optimal climate change policy should manage these advantages by generating incentives in Latin America to deal with forestry. This paper describes the problem of deforestation and studies the market failures that arise in relation to forestry emission problems, analyzing them from a global public good perspective. The paper additionally describes other problems related to forestry emission issues and presents a non-exhaustive review of the solutions currently proposed to address this issue. The paper concludes with policy recommendations.
D79|Are we witnessing a paradigm shift in the analysis of political competition?|This presidential address assesses the crisis of the Downsian model of political competition in light of the mounting evidence on policy divergence and evaluates the possibility that the new theories of politicians’ quality and political selection provide an alternative theoretical conceptualization of political competition. Based on a critical review of the literature and on the author’s works on content analysis of policy speeches, income redistribution, politicians’ quality, and political legislation cycles, this address concludes that multidimensional Downsian models of political competition are adequate to explain policy divergence and points out the serious theoretical and empirical problems that models of political selection have to solve. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2013
D79|The Role of Polygyny in the Intrahousehold Efficiency of Agricultural Production in West Africa|Polygyny is an institution with deep roots in West Africa. Many papers have attempted to explain the rationality and persistence of this phenomenon through time. Less effort has been devoted to studying the effect of polygyny on household economic behavior. This question is policy relevant given the pressure underway to eliminate polygyny. This paper provides new empirical evidence on whether polygyny leads to an improvement or a worsening of intra-household efficiency for three countries with high levels of polygyny: Benin, Burkina Faso and Senegal. The evidence we obtain is mixed. In Benin, polygyny does not seem to have an impact on intra-household efficiency, while it appears, in the longer run, to improve it in Burkina Faso, but to decrease it in Senegal.
D79|What niche did human cooperativeness evolve in?|The Prisoner’s Dilemma (PD) is widely used to model social interaction between un- related individuals in the study of the evolution of cooperative behaviour in humans and other species. Many effective mechanisms and promotive scenarios have been studied which allow for small founding groups of cooperative individuals to prevail even when all social interaction is characterised as a PD. Here, a brief critical discusion of the role of the PD as the most prominent tool in cooperation research is presented, followed by two new objections to such an exclusive focus on PD-based models of social interaction. It is highlighted that only 2 of the 726 combinatorially possible strategically unique ordinal 2x2 games have the detrimental characteristics of a PD and that the frequency of PD-type games in a space of games with random payoffs does not exceed about 3.5%. Although these purely mathematical considerations do not compellingly imply that the relevance of PDs is overestimated, it is proposed that, in the absence of convergent empirical information about the ancestral human social niche, this finding can be interpreted in favour of a so far rather neglected answer to the question of how the founding groups of human cooperation themselves came to cooperate: Behavioural and/or psychological mechanisms which evolved for other, possibly more frequent, social interaction situations might have been applied to PD- type dilemmas only later. Human cooperative behaviour might thus partly have begun as a cooptation.
D79|An adaptive decisional mechanism leading to chaos|In this paper we propose a framework in order to analyze the dynamical process of decision and opinion formation of two economic homogeneous and boundedly rational agents that interact and learn from each other over time. The decisional process described in our model is an adaptive adjustment mechanism in which two agents take into account the difference between their own opinion and the opinion of the other agent. The smaller that difference, the larger the weight given to the comparison of the opinions. We also assume that if the distance between the two opinions is larger than a given threshold, then there is no interaction and the agents do not change their opinion anymore. Introducing an auxiliary variable describing the distance between the opinions, we obtain a one-dimensional map for which we investigate, mainly via analytical tools, the stability of the steady states, their bifurcations, as well as the existence of chaotic dynamics and multistability phenomena, i.e., the presence of coexisting attractors.
D79|Without agreement: Inclusive processes and conflict transformation|This article studies two inclusive processes that were carried out inGenoa about the strongly contested projects of a motorway and a waste incinerator.It shows how inclusive processes may contribute to the de-escalation of the conflicteven when stakeholders are not able to reach an agreement.In both cases inclusive processes favoured the development of win-win solutionsderiving from various form of coordination that took place without reaching anagreement involving citizens committees and environmental groups.Several innovations in the motorway project that reduced the negative externalitiesfor residents were introduced through unilateral adjustments by the proponents afterthe conclusion of the process. The project for a new less polluting waste facilitycame out from a negotiation among technicians with different orientations, even ifnone of them was entitled to represent the organized opponents.At the same time in both cases the opponents did not delegitimize the processesduring their implementation. In fact the main actors were connected by a field ofrelations that nobody had the interest to break. In the case of the motorway thenetwork was promoted by the commission that managed the inclusive process throughan exchange of resources (information/legitimation). In the case of the incinerator itwas promoted by the municipal administration trough an enlargement of the issueat stake.
D79|Outside the Government: Why Ethnic Parties Fail to Join the Post-Communist Cabinets|This article seeks to identify the causes impeding the ethnic parties to participate in the post-communist coalition governments. We conduct a cross-national and longitudinal analysis in which we take into account all the elections in which the ethnic parties gained parliamentary representation. With 44 cases over two decades – the party in election is the unit of analysis – and Qualitative Comparative Analysis (QCA) as method of analysis, this study bears theoretical and empirical implications. The key findings illustrate that leadership stability (or rigidity) and the involvement in particular issues of representation can drive the ethnic parties out of government. This combined effect prevails against other factors such as the pivotal role, splits or mergers, electoral strategies (alliances or radical discourses), or incumbency.
D79|On the measurement of sociopolitical consensus in direct democracies: Proposal of indexes|We investigate the measurement of sociopolitical consensus in direct democracies by means of three novel Consensus Indexes. They are special cases of Approval Consensus Measures, a tool from social choice that evaluates the degree of cohesiveness in a fixed group of agents that vote on a list of issues. We perform a basic dynamic analysis of the Swiss votes in popular initiatives, in periods marked by the main reforms and political crisis along those years. We provide novel quantitative arguments to validate the hypotheses that those reorganizations had an impact in terms of sociopolitical consensus during the last decade in comparison with prior stages. In addition we study the cumulative consensus in Italian referendums since 1974. We also investigate to what extent our indexes reflect the existence of periods in the development of referendums as a constitutional praxis.
D79|Eficacia y asimetrías de los programas de delación en un contexto multi-mercado: un análisis del caso colombiano en el marco del TLC con Estados Unidos<BR>[Efficacy and asymmetries of the leniency programs on a multi-market context: an analysis of the Colombian case under the FTA with the U.S]|This paper analyzes the possible effects of asymmetries in the leniency programs on anti-competitive behavior of agents in multi-market context. In particular, this paper analyzes the Colombian leniency program and compares it with the United States program to identify possible differences between them that could affect the effectiveness of the leniency policy. El presente documento busca analizar los posibles efectos de las asimetrías en los programas de delación en diversas jurisdicciones territoriales sobre el comportamiento anticompetitivo de los agentes en un contexto multi-mercado. En particular, este trabajo analiza el programa de delación de Colombia y lo contrasta con el de Estados Unidos para identificar posibles diferencias entre ellos que pudieran incidir en la efectividad de la política de delación.
D79|An aggregation function to solve multicriteria ranking problem involving several decision makers|Multiple Criteria Decision Aiding (MCDA) has been studied in a single decision maker framework for a long time. Nowadays, the need to take into account several conflicting opinions handled by several decisions makers arises. So, researchers are interested with multicriteria problems involving several decision makers. In this context, to solve ranking problem, we develop an aggregation model of several additive value functions. Comparisons with a derivative ELECTRE I method is done on numerical data. Clearly, it appears that the proposed aggregation function is better according to calculation complexity and computation time. Way for further research in this field is proposed.
D79|Who Benefits From Child Benefit?|Over much of the developed world governments make significant financial transfers to parents with dependent children. For example, in the US the recently introduced Child Tax Credit (CTC), which goes to almost all children, costs almost $1billion each week, or about 0.4% of GNP. The UK has even more generous transfers and spends about $25 a week on each of about 8 million children – about 1% of GNP. The typical rationale given for these transfers is that they are good for our children and here we investigate the effect on household spending patterns. The UK is an excellent laboratory to address this issue because such transfers, known as Child Benefit (CB), were simple lump sum universal payments for a period of more than 20 years. We do indeed find that CB is spent differently from other income – paradoxically, it appears to be spent disproportionately on adult-assignable goods. In fact we estimate that more than half of a marginal pound of CB is spent on alcohol. We resolve the puzzle by showing that the effect is confined to unanticipated variation in CB so we infer that parents are sufficiently altruistic towards their children that they completely insure them against shocks<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D79|Between Subjective And Objective In Making Decisions On The Romanian Higher Education Market|Having roots in intentional behaviours, adverse selection as part of information asymmetry is a widely - discussed concept, closely related to many sides of economics and generating the most various problems in practice. As the specific literature says, the adverse selection leads, or at least in theory should lead to market failure when no external force comes to balance its effects. Since this failure never occurs in fact, it is questionable whether the adverse selection is the only factor that influences an uniformed consumer decision, or other factors come to counterbalance the factors described by Akerloff. This paper intends to advocate the idea that as much as adverse selection, there are subjective factors having impact on the decision made on the Romanian Education Market.
D79|Herramientas predictivas en política financiera para empresas rentables|El presente artículo es abordado desde la perspectiva estratégica en finanzas; el objetivo es mostrar el material técnico reciente sobre procedimientos/ prácticas de análisis financieros de predicción y su utilización en la gestión, así como entender en qué momento se da una estructura óptima de capital. Por tal razón se construye un soporte conceptual basado en la teoría del trade-off y el estudio de técnicas y herramientas que conduzcan a medir los resultados que se obtienen en un periodo de gestión. Se concluye que los autores, al hacer uso de la estadística, establecen patrones que caracterizan las organizaciones y que son tratados en el campo de la predicción y la descripción.
D79|Bargaining behavior and the tragedy of the anticommons|To date, most experimental studies of the tragedy of the anticommons treat individuals’ preferences as common knowledge. Here, we conduct experiments in which values are private information. We vary the bargaining institution, the buyer's signaled willingness to pay, and the fraction of sellers whose inputs must be assembled. In our experiments simultaneous bargaining gives the buyer a better tradeoff between the total price paid and the risk of failure than sequential bargaining when all sellers’ inputs are necessary. When two thirds are necessary assembly failure virtually disappears, but simultaneous bargaining still generates lower prices for the buyer.
D79|Judicial Dissent under Externalities and Incomplete Information|The issue of the stability and change of legal rules occupies a central place in the discussions of alternative ways of organizing justice and the provision of legal rules. There nonetheless remains a theoretical aspect that has never been raised in the literature on judicial decision making and legal change. Judges that are not bound by precedent and can change the law directly by overruling previous decisions have to make a particular decision about the direction the new precedent will take. We show that under incomplete information about judges’ eagerness to choose according to their ideal points, there are two candidates for the particular legal rule that is to become the new precedent: (i) judge’s private optimum; and (ii) some other legal rule that can differ from (i) and corresponds to the empirical and normative expectations of a large subset of judges within the judicial population. The individual judge that has decided not to stick to the precedent faces therefore a trade-off, he has to ch oose among alternative legal rules that yield alternative levels of public and private satisfaction of preferences.
D79|The doctrinal paradox, the discursive dilemma, and logical aggregation theory|Judgment aggregation theory, or rather, as we conceive of it here, logical aggregation theory generalizes social choice theory by having the aggregation rule bear on judgments of all kinds instead of merely preference judgments. It derives from Kornhauser and Sager’s doctrinal paradox and List and Pettit’s discursive dilemma, two problems that we distinguish emphatically here. The current theory has developed from the discursive dilemma, rather than the doctrinal paradox, and the final objective of the paper is to give the latter its own theoretical development along the line of recent work by Dietrich and Mongin. However, the paper also aims at reviewing logical aggregation theory as such, and it covers impossibility theorems by Dietrich, Dietrich and List, Dokow and Holzman, List and Pettit, Mongin, Nehring and Puppe, Pauly and van Hees, providing a uniform logical framework in which they can be compared with each other. The review goes through three historical stages: the initial paradox and dilemma, the scattered early results on the independence axiom, and the so-called canonical theorem, a collective achievement that provided the theory with its specific method of analysis. The paper goes some way towards philosophical logic, first by briefly connecting the aggregative framework of judgment with the modern philosophy of judgment, and second by thoroughly discussing and axiomatizing the ‘general logic’ built in this framework. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2012
D79|Some Notes on Inconsistence and Indecisiveness in the Analytic Hierarchy Process|The aim of the article is to introduce a mathematical concept of indecisiveness into the analytic hierarchy process (AHP) framework. Indecisiveness can be useful in two ways: first, decision makers with high indecisiveness (higher than a given threshold value) can be excluded from a decision making process in its early stages as low-competent and replaced by other, more competent DMs; second, indecisiveness along with consistency index C.I. can be used for the calculation of (aposteriori) DMs’ weights without any additional information about DMs’ age, formal knowledge, social status, etc. The proposed approach is demonstrated on examples.
D79|Effect of the Fukushima accident on saving electricity: The case of the Japanese Professional Baseball League|This paper investigates whether and the extent to which the Fukushima nuclear accident 2011 affected human behavior based on a natural experiment with the Japanese Professional Baseball League. Comparing the duration of games in the 2010 and 2011 seasons reveals the following. (1) The duration of a game in the 2011 season was shorter than that in 2010, especially during the summer when Japan was experiencing an electricity shortage. (2) The duration of a game played on a holiday is longer than that played on a workday in 2011, whereas there is no difference between a holiday and workday game in 2010. (3) The greater the distance between Fukushima and the location the game is played, the longer the duration of the game in 2011. This was not observed in 2010. These findings imply that a nuclear accident increased the incentive of baseball players to engage in successful collective action to save electricity by decreasing the duration of a game, especially when the probability of an electricity shortage was high.
D79|Abilenský paradox v skupinovom rozhodovaní<BR>[Abilene paradox in group decision making]|In the field of organizational behavior the dominant part of the authors deals with conflicts. But problems may also occur in case of compliance, which may cause the group does not decide effectively, often unanimously, and incorrectly. The aim of this paper is to summarize the theoretical knowledge and practical cases about the phenomenon called the Abilene paradox.
D79|Buchanan on Freedom|Our object is to explicate Buchanan's conception of individual liberty and to trace its connection to the 'working themes' in his corpus-anarchy, contract, constitution, Pareto optimality, 'public choice' and so on. In doing so, we investigate a number of tensions in Buchanan's conception-between a libertarian affinity with anarchy and constitutional contractarianism; and that between procedural liberalism and classical liberalism.
D79|Theocracy is just another Form of Dictatorship: Theory and Evidence from the Papal Regimes|This paper tests the explanatory and predictive power of a theory of dictatorship (e.g., Wintrobe 1998, 2007) when applied to the case of theocracy and in particular to the history of the temporal power of the Popes. We consider the behaviour of the Catholic theocracy in the Papal States, as this was a very long lasting theocracy, exposed to many historical shocks that reveal information about the incentives and constraints that characterize it. We use this information to test the explanatory power of the theory of dictatorship, showing that never in the history of the temporal power of the Church have the four categories of dictatorship that the theory foresees (tinpot, tyrant, totalitarian and conceivably timocrat) proven inadequate. Theocracy is just like any other form of dictatorship. Furthermore, we test some of the predictions of the theory of dictatorship about the durability of, and the source of opposition to the various regimes on data about the Papacy. The results appear to support the theory.
D79|Menu Auctions with Non-Transferable Utilities and Budget Constraints|This paper extends Bernheim and Whinston's (1986) menu auction model under transferable utilities to a framework with non-transferable utilities and budget constraints. Under appropriate definitions of equilibria, it is shown that every truthful Nash equilibrium (TNE) is a coalition-proof Nash equilibrium (CPNE) and that the set of TNE payoffs and the set of CPNE payoffs are equivalent, as in a transferable utility framework. The existence of a CPNE is assured in contrast with the possible non-existence of Nash equilibrium under the definition by Dixit, Grossman, and Helpman (1997). Moreover, the set of CPNE payoffs is equivalent to the bidder-optimal weak core.
D79|Who Can Become German?: Xenophobia and Attitudes Towards Naturalization|"Germans are opening up to the topic of immigration: According to the representative data of this report, less and less Germans without a migration background feel threatened by immigration. Also, their attitude towards naturalization has changed. The question ""What is the decisive factor for granting German nationality?"" is now answered differently than in the 1990s. A significant part of the population without migration background considers ethnic German descent as less important. More and more Germans, however, believe that individual behavior should be the decisive factor for naturalization. In contrast, this doesn't necessarily imply a decline of xenophobia: Persons placing high importance on behavior and cultural adaptation have equally frequent xenophobic tendencies as persons considering ethnicity to be more important. Still, the number of Germans feeling strong hostility towards strangers went down at large."
D79|Fremdenfeindlichkeit und Einstellungen zur Einbürgerung|"Die Deutschen öffnen sich dem Thema Zuwanderung: Immer weniger Deutsche ohne Migrationshintergrund, so zeigen die repräsentativen Daten dieses Berichts, fühlen sich durch Zuwanderung bedroht. Auch beim Thema Einbürgerung hat ein Wandel stattgefunden. Auf die Frage ""Was ist für die Vergabe der deutschen Staatsbürgerschaft entscheidend?"" antworten die Deutschen inzwischen anders als noch in den 90er Jahren. Ein großer Teil der Bevölkerung ohne Migrationshintergrund hält die ethnisch deutsche Abstammung für wenig wichtig. Immer mehr Deutsche glauben hingegen, dass vor allem das Verhalten der Menschen für die Einbürgerung ausschlaggebend sein sollte. Ein Rückgang der Fremdenfeindlichkeit ist damit jedoch nicht zwangsläufig verbunden: Wer das Verhalten und die kulturelle Anpassung als die wichtigeren Faktoren erachtet, weist genauso häufig stark fremdenfeindliche Einstellungen auf wie jemand, der ethnische Zugehörigkeit für bedeutsamer hält. Insgesamt sank aber die Anzahl der Deutschen mit stark ausgeprägten fremdenfeindlichen Einstellungen."
D79|An Interpretive Account of Logical Aggregation Theory|Judgment aggregation theory, or rather, as we conceive of it here, logical aggregation theory generalizes social choice theory by having the aggregation rule bear on judgments of all kinds instead of merely preference judgments. It derives from Kornhauser and Sager's doctrinal paradox and Pettit's discursive dilemma, two problems that we distinguish emphatically here. The current theory has developed from the discursive dilemma, rather than the doctrinal paradox, and the final aim of the paper is to give the latter its own theoretical development, along the lines of Dietrich and Mongin's recent technical work. However, the paper also aims at reviewing the main existing results, starting from the first impossibility theorem proved by List and Pettit. It provides a uniform logical framework in which the whole of theory can be stated and its theorems can be compared with each other. The account goes through three historical steps: the scattered early results on the independence axiom, the collective achievement of the canonical theorem which provided the theory with its specific method of analysis; and finally the recent extension mentioned above to the doctrinal paradox.
D79|Judgment aggregation|Judgment aggregation theory generalizes social choice theory by having the aggregation rule bear on judgments of all kinds instead of barely judgments of preference. The paper briefly sums it up, privileging the variant that formalizes judgment by a logical syntax. The theory derives from Kornhauser and Sager's doctrinal paradox and Pettit's discursive dilemma, which List and Pettit turned into an impossibility theorem - the first of a long list to come. After mentioning this stage, the paper restates three theorems that are representative of the current work, by Nehring and Puppe, Dokow and Holzman, and Dietrich and Mongin, respectively, and it concludes by explaining how Dietrich and List have recovered Arrow's theorem as a particular application of the theory.
D79|Are Children Decision‐Makers within the Household?|Children are seldom accounted for in household behavioural models. They are usually assumed to have neither the capacity nor the power to influence the household decision process. The literature on collective models has so far incorporated children through the caring preferences of their parents [Bourguignon (1999)] or has treated them as household public goods [Blundell et al. (2005)]. This paper seeks to determine whether children of a certain age are decision-makers. We focus on the decision-making process within households composed of two adults and one child of at least 16 years of age living together. We first summarise the main restrictions that have been proposed to test the collective model in the context of multiple decision-makers [Chiappori and Ekeland (2006)]. We also show how a minimal number of decision-makers can be inferred from parametric constraints. Second, we apply these tests on data drawn from a series of U.K. Family Expenditure Surveys. Our results show clear evidence that children aged 16 and more and living with their parents influence the household decision-making process. When the analysis is stratified by age and by gender, our results reveal that it is also the case for children aged between 16 and 21 and for daughters. The collective model is never rejected. Les enfants sont rarement pris en considération dans les modèles de comportement des ménages. On présume généralement qu'ils ne possèdent ni la capacité ni le pouvoir d'influencer le processus décisionnel du ménage. La littérature portant sur les modèles collectifs a, jusqu'à maintenant, intégré les enfants par le truchement des « préférences altruistes » de leurs parents [Bourguignon (1999)] ou les a traités comme des biens publics des ménages [Blundell et al. (2005)]. Le présent document tente de déterminer si les enfants d'un certain âge jouent un rôle décisionnel. Nous mettons l'accent sur le processus de prise de décision au sein des ménages composés de deux adultes et d'un en<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D79|Are you too young for the Nobel Prize?|Although age is not supposed to be a criterion for the award of the Nobel Prize, it is commonly believed that it does play a role. Indeed, econometric evidence in this paper also suggests such a role. However, the paper finds that, if there is a preference for older Nobel candidates, this is introduced during the nomination process. The paper actually finds that the Nobel Committee does not favor older nominees and that, if anything, it seems to partially offset the age premium introduced by the nominators.
D79|The Unnoticed Difference between Antitrust and Competition Policy|This paper presents a model which focuses on differences between the competition policy of the EU and antitrust of the U.S. It introduces three versions – Neutral, American, and European. Two-stage game model takes the authority’s perspective and describes options and behavior of antitrust officials when a firm engages in non-price vertical agreement (possibly restraint). Optimal behavior is expressed as expected income of the authority (EIA) which is a function of probability of wrong decision(s) in the course of action. It takes into account specific preferences, different types of errors, fear of those errors, and harm they might cause. Comparison shows some unnoticed features and results slightly in favor of the EU.
D79|Judgment aggregation|Author's abstract. Judgment aggregation theory generalizes social choice theory by having the aggregation rule bear on judgments of all kinds instead of barely judgments of preference. The paper briefly sums it up, privileging the variant that formalizes judgment by a logical syntax. The theory derives from Kornhauser and Sager’s doctrinal paradox and Pettit’s discursive dilemma, which List and Pettit turned into an impossibility theorem - the first of a long list to come. After mentioning this stage, the paper restates three theorems that are representative of the current work, by Nehring and Puppe, Dokow and Holzman, and Dietrich and Mongin,respectively, and it concludes by explaining how Dietrich and List have recovered Arrow’s theorem as a particular application of the theory.
D79|An Interpretive Account of Logical Aggregation Theory|Judgment aggregation theory, or rather, as we conceive of it here, logical aggregation theory generalizes social choice theory by having the aggregation rule bear on judgments of all kinds instead of merely preference judgments. It derives from Kornhauser and Sager's doctrinal paradox and Pettit's discursive dilemma, two problems that we distinguish emphatically here. The current theory has developed from the discursive dilemma, rather than the doctrinal paradox, and the final aim of the paper is to give the latter its own theoretical development, along the lines of Dietrich and Mongin's recent technical work. However, the paper also aims at reviewing the main existing results, starting from the first impossibility theorem proved by List and Pettit. It provides a uniform logical framework in which the whole of theory can be stated and its theorems can be compared with each other. The account goes through three historical steps: the scattered early results on the independence axiom, the collective achievement of the canonical theorem which provided the theory with its specific method of analysis; and finally the recent extension mentioned above to the doctrinal paradox.
D79|Allocation of public funds to R&D: a portfolio choice-styled decision model and a biotechnology case study|No abstract is available for this item.
D79|Evaluating the implementation process of LEADER in Romania| LEADER supports integrated rural regional development. The programme is characterized by a participatory and bottom-up approach, public-private partnerships, multi-sectoral regional development strategies and innovation. An obligatory Common Monitoring and Evaluation Framework (CMEF) was set up for evaluating EU interventions. The CMEF builds upon sets of common indicators and evaluation questions. Romania, where LEADER is currently introduced, has set national priorities for the programme implementation. For assessing the impact of LEADER in Romania meaningfully, an extension of the CMEF is needed. This paper, identifies and suggests appropriate indicators. Social Network Analysis is proposed as a tool for investigating intangible outcomes of LEADER in a quantitative way.
D79|Un bilan interprétatif de la théorie de l'agrégation logique|Judgment aggregation theory, or rather, as we conceive of it here, logical aggregation theory generalizes social choice theory by having the aggregation rule bear on judgments of all kinds whatever, and not barely judgments of preference. It derives from Kornhauser and Sager’s doctrinal paradox and Pettit’s discursive dilemma, two problems that we restate by emphasizing their conceptual differences. Henceforth, we follow the main technical advances of the theory, from the first impossibility theorem proved by List and Pettit to the completely general results of Dietrich and Mongin. We stress the collective achievement of the canonical theorem – by Dietrich and List, Dokow and Holzman, Nehring and Puppe – which provided the theory with a specific method of analysis : it consists in mathematically characterizing the impossibility agendas of a given aggregator – i.e., the sets of propositions such that no collective judgment function exists with a certain list of axiomatic properties. The presentation is unified here by the use of formal logic, for which we claim relevance at every step, and by the above-mentioned distinction between the doctrinal paradox and the discursive dilemma, which we reelaborate upon technically.
D79|Culture and Cooperation|Does the cultural background influence the success with which genetically unrelated individuals cooperate in social dilemma situations? In this paper we provide an answer by analyzing the data of Herrmann et al. (Science 2008, pp. 1362-1367), who study cooperation and punishment in sixteen subject pools from six different world cultures (as classified by Inglehart & Baker (American Sociological Review 2000, pp. 19-51)). We use analysis of variance to disentangle the importance of cultural background relative to individual heterogeneity and group-level differences in cooperation. We find that culture has a substantial influence on the extent of cooperation, in addition to individual heterogeneity and group-level differences identified by previous research. The significance of this result is that cultural background has a substantial influence on cooperation in otherwise identical environments. This is particularly true in the presence of punishment opportunities.
D79|Culture and Cooperation|Does the cultural background influence the success with which genetically unrelated individuals cooperate in social dilemma situations? In this paper we provide an answer by analyzing the data of Herrmann et al. (Science 2008, pp. 1362-1367), who study cooperation and punishment in sixteen subject pools from six different world cultures (as classified by Inglehart & Baker (American Sociological Review 2000, pp. 19-51)). We use analysis of variance to disentangle the importance of cultural background relative to individual heterogeneity and group-level differences in cooperation. We find that culture has a substantial influence on the extent of cooperation, in addition to individual heterogeneity and group-level differences identified by previous research. The significance of this result is that cultural background has a substantial influence on cooperation in otherwise identical environments. This is particularly true in the presence of punishment opportunities.
D79|Índice de Gestión Social Empresarial (IGS): una aplicación de la medición de capital social|Partiendo de los conceptos y elementos planteados en el artículo preliminar (Saíz y Rangel, 2008) y haciendo aplicación de metodologías de análisis estadístico multivariado, esta investigación pretende medir los vínculos existentes entre la empresa CODENSA S.A. y las comunidades (clientes residenciales) en donde presta el servicio de distribución de energía eléctrica en Bogotá D.C. y el municipio conurbano de Soacha, con el propósito de establecer un Índice de Gestión Social (IGS) como una aproximación a la medición y análisis de capital social, conjugando la percepción contextual de las empresa, con el grado de confianza, cooperación y compromiso que se desprende de los procesos participativos.
D79|The possibility of judgment aggregation on agendas with subjunctive implications|"The new field of judgment aggregation aims to find collective judgments on logically interconnected propositions. Recent impossibility results establish limitations on the possibility to vote independently on the propositions. I show that, fortunately, the impossibility results do not apply to a wide class of realistic agendas once propositions like ""if a then b"" are adequately modelled, namely as subjunctive implications rather than material implications. For these agendas, consistent and complete collective judgments can be reached through appropriate quota rules (which decide propositions using acceptance thresholds). I characterise the class of these quota rules. I also prove an abstract result that characterises consistent aggregation for arbitrary agendas in a general logic."
D79|Economic Education for Understanding Economic Behavior|During the last 20 years, Romania has been passing important social and economic transformations and it is considered today as a developing country aiming to adjust its processes and features to those of UE countries. The significant increase in the number of bachelor programs supplied by various faculties is one of the issues we can refer to in order to explain the great interest paid to a proper economic education. The aim of this paper is to argue that, despite the big number of the economic programs, the Romanian curriculum is structured such that students can’t benefit from a proper understanding of Economic Behavior. The authors argue that Behavioral Economics should be included in curriculum as being the trigger in students’ awareness in respect to integrating some weaknesses of making economic decisions process.
D79|Are women economically more empowered in Left-run municipalities? A study of Self Help Groups in West Bengal, India|Who controls the income earned by Self Help Group (SHG) members from group activities – they, or their husbands? The answer indicates the level of economic empowerment attained by SHG members. This paper examines whether identity of person controlling this income depends upon the political party ruling the municipality where the SHG is situated. Two parties are considered – the Left Front, a coalition comprising of Leftist parties, and the Indian National Congress. This paper is based on a field study of 240 SHG members in six municipalities in West Bengal, a major state in India.
D79|Public policy, trust and growth: disclosure of government information in Japan|Since the end of the 1990s, local governments in Japan have enacted Information Disclosure Ordinances, which require the disclosure of official government information. This paper uses Japanese prefecture-level data for the period 1998–2004 to examine how this enactment affected economic growth. Furthermore, this paper explores how generalized trust is associated with the effect of information disclosure on economic growth. The Dynamic Panel model is used to control for unobserved prefecture specific effects and endogenous bias. The major findings are: (1) disclosure of government information has a positive effect on GDP growth; and (2) generalized trust enhances this effect on GDP growth. This implies that social trust has a critical influence on the effectiveness of policy.
D79|Sind Gruppen die besseren Entscheider? – Experimentelle Evidenz am Beispiel simulierter Entscheidungen im Kontext der Lagerverwaltung|Neben strategischen Entscheidungen gehören wiederkehrende Dispositionen unter Unsicherheit zu jenen Determinanten im betrieblichen Alltag, die den Unternehmenserfolg maßgeblich mitbestimmen. Bezüglich der Frage, ob solche Entscheidungen besser von Einzelpersonen oder Gruppen getroffen werden sollten, können auf Basis der Erkenntnisse der bisherigen Forschung nur bedingte Handlungsempfehlungen abgeleitet werden. Der vorliegende Beitrag setzt an den bestehenden Forschungsdefiziten an und gibt die Ergebnisse eines Laborexperiments wieder, das den Entscheidungserfolg von Gruppen und Einzelpersonen vergleicht. Das vorliegende Experiment zeigt, dass Gruppen bei wiederkehrenden Dispositionen signifikant rationaler entscheiden. Dieser Rationalitätsgewinn wird jedoch mit mehr Stress und Friktionen erkauft. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2010
D79|Residential choices and interaction in three-member households: a choice experiment|Microeconomics studies group behaviour by using the representative member model. However, there is growing evidence that there can be significant differences between choices made by single individuals and those made by the same individuals when choosing collectively. This study investigates the differences between individual and joint decisionmaking in the context of residential location choice. It is widely recognized that household location choices involve several members of a household with heterogeneous preferences and influence power. Nonetheless little is known about group decision-making processes in practice. In particular, there is only scant evidence on how preferences differ among family members and to what extent individual preferences can be aggregated to achieve an approximation of joint choices. The study evaluates whether there is heterogeneity in single members? preferences. Furthermore, relative power is inferred by measuring similarity between ex ante single preferences and ex post joint choice outcomes. We also quantify the implicit bias generated by relying on the representative member approach. These issues are tested by employing a two-stage conjoint choice experiment administered to a sample of 53 Italian families. This work proposes a novel extension of the commonly used dyadic interaction approach to consider the role of adolescents in household decision-making.
D79|¿Cómo se forman los mundos pequeños? individualismo metodológico y redes sociales|En este artículo se analiza el rol de los incentivos, de la racionalidad y de las elecciones y el cono-cimiento de los agentes en la formación de redes sociales y, en particular, en la emergencia de mundos pequeños. Proponiendo una definición de los mundos pequeños basada en los análisis de Duncan Watts y de Kleinberg se hace una reflexión metodológica en la que se precisa el papel del individualismo metodológico en la investigación sobre la manera como emergen los mundos pequeños. Se concluye que éste actúa como una etapa metodológica complementaria al enfoque estructural de las redes sociales, en el que se parte de las decisiones individuales para explicar la emergencia de determinados equilibrios en red.
D79|Las redes sociales en la sociedad y en la economía|Uno de los objetivos fundamentales de Sociedad y Economía es publicar los resultados de investigaciones realizadas con base en la interacción entre los estudios sociales y la economía. El tema central de este número intenta avanzar en esa dirección, presentando un conjunto de contribuciones al estudio de las interacciones entre sociedad y economía con la metodología de las redes sociales.
D79|Comunicación indirecta en situaciones de soborno y amenaza|El objetivo central de este artículo es explicar la relevancia de la comunicación indirecta en teoría de la estrategia y negociación de conflictos. Con base en Thomas Schelling se ilustran casos específicos de comunicación indirecta: el soborno y la amenaza. Se demuestra que tanto el soborno como la amenaza pertenecen a mecanismos de preferencia racional, cuyas funciones pueden expresarse en diagramas no lineales. Este análisis contribuye, además, a la representación teórica de juegos estratégicos de suma diferentes a cero. La comunicación indirecta constituye una base fundamental de la acción estratégica en diversas formas de conflicto, desde las guerras irregulares hasta los embotellamientos causados por el tráfico vehicular. Nuestro interés particular en el soborno y la amenaza se relaciona con casos comunes en el conflicto colombiano.
D79|Insular decision-making in the board room: why boards retain and hire sub-standard ceos|It is widely believed that corporate boards are overly reluctant to fire their CEOs. The conventional explanation for retaining a CEO regardless of his/her talent is that a CEO chooses the board members and has the power to fire them. However, very few studies have investigated how a new CEO is chosen. This paper explores an unexamined cause of board reluctance in removing a CEO: the incentive to minimize the leakage from the decision-makers’ future surplus. I argue that this same logic provides the theoretical explanation for how a new CEO is chosen for both voluntary and forced CEO replacements. I show that this incentive of the incumbent board and CEO often departs from the shareholders’ interest. In short, if the net surplus of the incumbent board and CEO is expected to be larger under an incumbent sub-standard CEO, or under an internal candidate rather than an external candidate, then they retain the incumbent sub-standard CEO or promote an internal CEO candidate, even though the expected corporate profit generated by appointing an external candidate is likely to have been greater.
D79|Insular Decision-making in the Board Room : Why Boards Retain and Hire Sub-Standard CEOs|It is widely believed that corporate boards are overly reluctant to fire their CEOs. The conventional explanation for retaining a CEO regardless of his/her talent is that a CEO chooses the board members and has the power to fire them. However, very few studies have investigated how a new CEO is chosen. This paper explores an unexamined cause of board reluctance in removing a CEO : the incentive to minimize the leakage from the decision-makers future surplus. I argue that this same logic provides the theoretical explanation for how a new CEO is chosen for both voluntary and forced CEO replacements. I show that this incentive of the incumbent board and CEO often departs from the shareholders interest. In short, if the net surplus of the incumbent board and CEO is expected to be larger under an incumbent sub-standard CEO, or under an internal candidate rather than an external candidate, then they retain the incumbent sub-standard CEO or promote an internal CEO candidate, even though the expected corporate profit generated by appointing an external candidate is likely to have been greater.
D79|Choice under Pressure: A Dual Preference Model and Its Application|By making a distinction between public and private preferences, the paper presents a dual preference model depicting possible responses (i.e., exit, sincere voice and self-subversion) to social pressures from two opposing pressure groups. Exit is deserting the setting; sincere voice is publicly expressing dissatisfaction and self-subversion is the misrepresentation of one's private preference under social pressures. Exit and sincere voice involve prohibitive costs, making self-subversion the superior option. Massive self-subversion polarizes the society, harboring multiple social equilibria with oscillating public opinion. In an effort to dominate the public discourse, each rival pressure group opts for favorable corner equilibrium. The paper applies the dual preference model to Turkey where two kinds of self-subversion appear in response to competing Islamist and secularist social projects. Islamist pressures lead to pro-Islamist self-subversion, and secularist pressures to pro-secularist self-subversion, resulting in the polarization of the Turkish public opinion along Islamists vs. Secularists. Three field experiments with 450 respondents provide empirical support for the model's conclusions. The paper ends with the discussion of the model's implications for new social equilibrium(s).
D79|Expected Utility Consistent Extensions of Preferences|No abstract is available for this item.
D79|Utility, games, and narratives|This paper provides a general overview of theories and tools to model individual and collective decision-making. In particular, stress is laid on the interaction of several decision-makers. A substantial part of this paper is devoted to utility maximization and its application to collective decision-making, Game Theory. However, the pitfalls of utility maximization are thoroughly discussed, and the radically alternative approach of viewing decision-making as constructing narratives is presented with its emerging computational tools.
D79|Passing the buck in the garbage can model of organizational choice|We reconstruct Cohen, March and Olsen's Garbage Can model of organizational choice as an agent-based model. In the original model, the members of an organization can postpone decision-making. We add another means for avoiding making decisions, that of buck-passing difficult problems to colleagues. We find that selfish individual behavior, such as postponing decision-making and buck-passing, does not necessarily imply dysfunctional consequences for the organizational level. The simulation experiments confirm and extend some of the most interesting conclusions of the Garbage Can model: Most decisions are made without solving any problem, organization members face the same old problems again and again, and the few problems that are solved are generally handled at low hierarchical levels. These findings have an implication that was overseen in the original model, namely, that top executives need not be good problem-solvers.
D79|Wertschöpfung in der zeitgenössischen Kunst: Zur „Young German Art“<BR>[Value-Added Activities in the Contemporary Art: The Young German Art]|"The value of an artwork depends not only on the artist, even more so on the system which is adding and increasing its value. This system contains a number of institutions which are supporting the artist and his works to become established in the market, get internationally renowned and as a consequence raise his ""value"". Nowadays not the paintings themselves — their subject or quality — are the most important issues for the artist's career: The biography is the determining factor: Where did the artist study? Which gallery is representing the artist? Where did the artist exhibit? Which museum shows the artist’s works? Which collectors are buying the art works? Who criticized and reviewed the artist? This framework is exogenous for an artist, and it helps very well to value the quality and the price of an artist’s work. Only by these value determining impacts within the biography of an artist, it is possible to describe and understand why art works by established and expansive artists were low-priced in the beginning of their career. This paper describes theoretically and by example the value-added activities of selected artists of the “Young German Art”. It discusses how artists, gallery owners, museums, collectors and critics act on the contemporary art market und how they influence the value of artworks and how vice versa the art market reacts back. How do the most decisive and value determining leaders in this field influence the market? How is a certain value judgment of an artist created? Today, the label “Young German Art” is commonly used to describe the new contemporary figurative painting from Germany abroad. The label “Made in Germany” has already been established both as seal of quality and a trademark for visual arts. The contemporary artists Gerhard RICHTER, Sigmar POLKE, Anselm KIEFER, Georg BASELITZ, A.R. PENCK and Joseph BEUYS were some of the personalities who contributed a big amount to that success of the following generations of the “Young German Art”. The label “Young German Art” – YGA – has its origin in its British pattern, the “Young British Art” (YBA), and was adopted by the German art market during international art fairs by German gallery owners since the mid-1990’s. During the Armory Show in New York, German gallery owners erected signs with the title “Young German Art”. After that the foreign press adopted this label and distributed it worldwide. Especially the Leipzig School respectively the New Leipzig School belongs to “Young German Art”. Since the 1990’s, this School describes figurative painting from Leipzig. It's most famous painters are amongst others Neo RAUCH, Tim EITEL und Matthias WEISCHER. Foremost Daniel RICHTER and Norbert BISKY are the flagships of the „Young German Art“. In Germany all of them are exclusively under contract to three Berlin galleries. This paper starts with a definition of art und its various kinds of value-systems: historic-cultural, aesthetic, tangible and economical. It looks at a definition and theoretical explanation of the art market and the various characteristics of market inefficiencies and market failures. Because market inefficiencies and market failures on the art market are primary initiated by information asymmetries, this paper also analyses some approaches for solutions offered by the new institutional economics und the contract theory. The main part of this paper relates to the value adding processes in the contemporary art market. It explains all relevant and determining players and institutions and their goals, in focusing on artists, galleries, art fairs, museums and other institutions. Furthermore this paper discusses the role of art collectors and art consultants and various kinds of adding value to artworks. Within this framework of theoretical analysis, five artists of the “Young German Art” are discussed in detail, on behalf of their works, their collectors, auction results and choice of the most important international art prizes."
D79|Crescita proporzionale e politiche pubbliche: proposte per una sintesi evolutiva|Molte politiche pubbliche prendono a riferimento i valori medi di variabili economiche o sociali ritenute importanti (dimensione media d'impresa, produttivitâˆšÃ‰ media, reddito medio, etc.) spesso con l'obiettivo di modificare il comportamento degli operatori (imprese e individui) e di produrre in questo modo un aumento del valore medio stesso. Di fronte all'insuccesso di queste politiche molti osservatori ritengono che la ragione sia nel cattivo disegno degli incentivi introdotti e quindi il problema pubblico âˆšÃ‰Â¬Â® ridotto a una questione di mechanism design. In questo lavoro si parte dall'idea che un sistema di incentivi non ha solo effetti diretti sui comportamenti individuali ma interagisce con i fenomeni stessi che, in aggregato, hanno proprie leggi evolutive diverse dalla semplice somma degli effetti sui singoli. Attraverso la simulazione e l'analisi di tre esempi di fenomeni con crescita proporzionale (distribuzione del reddito, crescita dimensionale delle imprese e produzione di lavori di ricerca) questo lavoro intende suggerire che le politiche pubbliche dovrebbero tener conto anche degli effetti che esse producono sulle dinamiche aggregate (sulla struttura della distribuzione). Si tenta di identificare alcuni principi generali utili per progettare le politiche pubbliche.
D79|Persistence on airline accidents|This paper analyses airline accidents data from 1927-2006. The fractional integration methodology is adopted. It is shown that airline accidents are persistent and (fractionally) cointegrated with airline traffic. Thus, there exists an equilibrium relation between air accidents and airline traffic, with the effect of the shocks to that relationship disappearing in the long run. Policy implications are derived for countering accidents events.
D79|Collective Decision Making as the Actualization of Decision Potential|"This paper presents some characteristics and dilemmas of collective decision making. Collective decision making could be presented as the process of successive crystallization of dominant alternatives under the influence of different decision contexts from primary given decision potentials. This process is presented as the many-phased process of the acting of contextually dependent ""energizing factors"" of the collective decision making on the ""attractiveness matrix"" of outcomes of collective decisions. The attractiveness matrix determines the attractiveness for each alternative of decision, and the most attractive alternative in the given situation presents the rational decision in the given situation. In the final phase of decision making holds a context which gets a simplified attractiveness matrix. It corresponds to the common decision for one of the alternatives."
D79|Hebert A. Simon y la economía organizacional|REVISTA SOCIEDAD Y ECONOMIA No.11 : OTROS TEMAS
D79|Herbert A. Simon y la economía organizacional|Este artículo analiza los aspectos centrales de la obra de Herbert A. Simon, en especial el orientado al análisis de la economía de las organizaciones con énfasis en el criterio de racionalidad limitada. Se interpreta la crítica de Simon a la versión ortodoxa de la burocracia organizacional y se extiende su análisis hacia la economía institucional. Uno de los principales logros de Simon en teoría organizacional consiste en haber valorado analíticamente la psicología del comportamiento individual y colectivo abriendo el camino a las investigaciones posteriores de D. Kahneman y T. Schelling.
D79|Capital social: una revisión del concepto|Este documento explora el concepto de capital social. Se investiga los aspectosque motivan el desarrollo de la literatura sobre capital social y losesfuerzos por estructurar el concepto de capital social, implementados en lateoría económica. Se argumenta que mientras la literatura de capital socialha producido muchas ideas, un número de problemas conceptuales y teóricosexisten en el empleo corriente del concepto. Por ello, se proponen algunosmodos de acercarse a la literatura de capital social.
D79|Desperate Housewives? Communication Difficulties and the Dynamics of Marital (un)Happiness| The quality of a marriage depends on the proximity of a collective action to a unknown target. Individuals receive private signals about the target, and can communicate them only imperfectly to their spouses. Because of imperfect communication, spouses may hold different beliefs about the optimal action. If a couple's beliefs diverge too widely, one or both of them may prefer to dissolve the marriage. The article explores how poor communication contributes to marital unhappiness, as well as its implications for the dynamics of divorce risk, the welfare properties of divorce decisions and the role of counselling. Copyright © The Author(s). Journal compilation © Royal Economic Society 2008.
D79|Attendance to cultural events and spousal influences: the Italian case|"In cultural consumption it is quite reasonable to expect that the formation and the evolution of preferences, and the related individual choice behaviour, is affected by various interactions within families, peer and other social groups. Our investigation focuses on a specific form of ""indirect"" interaction effect, that is the reciprocal influence that a married person's preferences and characteristics can have on the cultural consumption of her/his partner. Using the last two available nationwide crosssection datasets on the leisure activities of the Italian population (ISTAT, 1995 and 2000), we estimate the mutual influence of spouses's educational and cultural background, besides other factors, on the consumption of three kinds of cultural activities, namely museum/exhibition, theatre, and opera and classical music concerts."
D79|Politická ekonomie kursové politiky ve střední a východní evropě - odvětvový přístup<BR>[The political economy of exchange rate policy in central and east european countries - sector approach]|The article solves the incentives to the different exchange rate arrangement choice during the transformation and integration period in the Central and East European countries. It follows with the analysis of the industry structure in these economies. It is discussed the existence of its direct and indirect channel of influencing the exchange rate politics. Article solves the hypothesis of interest group formation in regard to the exchange rate policy (the euro adoption) and the intergovernmental bargaining and the bargaining within the economy. The industry analysis results confirm the set hypothesis, in which the heterogeneity of industry structure explains the heterogeneous approach to the exchange rate politics during the transformation process in monitored economies. Finally, the redistributive change of Hungarian exchange rate policy is discussed in connection with the change of subsidies flow within the political cycle.
D79|Unanimous subjective probabilities|No abstract is available for this item.
D79|The Political Economy of Fiscal Policy| We describe a theory of the collective choice of fiscal policy in dynamic economies that are subject to aggregate shocks. The theory incorporates realistically complex policy spaces, rational forward-looking agents, and a rich political decision process. We argue that it provides a tractable framework to study a variety of important questions in macroeconomics and public finance. (JEL: E62, H63, D79) (c) 2008 by the European Economic Association.
D79|Attendance to cultural events and spousal influences: the Italian case|In cultural consumption it is quite reasonable to expect that the formation and theevolution of preferences, and the related individual choice behaviour, is affected byvarious interactions within families, peer and other social groups. Our investigationfocuses on a specific form of “indirect” interaction effect, that is the reciprocalinfluence that a married person’s preferences and characteristics can have on thecultural consumption of her/his partner. Using the last two available nationwide crosssectiondatasets on the leisure activities of the Italian population (ISTAT, 1995 and2000), we estimate the mutual influence of spouses’s educational and culturalbackground, besides other factors, on the consumption of three kinds of culturalactivities, namely museum/exhibition, theatre, and opera and classical music concerts.
D79|Los retos de la competencia industrial|La hipótesis central que se pretende argumentar es mostrar que ante una economía globalizada el fin principal de una empresa competitiva es satisfacer las necesidades del consumidor; de ello dependen sus resultados financieros y su vocación innovadora. Para comenzar se define lo que esla industria, se establecen las diferencias entre lo que significa hacer empresa en la era del conocimiento o postindustrial frente a lo que significó en la era industrial. Finalmente se intenta dar una opinión acerca de la realidad de la industria colombiana, sus retos y ver sus consecuencias ante elproceso de globalización económica
D79|Candidate quality|We analyze the topical question of how the compensation of elected politicians affects the set of citizens choosing to run. To this end, we develop a sparse and tractable citizen-candidate model of representative democracy with ability differences, informative campaigning and political parties. Our results suggest that primaries, campaign costs and rewards have previously overlooked interactions that should be studied in a unified framework. Surprisingly, increasing the reward may lower the average candidate quality when the campaigning costs are sufficiently high. Copyright Springer Science + Business Media, LLC 2007
D79|A New Model For Stock Price Movements|This paper presents a new alternative diffusion model for asset price movements. In contrast to the popular approach of Brownian Motion it proposes Deterministic Diffusion for the modelling of stock price movements. These diffusion processes are a new area of physical research and can be created by the chaotic behaviour of rather simple piecewise linear maps, but can also occur in chaotic deterministic systems like the famous Lorenz system. The motivation for the investigation on Deterministic Diffusion processes as suitable model for the behaviour of stock prices is, that their time series can obey mostly observed stylized facts of real world stock market time series. They can show fat tails of empirical log returns in union with timevarying volatility i.e. heteroscedasticity as well as slowly decaying autocorrelations of squared log returns i.e. long range dependence. These phenomena cannot be explained by a geometric Brownian Motion and have been the largest criticism to the lognormal random walk. In this paper it will be shown that Deterministic Diffusion models can obey those empirical observed stylized facts and the implications of these alternative diffusion processes on economic theory with respect to market efficiency and option pricing are discussed.
D79|Judgment Aggregation By Quota Rules|The widely discussed `discursive dilemma' shows that majority voting in a group of individuals on logically connected propositions may produce irrational collective judgments. We generalize majority voting by considering quota rules, which accept each proposition if and only if the number of individuals accepting it exceeds a given threshold, where different thresholds may be used for different propositions. After characterizing quota rules, we prove necessary and sufficient conditions on the required thresholds for various collective rationality requirements. We also consider sequential quota rules, which ensure collective rationality by adjudicating propositions sequentially and letting earlier judgments constrain later ones. Sequential rules may be path dependent and strategically manipulable. We characterize path independence and prove its essential equivalence to strategy proofness. Our results shed light on the rationality of simple-, super-, and sub-majoritarian decision making.
D79|La Experiencia Cooperativa de Mondragón: estudio de su viabilidad organizacional en el contexto de Euskadi|This paper presents a study of the Mondragon Cooperative Experience from the point of view of Organisational Engineering. It studies the origins and historical development of the Mondragon experience and its situation within the context of the Basque Country. It focuses on Mondragon’s cooperative ability to inter-cooperate through a set of organisational structures, constantly restructuring and re-inventing these to ensure its viability and promote the development of its environment. The article studies the various stages of its development and the organisational structures that have allowed adaptive support for the experience over time, forming a unique and distinguishable identity
D79|Institutions as Determinants of Preference Change â€“ A One Way Relation?|In recent economic literature, there has been an increasing interest in modelling preferences as endogenous. Some arguments go along the lines that institutions shape preferences. This paper suggests that adopting a more substantive concept of preferences furthers our understanding of how they systematically shape institutions. We integrate social-psychological concepts and combine them with an account of learning. Thus, a model of the dynamic interrelation between preferences and institutions can be developed. While institutional change can certainly be partly explained in terms of changing incentives, we offer an approach that goes beyond the standard explanation.
D79|Estimating the Impact of State Policies and Institutions with Mixed-Level Data|Researchers often seek to understand the effects of state policies or institutions on individualbehavior or other outcomes in sub-state-level observational units (e.g., election results in statelegislative districts). However, standard estimation methods applied to such models do notproperly account for the clustering of observations within states and may lead researchers tooverstate the statistical significance of state-level factors. We discuss the theory behind twoapproaches to dealing with clustering clustered standard errors and multilevel modeling. Wethen demonstrate the relevance of this topic by replicating a recent study of the effects of statepost-registration laws on voter turnout (Wolfinger, Highton, and Mullin 2005). While we viewclustered standard errors as a more straightforward, feasible approach, especially when workingwith large datasets or many cross-level interactions, our purpose in this Practical Researcherpiece is to draw attention to the issue of clustering in state and local politics research.
D79|Utopia e piano processo. Un dibattito sul metodo nella pianificazione urbanistica|In the mid Sixties, there has been a strong debate about the governance of the urban development of Milan and its metropolitan area. Two alternative models proposed put forward contrasting views. On one side, those who supported the opportunity of a planning based on great transport infrastructures, to predetermine the outcome of the urban development. On the opposite side, those who thought that such a goal was neither correct nor politically attainable, and stressed instead the importance of process planning. The debate did neither consider the consequences of the implementation, nor the problems involved in the management of each model. This debate anticipated an analogous one both at theoretical and political level in the field of urban planners in the Western world.
D79|Asignación de ayudas públicas mediante ELECTRE-TRI. Una apliación al turismo rural en Galicia/Methodology for the Distribution of Public Aids: a Application for the Rural Tourism in Galicia|El turismo rural ha tenido un desarrollo muy importante en los últimos años en España, el cual ha estado impulsado en cierta medida por las ayudas concedidas por las distintas administraciones. En este trabajo se aplica el método de superación ELECTRE-TRI al reparto de ayudas públicas relativas a proyectos de turismo rural presentados en Galicia en el año 2001. Los resultados que se obtienen utilizando este método son sustancialmente distintos a los obtenidos mediante el procedimiento que viene utilizando en los últimos años la Xunta de Galicia (método de suma ponderada lineal). Rural tourism has experimented a very important development in the last years in Spain and public aids have strongly contributed to this development. In this paper the ELECTRE-TRI outranking method is applied for the distribution of public aids in the case of rural tourism. The method is applied to the projects presented in Galicia (year 2001). The ELECTRE-TRI method results are different from the results that de Xunta de Galicia has obtained using the lineal weigh sum method.
D79|Decision Rules in a Judicial Hierarchy|This paper extends the analysis of the structure of judicial hierarchies to environments in which litigants may have asymmetric information about the merits of the case. We identify equilibria in which the error rate is zero. In each equilibrium, at least one of the inferior courts does not decide cases on the basis of its prior beliefs. Rather, in the absence of an informative signal, an inferior court decides against the informed litigant in order to exploit that litigant's knowledge.
D79|A Measure of Media Bias|"We measure media bias by estimating ideological scores for several major media outlets. To compute this, we count the times that a particular media outlet cites various think tanks and policy groups, and then compare this with the times that members of Congress cite the same groups. Our results show a strong liberal bias: all of the news outlets we examine, except Fox News' Special Report and the Washington Times, received scores to the left of the average member of Congress. Consistent with claims made by conservative critics, CBS Evening News and the New York Times received scores far to the left of center. The most centrist media outlets were PBS NewsHour, CNN's Newsnight, and ABC's Good Morning America; among print outlets, USA Today was closest to the center. All of our findings refer strictly to news content; that is, we exclude editorials, letters, and the like. ""The editors in Los Angeles killed the story. They told Witcover that it didn't ‘come off’ and that it was an ‘opinion’ story.… The solution was simple, they told him. All he had to do was get other people to make the same points and draw the same conclusions and then write the article in their words"" (emphasis in original). Timothy Crouse, Boys on the Bus [1973, p. 116]."
D79|Monnaies parallèles provinciales et fédéralisme budgétaire en Argentine|[eng] Provincial quasi-monies and fiscal federalism in Argentina . Since July 2001, the Argentineans provinces emitted a large amount of quasi-monies. This manifestation of the structural difficulties rises from the imperfect organization of the Argentinean fiscal federalism. The separation of powers between the federal State and the provinces seems inadequate, since the provinces have an influence on the legitimate prerogatives of the federal authority. The excessive power of the provinces results in a recurring monetary competition which weakens the national currency and which is only the reflection of an institutional bursting. The notes, emitted by the provinces, provided a partial function of means of payment. One, however, could see in the quasi-monies, the solution to define the new monetary regime. It seems that those are misled. It would rather be necessary to tackle the institutional inconsistencies of the Argentinean federalism, to ensure the viability of the new monetary order. . JEL classification : H77, E49, N16, D79 [fre] L’Argentine a connu, à partir de juillet 2001, un phénomène massif d’émission de monnaies parallèles provinciales. Cette émission découle de l’imparfaite organisation du fédéralisme budgétaire argentin. Dans ce cadre, la séparation des pouvoirs entre l’État et les provinces est déséquilibrée, puisque les provinces ont une influence sur des sujets qui relèvent normalement du pouvoir fédéral. Le pouvoir excessif des provinces se traduit par une concurrence monétaire récurrente qui affaiblit la monnaie nationale et qui n’est que le reflet d’un éclatement institutionnel. Les bons monétaires, émis par les provinces, ont assuré une fonction partielle de moyens de paiement. D’aucuns ont pu voir dans les monnaies parallèles, la solution pour définir le nouveau régime monétaire. Il faudrait plutôt s’attaquer aux incohérences institutionnelles du fédéralisme argentin, afin d’assurer la viabilité du nouvel ordre monétaire. . Classification JEL : H77, E49, N16, D79
D79|The possibility of judgment aggregation for network agendas|Within social choice theory, the new field of judgment aggregation aims at reaching collective judgments on a set of logically interconnected propositions. I investigate decision problems, in which the agenda is a network, composed of atomic propositions and connection rules between them. Networks can represent various realistic decision problems, including most concrete examples given in the literature. Nevertheless, networks are unexplored so far due to problems when modelling connection rules in standard propositional logic. By extending the logic, I prove that, for any network, decision rules satisfying the common conditions always exist, in contrast to the literature's emphasis on impossibilities. I also characterise the class of such decision rules, and propose a simple way to select a decision rule.
D79|Old and New Theories of Fiscal Federalism, Organizational Design Problems, and Tiebout|This work is a contribution to the Second Generation Theory (SGT) of fiscal federalism that studies fiscal federalism through contemporary economic and industrial organization theory. First, it establishes context by introducing the two classic motivations in support of federalism, namely, incentives and knowledge. Second, it succinctly discusses the incentive-based organizational approach of the SGT. Third, it shows that the Tiebout model already embeds an organizational approach, which instead rests on a knowledge motivation. The underlying theme is that the SGT should include both the incentive and knowledge motivations for fiscal decentralization.
D79|Minority Opinion and Herd Behaviour|Is majority opinion a better guide to action than a minority view? This paper demonstrates that a direct application of rational herding theory to this novel area can produce a surprisingly counter-intuitive result: given (i) the minority has a clear conformist view and (ii) decision-makers learn through observation as in a herding model, then size does not matter when evaluating whether some groups make better decisions than others. Extending this further we argue that it may be advantageous for risk averse agents to support a form of positive discrimination, that new generations have a largely ambiguous impact, and that the use of electoral colleges can be supported on informational grounds.
D79|Endogenous social influence in an experimental dilemma game|We study whether people's behavior in a one-shot sequential public goods type situation is affected by social information about average behavior by others in the same situation. The kind of social information we consider does not directly affect subjects' payoffs and we are, therefore, able to separate pure social influence from more conventional distributional effects. We find clear evidence for other-regarding preferences; a specific patterns that we identify is that the more generous a subject, the more reciprocal his responses to others' actions. However, there is very little indication of social influence in our data. The results suggest that current static models of social preferences need not take into account the effect of social influence.
D79|Players with Fixed Resources in Elimination Tournaments| We consider two-round elimination tournaments where players have fixed resources instead of cost functions. Two approaches are suggested. If the players have the same resources and a success function is stochastic, then players always spend more resources in the first than in the second round in a symmetric equilibrium. Equal resource allocation between two rounds takes place only in the winner-take-all case. However, if the players have independent private resources and the success function is deterministic, then every player spends at least one third of his resources in the first round. The players spend exactly one third of their resources in the winner-take-all case. Applications for career paths, elections, and sports are discussed
D79|Extremes and Moderates: A Characterization and an Application to Lobbying| Abstract: In a society where individuals differ in their valuation of different social policies, when might one consider a given individual as having references that are extreme relative to the others? And how important are such preferences in determining eventual policy? In this paper, we describe an individual as being extreme if her views differ from the mainstream to the extent that the rest of the society is able to unanimously agree on a compromise policy that they strictly prefer to what might have been the outcome if such an individual has her own way. Relying on the intermediate property of preferences due to Grandmont [1978] we provide a simple geometric characterization of extreme preferences. Furthermore, we also present an illustrative positive model of lobbying activity where we apply our characterization result to show that every equilibrium social policy is determined only by the activities of those holding extreme preferences even when they are a minority
D79|Players with Fixed Resources in Elimination Tournaments| We consider two-round elimination tournaments where players have fixed resources instead of cost functions. Two approaches are suggested. If the players have the same resources and a success function is stochastic, then players always spend more resources in the first than in the second round in a symmetric equilibrium. Equal resource allocation between two rounds takes place only in the winner-take-all case. However, if the players have independent private resources and the success function is deterministic, then every player spends at least one third of his resources in the first round. The players spend exactly one third of their resources in the winner-take-all case. Applications for career paths, elections, and sports are discussed
D79|Decision making pattern of subsistence farmers in Bulgaria|Economic research by and large is dominated by a ‘rationality’ paradigm. Economic decision making within this paradigm is viewed as a maximising procedure. In general the latter represents the decision-making as a choice amongst a well defined set of alternatives. In this paper we question this and analyse the options of the small-scale subsistence farmers in Bulgaria in the way they see them. By applying mental accounting methodology we deduce some significant characteristics of Bulgarian subsistence agriculture.
D79|Out of the Wallet and into the Purse: Using Micro Data to Test Income Pooling|This paper uses an exogenous change in the intrahousehold distribution of income, provided by a change in United Kingdom Family Allowance policy to test the income-pooling hypothesis implied by unitary household models. Expenditure shares are estimated for a wide range of goods using household-level data. Shifts in expenditure shares suggest that children and mothers benefited at the expense of fathers when this policy change shifted income within households from men to women. Similar shifts are not found among married-couple households with no children. This paper refutes income pooling, and confirms and extends results in Lundberg, Pollak, and Wales (1997).
D79|Incentives in market games with asymmetric information: the core|This paper examines the ex ante core of a pure exchange economy with asymmetric information in which state-dependent allocations are required to satisfy incentive compatibility. This restriction on players' strategies in the cooperative game can be interpreted as incomplete contracts or partial commitment. An example is provided in which the incentive compatible core with nontransferable utility is empty; the game fails to be balanced because convex combinations of incentive compatible net trades can violate incentive compatibility. However, randomization of such strategies leads to ex post allocations which satisfy incentive compatibility and are feasible on average. Hence, convexity is preserved in such a model and the resulting cooperative games are balanced. In this framework, an incentive compatible core concept is defined for NTU games derived from economies with asymmetric information. The main result is nonemptiness of the incentive compatible core. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2003
D79|Teoría de la Participación. Sugerencias analíticas|Human groups may be analysed as organisations of networks of relationships between their members. This article proposes an exercise in theoretic speculation about participation and democracy based on the analytic tools of a relational-informational theory the bases of which come from evolutionalism and the Information Economy. This analytical framework may clarify the nature of macro-collective citizenship, micro-formal group of the company and the fabric of the emergent and informal communicative relations of society and the market. As a humanist heuristic which revindicates the resource to literary and philosophic sources of knowledge, work offers alternative explainations to the preference for participative inhibition and concludes that participative democracy only has probabilities if its experimentation offers pleasurely or beauty sensations.
D79|A Cognitive Model of the Learning Curve|This article provides a cognitive foundation of the parameters that regulate a model of the learning curve. Organizational learning and its actual occurrence are linked to the number of available categories and to the amount of information to be processed.
D79|Information Structure and Behaviour of a Textile Industrial District|This article presents a model of the structure of the information flows that underlie the creation of production chains between thousands of small textile firms located in Prato, central Italy. Contrary to most textile industry of western Europe and north America, Prato did not die out once average salaries in the region rose towards the world's highest. The reason is that Prato was able to switch from a competitive advantage based on low prices to a competitive advantage based on the aesthetical features and variety of textiles. Analysis of the structure of production chains can explain the performance of this distributed production system throughout its evolution. The model reconstructs interactions of ten types of Pratese firms from 1946 to 1993 on a scale 1:1.
D79|Delineating the Proper Scope of Government: A Proper Task for a Constitutional Court?|The German Basic Law is open for an interpretation that would allow the constitutional court to test the normative adequacy of most statutes. If the court does, it could be modelled as the supervisor of the legislator, i.e., of the agent of the people. The model predicts collusion between the supervisor and the agent, or too little control. Actually, constitutional lawyers are concerned by the opposite, too much control. The article purports to solve the puzzle, and to put the principal agent model into a broader framework needed for normative recommendations.
D79|¿Qué tan racional es el principio de racionalidad de Popper?|This paper shows the relevance of Popper's Rationality Principle (RP) for the appraisal of the impressive mass work emerging, in recent years, in the fields of rationality, learning, evolutionary games and behavioral economic theory. In contradistinction to the well-known rigid criteria of the falsacionist Popper, the RP covers a large and diverse spectrum of behaviors compatible with the minimal idea of ‘acting in accordance with the situation’. Its relevance to understand the formation of social conventions or how agents learn ‘to play Nash equilibrium’ is argued at length here.
D79|Decision Making on Excessive Deficits in the EMU|The paper analyses changes in European Union decision making that reflects the new philosophy of flexible integration approved by the 1997 Amsterdam summit. It focuses on the EMU protocol on excessive deficit procedure in the Council of Ministers and formulates a new model for a priori estimates of the influence of member states in the two-stage procedure concerning the identification of excessive deficit and the imposition of sanctions. On the basis of this model the paper estimates the a priori voting power indices of EU member states in decision making vis-a-vis the EMU, depicting the ability of different member states to avoid sanction in the event of excessive deficit.
D79|Pro Arguments, Con Arguments and Status Quo Bias in Multi-Issue Decision Problems|"The public faces a choice between two alternatives: the status quo and a ""comprehesive reform"" proposal that departs from the status quo in several dimensions. Deliberation over the problem takes the form of a public multi-issue debate. The ""reformists"" argue that the proposed reform satisfies desirable features lacked by the status quo. The status quo supporters counter-argue that some of these features are obtainable by a reform that departs from the status quo in a single dimension only. This ""modest reform"" is not a feasible alternative in the debate and is used by the status quo camp merely as an argument."
