D87|Forecasting economic decisions under risk: The predictive importance of choice-process data|We investigate various statistical methods for forecasting risky choices and identify important decision predictors. Subjects (n=44) are presented a series of 50/50 gambles that each involves a potential gain and a potential loss, and subjects can choose to either accept or reject a displayed lottery. From this data, we use information on 8800 individual lottery gambles and specify four predictor-sets that include different combinations of input categories: lottery design, socioeconomic characteristics, past gambling behavior, eye-movements, and various psychophysiological measures that are recorded during the first three seconds of lottery-information processing. The results of our forecasting experiment show that choice-process data can effectively be used to forecast risky gambling decisions; however, we find large differences among models’ forecasting capabilities with respect to subjects, predictor-sets, and lottery payoff structures.
D87|The Impact of Impulsivity on Suicide and Homicide Rates|Impulsivity, defined here as an unconscious willingness to act with either incorrect or incomplete information, varies substantially across individuals and is known in the neurological literature to impact behavior. We use the average number of binge drinking episodes as a proxy for impulsivity and find that it has a positive influence on suicides and homicides by firearm, but no impact on suicides and homicides by other means. Specifically, a one standard deviation rise in binge drinking behavior increases firearm homicides by between 2.25 and 6.5 and firearm suicides by between 7 and 12.6 in a state with an average population. Assuming that suicides and homicides by other means are more time-consuming compared to firearms, we identify impulsivity as a risk factor for these behaviors particularly for those with access to firearms.
D87|Social Trust Formation in the Workplace: Applying the Job Strain Model to Explain Variations in Social Trust Levels among Employed Individuals|This study applies the job strain model (JDC-S) to social trust to analyze how workplace characteristics influence social trust formation patterns. By defining the “workplace” as consisting of (1) workload, (2) control, and (3) social support, the JDC-S model predicts job demands to inversely relate to social trust, whereas job control and social support to positively affect trust among the employed. We utilize the sample of 60250 respondents from the Programme for the International Assessment of Adult Competencies (PIAAC) public-use data to operationalize the three components and to link them to social trust scores. Our analysis provides strong empirical evidence that the three factors are not only associated with trust among employed individuals but that their impact is also contingent on the respondents’ sex and age.
D87|"Commentary on Edmund Rolls: ""Emotion and reason in human decision-making"""|In his paper Emotion and reasoning in human decision-making (Economics Discussion Papers, No 2019-8) Edmund Rolls points out that multiple and independent types of reinforcement exist in the human brain, and that they cannot be reduced to a common currency. The present commentary introduces non-specialist readers to this wide variety of reinforcers, each of which carries equal biological value. The evolutionary forces underwriting them reveal much about the causes of our apparently irrational choices - which is why it is important for economists to acquaint themselves with such things.
D87|Emotion and reasoning in human decision-making|"Two systems in the brain that are involved in emotional and economic decision-making are described. The first is an evolutionarily old emotion-based system that operates on rewards defined by the genes such as food, warmth, social reputation, and having children. Such decisions are often based on heuristics, such as being highly sensitive to losses, because a single loss might influence one's reproductive success. This is a multidimensional system with many rewards and punishers, all of which cannot be simultaneously optimized. The second route to decision-making involves reasoning, in which it is assumed that utility can be accurately assessed and logical reason can be applied, though the human brain is not naturally computationally good at logical assessment. When decisions are taken, all those factors apply, and in addition there is noise introduced into the system by the random firing times of neurons for a given mean firing rate. The implications for economic decision-making are described. In macroeconomics, it is assumed that the economy behaves like one ""representative"" agent who can take rational and logical decisions, and who can maximize utility over a constraint. Given the neuroscience of decision-making, the situation is more complex. The utility function may be multidimensional, the reward value along each dimension may fluctuate, the reasoning may be imperfect, and the decision-making process is subject to noise in the brain, making it somewhat random from occasion to occasion. Moreover, each individual has a different set of value functions along each dimension, with different sensitivities to different rewards and punishers, which are expressed in the different personalities of different individuals. These factors underlying the neuroscience of human decision-making need to be taken into account in building and utilizing macroeconomic theories."
D87|Time will tell: recovering preferences when choices are noisy|The ability to uncover preferences from choices is fundamental for both positive economics and welfare analysis. Overwhelming evidence shows that choice is stochastic, which has given rise to random utility models as the dominant paradigm in applied microeconomics. However, as is well known, it is not possible to infer the structure of preferences in the absence of assumptions on the structure of noise. This makes it impossible to empirically test the structure of noise independently from the structure of preferences. Here, we show that the difficulty can be bypassed if data sets are enlarged to include response times. A simple condition on response time distributions (a weaker version of first-order stochastic dominance) ensures that choices reveal preferences without assumptions on the structure of utility noise. Sharper results are obtained if the analysis is restricted to specific classes of models. Under symmetric noise, response times allow to uncover preferences for choice pairs outside the data set, and if noise is Fechnerian, even choice probabilities can be forecast out of sample. We conclude by showing that standard random utility models from economics and standard drift-diffusion models from psychology necessarily generate data sets fulfilling our sufficient condition on response time distributions.
D87|Smokers’ Rational Lexicographic Preferences for Cigarette Package Warnings: A Discrete Choice Experiment with Eye Tracking|We asked 97 cigarette smokers to make a series of 12 binary choices between experimental cigarette packages with varying warnings and background colors. Each smoker had to decide which of the two packages contained cigarettes less risky for his health. We tested whether the smokers, confronted with warnings that were repugnant and threatening to many of them, could still make choices that adhered to the standard axioms of rational choice. We supplemented our observations on smokers’ choices with data on their eye movements. We find that participants universally made choices consistent with a complete, transitive preference ordering. We find little evidence of inconsistent choices violating the weak axiom of revealed preference. In a majority of smokers, we find strong evidence of the use of a lexicographic decision rule to assess the riskiness of a cigarette package. These smokers first ranked the two packages solely on the basis of their warnings. Only when the two packages had the same warning did they rank the packages on the basis of their color. The data on eye tracking strongly confirmed the lexicographic nature of the underlying decision rule. Our study represents an entirely different angle of inquiry into the question of rational addiction.
D87|Cognitive Imprecision and Small-Stakes Risk Aversion|Observed choices between risky lotteries are difficult to reconcile with expected utility maximization, both because subjects appear to be too risk averse with regard to small gambles for this to be explained by diminishing marginal utility of wealth, as stressed by Rabin (2000), and because subjects' responses involve a random element. We propose a unified explanation for both anomalies, similar to the explanation given for related phenomena in the case of perceptual judgments: they result from judgments based on imprecise (and noisy) mental representations of the decision situation. In this model, risk aversion results from a sort of perceptual bias — but one that represents an optimal decision rule, given the imprecision of the mental representation of the situation. We propose a quantitative model of the noisy mental representation of simple lotteries, based on other evidence regarding numerical cognition, and test its ability to explain the choice frequencies that we observe in a laboratory experiment. Our model is more consistent with the laboratory data than random versions of expected utility theory or prospect theory, using both in-sample and out-of-sample tests of model fit.
D87|Arbitrage Or Narrow Bracketing? On Using Money to Measure Intertemporal Preferences|If experimental subjects arbitrage against market interest rates when making intertemporal allocations of cash, the data will reveal nothing about subjects' discount rates, only uncovering subjects' market interest rates. If they frame choices narrowly, market rates will not be salient and the experiment will uncover subjects' utility discount rates. We test arbitrage directly by forcing all transactions with subjects to be instant electronic bank transfers, thus making arbitrage easy and salient. We also employ four decision frames to test alternative hypotheses. Our evidence contradicts arbitrage, supports money as a valid reward, and suggests framing as a correlate with present bias.
D87|The Minimum Wage, EITC, and Criminal Recidivism|For recently released prisoners, the minimum wage and the availability of state Earned Income Tax Credits (EITCs) can influence both their ability to find employment and their potential legal wages relative to illegal sources of income, in turn affecting the probability they return to prison. Using administrative prison release records from nearly six million offenders released between 2000 and 2014, we use a difference-in-differences strategy to identify the effect of over two hundred state and federal minimum wage increases, as well as 21 state EITC programs, on recidivism. We find that the average minimum wage increase of $0.50 reduces the probability that men and women return to prison within 1 year by 2.8%. This implies that on average the effect of higher wages, drawing at least some released prisoners into the legal labor market, dominates any reduced employment in this population due to the minimum wage. These reductions in returns to incarcerations are observed for the potentially revenue generating crime categories of property and drug crimes; prison reentry for violent crimes are unchanged, supporting our framing that minimum wages affect crime that serves as a source of income. The availability of state EITCs also reduces recidivism, but only for women.
D87|An fMRI STUDY OF NEURAL DECISION MAKING USING SUPPORT VECTOR MACHINE|There is an increasing trend of employing fMRI by the neuroimaging community for measuring the blood oxygenation levels towards quantifying brain activity. The experimental modality typically involves a rest and a task state during which brain activation in participants is registered during an fMRI scan. In this work, we have taken this approach and analyzed two Brodmann areas (BAs), which were our regions of interest (ROI) from the prefrontal lobe of human brain, for their role in decision making. These ROIs (BA10 and BA47) are reportedly activated during decision making. Support vector machine (SVM) was employed for classification of the activated voxels in the ROIs. Each dominant voxel was ranked on the basis of perceived pattern in the brain. Our experimental design and results can assist in decoding the decision-making neuron connectivity for applications in neuromarketing and neuroeconomics.
D87|The Dark Side of Personality: Anti-Sociality Increases Strategic Game Play|We assess the role of anti-social personality traits in explaining heterogeneity in commonly observed social preferences. We identified a personality profile that clearly reflects anti-social personality characteristics, with high positive loadings on Machiavellianism and high negative loadings on empathy, trustworthiness and agreeableness. Anti-sociality predicts decision strategies in a manner that is consistent with its name: significantly lower levels of trust and decreased trustworthiness. To identify the strategic nature of anti-social behavior in changing environments, we assessed the moderating role of personality on investor trust and trustee reciprocity in the presence relative to the absence of the investor’s option to punish. Our results show that only the anti-social personality profile is associated with specific payoff maximizing strategy shifts induced by these environmental changes: when punishment was not available to investors, we observe significantly lower levels of investor trust and trustee reciprocity, while there is a significant increase in both behaviors when punishment was available. These effects were specific for anti-sociality, as no other personality factor was associated with such a strong adjustment of decision strategies in the presence of punishment. These results demonstrate that anti-social personality characteristics are associated with strategic behavioral shifts aimed at maximizing the extraction of resources from their counterparts. The reliability of the strategic effects of anti-social personality during trust, reciprocity and punishment strongly supports the notion that self-projection underlies anti-social decision-making.
D87|Smokers’ Rational Lexicographic Preferences for Cigarette Package Warnings: A Discrete Choice Experiment with Eye Tracking|We asked 97 cigarette smokers to make a series of 12 binary choices between experimental cigarette packages with varying warnings and background colors. Each smoker had to decide which of the two packages contained cigarettes less risky for his health. We tested whether the smokers, confronted with warnings that were repugnant and threatening to many of them, could still make choices that adhered to the standard axioms of rational choice. We supplemented our observations on smokers’ choices with data on their eye movements. We find that participants universally made choices consistent with a complete, transitive preference ordering. We find little evidence of inconsistent choices violating the weak axiom of revealed preference. In a majority of smokers, we find strong evidence of the use of a lexicographic decision rule to assess the riskiness of a cigarette package. These smokers first ranked the two packages solely on the basis of their warnings. Only when the two packages had the same warning did they rankthe packages on the basis of their color. The data on eye tracking strongly confirmed the lexicographic nature of the underlying decision rule. Our studyrepresentsan entirely different angle of inquiry into thequestion of rational addiction.
D87|Robust scoring rules|We study elicitation of latent (prior) beliefs when the agent can acquire information via a costly attention strategy. We introduce a mechanism that simultaneously makes it strictly dominant to (a) not acquire any information, and (b) report truthfully. We call such a mechanism a robust scoring rule. Robust scoring rules are important for different reasons. Theoretically, they are crucial both for establishing that decision-theoretic models under uncertainty are testable. From an applied point of view, they are needed for eliciting unbiased estimates of population beliefs. We prove that a robust scoring rule exists under mild axioms on the attention costs. These axioms are shown to characterize the class of posterior-separable cost functions. Our existence proof is constructive, thus identifying an entire class of robust scoring rules. Subsequently, we show that we can arbitrarily approximate the agent's prior beliefs with a quadratic scoring rule. The same holds true for a discrete scoring rule. Finally, we show that the prior beliefs can be approximated, even when we are uncertain about the exact specification of the agent's attention costs.
D87|Time will tell - Recovering Preferences when Choices are Noisy|The ability to uncover preferences from choices is fundamental for both positive economics and welfare analysis. Overwhelming evidence shows that choice is stochastic, which has given rise to random utility models as the dominant paradigm in applied microeconomics. However, as is well known, it is not possible to infer the structure of preferences in the absence of assumptions on the structure of noise. This makes it impossible to empirically test the structure of noise independently from the structure of preferences. Here, we show that the difficulty can be bypassed if data sets are enlarged to include response times. A simple condition on response time distributions (a weaker version of first order stochastic dominance) ensures that choices reveal preferences without assumptions on the structure of utility noise. Sharper results are obtained if the analysis is restricted to specific classes of models. Under symmetric noise, response times allow to uncover preferences for choice pairs outside the data set, and if noise is Fechnerian, even choice probabilities can be forecast out of sample. We conclude by showing that standard random utility models from economics and standard drift-diffusion models from psychology necessarily generate data sets fulfilling our sufficient condition on response time distributions.
D87|Does exposure to unawareness affect risk preferences? A preliminary result|Abstract One fundamental assumption often made in the literature on unawareness is that risk preferences are invariant to changes of awareness. We study how exposure to unawareness affects choices under risk. Participants in our experiment choose repeatedly between varying sure outcomes and a lottery in three phases. All treatments are exactly identical in phase 1 and phase 3, but differ in phase 2. There are five different treatments pertaining to the lottery faced in phase 2: The control treatment (i.e., a standard lottery), the treatment with awareness of unawareness of lottery outcomes but known number of outcomes, the treatment with awareness of unawareness of outcomes but with unknown number of outcomes, the treatment with unawareness of unawareness of some outcomes, and the treatment with an ambiguous lottery. We study both whether behavior differs in phase 3 across treatments (between subjects effect) and whether differences of subjects’ behavior between phases 1 and phase 3 differ across treatments (within subject effects). We observe no significant treatment effects.
D87|Does Exposure to Unawareness Affect Risk Preferences? A Preliminary Result|One fundamental assumption often made in the literature on unawareness is that risk preferences are invariant to changes of awareness. We study how exposure to unawareness affects choices under risk. Participants in our experiment choose repeatedly between varying sure outcomes and a lottery in 3 phases. All treatments are exactly identical in phase 1 and phase 3, but differ in phase 2. There are five different treatments pertaining to the lottery faced in phase 2: The control treatment (i.e., a standard lottery), the treatment with awareness of unawareness of lottery outcomes but known number of outcomes, the treatment with awareness of unawareness of outcomes but with unknown number of outcomes, the treatment with unawareness of unawareness of some outcomes, and the treatment with an ambiguous lottery. We study both whether behavior differs in phase 3 across treatments (between subjects effect) and whether differences of subjects' behavior between phases 1 and phase 3 differs across treatments (within subject effects). We observe no significant treatment effects.
D87|Risk Aversion as a Perceptual Bias|The theory of expected utility maximization (EUM) explains risk aversion as due to diminishing marginal utility of wealth. However, observed choices between risky lotteries are difficult to reconcile with EUM: for example, in the laboratory, subjects' responses on individual trials involve a random element, and cannot be predicted purely from the terms offered; and subjects often appear to be too risk averse with regard to small gambles (while still accepting sufficiently favorable large gambles) to be consistent with any utility-of-wealth function. We propose a unified explanation for both anomalies, similar to the explanation given for related phenomena in the case of perceptual judgments: they result from judgments based on imprecise (and noisy) mental representation of the decision situation. In this model, risk aversion is predicted without any need for a nonlinear utility-of-wealth function, and instead results from a sort of perceptual bias --- but one that represents an optimal Bayesian decision, given the limitations of the mental representation of the situation. We propose a specific quantitative model of the mental representation of a simple lottery choice problem, based on other evidence regarding numerical cognition, and test its ability to explain the choice frequencies that we observe in a laboratory experiment.
D87|Risk Aversion as a Perceptual Bias|"The theory of expected utility maximization (EUM) proposed by Bernoulli explains risk aversion as a consequence of diminishing marginal utility of wealth. However, observed choices between risky lotteries are difficult to reconcile with EUM: for example, in the laboratory, subjects’ responses on individual trials involve a random element, and cannot be predicted purely from the terms offered; and subjects often appear to be too risk averse with regard to small gambles (while still accepting sufficiently favorable large gambles) to be consistent with any utility-of-wealth function. We propose a unified explanation for both anomalies, similar to the explanation given for related phenomena in the case of perceptual judgments: they result from judgments based on imprecise (and noisy) mental representation of the decision situation. In this model, risk aversion is predicted without any need for a nonlinear utility-of-wealth function, and instead results from a sort of perceptual bias | but one that represents an optimal Bayesian decision, given the limitations of the mental representation of the situation. We propose a specific quantitative model of the mental representation of a simple lottery choice problem, based on other evidence regarding numerical cognition, and test its ability to explain the choice frequencies that we observe in a laboratory experiment."
D87|Exploring the scope of neurometrically informed mechanism design|A basic goal in mechanism design is to construct mechanisms that simultaneously satisfy efficiency, voluntary participation, and dominant strategy incentive compatibility. Previous work has shown that this is impossible, unless the agents and planner have sufficient information about each other and common knowledge. These results have remained largely theoretical because the required information is generally not available in practical applications. However, recent work has shown that these limitations can be overcome in simple settings, using neurometric technologies that provide noisy signals of subjects' preferences that can be used in the mechanism design problem. Here we build on this work by carrying out two new experiments designed to test the extent to which these Neurometrically Informed Mechanisms (NIMs) can be applied to more complicated and realistic environments. We find robustness to large type and action space and to the degrees of loss and risk-aversion observed in most of our sample.
D87|Risk preferences under acute stress|Abstract Many important decisions are made under stress and they often involve risky alternatives. There has been ample evidence that stress influences decision making, but still very little is known about whether individual attitudes to risk change with exposure to acute stress. To directly evaluate the causal effect of psychosocial stress on risk attitudes, we adopt an experimental approach in which we randomly expose participants to a stressor in the form of a standard laboratory stress-induction procedure: the Trier Social Stress Test for Groups. Risk preferences are elicited using a multiple price list format that has been previously shown to predict risk-oriented behavior out of the laboratory. Using three different measures (salivary cortisol levels, heart rate and multidimensional mood questionnaire scores), we show that stress was successfully induced on the treatment group. Our main result is that for men, the exposure to a stressor (intention-to-treat effect, ITT) and the exogenously induced psychosocial stress (the average treatment effect on the treated, ATT) significantly increase risk aversion when controlling for their personal characteristics. The estimated treatment difference in certainty equivalents is equivalent to 69 % (ITT) and 89 % (ATT) of the gender-difference in the control group. The effect on women goes in the same direction, but is weaker and insignificant.
D87|On the neural substrates of the disposition effect and return performance|We experimentally assess the disposition effect and return performance, using electroencephalogram to measure the brain activity of the participants. The design of the experiment follows a previous protocol (Frydman et al., 2014). Our sample was made up of 12 undergraduates (all male, age range 18 to 29, mean age 22.2) and five professional stock traders (all male, age range 21 to 37, mean age 30.2). We find neural support for the finding that professionals are more likely to escape the disposition effect (Da Costa Jr et al., 2013). We also find higher heart rate variability and brainwave activation are positively related to stock returns. Electrical activity tends to increase with returns, mainly for the beta waves that are activated in conscious states.
D87|Why have only humans and social insects evolved a complex division of labor|Social species, those that have a complex division of labor, comprise about two thirds of the earth’s biomass. These social species – humans and social insects – are located at extreme points of the set of possible evolutionary paths. The queens of small social insects produce thousands of small larvae, whereas human females invest heavily in their children, who are born already with a very large brain. In spite of these and many other evident differences, social insects and humans have conquered the earth because they share two characteristics: a highly developed system of social cooperation, and a complex division of labor. These observations prompt two questions: If there are evident evolutionary advantages of cooperation and specialization, why have only few species been able to increase their fitness in this way? Why have these characteristics emerged as such extremely different forms of life? In order to answer these two questions, we will focus on possible “transition societies” in the evolutionary paths towards social species. We will argue that, in both the human and social insect cases, sexual selection had a crucial role in the development of the division of labor and entailed that the division of labor required either minimum or maximum unitary investments in the offspring. The species located in between these two extremes could not exploit the advantages of specialization.
D87|The Psychological Lives of the Poor|All individuals rely on a fundamental set of mental capacities and functions, or bandwidth, in their economic and non-economic lives. Yet, many factors associated with poverty, such as malnutrition, alcohol consumption, or sleep deprivation, may tax this capacity. Previous research has demonstrated that such taxes often significantly alter judgments, preferences, and decision-making. A more suggestive but growing body of evidence points toward potential effects on productivity and utility. Considering the lives of the poor through the lens of bandwidth may improve our understanding of potential causes and consequences of poverty.
D87|A Review Of ‘Brain Computation As Hierarchical Abstraction’|This article is a review of the book ‘Brain Computation As Hierarchical Abstraction’ by Dana H. Ballard published by MIT press in 2015. The book series computational neuroscience familiarizes the reader with the computational aspects of brain functions based on neuroscientific evidence. It provides an excellent introduction of the functioning, i.e. the structure, the network and the routines of the brain in our daily life. The final chapters even discuss behavioral elements such as decision-making, emotions and consciousness. These topics are of high relevance in other sciences such as economics and philosophy. Overall, Ballard’s book stimulates a scientifically well-founded debate and, more importantly, reveals the need of an interdisciplinary dialogue towards social sciences.
D87|The effect of olfactory sensory cues on economic decision making|Several studies show that sensory cues influence consumer decision making processes. While scent is a key component of a market's physical environment, it has received far less attention in the academic literature as compared, for example, with visual cues. In addition, most of the studies that examine the effect of ambient scents fail on one or both of these criteria: to properly control the influence of nuisance factors and/or to elicit preferences under real monetary incentives. We collected data from a laboratory experiment where we varied on a between subjects basis the dispersion of a citrus fragrance. We then elicited subjects' willingness to pay for two unbranded products - a mug and a chocolate - by having subjects participate in a 2nd price Vickrey auction. We also elicited subjects' risk preferences using lottery choice tasks. Our results show a statistically and economically significant effect on subjects' willingness to pay: valuations increased between 37% - 43% for subjects who were exposed to a citrus scent as compared to the control group. We do not find a statistically significant effect of the citrus scent on subjects' risk aversion.
D87|Does Exposure to Unawareness Affect Risk Preferences? A Preliminary Result|One fundamental assumption often made in the literature on unawareness is that risk preferences are invariant to changes of awareness. We study how exposure to unawareness a ects choices under risk. Participants in our experiment choose repeatedly between varying sure outcomes and a lottery in 3 phases. All treatments are exactly identical in phase 1 and phase 3, but di er in phase 2. There are ve di erent treatments pertaining to the lottery faced in phase 2: The control treatment (i.e., a standard lottery), the treatment with awareness of unawareness of lottery outcomes but known number of outcomes, the treatment with awareness of unawareness of outcomes but with unknown number of outcomes, the treatment with unawareness of unawareness of some outcomes, and the treatment with an ambiguous lottery. We study both whether behavior di ers in phase 3 across treatments (between subjects e ect) and whether di erences of subjects' behavior between phases 1 and phase 3 di ers across treatments (within subject e ects). We observe no signi cant treatment e ects.
D87|Abordagem multidisciplinar na teoria da decisão: psicologia evolucionária e economia|We claim that there must be and interdisciplinary approach in discussing individual decisions, combining Evolutionary Psychology, Neuroscience and Economics (and other Social Sciences). The new approach requires change in the methodology of Economics and a strong review of decision theory. On the other hand, Economics can help Evolutionary Psychology through the characterization of the environment and to define modern human aims. We propose a method to approach a “microeconomic” problem, considering that the time span is small for environmental changes.
D87|Sex Workers, Self-Image and Stigma: Evidence from Kolkata Brothels|This paper empirically examines the role of self-image in determining the behaviour and choices of socially excluded individuals. Using a randomized field experiment with sex workers in Kolkata, India, we study the impact of a psychological training program designed to improve self-image impaired by social exclusion and stigma. We find positive and significant impacts on self-reported measures of self-image, as well as on future-oriented behaviour measured by savings and health choices during and after the program. We also find persistence in related savings outcomes fifteen months after the program. Our experimental design and findings enable us to rule out several alternative explanations. We argue that our findings highlight the need to address psychological constraints in alleviating the effects of poverty and social exclusion.
D87|‘Nudging’ risky decision-making: The causal influence of information order|Recent studies have suggested a correlation between information acquisition and value maximization in risky decision-making. We show that changing how information is acquired can “nudge” agents into riskier decisions, suggesting that choice architecture influences observed risky decisions.
D87|Disposition effect as a behavioral trading activity elicited by investors' different risk preferences|This paper draws on numerical simulations to discuss the mechanism driving the disposition effect. The computational model is constructed from the basic ideas of prospect theory. The objective (or crude) rewards, obtained from investment, are transformed into subjective rewards via the value function proposed by prospect theory, which characterizes risk-aversion in gains and risk-seeking in losses. The optimal action is then chosen by maximizing the expected value of future subjective rewards. The results of numerical simulations of a finite-period optimal investment problem show that the disposition effect is given as its optimal solution, where the risk-seeking in losses is considered to play a key role in driving the effect.
D87|The cultural foundations of economic failure: A conceptual toolkit|This paper proposes a framework for integrating mental constructs into economic analysis. It considers three types of belief: identities, narratives and norms. Identities influence preferences; narratives influence how causal relationships are (mis)understood; norms determine self-imposed constraints. The beliefs are acquired pre-rationally, through participation in social networks which are initial endowments; subsequent choice of network participation is path dependent. Actors rationally maximize their utility subject to these beliefs, but the beliefs themselves are contaminated by these endowments of irrationality. In equilibrium, beliefs and networks are locally stable and constitute a ‘culture’: the culture can be that of an organization, an entire society, or a family. Local stability is achieved partly through interactions between the three types of belief, and partly through the interaction of beliefs and networks. A dysfunctional culture generates behaviour that yields bad outcomes. If these forces are strong, Bayesian updating from mistakes can be frustrated: dysfunctional cultures can be traps. Principals can use various control variables to improve (or preserve) outcomes by targeting beliefs. The framework enables a systematic approach to dysfunctional cultures.
D87|A neuroeconomic theory of memory retrieval|We propose a theory of “optimal memory management” that unveils causal relationships between memory systems and the characteristics of the information retrieved. Our model shows that if the declarative memory is more accurate but also more costly than the procedural memory, then it is optimal to retrieve exceptional experiences with the former and average experiences with the latter. The theory provides other testable predictions: (i) decisions are closer to original experiences when the declarative memory is invoked, and (ii) the declarative memory is more likely to be invoked when the importance of recalling information accurately increases.
D87|Neural antecedents of a random utility model|For over a decade, economists have sought to identify neural antecedents for economic theories. More recently, neuroeconomic work has sought to predict consumer choice using brain activations witnessed in non-choice, visual appraisals. This paper combines these two emerging strains of inquiry. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data observed when consumers view a quality-differentiated food product labeled with different attributes, we seek to determine the predictive validity of the random utility model (RUM) often used in economic studies of consumer choice. Our fMRI data consist of changes in blood flow to the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (a brain region previously associated with value formation) observed when people saw low price and high labels and labels indicating high or low quality. We couple the fMRI data with data on 28 non-hypothetical choices made by each participant, which pitted higher priced, higher quality good vs. a lower priced, lower quality good. We find little evidence of a systematic difference in activation in brain areas thought to be associated with value formation when viewing high vs. low levels of attributes (prices and quality). However, differences in neural blood flow across participants related to quality (but not price) is significantly related to subsequent consumer choice both in- and out-of-sample, providing some qualified neuroeconomic support for the attribute-based RUM.
D87|What cognitive sciences have to say about the impacts of nutritional labelling formats|Social sciences have been exploring how different labelling systems affect people’s food choices, whereas cognitive psychology has largely ignored that question. We propose a normalization of the criteria that discriminate labels between them, which we use as a framework to review the cognitive processes involved when using these labelling systems. We insist on the heated debate between Traffic Light and Guideline Daily Amount labels, but did also address other labelling schemes like the Keyhole system. We conclude on which labels are cognitively the less effortful and the quickest to process.
D87|GO figure: Analytic and strategic skills are separable|We measure the game behavior and analytic reasoning skills of expert strategic reasoners: professional GO players. We argue for a distinction between what we call “strategic” and “analytic” reasoning skills and present separate measures to elicit strategic and analytic abilities. The paper investigates the behavior of our subject pool in many different types of one-shot games, including the Traveler’s Dilemma, Centipede, Kreps, and Matching Pennies games. We observe that increased strategic skill predicts a greater probability of Nash behavior, while greater analytic skill predicts more cooperative play, even when such behavior is inconsistent with individual rationality.
D87|Cognitive Load Increases Risk Aversion|We investigate how stable individuals’ risk attitudes are with respect to changes in cognitive load. In a laboratory experiment using pairwise lottery choice and a within-subject design, we showthat putting subjects under load via a concurrent working-memory task significantly increases their risk aversion. Subjects made significantly faster choices under load. Regardless of load, they responded faster when choosing the less risky option in safe–risky trials, but not in risky–risky trials. We discuss how these findings relate to both dual-system and unitarysystem theories of decision making.We observe that predictions of both recent dual-system and drift–diffusion models of the decision-making process are confirmed by our data and argue for a convergence of these to-date separate strands of the literature.
D87|Calculating Joint Confidence Bands for Impulse Response Functions using Highest Density Regions|Oberwolfach Report: New Developments in Functional and Highly Multivariate Statistical Methodology
D87|A Mathematical Approach to Neuromarketing: A Weapon – Target Assignment Model|This study developed a nonlinear mathematical optimization model. The aim of the study is to look neuromarketing from a mathematical perspective. The model originates from the wellknown weapon target assignment problem in military operations research. This study proposes that the model can be properly adapted to neuroscience and business applications. The objective of the model is maximizing the total expected satisfaction ratio of people by understanding the functioning of their brain activities under neuroscientific and budget constraints. The recipe is applied to neuromarketing by a hypothetical example which is solved by MS Excel’s Solver.
D87|Handedness, Ability, Earnings and Risk. Evidence from the Lab|The relationship between handedness, ability and, in addition, their joint role in explaining earnings and decisions under risk is studied experimentally to shed new light on the mechanisms behind the mixed evidence in survey data. Data on 432 under graduate students show that left-handed (L) do not obtain a significantly different Cognitive Reflection Test score relative to others nor different payoffs in a stylized labour market with agents working for principals and being paid for exerting costly effort, a proxy for earnings. In addition, they are not significantly more risk averse. In partial contrast, their self-reported achievement at university tends to be significantly higher and driven by females although weakly for some specifications. Finally, when looking at personality traits, measured using the Big Five test, L are significantly more agreeable, showing higher preferences for cooperation, and also tend to be more extroverted, in particular more sociable.
D87|Modern Transformations of Economics: Neuroeconomics|Traditionally, economists have not been interested in the neural underpinnings of human behavior. According to the classical decision-making theory, a decision-maker is a perfectly rational cognitive agent ignoring the influence of emotions. However, in recent years this model has been challenged by prospect theory, which identifies heuristics and biases that influence human choice. A recent approach known as neuroeconomics is a transdisciplinary field that tries to shed light on the computational and neurobiological mechanisms underlying the decision-making process, integrating ideas and methods from the fields of psychology, neuroscience, economics and computer science. Neuroeconomics gives researchers an opportunity to look into the “black box” of the human brain, which will give an opportunity to investigate how people make choices, how the brain calculates gains and losses, the roles of emotions and cognition, etc. The aim of this paper is to survey findings from the neuroeconomic literature and investigate the implications of this knowledge for understanding human behavior in various contexts.
D87|Economics, Neuroeconomics, and the Problem of Identity| This paper reviews the debate in economics over neuroeconomicsâ€™ contribution to economics. It distinguishes majority and minority views, argues that this debate has been framed by mainstream economicsâ€™ conception of itself as an isolated science, and argues that this framing has put off the agenda in economics issues such as individual identity that are increasingly important in connection with the social and historical context of economic explanations in a changing complex world. The paper first discusses how the debate over neuroeconomics has been limited to the question of what information from other sciences might be employed in economics. It then goes on to the individual identity issue, and discusses how economicsâ€™ top-down, closed character generates a circular individual identity conception, while bottom-up, open character of psychology and neuroscience, and their continual concern with the changing relation between theory and evidence, has produced four competing individual identity conceptions in neuroeconomic research.
D87|Revealed Indifference: Using Response Times to Infer Preferences|Revealed preference is the dominant approach for inferring preferences, but it relies on discrete, stochastic choices. The choice process also produces response times (RTs) which are continuous and can often be observed in the absence of informative choice outcomes. Moreover, there is a consistent relationship between RTs and strength-of-preference, namely that people make slower decisions as they approach indifference. This relationship arises from optimal solutions to sequential information sampling problems. Here, we investigate several ways in which this relationship can be used to infer preferences when choice outcomes are uninformative or unavailable. We show that RTs from a single binary-choice problem are enough to usefully rank people according to their degree of loss aversion. Using a large number of choice problems, we are further able to recover individual utility-function parameters from RTs alone (no choice outcomes) in three different choice domains. Finally, we are able to use long RTs to predict which choices are inconsistent with a subject’s utility function and likely to later be reversed. These results provide a proof of concept for a novel “method of revealed indifference”.
D87|The Bull of Wall Street: Experimental Analysis of Testosterone and Asset Trading|Abstract: Financial markets deviate from efficiency due to behavioral causes and there is growing evidence that biological factors affect individual financial decisions that could be reflected in markets. Many behavioral influences on asset prices have underlying biological mechanisms associated with fluctuations in the levels of the male sex hormone testosterone. Testosterone, a chemical messenger especially influential in male physiology, varies cyclically and in response to challenge, fluctuates according to victory and defeat, and is taken as a performance-enhancer among some financial professionals, yet no study has tested how it causally affects trading decisions. We exogenously elevated testosterone in traders in an experimental asset market and found that it causes significantly higher and longer-lasting asset overpricing compared to placebo. Using both aggregated and individual trading data we demonstrate that testosterone administration generates bubbles by causing persistently high bids and slow incorporation of asset fundamental value among traders.
D87|The effect of olfactory sensory cues on economic decision making|"Several studies show that sensory cues influence consumer decision making processes. While scent is a key component of a market's physical environment, it has received far less attention in the academic literature as compared, for example, with visual cues. In addition, most of the studies that examine the e ect of ambient scents fail on one or both of these criteria: to properly control the in infuence of nuisance factors and/or to elicit preferences under real monetary incentives. We collected data from a laboratory experiment where we varied on a between subjects basis the dispersion of a citrus fragrance. We then elicited subjects' willingness to pay for two unbranded products | a mug and a chocolate | by having subjects participate in a 2nd price Vickrey auction. We also elicited subjects' risk preferences using lottery choice tasks. Our results show a statistically and economically signi cant e ect on subjects' willingness to pay: valuations increased between 37% - 43% for subjects who were exposed to a citrus scent as compared to the control group. We do not nd a statistically signi cant effect of the citrus scent on subjects' risk aversion."
D87|An Experimental Study For Identifying Web Site Design Characteristics Affecting Touristic Purchase Decision|This study aims to identify web site design characteristics and consequently touristic product perception level differences depending on demographic characteristics of tourists and tourist types in tourism marketing, and thus to determine whether there are any differences among the touristic product purchase decisions depending on perception levels of tourists. Travel planner, domestic hotel and tour options, overseas hotel and tour options, transportation services, holiday opportunities and accommodation and tour options have been identified as web site design characteristics. Under the study, data have been obtained by using EEG (Electroencephalography) and eye tracking methods. With EEG method, numerical values at microvolt level were obtained from AF3, F7, F8, F3, F4, AF4 bands on prefrontal lobe areas of the subjects. Prefrontal lobe scans, picks, evaluates, construes stimuli from internal and external sources, creating new ideas and decisions. Therefore, an experimental analysis has been conducted on this area to evaluate touristic purchase decisions. Independent Sample T Test has been used in analyzing working hypotheses. Sample size under the experimental study consisted of a total of 26 volunteer consumers, of whom 13 were women, 13 men, aged 18 and above, who had the capacity to create demand and who purchased holiday package over internet. As a result of analysis of the data, it has been found that, by sex, male consumers had a higher level of perceiving the modules of travel planner, domestic and overseas hotel and tour options, transportation services and holiday opportunities relative to female consumers, that, by age, consumers aged 30 and above had a higher level of perceiving the modules of domestic and overseas hotel and tour options relative to consumers aged below 30, that, by income status, consumers having income of TL 5000 and above had a higher level of perceiving the modules of domestic hotel and tour options and holiday opportunities relative to consumers having income of below TL 5000, that, by educational status, university-graduate consumers had a higher level of perceiving the modules of domestic hotel and tour options, transportation services and holiday opportunities. Postmodern-tourist-type consumers were found to have a higher level of perceiving the module of overseas hotel and tour options relative to other tourist types. As a result of watching 117-second video incorporating web site design characteristics, consumers were found to focus mostly, for 6.211 seconds, on domestic hotel and tour options.
D87|Think, feel, bid: the impact of environmental conditions on the role of bidders’ cognitive and affective processes in auction bidding|Abstract Environmental conditions and the interplay of cognitive and affective processes both exert influences on bidding behavior. This paper brings the above together, considering how the (external) auction environment determines the impact of (internal) cognitive and affective processes on bidding behavior, assessed in comparison to the optimal bid. Two aspects of the auction environment were considered, namely auction dynamics (low: first-price sealed-bid auction, high: Dutch auction) and value uncertainty (low, high). In a laboratory experiment, we assess bidders’ cognitive workload and emotional arousal through physiological measurements. We find that higher auction dynamics increase the impact of emotional arousal on bid deviations, but not that of cognitive workload. Higher value uncertainty, conversely, increases the impact of cognitive workload on bid deviations, but not that of emotional arousal. Taken together, the auction environment is a critical factor in understanding the nature of the underlying decision process and its impact on bids.
D87|Response time and click position: cheap indicators of preferences|Abstract This paper investigates how process data like response time and click position relates to economic decisions. We use a social value orientation experiment, which can be considered as a prototypical multi-attribute decision problem. We find that in the social value orientation task more individualistic subjects have shorter response times than prosocial subjects. Individualistic subjects click more often on their own payoffs than on the others’ payoffs, and they click more often on their own payoffs than prosocial subjects. Moreover, the response time information and the click position information are complementary in explaining subjects’ preferences. These results show that response times and click positions can be used as indicators of people’s preferences.
D87|Inspired and inspiring: Hervé Moulin and the discovery of the beauty contest game|We draw an unusually detailed picture of a discovery, the beauty contest game — with Hervé Moulin as the center of the initial inspiration. Since its inception, the beauty contest game and the descriptive level k model has widely contributed to the growth of experimental and behavioral economics and expanded also to other areas within and outside of economics. We illustrate, in particular, the recent interaction between macroeconomic theorists and experimenters, who independently had worked on the puzzles and consequences due to beauty contest features. Furthermore, we introduce a new variety of the two-person beauty contest game with two different payoff structures that leads to different game-theoretic properties unperceived by naïve subjects and game theory experts alike.
D87|The cognitive basis of social behavior: cognitive reflection overrides antisocial but not always prosocial motives|Even though human social behavior has received considerable scientific attention in the last decades, its cognitive underpinnings are still poorly understood. Applying a dual-process framework to the study of social preferences, we show in two studies that individuals with a more reflective/deliberative cognitive style, as measured by scores on the Cognitive Reflection Test (CRT), are more likely to make choices consistent with “mild” altruism in simple non-strategic decisions. Such choices increase social welfare by increasing the other person’s payoff at very low or no cost for the individual. The choices of less reflective individuals (i.e. those who rely more heavily on intuition), on the other hand, are more likely to be associated with either egalitarian or spiteful motives. We also identify a negative link between reflection and choices characterized by “strong” altruism, but this result holds only in Study 2. Moreover, we provide evidence that the relationship between social preferences and CRT scores is not driven by general intelligence. We discuss how our results can reconcile some previous conflicting findings on the cognitive basis of social behavior.
D87|Comisiones de la verdad como instituciones de aprendizaje: El caso de Kenia|El institucionalismo cognitivo brinda herramientas teóricas importantes para comprender las dinámicas del cambio social. Los modelos mentales, el aprendizaje individual colectivo, las instituciones y organizaciones, son algunos de los temas que se abordan en este artículo para realizar una aproximación a los procesos de construcción de la verdad; en particular, la Comisión de la Justicia, Reconciliación y Verdad de Kenia (TJRC), caracterizada por presentar altos niveles de corrupción y muchas contradicciones, debido — entre otros factores — a su mandato excesivamente amplio. Aunque la búsqueda y reconstrucción de la verdad han comenzado, todavía queda un largo camino por recorrer para lograr que los derechos humanos y las violaciones de éstos sean reconocidos por el Estado de Kenia. Este ensayo busca articular algunas lecciones del institucionalismo cognitivo con las complejas dinámicas de reconstrucción de la verdad en la TJRC.
D87|Response time patterns in a stated choice experiment|This paper studies how response times vary between unlabelled binary choice occasions in a stated choice (SC) experiment, with alternatives differing with respect to in-vehicle travel time and travel cost. The pattern of response times is interpreted as an indicator of the cognitive processes employed by the respondents when making their choices. We find clear signs of reference-dependence in response times in the form of a strong gain–loss asymmetry. Moreover, different patterns of response times for travel time and travel cost indicate that these attributes are processed in different ways by respondents. This may be of particular relevance for choice experiments in the transportation field, where the travel time attribute is central.
D87|Reexamining sports-sentiment hypothesis: Microeconomic evidences from Borsa Istanbul|This paper examines the impact of international soccer matches on the Turkish stock market using firm-level and sorted-portfolio data. Applying Edmans et al. (2007) estimation method, we found a significant negative loss effect. However, once using panel data analysis as well as modeling spatial and temporal effects explicitly, the sports-sentiment effect disappeared. The same conclusions could be made by replacing win (loss) dummies with unexpected win (loss) variables, removing Monday matches, dropping sports-related firms, and sorting portfolio returns by market capitalization and past returns. Hence, there is very limited micro-evidence to support the ‘overreaction’ hypothesis of individual investors using Borsa Istanbul data. However, we found evidence that sporting events have a larger impact on stock return volatility for firms with smaller market capitalization and lower past returns.
D87|Life satisfaction, income and personality|We use personality traits to better understand the relationship between income and life satisfaction. Personality traits mediate the effect of income on life satisfaction. The effect of neuroticism, which measures sensitivity to threat and punishment, is strong in both the British Household Panel Survey and the German Socioeconomic Panel. Neuroticism increases the usually observed concavity of the relationship: individuals with a higher neuroticism score enjoy extra income more than those with a lower score if they are poorer, and enjoy extra income less if they are richer. When the interaction between income and neuroticism is introduced, income does not have a significant effect on its own. To interpret the results, we present a simple model based on Prospect Theory, where we assume that: (i) life satisfaction is dependent on the gap between aspired and realized income, and this is modulated by neuroticism and (ii) income increases in aspirations with a slope less than unity, so that the gap between aspired and realized income increases with aspirations. From the estimation of this model we argue that poorer individuals tend to over-shoot in their aspirations, while the rich tend to under-shoot. The estimation of the model also shows a substantial effect of traits on income.
D87|Risky choices and emotion-based learning|The paper offers a comprehensive analysis of causes and consequences of the accumulation of emotional experience, measured via skin conductance response, when taking risky choices. A large experimental data set was obtained from a psycho-physiological task conducted with 645 bank customers and financial professionals. With respect to causes, we found that the individual emotional response to gains/losses is trend-dependent and influenced by habituation, as well as by anchoring/framing due to the external layout of risky alternatives. With respect to consequences, we found evidence that the somatic reinforcement experience is able to guide asset picking, but within a long-term strategy. Consequently, selection behaviors were observed in a portfolio mean–variance framework, revealing that somatic markers lead individuals to pursue a long-term ‘psycho-economic’ efficiency that integrates factual information (monetary outcomes) with the implicit subjective experience.
D87|The neural underpinnings of performance-based incentives|Pay-for-performance is commonly applied in order to favorably modulate behavior and increase performance. However, the removal of an incentive leads to a significant decrease in performance. Although there is behavioral evidence that incentives have an effect on performance, the neural underpinnings of the underlying cognitive processes are not certain. We hypothesize that performance is affected by monetary incentives, and that these changes are reflected by the dopaminergic reward system. In this study, we use the direct measure of performance and measure the underlying cognitive processes by using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) simultaneously. We find that incentives induce changes in reward-related brain regions, but not in task-related neural representations. Interestingly, when monetary incentives are introduced, blood oxygenation level dependent activity increases in the ventral striatum, being sensitive to reward, and decreases in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, representing the subjective value. We suggest that pay-for-performance does not directly affect performance by modulating neural activity in task-relevant regions, but affects the reward representation during task completion. Therefore, we conclude that performance-contingent incentives need to be applied carefully. This finding is of special interest for employee compensation in unstable economic environments, as companies in unstable environments might not permanently ensure pay-for-performance.
D87|Conflicted emotions following trust-based interaction|We observed reports of conflicted (concurrent positive and negative) emotions activated after interactions in the Trust game. Our analyses reveal that activation of 20 emotional states following trust-based interaction is better explained by predictions derived from a multi-dimensional Recalibrational perspective than by predictions derived from two-dimensional Valence and Arousal perspectives. The Recalibrational perspective proposes that emotions are activated according to their functional features – for example, emotions help people achieve short or long-sighted goals by up or down-regulating behavioral propensities, whereas Valence and Arousal perspectives consider simpler hedonic dimensions lacking functional specificity. The Recalibrational perspective is also distinguished from the Valence and Arousal perspectives in that it predicts the possibility of conflicted emotions. We discuss the theoretical implications of having conflicted goals and the economic implications of having conflicted emotions.
D87|Sex Hormones and Competitive Bidding|We correlate competitive bidding and profits in symmetric independent private value first-price auctions with salivary testosterone, estradiol, progesterone, and cortisol in more than 200 subjects. Bids are significantly positively correlated and profits are significantly negatively correlated with basal salivary progesterone, but only for females who do not use hormonal contraceptives. Surprisingly, we have null findings for basal testosterone, estradiol, and cortisol for both males and females. We show that our finding for progesterone is not mediated by risk aversion or bidding mistakes. No hormone responds to total profits in the auctions except for a small positive response of the stress hormone cortisol in males.Data, as supplemental material, are available at http://dx.doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2014.1959 . This paper was accepted by Uri Gneezy, behavioral economics.
D87|Neuronal Utility and Choice by an Organism|This paper presents a theory of choice that yields a set of new predictions about behavior when compared to the expected utility model, encompassing the existence of automatic responses and attentional biases. A formula comparable to the one of expected utility is identified. Under certain restrictive conditions identified here, the aggregate behavior of this brain model is equivalent to the one proposed by the expected utility model. This theory of choice is based on the concept of a race between different processes that occur in parallel inside the brain of an organism, run by different groups of neurons. Action is defined by the outcome of this competition, which is won by the process that is completed first. The time it takes for one process to finish the race is a function of the desirability it evokes, but additionally depends on the length of the neuron chain and how the sensory system reacts to information.
D87|Behavioral Economics of Education: Progress and Possibilities|Behavioral economics attempts to integrate insights from psychology, neuroscience, and sociology in order to better predict individual outcomes and develop more effective policy. While the field has been successfully applied to many areas, education has, so far, received less attention - a surprising oversight, given the field's key interest in long-run decision-making and the propensity of youth to make poor long-run decisions. In this chapter, we review the emerging literature on the behavioral economics of education. We first develop a general framework for thinking about why youth and their parents might not always take full advantage of education opportunities. We then discuss how these behavioral barriers may be preventing some students from improving their long-run welfare. We evaluate the recent but rapidly growing efforts to develop policies that mitigate these barriers, many of which have been examined in experimental settings. Finally, we discuss future prospects for research in this emerging field.
D87|A neuroimaging study of preference for strategic uncertainty|We study the preference for strategic uncertainty when subjects play matching pennies and coordination games. The scanned subject has the option to ‘play’, in which case both receive outcomes according to their moves, or ‘opt-out’ and receive the same sure amount along with the ‘opponent’ outside the scanner for whom half the trials are relegated to a die. Having an ‘opt-out’ option enables us to estimate subjects’ certainty equivalent under four types of uncertainties—game (matching pennies versus coordination) × play (strategic versus random). Our observation of subjects valuing playing coordination more than matching pennies supports a preference for shared plight in the income inequality literature. This preference is modulated by whether subjects face conscious or random play. Specifically, in matching pennies, subjects require a premium to play when the opponent makes a conscious move compared with a random move. Yet, they are willing to accept a discount to play coordination strategically rather than randomly. In accounting for the observed differential risk preferences, our brain imaging results distinguish an explanation drawn from source preference, which is self-regarding, from one based on social preference under uncertainty, which is other-regarding. We observe that activations in the amygdala and the orbital prefrontal cortex are modulated by the game × play interaction, extending previous finding of their association with decision making under ambiguity. Finally we employ a source-dependent expected utility model to analyze the behavioral and imaging data and find that the value of playing the various games is encoded in the striatum. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
D87|When social preferences and anxiety drive behavior and vasopressin does not – An neuroeconomic analysis of vasopressin and the Hawk-Dove game –|We delineated the causal influence of vasopressin on behavior in an iterated Hawk-Dove game. While subjects treated with vasopressin tend to be more aggressive in response to group members who did not coordinate on equilibrium instantaneously, this effect vanishes as soon as the subjects reach an equilibrium. More than vasopressin, social preferences and trait anxiety of the subjects predict the observed behavior.
D87|Ex-post optimal knapsack procurement|We consider a budget-constrained mechanism designer who selects an optimal set of projects to maximize her utility. Projects may differ in their value for the designer, and their cost is private information. In this allocation problem, the quantity of procured projects is endogenously determined by the mechanism. The designer faces ex-post constraints: the participation and budget constraints must hold for each possible outcome, while the mechanism must be strategyproof. We identify settings in which the class of optimal mechanisms has a deferred acceptance auction representation which allows an implementation with a descending-clock auction. Only in the case of symmetric projects do price clocks descend synchronously such that the cheapest projects are implemented. The case in which values or costs are asymmetrically distributed features a novel tradeoff between quantity and quality. The reason is that guaranteeing allocation to the most favorable projects under strategyproofness comes at a price of a diminished expected number of implemented projects.
D87|Reference Points and Learning|Abstract This paper studies learning when agents evaluate outcomes in comparison to a reference point. It shows that certain models of reinforcement learning lead toclasses of recursive preferences.
D87|The Effects of Emotions on Preferences and Choices for Public Goods|This paper tests whether changes in 'incidental emotions' lead to changes in economic choices. Incidental emotions are experienced at the time of an economic decision but are not part of the payoff from a particular choice. As such, the standard economic model predicts that incidental emotions should not affect behavior, yet many papers in the behavioral science and psychology literatures find evidence of such effects. In this paper, we used a standard procedure to induce different incidental emotional states in respondents, and then carried out a choice experiment on changes to an environmental good (beach quality). We estimated preferences for this environmental good and willingness to pay for changes in this good, and tested whether these were dependent on the particular emotional state induced. We also tested whether choices became more or less random when emotional states were induced, based on the notion of randomness in a standard random utility model. Contrary to our a-priori hypothesis we found no significant evidence of treatment effects, implying that economists need not worry about the effects of variations in incidental emotions on preferences and the randomness of choice, even when there is measured (induced) variation in these emotions.
D87|The effects of emotions on preferences and choices for public goods|This paper tests whether changes in “incidental emotions” lead to changes in economic choices. Incidental emotions are experienced at the time of an economic decision but are not part of the payoff from a particular choice. As such, the standard economic model predicts that incidental emotions should not affect behavior, yet many papers in the behavioral science and psychology literatures find evidence of such effects. In this paper, we used a standard procedure to induce different incidental emotional states in respondents, and then carried out a choice experiment on changes to an environmental good (beach quality). We estimated preferences for this environmental good and willingness to pay for changes in this good, and tested whether these were dependent on the particular emotional state induced. We also tested whether choices became more or less random when emotional states were induced, based on the notion of randomness in a standard random utility model. Contrary to our a-priori hypothesis we found no significant evidence of treatment effects, implying that economists need not worry about the effects of variations in incidental emotions on preferences and the randomness of choice, even when there is measured (induced) variation in these emotions.
D87|The effects of emotions on preferences and choices for public goods|This paper tests whether changes in “incidental emotions” lead to changes in economic choices. Incidental emotions are experienced at the time of an economic decision but are not part of the payoff from a particular choice. As such, the standard economic model predicts that incidental emotions should not affect behavior, yet many papers in the behavioral science and psychology literatures find evidence of such effects. In this paper, we used a standard procedure to induce different incidental emotional states in respondents, and then carried out a choice experiment on changes to an environmental good (beach quality). We estimated preferences for this environmental good and willingness to pay for changes in this good, and tested whether these were dependent on the particular emotional state induced. We also tested whether choices became more or less random when emotional states were induced, based on the notion of randomness in a standard random utility model. Contrary to our a-priori hypothesis we found no significant evidence of treatment effects, implying that economists need not worry about the effects of variations in incidental emotions on preferences and the randomness of choice, even when there is measured (induced) variation in these emotions.
D87|Stochastic Choice: An Optimizing Neuroeconomic Model|A model is proposed in which stochastic choice results from noise in cognitive processing rather than random variation in preferences. The mental process used to make a choice is nonetheless optimal, subject to a constraint on available information-processing capacity that is motivated by neurophysiological evidence. The optimal information-constrained model is found to offer a better fit to experimental data on choice frequencies and reaction times than either a purely mechanical process model of choice (the drift-diffusion model) or an optimizing model with fewer constraints on feasible choice processes (the rational inattention model).
D87|Benefits of Neuroeconomic Modeling: New Policy Interventions and Predictors of Preference|Neuroeconomics strives to use knowledge from neuroscience to improve models of decisionmaking. Here we introduce a biologically plausible, drift-diffusion model that is able to jointly predict choice behavior and response times across different choice environments. The model has both normative and positive implications for economics. First, we consistently observe that decisionmakers inefficiently allocate their time to choices for which they are close to indifference. We demonstrate that we can improve subjects' welfare using a simple intervention that puts a time limit on their choices. Second, response times can be used to predict indifference points and the strength of preferences.
D87|Rational Attention and Adaptive Coding: A Puzzle and a Solution|Adaptive Coding is the property of the brain to adjust its response to statistical properties of the environment. Its effect is an improved discrimination among signals under the constraints on the dynamic range of its response. It can thus be considered the neural correspondent of Rational Attention, which models how a rational decisionmaker allocates attention among different informative signals. There is strong evidence of existence of widespread adaptive coding. Adaptive coding introduces a dependence of choice from the environment which is not observed in behavior. We discuss potential solutions and propose Hebbian learning as a potentially satisfactory answer.
D87|Neural Activity Reveals Preferences without Choices|"We investigate the feasibility of inferring the choices people would make (if given the opportunity) based on their neural responses to the pertinent prospects when they are not engaged in actual decision making. The ability to make such inferences is of potential value when choice data are unavailable, or limited in ways that render standard methods of estimating choice mappings problematic. We formulate prediction models relating choices to ""nonchoice"" neural responses, and use them to predict out-of-sample choices for new items and for new groups of individuals. The predictions are sufficiently accurate to establish the feasibility of our approach."
D87|The Wages of Sinistrality: Handedness, Brain Structure, and Human Capital Accumulation|Left- and right-handed individuals have different neurological wiring, particularly with regard to language processing. Multiple datasets from the United States and the United Kingdom show that lefties exhibit significant human capital deficits relative to righties. Lefties score 0.1 standard deviations lower on cognitive skill measures, have more behavioral problems, have more learning disabilities such as dyslexia, complete less schooling, and work in occupations requiring less cognitive skill. Most strikingly, lefties have 10-12 percent lower annual earnings than righties, much of which can be explained by observable differences in cognitive skills and behavioral problems. Lefties work in more manually intensive occupations than do righties, further suggesting their primary labor market disadvantage is cognitive rather then physical. I argue here that handedness can be used to explore the long-run impacts of differential brain structure generated in part by genetics and in part by poor infant health.
D87|Ethical Responsibility of Neuromarketing Companies in Harnessing the Market Research – a Global Exploratory Approach|A key challenge in the 21st century is identifying how to satisfy consumers’ needs in the best manner possible, whilst ensuring companies’ financial profitability. Scientists play a major role in achieving this goal, as research methods, techniques and tools have continuously evolved. In the last two decades, the development of these instruments has seen an important boost, as neuromarketing methods and techniques added depth and accuracy to traditional studies. The main aim of this paper is to highlight the role and importance of neuromarketing research techniques in the evolution of neurosciences and to explain how these techniques are used in market research. One of the most important challenges for companies who offer neuromarketing services is to stick to ethical principles when performing the investigations. This is an obligation they have both towards the beneficiaries – the companies providing products or services – and towards their consumers as well. This challenge has always been a subject of dispute between the advocates and critics of neuromarketing.
D87|The Endowment Effect|The endowment effect is among the best known findings in behavioral economics and has been used as evidence for theories of reference-dependent preferences and loss aversion. However, a recent literature has questioned the robustness of the effect in the laboratory, as well as its relevance in the field. In this review, we provide a summary of the evidence and describe recent theoretical developments that can potentially reconcile the different findings, with a focus on expectation-based reference points. We also survey recent work from psychology that provides either alternatives to or refinements of the usual loss-aversion explanation. We argue that loss aversion is still the leading paradigm for understanding the endowment effect, but given the rich psychology behind the effect, a version of the theory that encompasses multiple reference points may be required.
D87|Sex hormones and choice under risk|We study the correlation of choice under risk in Holt-Laury lotteries for gains and losses with gender, the use of hormonal contraceptives, menstrual cycle information, salivary testosterone, estradiol, progesterone, and cortisol as well as the digit ratio (2D:4D) in more than 200 subjects. In males, salivary testosterone is negatively correlated with risk aversion for gains only. In females, salivary cortisol is positively correlated with risk aversion for gains only. No other significant correlations between risk preferences and salivary hormones are observed. No significant correlations between risk preferences and the menstrual cycle are observed in naturally cycling females. No significant correlations between risk preferences and the digit ratio are observed in either gender and/or race. Females who use hormonal contraceptives are more likely to make ``consistent'' choices although this may be due to a selection effect. Risk aversion is positively correlated with being female for losses only.
D87|Experimental And Self‐Reported Measures Of Risk Taking And Digit Ratio (2d:4d): Evidence From A Large, Systematic Study|We systematically investigate the links between the digit ratio (2D:4D)—a biomarker for prenatal testosterone exposure—and two measures of individual risk taking: (i) risk preferences (RP) over lotteries with real monetary incentives and (ii) self‐reported risk attitude (RA). We find that both the right‐hand and the left‐hand digit ratio are significantly associated with RP: Subjects with lower digit ratios tend to choose riskier lotteries. Neither digit ratio, however, is associated with self‐reported RA.
D87|Self-Confidence, Overconfidence and Prenatal Testosterone Exposure: Evidence from the Lab|This paper examines whether the degree of confidence and overconfidence in one’s ability is determined biologically. In particular, we study whether foetal testosterone exposure correlates with an incentive-compatible measure of confidence within an experimental setting. We find that men (rather than women) who were exposed to high testosterone levels in their mother’s womb are less likely to overestimate their actual performance, which in turn helps them to gain higher monetary rewards. Men exposed to low prenatal testosterone levels, instead, set unrealistically high expectations which results in self-defeating behavior. These results from the lab are able to recon- cile hitherto disconnected evidence from the field, by providing a link between traders’ overconfidence bias, long-term financial returns and prenatal testosterone exposure.
D87|Path dependence in risky choice: Affective and deliberative processes in brain and behavior|Decision-makers show an increased risk appetite when they gamble with previously won money, the house money effect, and when they have a chance to make up for a prior loss, the break even effect. To explore the origins of these effects, we use functional magnetic resonance imaging to record the brain activities of subjects while they make sequential risky choices. The behavioral data from our experiment confirm the path dependence of choices, despite the short trial duration and the many task repetitions required for neuroimaging. The brain data yield evidence that the increased risk appetite after gains and losses is related to an increased activity of affective brain processes and a decreased activity of deliberative brain processes.
D87|Dual-process theories of decision-making: A selective survey|Brain modularity is a key concept in neuroscience. It challenges the common view of the single coherent self adopted in many disciplines, including economics. Multi-process theories of decision-making rely on the existence of several brain systems interacting with each other to revisit standard paradigms of choice, propose choices that fit the behavioral data better, and offer testable predictions. In this paper, we present a selective review of our recent research in this area. We focus on constrained optimization models rather than the computational models extensively used in neuroscience.
D87|Complexity and endogenous instability|The global financial crisis proved the critical impact of the gap between individual rationality and group rationality. This gap is not supposed to arise in a Neoclassical world, but it frequently arises in a world as complex as ours. The paper explores how endogenous instability might arise due to such a gap, and what behavioral rules might help to mitigate its impact.
D87|Self-Confidence, Overconfidence and Prenatal Testosterone Exposure: Evidence from the Lab| This paper examines whether the degree of confidence and overconfidence in one's ability is determined biologically. In articular, we study whether foetal testosterone exposure correlates with an incentive-compatible measure of confidence within an experimental setting. We find that men (rather than women) who were exposed to high testosterone levels in their mother's womb are less likely to overestimate their actual performance, which in turn helps them to gain higher monetary rewards. Men exposed to low prenatal testosterone levels, instead, set unrealistically high expectations which results in self-defeating behaviour. These results from the lab are able to reconcile hitherto disconnected evidence from the field, by providing a link between traders'overconfidence bias, long-term financial returns and prenatal testosterone exposure.
D87|Occupy the Financial Niche – Saturation and Crisis (discontinuous decisions)|The model presented is proposing an approach that could verify the nonlinear behaviour during a crisis, such that to quantify and predict potential discontinuous behaviour. In this case, the crisis behaviour associated with financial funds reallocation among various credit instruments, described as memes with the sense of Dawkins, is shown to be of discontinuous nature stemming from a logistic penetration in the financial behaviour niche. Actually the logistic penetration is typical in creating cyclic behaviour of economic structures as shown by Marchetti and others from IIASA. A Fokker-Planck equation description results in a stationary solution having a bifurcation like solution with evolution trajectories on a ‘cusp’ type catastrophe that may describe discontinuous decision behaviour.
D87|Publicity, Advertising and Spirituality|Advertising industry is more and more often associated to brilliant minds in areas such as: psychology, sociology, anthropology, who turned a job into a full time task of 'penetrating the collective public mind, (...) its manipulation, exploitation and control'. That is why, ever since its beginnings, the advertising industry was admonished by social critics for taking materialism to the highest levels; to replace inner happiness and intrinsic motivation with the wish to be productive in society only to the extent of consuming and buying happiness. Therefore, over time, advertising and publicity have raised pros and cons; while some voices describe advertising as a motor of society, driving economic development, there are others that strongly criticise advertising creations, blaming it of manipulation. Conversely, reality proves that a number of other factors exercise a major influence on the customers: experience, price, traditions, age, fashion, religion, etc thus, the fight between advertising pros and cons has led to the emergence of theories regarding its efficiency. Controversy related to the relationship between the rational and the emotional is still ongoing, the more so as the conventional alternative states that we should not let ourselves be affected by emotion when we make decisions, also, religious doctrines state that the mind and the body are two separate entities.
D87|Selfish Altruism, Fierce Cooperation and the Emergence of Cooperative Equilibria from Passing and Shooting|"There is continuing debate about what explains cooperation and self-sacrifice in nature and in particular in humans. This paper suggests a new way to think about this famous problem. I argue that, for an evolutionary biologist as well as a quantitative social scientist, the triangle of two players in the presence of a predator (passing and shooting in 2-on-1 situations) is a fundamental conceptual building-block for understanding these phenomena. I show how, in the presence of a predator, cooperative equilibria rationally emerge among entirely selfish agents. If we examine the dynamics of such a model, and bias the lead player (ball possessor with pass/shoot i.e. cooperate/defect dilemma) in the selfish direction by only an infinitesimal amount, then, remarkably, the trajectories of the new system move towards a cooperative equilibrium. I argue that ""predators"" are common in the biological jungle but also in everyday human settings. Intuitively, this paper builds on the simple idea – a familiar one to a biologist observing the natural world but perhaps less so to social scientists – that everybody has enemies. As a technical contribution, I solve these models analytically in the unbiased case and numerically by an O(h5) approximation with the Runge-Kutta method."
D87|Naturalizing Institutions: Evolutionary Principles and Application on the Case of Money|In recent extensions of Darwinism into economics, the replicator-interactor duality looms large. I propose a naturalistic approach to this duality in the context of the theory of institutions, which means that its use is necessarily dependent on identifying a physical realization. I introduce a general framework, which synthesizes Searle’s and Aoki’s theories, especially with regard to the role of public representations (signs) in the coordination of actions, and the function of cognitive processes that underlie rule-following as a behavioural disposition. Institutions are causal circuits that connect the population-level dynamics of interactions with cognitive phenomena on the individual level which ultimately root in neuronal structures. I propose a new conceptualization of the replicator in the context of institutions: the replicator is a causal conjunction between (physical) signs and neuronal structures which undergirds the dispositions that generate rule-following actions. Signs, in turn, are outcomes of population-level interactions. I apply this framework on the case of money, analysing the emotions that go along with the use of money, and presenting a stylized account of the emergence of money in terms of the naturalized Searle-Aoki model. In this view, money is a neuronally anchored sign for emotions relating with social exchange and reciprocity. The money replicator is physically realized in a causal conjunction of money artefacts and money emotions.
D87|The neural correlates of contractual risk and penalty framing|Standard economic theory treats contractual risk the same as risk experienced in a lottery, but the transfer of risk from principal to agent may change the perception of risk. Previous experimental studies have shown that positive and negative framing affects both gambles and incentive contracts. An agent’s perception of bonus and penalty framing in a contract can determine the extent to which lottery risk and contractual risk are similar. We designed an experiment that tested the effect of bonus and penalty framed contracts on behavior under an implicit chance of failure. Moreover, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to observe brain activity while participants viewed the contracts and purchased precautionary measures. We found that the dorsal striatum was more active during a penalty frame than a bonus frame. The study suggests that risk experienced by agents in an incentive contract is not comparable to risk experienced as a lottery. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
D87|Neuroeconomic Models of Decision-Making|Over the past decade, there has been increasing evidence describing economic models of decision making, the neural processes underlying behavior, the deep structure of human preferences, and the regions of activation in the brain observed in judgment and decision making in economic contexts. The aim of the present study is to examine and evaluate the potential of neuroeconomics to help in constructing models of economic decision making, the neurobiological mechanisms that are responsible for making economic choices, and the psychological process of economic decision making.
D87|An Optimizing Neuroeconomic Model of Discrete Choice|A model is proposed in which stochastic choice results from noise in cognitive processing rather than random variation in preferences. The mental process used to make a choice is nonetheless optimal, subject to a constraint on available information-processing capacity that is partially motivated by neurophysiological evidence. The optimal information-constrained model is found to offer a better fit to experimental data on choice frequencies and reaction times than either a purely mechanical process model of choice (the drift-diffusion model) or an optimizing model with fewer constraints on feasible choice processes (the rational inattention model).
D87|Resource Allocation in the Brain|When an individual performs several tasks simultaneously, processing resources must be allocated to different brain systems to produce energy for neurons to fire. Following the evidence from neuroscience, we model the brain as an organization in which a coordinator allocates limited resources to the brain systems responsible for the different tasks. Systems are privately informed about the amount of resources necessary to perform their task and compete to obtain the resources. The coordinator arbitrates the demands while satisfying the resource constraint. We show that the optimal mechanism is to impose to each system with privately known needs a cap in resources that depends negatively on the amount of resources requested by the other system. This allocation can be implemented using a biologically plausible mechanism. Finally, we provide some implications of our theory: (i) performance can be flawless for sufficiently simple tasks, (ii) the dynamic allocation rule exhibits inertia (current allocations are increasing in past needs), and (iii) different cognitive tasks are performed by different systems only if the tasks are sufficiently important.
D87|El Papel de los Muertos en el Cerebro de los Vivos: Metáforas en las Revoluciones Francesas (1789-99, 1848-51, 1870-71), Iraní (1977-81) y Bolchevique (1917-1924)<BR>[The Role of the Dead in the Living Brain: Metaphors in French Revolutions French (1789-99, 1848-51, 1870-71), Iran (1977-1981) and Bolshevik (1917-1924)]|This paper work assesses the key aspects of a framework for research on revolutions. Our approach includes a heuristic based on an idea suggested by Marx in the 18th Brumaire of Louis Bonaparte: “The tradition of all dead generations weighs like a nightmare on the brain of the living”. From this maxim of Marx advance on conventional interpretations by postulating that the language and metaphors are a challenge in several respects: (1) The brain is a physical basis for understanding key political revolutions, (2) advances in neuroscience and language (Lakoff/Johnson/Narayanan) have allowed the reconstruction of conceptual frameworks in various fields, including philosophy, mathematics and politics (3) The language expressed in songs, text, flags, emblems, illustrations, slogans, speeches and rumors is key to represent and demonstrate loyalty to the idea of revolution and, more crucially, to “make” the revolution, (4) Metaphors are a powerful rational action in revolutionary processes. One interpretation of these can contribute to decipher, for example, how the brain are activated in neural systems that link past and present, how to operate the symbolic frameworks of language to influence political opinion, how metaphors interact with processes artificial simulation or how metaphors evolve in a revolution from simple metaphors.
D87|Evolution of the Russian Political Party System under the Influence of Social Conformity: 1993-2011|The Russian political party system has developed through a tumultuous era, progressing from extreme fragmentation to a smaller, more stable number of parties. Much of this change was engineered by elites and especially by President Putin, leading to the question of whether the result is a normal party system by traditional Western standards or just a tool of the government. By means of a predictive mathematical model, the analysis shows that the party system indeed has grown strong popular roots with a great impact on the overall distribution of votes among the parties. This is caused by the pervasive but unconscious effect of social conformity on voters.
D87|Payment Scheme Changes and Effort Provision: The Effect of Digit Ratio|Economic experiments report that individuals perform better under a piece rate payment scheme in comparison to a fixed payment scheme. The reason is straightforward: incentives motivate people, and without incentives they decrease their effort. Yet women are prone to choose a fixed payment over a piece rate payment scheme. We aim to find out if this gender effect is related to prenatal exposure to testosterone, which by nature is sexually dimorphic and has permanent effects on human brain development with an impact on cognitive and physical skills, as well as behavior. We investigate the effect of prenatal testosterone exposure on performance adjustment in a real effort task. Each subject is salaried under either a fixed rate or piece rate payment scheme for five periods and subsequently encounters the alternative payment method for another five periods. To observe the prenatal testosterone levels that the participants were exposed to during pregnancy, we use the so-called digit ratio as an indirect measurement method. It uses the length-ratio between the participants’ index and ring fingers to infer about their in utero testosterone exposure. Our results confirm the previous findings indicating that individuals perform better when incentivized by a piece rate payment scheme. Subjects who are paid piece rate in the first half of the experiment immediately decrease their performance at the beginning of the second half when paid under a fixed payment scheme. In contrast, subjects increase their effort if the payment method is switched from fixed rate to piece rate in the second half of the experiment. Subjects who were exposed to higher levels of prenatal testosterone provide significantly lower effort when the payment scheme is switched from piece rate to fixed rate.
D87|System Trust and Cooperation: The Case of Recycling Behavior|Abstract: In this paper, I develop and test the hypothesis that system trust – trust in the reliability, ef-fectiveness, and legitimacy of social institutions – promotes cooperation in social dilemmas and the provision of public goods, focusing then on the example of recycling. I discuss three models that can explain recycling behavior (rational choice, low-cost hypothesis, dual-process theory) and show how they link incentives and attitudes. All three models claim that incentives are an important factor mediating the attitude-behavior link, but they develop con-tradicting hypotheses about the direction of this effect. I use survey data collected by Sønderskov and Daugbjerg (2011) to advance an empirical test. I find a positive and significant interaction between the attitude of system trust and recycling costs, as well as a negative and significant interaction between system trust and recycling benefits. The data rule out the rational choice and low-cost hypothesis explanation of recycling behavior. Instead, they indicate that attitudes moderate the impact of the incentive structure, increasing cooperation in collective action dilemmas irrespective of the costs associated with compliance.
D87|Preschoolers and the Endowment Effect|We show that preschoolers exhibit the endowment effect as evidenced by experiments where children generally chose to keep their own toys rather than trading them for similar ones. Furthermore, we relate the emergence of this effect to children’s innate psychobiological traits—emotional state, gender, handedness, and digit ratio. The trials were conducted with 141 children across 6 kindergartens. We also found support that children, like adults, exhibit a preference for physical possession as opposed to ownership. As with adults, emotions also seem to matter, as children who were described as quiet and calm were more likely to present the endowment effect. Also of note, right-handed children described as quiet were more likely to exhibit the phenomenon. Furthermore, female children were generally found to be calmer than males, while males tended to be more fearful than females. This result was also previously found in teenagers.
D87|Enforcement frictions and optimal lending contracts|I consider an environment in which contract enforcement is a decision variable for the principal. I construct a model in which entrepreneurs cannot commit to repaying investors for the capital advanced, but investors can force repayment by spending resources. The principal uses enforcement to reduce the resources available to the agent after a default, thus providing incentives for the agent to stay in the relationship. She also ensures contract compliance by backloading the payments to the agent: expected utility rises over time, preventing a default. I consider an application of the framework developed in the paper to the area of firm dynamics. I show that enforcement and backloading are always used jointly. Firm size (measured by capital) grows with time and each firm converges to the efficient size. A second application is to the field of economic development. Costlier enforcement leads to the choice of sub-optimal technology; secondly, it leads to inefficient dispersion of capital across establishments. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
D87|A model of boundedly rational “neuro” agents|We consider a model in which each agent in a population chooses one of two options. Each agent does not know what the available options are and can choose an option only after observing another agent who has already chosen that option. In addition, the agents’ preferences over the two options are correlated. An agent can either imitate an observed agent or wait until he meets two agents who made different choices, in which case he can compare their choices and choose accordingly. A novel feature of the model is that agents observe not only the choices made by others, but also some information about the process that led them to those choices. We study two cases: In the first, an agent notes whether the observed agent imitated others or whether he actually compared the available alternatives. In the second, an agent notes whether the observed agent’s decision was hasty or not. It is shown that in equilibrium the probability of making a mistake is higher in the second case and that the existence of these nonstandard “neuro” observations systematically biases the equilibrium distribution of choices. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
D87|Self-Confidence, Overconfidence and Prenatal Testorone Exposure : Evidence from the Lab|Abstract: This paper examines whether the degree of confi dence and overconfi dence in one's ability is determined biologically. In particular, we study whether foetal testosterone exposure correlates with an incentive-compatible measure of con fidence within an experimental setting. We fi nd that men (rather than women) who were exposed to high testosterone levels in their mother's womb are less likely to overestimate their actual performance, which in turn helps them to gain higher monetary rewards. Men exposed to low prenatal testosterone levels, instead, set unrealistically high expectations which results in self-defeating behavior. These results from the lab are able to recon- cile hitherto disconnected evidence from the fi eld, by providing a link between traders' overcon fidence bias, long-term financial returns and prenatal testosterone exposure.
D87|A Review Essay about Foundations of Neuroeconomic Analysis by Paul Glimcher|Neuroeconomics aims to discover mechanisms of economic decision, and express them mathematically, to predict observed choice. While the contents of neuroeconomic models and evidence are obviously different than in traditional economics, (some of the) goals are identical: to explain and predict choice, the effects of comparative statics, and perhaps make interesting new welfare judgments that are defensible. To this end, Paul Glimcher's important book carefully describes how economics, psychological, and neural levels of explanation can be linked (a structure which has been successful in visual neuroscience). As Glimcher shows, the neural evidence is quite strong for a process of learning valuations through prediction error, and a simple model of neural valuation and comparison that corresponds to random utility (though subject to normalization, which produces menu effects). There is also rapidly growing evidence for more complicated constructs in behavioral economics, including prospect theory's account of risky choice, hyperbolic time discounting, level-k models of games, and social preferences corresponding to internal reward based on what happens to other agents.
D87|A Tractable Theory of Choice Based on Cell Behavior|This paper presents a choice model based on a model for the behavior of brain cells that is based on neurological findings. The paper shows that it is possible to define choice as the result of a series of interconnected cellular processes, instead of framing the problem from the point of view of a single optimizing agent. Many of the desirable attributes of the latter are preserved. Under specific conditions identified here, the aggregate behavior of individual brain cells is similar to what a traditional rational optimizing agent would choose. This model is a first step to understand decision-making in terms of cellular interactions.
D87|EFECTOS MANADA Y BANDWAGON. Una aproximación desde la economía experimental|"A menudo los agentes económicos afrontan situaciones en las que las decisiones de los demás determinan su proceder, ""hacer lo que otros hacen"" origina procesos de imitación y moda. El documento tiene como objetivo determinar la magnitud de estos procesos mediante los efectos Manada y Bandwagon con base en los modelos de comportamiento de manada de Banerjee y conformidad de Asch para finalmente formular un diseño experimental que valide la influencia que ejerce la presión social en los individuos al momento de tomar decisiones."
D87|Menstrual cycle and competitive bidding|In an experiment using two-bidder first-price sealed-bid auctions with symmetric independent private values and 400 participants, we collected information on the female participantsʼ menstrual cycles and the use of hormonal contraceptives. We find that naturally cycling women bid significantly higher than men and earn significantly lower profits than men except during the midcycle when fecundity is highest. We suggest an evolutionary hypothesis according to which women are predisposed by hormones to generally behave more riskily during their fecund phase of their menstrual cycle in order to increase the probability of conception, quality of offspring, and genetic variety. We also find that women on hormonal contraceptives bid significantly higher and earn substantially lower profits than men. This may be due to progestins contained in hormonal contraceptives or a selection effect. We discuss how our study differs from Chen et al. (2013).
D87|Sex-hormone genes and gender difference in ultimatum game: Experimental evidence from China and Israel|Combining the methodologies of experimental economics and molecular genetics, we report a genetic association between sex-hormone genes and ultimatum game (UG) behavior in a discovery sample from China and a replication sample from Israel. The androgen receptor gene is found to be associated with UG responder behavior for male but not female subjects in the Chinese population, but this finding is not replicated in the Israeli sample. The estrogen receptor β gene is significantly associated with female UG responder behavior but not for male subjects in the Chinese sample. This finding is marginally replicated in the Israeli sample. Overall, our findings provide suggestive evidence on a gender specific relationship between sex-hormone genes and UG responder behavior, and can contribute to a deeper understanding of gender differences in fairness preference at the level of molecular genetics.
D87|The evolution of hyperbolic discounting: Implications for truly social valuation of the future|We explore the standard expected utility model and alternatives to it. We then examine the behavioral and neurological evidence for hyperbolic discounting. We discuss evidence related to the neurological and behavioral evolution of discounting in non-human animals and in humans. We explore new findings about the importance of sociality in human behavior and the implications for truly social time preference. Finally, we discuss the implications of the neurological evidence on discounting for social environmental valuation, in particular the implications for very long-run decisions such as those involved in climate change mitigation and biodiversity preservation.
D87|Disentangling motivational and experiential aspects of “utility” – A neuroeconomics perspective|Although decision makers are often reported to have difficulties in making comparisons between multidimensional decision outcomes, economic theory assumes a unidimensional utility measure. This paper reviews evidence from behavioral and brain sciences to assess whether, and for what reasons, this assumption may be warranted. It is claimed that the decision makers’ difficulties can be explained once the motivational aspects of utility (“wanting”) are disentangled from the experiential ones (“liking”) and the features of the different brain processes involved are recognized.
D87|The contribution of neuroscience to consumer research: A conceptual framework and empirical review|Following the development of advanced neuroimaging techniques, the growing interest in studying the brain’s response to marketing stimuli resulted in the birth of consumer neuroscience within the field of neuroeconomics. However, marketing scholars have remained reluctant to adopt the techniques of neuroscience and there is still uncertainty about the capacity of neuroimaging data to provide useful findings about consumer psychology and behaviour. In order to clarify the current scope and contribution of consumer neuroscience, we first develop a semantic cluster analysis of the boundaries of the field, followed by a comprehensive empirical review from 34 selected studies. We propose a novel approach to classify findings and facilitate the assessment of evidence around the topics of decision-making, rewards, memory and emotions. Finally, we discuss the possible role of several brain mechanisms in the processing of marketing stimuli as well as obstacles to the integration of these findings with classical consumer behaviour theories. We conclude that the contribution of neuroimaging remains too limited to replace existing consumer research techniques and provide recommendations for future research.
D87|Motivation and affective processing biases in risky decision making: A counter-regulation account|We hypothesized that framing possible outcomes of decisions in terms of gains vs. losses should increase the salience of information that is incongruent in valence (counter-regulation principle: gain frame – negativity bias, loss frame – positivity bias). These incongruent attentional biases in the processing of positive and negative outcomes of risky options can explain why people tend to avoid risky options in a gain frame but tend to choose risky options in a loss frame. In line with our expectations, Experiment 1 revealed incongruent effects of framing on attentional biases for positive vs. negative stimuli in an evaluation task. In addition, valence bias predicted risk-seeking vs. risk-averse decisions and mediated the effect of framing on decision making. Two additional experiments investigated effects of valence biases on risky decision making by manipulating affective processing directly with an attention training task. Inducing a positivity (negativity) bias produced risk-seeking (risk-averse) decision behavior by enhancing the salience of win- or loss-related information in a gambling task with ambivalent color stimuli (Experiment 2) and by enhancing the impact of gain or loss outcomes on decision making in a coin toss (Experiment 3).
D87|Discrete Rule Learning and the Bidding of the Sexes|We present a hidden Markov model of discrete strategic heterogeneity and learning in first price independent private values auctions. The model includes three latent bidding rules: constant absolute mark-up, constant percentage mark-up, and strategic best response. Rule switching probabilities depend upon a bidder's past auction outcomes. We apply this model to a new experiment that varies the number of bidders, the auction frame between forward and reverse, and includes the collection of saliva samples - used to measure subjects' sex hormone levels. We find the proportion of bidders following constant absolute mark-up increases with experience, particularly when the number of bidders is large. The primary driver here is subjects' increased propensity to switch strategies when they experience a loss (win) reinforcement when following a strategic (heuristic) rule. This affect is stronger for women and leads them spend more time following boundedly rational rules. We also find women in the Luteal and Menstrual phases of their menstrual cycle bid less aggressively, in terms of surplus demanded, when following the best response rule. This combined with spending more time following simple rules of thumbs explains gender differences in earnings.
D87|On apparent irrational behaviors : interacting structures and the mind|"We develop a general method to solve models of interactions between multiple agents, including the possibility of strategic advantage for some of them. We argue that this type of model applies to the description of apparently irrational or biased behaviors in a person whose action is the resultant of several rational structures with di�erent goals. Our main example is a three agents model, denoted ""conscious"", ""unconscious"", and ""body"". Our principal result is that, for an agent whose ""unconscious"" goals differ from the conscious ones, the unconscious may in uence the conscious either directly, or indirectly via a third agent, the body and its needs. This three agent model allows the description of behaviors such as craving, excessive smoking, or sleepiness, to delay or dismiss a task. One of the main result stands in the fact that the unconscious agent's strategic action depends crucially on whether the conscious' actions (""task"" and ""feeding"") are complementary in time. When they are complementary, and if the conscious is not sensitive to unconscious' messages, the unconscious may drive the conscious towards its goals by blurring physical needs. When they are not complementary, the unconscious may more easily reach his goal by influencing the conscious, be it directly or indirectly."
D87|The nonlinear GDP dynamics|The oscillatory behavior of GDP and its components leads to a Fourier transform analysis that results in the eigen values of the dynamic economic system. The larger values are dominating the transient behavior of the GDP components and these transients are discussed along with the specific behavior of each component. The second order differential equations are determined, for each component, to describe the oscillatory behavior and the transient resulting from a step excitation. The natural frequencies are determined and the correlation of pairs of components’ cycles result in ‘beats’ process where the modulated wave cycles are compared and discussed. Based on these correlated influence terms the solutions of the differential equations of each component are determined along with their evolution in the phase space and with the specific Lagrangian. The possible occurrence of dynamical behavior basins for GDP is explored, associated to time interval least action considerations. Important conclusions are drawn from this analysis on the dynamics of GDP and its components, in terms of general versus local equilibriums and their evolution.
D87|Variants of the Monoamine Oxidase A Gene (MAOA) Predict Free-riding Behavior in Women in a Strategic Public Goods Experiment|Laboratory experiments have documented substantial heterogeneity in social preferences, but little is known about the origins of such behavior. Previous research on public goods experiments suggests that individual-level demographic and psychological variables correlate with player types. However, the key question about biological sources of variation in these preferences remains open. The aim of this study is to uncover genetic variations that influence differences in cooperative behavior. For this reason, we identify types of players within a strategic public goods experiment. We explicitly test for an association between individual variance in strategy choice and the functional promoter-region repeat of the monoamine oxidase A gene (MAOA). Our experimental findings suggest a link between MAOA and the occurrence of free-riding in females. Females with MAOA-L are less likely to behave like weak free-riders than MAOA-H carriers, whereas among males, our results did not support a significant relation between genotype and player type. Furthermore, MAOA-L female carriers contribute more than MAOA-H subjects to the public good if they know that others contribute nothing, and they showed slightly lower scores on the Machiavellianism scale. This is the first piece of evidence that genotype might predict player type within a public goods setting. It contributes to our understanding of biological drivers of economic decision-making and points to the need for further exploration.
D87|Early Life Adversity and Children’s Competence Development: Evidence from the Mannheim Study of Children at Risk|This paper investigates the role of early life adversity and home resources in terms of competence formation and school achievement based on data from an epidemiological cohort study following 364 children from birth to adolescence. Results indicate that organic and psychosocial risks present in early life as well as the socio-emotional home environment are significant predictors for the formation of competencies. Competencies acquired at preschool age predict achievement at school age. A counterfactual analysis is performed to assess trade-offs in the timing of interventions in the early life cycle.
D87|On the Power of Childhood Impressions for Skill Formation: Initial Evidence and Unsettled Questions|Manifold childhood impressions result from the interactions with adult caregivers and the environment. These impressions, be they beneficial or detrimental, shape individual skill formation and achievement over the life cycle. The novelty of the paper is that it bonds two different, hitherto separated, research lines, one from economics, one from psychology, to discuss the relationship between childhood impressions and later achievement. First, selected recent findings on early life adversity and skill formation are presented. Second, a tool for improving self-regulation, called implementations intentions, is introduced, which may have the power to counteract negative childhood impressions later in live. The attempt to integrate the two approaches results in a discussion of unsettled questions and an outlook for future research.
D87|Neuroeconomics and Identity| This short paper discusses majority and minority views in economics regarding the value of neuroscience for economics - and thus the value of the neuroeconomics research program. It argues that neuroeconomics' reception ultimately depends on whether economists adopt a philosophy of science thinking closer to what exists in other sciences. It then argues that an inadvertent product of this debate is whether people can be identified as relatively independent agents. The paper concludes with comments on what this debate implies about the conception of the decision-maker as a relatively independent identity.
D87|Keynesian Realism and the Present State of Economic Science|The aim of this paper is to illustrate a few aspects related to the shortcomings of the mainstream economics, and its unrealistic theoretic assumptions, as it completely failed to anticipate the current economic crisis. In the same time we intend to highlight the much more realistic theories provided by the Keynesian doctrine, which offer much more coherent and precise explanations about the economic mechanisms that cause deep economic recessions, like the one we are going through nowadays. The most important objective of this article is to emphasize the essential role of the psychological factors regarding the macroeconomic cyclical evolution. In the final part of the paper we provide a few scientific pieces of evidence that undoubtedly confirm the Keynesian hypotheses.
D87|Quantitative versus qualitative in neuromarketing research|Marketing research methods continuously develop and over the last decade technology offered solutions to improve this area. Traditional marketing research methods fail at some point in certain cases, and since emotions are mediators of how consumers process marketing messages, understanding of cognitive responses to advertisements have always been a challenge in methodology. Neuromarketing is the branch of neuroscience research that aims to better understand the consumer through his unconscious processes and has application in marketing, explaining consumer's preferences, motivations and expectations, predicting his behavior and evaluating successes or failures of advertising messages. In this context, this study aims to analyze relatively new alternative techniques in neuromarketing research, from quantitative and qualitative perspectives. After presenting the common space between quantitative research and neuromarketing research, respectively between qualitative research and neuromarketing research, the study will conclude on whether neuromarketing research is closer to a quantitative approach, or to a qualitative one.
D87|On Apparent Irrational Behaviors : Interacting Structures and the Mind|"We develop a general method to solve models of interactions between multiple and possibly strategic agents. Our model explains apparently irrational or biased behaviors in a person. We argue that these actions could result from several rational structures having different goals. Our main example is a model of three agents, ""conscious"", ""unconscious"", and ""body"". Our main result states that, for an agent whose unconscious and conscious goals differ, the unconscious may influence the conscious, either directly or indirectly, via a third agent, the body. This three-agent model describes behaviors such as craving, exces- sive smoking, or sleepiness, to delay or dismiss a task. One of the main result shows that the unconscious' strategic action crucially depends on whether the conscious' actions are complementary in time. When complementary, and if the conscious is not sensitive to un- conscious' messages, the unconscious may drive the conscious towards its goals by blurring physical needs. When not complementary, the unconscious may more easily reach his goal by influencing the conscious, be it directly or indirectly."
D87|Predation Due to Bargaining Power Difference in Financial Contracting|Previous literature presented a predation model based on agency problems in financial contracting. In that model, predation reduced prey’s cash flow through breaking the relationship between the prey and its investors as the prey is financially constrained. This paper presents a different model in which both the predator and the prey are financially constrained and in need of external funding. The only dissimilarity between the predator and the prey is their corresponding level of bargaining power in financial contracting over their respective investors. The asymmetry of bargaining power is the unique source of predatory behavior. Financial contract between firm with less bargaining power (prey) and its investor can deter predation if the predator cannot renegotiate the contract with its own investor. If renegotiation is available for the predator, no financial contract can successfully deter predation.
D87|An Examination of Sports Event Sentiment: Microeconomic Evidence from Borsa Istanbul|This paper examines the impact of international soccer matches on the Turkish stock market using firm level and sorted portfolio data, i.e. microeconomic evidence. Applying the Edmans et al. (2007) estimation method, we find a significant negative loss effect. However, once using panel data analysis and modeling spatial and temporal effects explicitly, we not only reject the null hypothesis of the sports sentiment effect, but also find that the international soccer games virtually have no power explaining stock return variation. The same conclusions are made when replacing win/loss dummies with unexpected win (loss) variable and sorting portfolio returns by market capitalization, past returns and volatility. Although we found mild evidence that sports events could affect the variance of sorted portfolio returns, there is very limited micro-evidence to support the 'overreaction' hypothesis of individual investors using Borsa Istanbul data.
D87|The role of psychological and physiological factors in decision making under risk and in a dilemma|We study the di fference in the result of two diff erent risk elicitation methods by linking estimates of risk attitudes to gender, age, personality traits, a decision in a dilemma situation, and physiological states measured by heart rate variability (HRV). Our results indicate that di fferences between the methods are reflected in a diff erent effect of gender and personality traits. Furthermore, HRV is linked to risk-taking in the experiment for one of the methods, suggesting that emotionally more stressed individuals display more risk aversion. However, we cannot determine if these are signifi cantly related to the diff erence on the results of the two methods. Finally, we find that risk attitudes are not predictive of the ability to decide in a dilemma, but personality traits are. There is also no apparent relationship between the physiological state during the dilemma situation and the ability to make a decision.
D87|Low second-to-fourth digit ratio predicts indiscriminate social suspicion, not improved trustworthiness detection|Testosterone administration appears to make individuals less trusting, and this effect was interpreted as an adaptive adjustment of social suspicion, that improved the accuracy of trusting decisions. Here we consider another possibility, namely that testosterone increases the subjective cost of being duped, decreasing the propensity to trust without improving the accuracy of trusting decisions. In line with this hypothesis, we show that second-to-fourth digit ratio (2D:4D, a proxy for organising effects of testosterone in the foetus) correlates with the propensity to trust but not with the accuracy of trusting decisions. Trust game players (N=144) trusted less when they had lower 2D:4D (high prenatal testosterone), but their ability to detect the strategy of other players was constant (and better than chance) across all levels of digit ratio. Our results suggest that early prenatal organizing effects of testoterone in the foetus might impair rather than boost economic outcomes, by promoting indiscriminate social suspicion.
D87|Psychologists at the Gate: A Review of Daniel Kahneman's Thinking, Fast and Slow|The publication of Daniel Kahneman's book, Thinking, Fast and Slow , is a major intellectual event. The book summarizes, but also integrates, the research that Kahneman has done over the past forty years, beginning with his path-breaking work with the late Amos Tversky. The broad theme of this research is that human beings are intuitive thinkers and that human intuition is imperfect, with the result that judgments and choices often deviate substantially from the predictions of normative statistical and economic models. In this review, I discuss some broad ideas and themes of the book, describe some economic applications, and suggest future directions for research that the book points to, especially in decision theory. (JEL A12, D03, D80, D87)
D87|From Psycho-Economics to Neuro-Economics|In economics, three nested organizational levels, namely behavioural, mental and neural, can be distinguished. They introduce specific theoretical or observable concepts and suggest their own models for choice making. If psycho-economics relates implemented actions to declared mental states, neuro-economics relates mental states to brain areas. Bridge principles can be defined which link concepts with similar interpretations at two successive levels. Thanks to these principles, relations or even models independently suggested at two successive levels may well be associated. Some prescriptive applications of these principles were more recently proposed, but they remain grounded on a too fragile basis. JEL Classification: A12, B41, D87.
D87|Ready to Face the Future: Brain Mechanisms for Cognitive Flexibility and Exploration|Solving the exploration/exploitation trade-off is a fundamental issue for an organism living in an uncertain and changing environment. This review describes how a stream of cognitive neuroscience studies linked exploratory behaviour to structures in the human prefrontal cortex, then identified the brain mechanisms involved in the online adaptation of behaviour relatively to reward changes, and finally revealed fundamental limitations in the processing of information at the prefrontal level. The experiments and the results we present could particularly be of interest to economists who want to understand how cognitive neuroscience identify key processes in the human brain and shapes our understanding of decision-making. JEL Classification: D87, D81, D83, C91.
D87|Seeking Ambiguity: a Review on Neuroimaging Studies on Decision Making under Ambiguity|Recent developments of neuroimaging technology enable us to investigate the brain network implicated in economical decision making (Glimcher et al. 2004; Camerer 2008). One of the fascinating topic is “ambiguity aversion” where people tend to avoid unknown options as demonstrated by Ellsberg paradox. Although “ambiguity aversion” has been consistently observed in a variety of situations, uncertainty due to incomplete knowledge can be resolved by obtaining missing information, and people explore the ambiguous options as well. Here, we review a number of neuroimaging studies on “ambiguity aversion” and associated works. It has been shown that the affective OFC and the cognitive prefrontal cortex play a crucial role in decision making under uncertainty. We discuss what kinds of cognitive function are involved in the decision making process by overviewing neuroimaging studies on higher cognitive processes in general including exploratory behavior. JEL Classification: D87.
D87|Aversions to Trust|In this article, we focus on two types of “aversion” which we deem essential aspects of the notion of trust: betrayal aversion (social) and ambiguity aversion (a special case of aversion to uncertainty). Based on trust-games studies in experimental economics and neuroeconomics, our main goal is to assess the conceptual, behavioral and neurobiological connections between betrayal and ambiguity aversions. From a social and individual psychological point of view the bottom line of our trusting behavior could be our general aversion to ambiguous signals. We approach social trust in the terms of a phenomenon based on uncertainty aversion. Specifically, a reduction of the perceived uncertainty of a social interaction tends to build up a trusting climate conducive to trade by decreasing betrayal aversion. We hypothesize that betrayal aversion and ambiguity aversion bear such a negative correlation. Focusing on this potential negative correlation our approach clearly differs from more positive accounts of trust centred on altruism. JEL Classification: C72; C91; D03 ; D87.
D87|Herding in Financial Behaviour: A Behavioural and Neuroeconomic Analysis of Individual Differences|Experimental analyses have identified significant tendencies for individuals to follow herd decisions, a finding which has been explained using Bayesian principles. This paper outlines the results from a herding task designed to extend these analyses using evidence from a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study. Empirically, we estimate logistic functions using panel estimation techniques to quantify the impact of herd decisions on individuals' financial decisions. We confirm that there are statistically significant propensities to herd and that social information about others' decisions has an impact on individuals' decisions. We extend these findings by identifying associations between herding propensities and individual characteristics including gender, age and various personality traits. In addition fMRI evidence shows that individual differences correlate strongly with activations in the amygdala – an area of the brain commonly associated with social decision-making. Individual differences also correlate strongly with amygdala activations during herding decisions. These findings are used to construct a two stage least squares model of financial herding which confirms that individual differences and neural responses play a role in modulating the propensity to herd.
D87|Sex Hormones and Choice under Risk|We correlate choice under risk in Holt-Laury lottery tasks for gains and losses with salivary testosterone, estradiol, progesterone, and cortisol, the use of hormonal contraceptives, menstrual cycle information as well as the digit ratio (2D:4D) in more than 200 subjects. Risk aversion is negatively correlated with testosterone and positively correlated with cortisol, a stress hormone, for gains only. In males, testosterone is negatively correlated with risk aversion for gains only. In females, cortisol is marginally significantly positively correlated with risk aversion for gains only. No other significant correlations between risk aversion and salivary hormones are observed. In females, testosterone and progesterone are positively correlated with reflection, i.e., risk aversion for gains and risk seeking for losses. Testosterone is negatively correlated with ``consistency'' of preferences in females, while estradiol is negatively correlated with ``consistency'' of preferences in males. No significant correlations between risk aversion and the menstrual cycle or the digit ratio are observed. Females on hormonal contraceptives are more likely to make ``consistent'' choices although this may be due to a selection effect. Risk aversion is positively correlated with being female for losses only. Yet, if we control for salivary hormones we are surprised to find a negative correlation between female and risk aversion for gains.
D87|Menstrual Cycle and Competitive Bidding|In an experiment using two-bidder first-price sealed bid auctions with symmetric independent private values and 400 participants, we collected information on the female participants' menstrual cycles and the use of hormonal contraceptives. We find that naturally cycling women bid significantly higher than men and earn significantly lower profits than men except during the midcycle when fecundity is highest. We suggest an evolutionary hypothesis according to which women are predisposed by hormones to generally behave more riskily during their fecund phase of their menstrual cycle in order to increase the probability of conception, quality of offspring, and genetic variety. We also find that women on hormonal contraceptives bid significantly higher and earn substantially lower profits than men. This may be due to progestins contained in hormonal contraceptives or a selection effect. We discuss how our study differs from Chen, Katuscak, and Ozdenoren (2009).
D87|Genes, economics, and happiness|Research on happiness has produced valuable insights into the sources of subjective well-being that are of importance to economics. A major finding from this literature is that people exhibit a 'baseline' level of happiness that shows persistent strength over time. Here we explore the extent to which baseline happiness is infl uenced by genetic variation. Using data from Add Health, we employ a twin study design to show that genetic variation explains about 33% of the variation in happiness, and that the infl uence of genes varies by gender (women 26%, men 39%) and tends to rise with age. We also present evidence that variation in a speci c gene predicts happiness. Individuals with a transcriptionally more efficient version of the serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4) are significantly more likely to report higher levels of life satisfaction - having one or two alleles of the more efficient type raises the average likelihood of being very satisfied with one's life by 8.5% and 17.3%, respectively. Finally, using data from an independent source (the Framingham Heart Study) we show that a linked single nucleotide polymorphism (rs2020933) in the SLC6A4 gene also predicts life satisfaction. These results are the first to identify a specific gene that may be associated with baseline levels of happiness.
D87|Life Satisfaction, Household Income and Personality Traits|We show that personality traits mediate the effect of income on Life Satisfaction. The effect is strong in the case of Neuroticism, which measures the sensitivity to threat and punishment, in both the British Household Panel Survey and the German Socioeconomic Panel. Neuroticism increases the usually observed concavity of the relationship : Individuals with higher Neuroticism score enjoy income more than those with lower score if they are poorer and enjoy income less if they are richer. When the interaction between income and neuroticism is introduced, income does not have significant effect on his own. To interpret the results, we present a simple model where we assume that (i) Life Satisfaction is dependent from the gap between aspired and realized income, and this is modulated by Neuroticism and (ii) income increases in aspirations with a slope less than unity, so that the gap between aspired and realized income increase with aspirations. From the estimation of this model we argue that poorer tend to overshoot in their aspiration, while rich tend to under-shoot. The estimation of the model also shows substantial effect of traits on income JEL classification: D03 ; D870 ; C33
D87|Ready to Face the Future: Brain Mechanisms for Cognitive Flexibility and Exploration|Solving the exploration/exploitation trade-off is a fundamental issue for an organism living in an uncertain and changing environment. This review describes how a stream of cognitive neuroscience studies linked exploratory behaviour to structures in the human prefrontal cortex, then identified the brain mechanisms involved in the online adaptation of behaviour relatively to reward changes, and finally revealed fundamental limitations in the processing of information at the prefrontal level. The experiments and the results we present could particularly be of interest to economists who want to understand how cognitive neuroscience identify key processes in the human brain and shapes our understanding of decision-making.
D87|Seeking Ambiguity: a Review on Neuroimaing Studies on Decision Making under Ambiguity|Recent developments of neuroimaging technology enable us to investigate the brain network implicated in economical decision making (Glimcher et al. 2004; Camerer 2008). One of the fascinating topic is “ambiguity aversion” where people tend to avoid unknown options as demonstrated by Ellsberg paradox. Although “ambiguity aversion” has been consistently observed in a variety of situations, uncertainty due to incomplete knowledge can be resolved by obtaining missing information, and people explore the ambiguous options as well. Here, we review a number of neuroimaging studies on “ambiguity aversion” and associated works. It has been shown that the affective OFC and the cognitive prefrontal cortex play a crucial role in decision making under uncertainty. We discuss what kinds of cognitive function are involved in the decision making process by overviewing neuroimaging studies on higher cognitive processes in general including exploratory behavior.
D87|Life Satisfaction, Household Income and Personality Theory|We show that personality traits mediate the effect of income on Life Satisfaction. The effect is strong in the case of Neuroticism, which measures the sensitivity to threat and punishment, in both the British Household Panel Survey and the German Socioeconomic Panel. Neuroticism increases the usually observed concavity of the relationship: Individuals with higher Neuroticism score enjoy income more than those with lower score if they are poorer and enjoy income less if they are richer. When the interaction between income and neuroticism is introduced, income does not have significant effect on his own. To interpret the results, we present a simple model where we assume that (i) Life Satisfaction is dependent from the gap between aspired and realized income, and this is modulated by Neuroticism and (ii) income increases in aspirations with a slope less than unity, so that the gap between aspired and realized income increase with aspirations. From the estimation of this model we argue that poorer tend to overshoot in their aspiration, while rich tend to under-shoot. The estimation of the model also shows substantial effect of traits on income.
D87|From perception to action: An economic model of brain processes|We build on research from neurobiology to model the process through which the brain maps outside evidence into decisions. The sensory system encodes information through cell-firing. Cell-firing is measured against a threshold, and an action is triggered depending on whether the threshold is surpassed. The decision system modulates the threshold. We show that the (constrained) optimal threshold is set in a way that existing beliefs are likely to be confirmed. We then derive behavioral implications. Our mechanism can explain in a unified framework a number of ‘anomalies’ noted in psychology and economics: (i) belief anchoring (the order in which evidence is received affects beliefs and choices); (ii) polarization (individuals with opposite priors may polarize their opinions after receiving identical evidence); (iii) payoff-dependence of beliefs and (iv) belief disagreement (individuals with identical priors who receive the same evidence may end up with different posterior beliefs).
D87|Digit ratios, the menstrual cycle and social preferences|We examine whether social preferences are partially determined by biological factors. We do this by investigating whether digit ratios (2D:4D) and menstrual cycle information are correlated with choices in ultimatum, trust, public good and dictator games. Digit ratios are thought to be a proxy for prenatal testosterone and oestrogen exposure and the menstrual cycle is a proxy for contemporary variations in a range of hormones. We find that digit ratios predict giving in all games. In our preferred specification, giving in the trust and public good games as well as reciprocity in the trust and ultimatum games vary significantly over the menstrual cycle. We discuss possible mechanisms behind these effects and conclude that biological factors play an important role in shaping social preferences.
D87|The impact of the menstrual cycle and hormonal contraceptives on competitiveness|We examine whether competitiveness in women is influenced by biological factors. Female participants in a laboratory experiment solve a simple arithmetics task first under a piece rate and then under a competitive tournament scheme. Participants can then choose which compensation scheme to apply in a third round. We find that the likelihood of selecting into the competitive environment varies strongly and significantly over the menstrual cycle and with the intake of hormonal contraceptives. The observed patterns are consistent with a negative impact of the sex hormone progesterone on competitiveness. We show that the effect of the menstrual cycle and hormonal contraceptives on competitiveness is due neither to an impact on performance, nor to an impact on risk aversion or overconfidence.
D87|Information processing and decision-making: Evidence from the brain sciences and implications for economics|This article assesses the potential benefits of including findings from neurobiology in economic decision-making models. First, we emphasize that the evidence supports both ‘expected utility-like’ theory and ‘Bayesian-like’ information acquisition theory. Second, we explain that inferences and representations are subject to physiological limitations that affect decision making. We report in particular two ‘mechanical’ models developed in neuroscience to represent neural data and choices. We then propose two economic models that incorporate physiological limitations into an expected utility framework. Interestingly, these two models provide foundations for those developed in neuroscience (which emerge endogenously in our framework) and provide further predictions that can be tested in principle. This allows us to discuss the benefits of bringing together evidence from neuroscience and economic modeling.
D87|Preferencia temporal en el cerebro: Una revisión crítica de las contribuciones de la neuroeconomía al estudio de la elección intertemporal|Human decision-making tends to involve costs and benefits distributed over time. This article reviews the current state of neuroimaging research on how the brain produces inter-temporal choices. It is proposed that while it is unlikely that neuroscience is the appropriate field to decide between the formal models proposed by behavioral economics, recent advances in the study of the brain have the potential to enhance these models by incorporating new knowledge on how the brain represents magnitude, attribute value, regulates goal-directed behaviors and generates prospective thinking.// Las decisiones humanas suelen implicar costos y beneficios distribuidos en el tiempo. Este artículo revisa el estado actual de la investigación con neuroimagen acerca de la manera en que el cerebro produce decisiones intertemporales. Se propone que mientras resulta poco probable que la neurociencia sea el terreno adecuado para decidir entre los modelos formales propuestos por la economía conductual, los recientes avances en el estudio del cerebro ofrecen la posibilidad de enriquecer dichos modelos incorporando nuevos conocimientos respecto a cómo el cerebro representa magnitudes, atribuye valor, regula conductas orientadas a metas y genera pensamiento prospectivo
D87|Behavioral biases and the representative agent|In this paper, we show that behavioral features can be obtained at a group level when the individuals of the group are heterogeneous enough. Starting from a standard model of Pareto optimal allocations, with expected utility maximizers but allowing for heterogeneity among individual beliefs, we show that the representative agent has an inverse S-shaped probability distortion function. As an application of this result, we show that an agent with a probability weighting function as in Cumulative Prospect Theory may be represented as a collection of agents with noisy beliefs.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D87|The Aging Investor: Insights from Neuroeconomics|Individuals in most industrialized countries have to make investment decisions throughout their adult life span to save for their retirement. These decisions substantially affect their living standards in old age. Research on cognitive aging has already demonstrated several changes in cognitive functions (e.g., processing speed) that likely influence investment decisions. This review brings together research on behavioral and neural aspects of financial decision making and aging to advance knowledge on age-related changes in financial decision making. The dopaminergic system plays a key role in financial decision making, both in financial decisions from description and financial decisions from experience. Importantly, both dopaminergic neuromodulation and financial decision making change during healthy aging. Especially when the parameters of the return distribution have to be learned from experience, older adults show a different and suboptimal choice behavior compared to younger adults. Based on these observations we suggest ways to circumvent the age-related bias in financial decision making to improve older adultsâ€™ wealth.
D87|The visible hand: finger ratio (2D:4D) and competitive bidding|In an experiment using two-bidder first-price sealed bid auctions with symmetric independent private values and 400 subjects, we scan also the right hand of each subject. We study how the ratio of the length of the index and ring fingers (2D:4D) of the right hand, a measure of prenatal hormone exposure, is correlated with bidding behavior and total profits. 2D:4D has been reported to predict competitiveness in sports competition (Manning and Taylor in Evol. Hum. Behav. 22:61–69, 2001 , and Hönekopp et al. in Horm. Behav. 49:545–549, 2006 ), risk aversion in lottery tasks (Dreber and Hoffman in Portfolio selection in utero. Stockholm School of Economics, 2007 ; Garbarino et al. in J. Risk Uncertain. 42:1–26, 2011 ), and the average profitability of high-frequency traders in financial markets (Coates et al. in Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 106:623–628, 2009 ). We do not find any significant correlation between 2D:4D on either bidding or profits. However, there might be racial differences in the correlation between 2D:4D and bidding and profits. Copyright Economic Science Association 2012
D87|Ambiguity aversion and familiarity bias: Evidence from behavioral and gene association studies|No abstract is available for this item.
D87|Mirror neuron research and Adam Smith’s concept of sympathy: Three points of correspondence|In The Theory of Moral Sentiments, Adam Smith asserts that humans have an innate interest in the fortunes of other people and desire for sympathy with others. In Smith’s theory, sympathy is an imperfectly reflected combination of emotion and judgment when one observes someone (the agent) in a particular situation, and imagines being that person in that situation. That imagination produces a degree of interconnectedness among individuals. Recent neuroscience research on mirror neurons provides evidence consistent with Smith’s assertion, suggesting that humans have an innate capability to understand the mental states of others at a neural level. A mirror neuron fires both when an agent acts and when an agent observes that action being performed by another; the name derives from the “mirroring” of the action in the brain of the observer. This neural network and the capabilities arising from it have three points of correspondence with important aspects of the Smithian sympathetic process: an agent’s situation as a stimulus or connection between two similar but separate agents, an external perspective on the actions of others, and an innate imaginative capacity that enables an observer to imagine herself as the agent, in the agent’s situation. Both this sympathetic process and the mirror neuron system predispose individuals toward coordination of the expression of their emotions and of their actions. In Smith’s model this decentralized coordination leads to the emergence of social order, bolstered and reinforced by the emergence and evolution of informal and formal institutions grounded in the sympathetic process. Social order grounded in this sympathetic process relies on a sense of interconnectedness and on shared meanings of actions, and the mirror neuron system predisposes humans toward such interconnection. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2012
D87|The Neuroeconomics of Voting: Neural Evidence of Different Sources of Utility in Voting|Which motives drive the decision of a voter to approve or reject a policy proposal? The Public Choice literature distinguishes between instrumental and expressive voting motives. We investigate the importance of these motives by analysing the patterns of neural activity in different voting situations. We conduct an fMRI-experiment which investigates neural activation at the moment of voting and use the altruism scale proposed by Tankersley et al. (2007) to differentiate between altruists and non-altruists. Non-altruists show neural activation patterns that are consistent with expressive voting motives. Among non-altruists, we also find activation patterns that point at egoistic instrumental motives. Both results are in line with the corresponding Public Choice literature. On the other hand, we find no evidence for expressive voting motives among altruists. Their neural activation pattern is generally much less conclusive with respect to the underlying motives.
D87|A Neuroeconomic Approach Of Tax Behavior|Governments around the world register substantial losses due to tax non-compliance behavior. Whether it is tax avoidance or tax evasion, non-compliance has repercussions on the whole society because it mitigates the quality of the provision of public goods. Nevertheless, the level of tax compliance is significantly higher than the classical tax evasion model of Allingham and Sandmo (1972) predicts. A manifold of theoretical and empirical studies invalidate the assumptions of the classical model by trying to give answers to one of the most intriguing questions: Why people pay taxes? Taking into consideration these realities, we summarize some of the findings related to tax behavior within the emerging new field of neuroeconomics. Using state-of-the-art technology (non-invasive brain stimulation, non-invasive measurement of brain activity, pharmacological interventions to raise or lower the activity of neurotransmitters, eye-tracking or skin conductance response), neuroeconomics steps on the scene to give insights on the reasons for which taxpayers display a certain tax behavior. According to the neuroeconomics mainstream literature, emotions guide the decision-making process when outcomes are uncertain with regards to rewards and losses. At neural level, the amygdala triggers bodily states related to reward and loss and the ventromedial prefrontal cortex reenacts past experiences of reward and loss to predict future outcomes. Some taxpayers who decide to engage in tax evasion experience a positive feeling when anticipating the profit from dodging taxes, feeling that is triggered by the amygdala. Other taxpayers don’t engage in tax evasion because they want to avoid negative feelings (shame, guilt, regret). Oxytocin facilitates dopamine release which is a positive physiological motivation for cooperation. As a consequence, taxpayers’ trust levels increase and, with it, increases the propensity to comply with the tax law. Besides summarizing neuroeconomics findings related to tax behavior, we also draw attention on some policy implications which may derive from neuroeconomics studies and may assist authorities in raising tax compliance levels. Tax evasion is showed to decrease in trustful environments where tax authorities facilitate compliance process and where taxpayers believe their true earnings can be accurately estimated by tax authorities. Tax evasion also decreases when tax authorities publicly denounce tax offenders.
D87|"Economic Stressors and the Demand for ""Fattening"" Foods"|A broad and growing literature suggests that uncertainty with respect to income, employment, and/or the financial resources necessary to buy food may cause people to gain weight. The theory—inspired by theory and evidence from behavioral ecology—posits that economic insecurity triggers a physiological fattening response, but the mechanisms by which weight gain occurs (e.g., physical activity, caloric intake, dietary quality, basal metabolism, depression) are not known. This paper reviews and synthesizes evidence supporting a dietary quality mechanism, in which economic insecurity triggers a shift in food preferences toward “fattening” foods. Interestingly, the foods to which individuals appear to be drawn under these circumstances are those which the anthropological evidence suggests would have been eaten (in pre-industrial societies) during periods of seasonal food scarcity<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D87|A dynamic model of interactions between conscious and unconscious|This paper advocates that some limits of the rational agent hypothesis result from the improper assumption that one individual should be modeled as a single rational agent. We model an individual composed of two autonomous and interacting structures, conscious and unconscious. Each agent utility form depends both on external signals and other structures' actions. The perception of the signal depends on its recipient and its grid of interpretation. We study both the static and dynamic version of this interaction mechanism. We show that the dynamics may display instability, depending on the structures interactions'strength. However, if unconscious has a strategic advantage, greater stability is reached. By manipulating other structures�goals, the strategic agent can lead the whole system to an equilibrium closer to its own optimum. This result shows that some switch in the conscious�objective can appear. Behaviors that can't be explained with a single utility can thus be rational if we add a rational unconscious agent. Our results justify our hypothesis of a rational interacting unconscious. It supports the widening of the notion of rationality to multi-rationnality in interaction.
D87|Evolution of Mindsight and Psychological Commitment among Strategically Interacting Agents|We study the evolution of strategic psychological capabilities in a population of interacting agents. Specifically, we consider agents which are either blind or with mindsight, and either transparent or opaque. An agent with mindsight can observe the psychological makeup of a transparent agent, i.e., its logic, emotions, commitments and other elements that determine how it chooses actions. A blind agent cannot observe and opaque agents cannot be observed. Our assumption that mindsight and transparency are costly and optional exposes a middle ground between standard game theory without mindsight and evolution of preferences theory with obligatory and costless mindsight. We show that the only evolutionarily stable monomorphic population is one in which all agents are blind, opaque, and act-rational. We find that mindsight, transparency, and rule-rational commitments may evolve, albeit only in a portion of the population that fluctuates in size over generations. We reexamine the Ultimatum and Trust games in light of our findings and demonstrate that an evolved population of agents can differ significantly from a population of simplistic payoff-maximizers in terms of psychological traits and economic outcomes.
D87|Bounded Rationality And Perfect Rationality Psychology Into Economics|Mathematical algorithms often fail to identify in time when the international financial crises occur although as the classical theory of choice would suggest the economic agents are rational and the markets are or should be efficient and behave also rationally This contribution tries to highlight some well known limits of the classical theory of rational choice and compare this theory of choice with bounded rationality which is a different notion of rationality and with an approach that seeks to combine economics and psychology based on experimental data which established itself as behavioral economics The work also examines part of the literature of behavioral finance which has given important contributions in explaining the behavior and the anomalies of financial markets A final reference is dedicated to neuroeconomics that is gaining more and more ground in the analysis of economic behavior
D87|Economía material: cuerpo y cerebro|La neuroeconomía proporciona un sustrato material a la economía. Este trabajo se enmarca en el campo de la psicología cognitiva, la economía, la biología y la neurociencia. En particular, revisa los hallazgos de la neuroeconomía que fundamentan la idea de que el cuerpo y el cerebro determinan el comportamiento económico individual. En otros términos, la biología revelada determina los cursos de acción que se toman. La hipótesis básica es que más que las preferencias reveladas, la biología revelada debe ser consistente con un organismo racional.
D87|Control and Crisis in a City Seen as a Reactor of Economic Transactions|The distribution of persons in each economy by their income is similar to the Maxwell-Boltzmann equilibrium distribution encountered in various physical systems. The transactions the persons are making to buy things that make them survive (in all sort of ways) are making them ‘poorer’, diminishing the amount of money they have. The ‘work and get paid’ type of transactions are rebuilding the financial capacity of the persons. Describing this process as a diffusion equation, in a cylindrical geometry, results in a Bessel function J0(r) solution, which matches the density distribution of persons in Paris (as a typical circular pattern city). Moreover, a simple equation for the dynamic behavior of a city, on which a 365 days period is imposed, results in one week as the time after which persons have to be paid to restart transactions, in the case of prompt pay. Thus, the extension of the basic model of the city as a reactor of economic transactions, for the cases of control through insertion or absorption of money, lead to the description of the crisis with a strikingly good accuracy for the case of Romania in 2009. Moreover, considering the prompt and delayed pay case gives a change in the average time to replenish financial resources of persons from 7 to 30 days. Using neutron physics methods in describing the economic transactions environment opens an alternative view on the forecasting models of economic systems’ behavior, and shows that the geographical dimension of a city is determined by the economic transaction behavior/environment in that city.
D87|Oscillatory Dynamics of Industrial Production|GDP and its components’ evolution show an oscillatory behavior. As an alternative approach to classical cyclical behavior producing models the paper analyses this behavior both by Fourier transforms of the data series and by a discussion of the roots configuration of the associated second order differential equations describing the process. Specific cycles that associate with the economic sectors contributing to the generation of GDP are identified. This oscillatory system-based approach is providing a complementary way to describe economic behavior dynamics.
D87|Positive Feedbacks, Diffusion Phenomenon and Competition between Standards on the Knowledge Markets|A pressing reality which companies must deal with is the accelerated emergence of the networks, physical or virtual, which play an increasingly important role in business. Networks configuration determines the markets dynamics, business organisation. However, the access to knowledge is not possible but through networks. In the knowledge networks, the generation of some specific effects (of network) initiates processes of positive feedback, meaning that any initial difference in the conditions of the market is amplified in time. It is the main cause of the fact that the diffusion of knowledge is subject to some exponential laws.
D87|The Impact of Soft Traits and Cognitive Abilities on Life Outcomes: Subjective Wellbeing, Education Achievement, and Rational Choices: a Chocolate Tasting Experiment|Linking to a growing literature in behavioral economics, this study combines neuroscience, psychology, and behavioral economics to empirically analyze the extent to which academic achievement, the relative weight of rationality vs. fairness in decision-making, and life satisfaction are affected by cognitive ability, persistent personality traits, and short-term stimuli based on psychological priming techniques. Prior to undertaking a course exam and playing the role of the respondent in an ultimatum game, a group of Masters and PhD students were stimulated either emotionally (via chocolate tasting) or rationally (via mathematical problem solving). Results show that, in addition to rational skills, short term stimuli and persistent personality traits have a significant impact on academic performance. They also influence the extent to which decisions are affected by notions of rationality and fairness and individuals’ subjective satisfaction with life. Given the economic importance of the associated outcomes, this opens up an important research agenda.
D87|Intertemporal dynamic choice under myopia for reward and different risk tolerances|No abstract is available for this item.
D87|Institutions, distributed cognition and agency: rule-following as performative action| Aoki recently proposed the concept of substantive institutions, a concept that relates the outcomes of strategic interaction with public representations of the equilibrium states of games. I argue that the Aoki model can be grounded in theories of distributed cognition and performativity, which I put into the context of Searle's philosophical account of institutions. Substantive institutions build on regularized causal interactions between internal neuronal mechanisms and external facts, shared in a population of agents. Following Searle's proposal of conceiving rule-following as a neuronally anchored behavioral disposition, I show that his corresponding notion of collective intentionality can be grounded in recent neuroscience theories of imitation as the primordial process in human learning. I relate this to Searle's concept of status function and the neuronal theory of metaphors. This results in a precise definition of rule-following as performative action. I present two empirical examples of this: (1) the institution of money, and (2) status hierarchies in markets.
D87|Complexity and Endogenous Instability|The global financial crisis proved the critical impact of the gap between individual rationality and group rationality. This gap is not supposed to arise in a Neoclassical world, but it frequently arises in a world as complex as ours. The paper explores how endogenous instability might arise due to such a gap, and what behavioral rules might help to mitigate its impact.
D87|L’entreprise innovante, un symbole pour son créateur|Highlighting that the new innovative company is a symbol has the advantage to characterize in a simple way the complex psychological operations among the entrepreneurs. Despite this advantage this field of investigation has not been explored in entrepreneurship. To fill the gap this article shows that the symbol exists and discloses a form of control of the environment that have existed in last jobs of the creator in four areas: creativity, intellectual stimulation, variety and altruism.
D87|Les déterminants du succès entrepreneurial ; Une étude empirique de la région de Sfax en Tunisie|Dans cet article, nous nous intéressons aux comportements de l’entrepreneur de la région de Sfax en Tunisie qui est connu par son dynamisme, sa motivation et sa créativité. Pour ce faire, nous avons mené une analyse statistique appliquée basée sur les modèles d’équations structurelles estimés par la méthode PLS. Notre investigation empirique nous a amené à conclure que les caractéristiques individuelles, la capacité entrepreneuriale et la motivation de l’entrepreneur sfaxien sont les facteurs clés qui déterminent son succès remarquable par rapport aux entrepreneurs des autres régions en Tunisie. Cette étude nous permet de dresser une image de l’entrepreneuriat en Tunisie spécialement dans une région particulièrement concentrée vers le business, afin de soulever un constat sur les prototypes d’entrepreneurs émergeant dans cette région. Un tel constat soulève des idées et questions intéressantes au regard des institutions financières, d’investissement et des politiques d’accompagnement et de soutien proposées par l’Etat.
D87|La inconsistencia de las elecciones intertemporales: un análisis desde la neuroeconomía|The traditional models of decision making in economics do not consider the inner mechanisms that participates in the process of the choice formation. There are some economic problems where the emotions play a fundamental role. Particularly, since the development of neuroeconomics, it has been discovered that the inconsistences in individual intertemporal choices arise as the result of the interaction of two evaluative systems, one affective and another deliberative. In this article, there are presented some models that analyze this kind of representation from the optics of cognitive psychology, neurobiology and economic science. Finally, there are presented some developments of neuroeconomics models that look for distinguish which economic models of individual behavior are supported by the cognitive principles of human behavior
D87|Kludged|Is there reason to believe that our brains have evolved to make efficient decisions so that the details of the internal process are irrelevant? I develop a model which illustrates a limitation of adaptive processes: improvements tend to come in the form of kludges. A kludge is a marginal adaptation that compensates for, but does not eliminate, fundamental design inefficiencies. When kludges accumulate, the result can be perpetually suboptimal behavior even in a model of evolution in which arbitrarily large innovations occur infinitely, often with probability 1. (JEL D03, D87)
D87|Tracking Decision Makers under Uncertainty|Eye tracking is used to investigate the procedures that participants employ in choosing between two lotteries. Eye movement patterns in problems where the deliberation process is clearly identified are used to substantiate an interpretation of the results. The data provide little support for the hypothesis that decision makers rely exclusively upon an expected utility type of calculation. Instead eye patterns indicate that decision makers often compare prizes and probabilities separately. This is particularly true when the multiplication of sums and probabilities is laborious to compute. (JEL D81, D87)
D87|Neuroeconomic Foundations of Economic Choice--Recent Advances|Neuroeconomics combines methods and theories from neuroscience psychology, economics, and computer science in an effort to produce detailed computational and neurobiological accounts of the decision-making process that can serve as a common foundation for understanding human behavior across the natural and social sciences. Because neuroeconomics is a young discipline, a sufficiently sound structural model of how the brain makes choices is not yet available. However, the contours of such a computational model are beginning to arise; and, given the rapid progress, there is reason to be hopeful that the field will eventually put together a satisfactory structural model. This paper has two goals: First, we provide an overview of what has been learned about how the brain makes choices in two types of situations: simple choices among small numbers of familiar stimuli (like choosing between an apple or an orange), and more complex choices involving tradeoffs between immediate and future consequences (like eating a healthy apple or a less-healthy chocolate cake). Second, we show that, even at this early stage, insights with important implications for economics have already been gained.
D87|It's about Space, It's about Time, Neuroeconomics and the Brain Sublime|Neuroeconomics has investigated which regions of the brain are associated with the factors contributing to economic decision making, emphasizing the position in space of brain areas associated with the factors of decision making—cognitive or emotive, rational or irrational. An alternative view of the brain has given priority to time over space, investigating the temporal patterns of brain dynamics to determine the nature of the brain's intrinsic dynamics, how its various activities change over time. These two ways of approaching the brain are contrasted in this essay to gauge the contemporary status of neuroeconomics.
D87|Disconnected Young Adults in Germany: Initial Evidence|Disconnectedness among young adults can have several dimensions. From a socio-economic viewpoint, failure in school, unemployment and the lack of a partner are among the most important ones. In our sample of respondents to the SOEP Youth Questionnaire, approximately 13% of young people had been socio-economically disconnected at least once between the ages of 17 and 19. The percentage of disconnected young adults also rose from 2001 to 2008. We found evidence that an adverse family background is the most important variable affecting disconnection in young adulthood. Macroeconomic factors also contribute to socio-economic disconnection. Recessions are followed by increases in the share of disconnected young adults.
D87|The Visible Hand: Finger Ratio (2D:4D) and Competitive Bidding|In an experiment using two-bidder first-price sealed bid auctions with symmetric independent private values and 400 subjects, we scan also the right hand of each subject. We study how the ratio of the length of the index and ring fingers (2D:4D) of the right hand, a measure of prenatal hormone exposure, is correlated with bidding behavior and total profits. 2D:4D has been reported to predict competitiveness in sports competition (Manning and Taylor, 2001, and Hoenekopp, Manning, and Mueller, 2006), risk aversion in lottery tasks (Dreber and Hoffman, 2007, Garbarino et al., 2010), and the average profitability of high-frequency traders in financial markets (Coates, Gurnell, and Rustichini, 2009). We do not find any significant correlation between 2D:4D on either bidding or profits. However, there might be racial differences in the correlation between 2D:4D and bidding and profits.
D87|Us and `Them': the origin of identity, and its economic implications|We investigate the origins of identity and the innate proclivity to draw a distinction between `insiders' and `outsiders'. We propose an evolutionary explanation: we argue that identity arises because it facilitates survival. In an evolutionary setting we endogenize preferences and demonstrate that the evolutionarily stable preferences fashioned by natural selection would distinguish between insiders and outsiders. We then work out the implications of such preferences in two contemporary scenarios, one entailing rent-seeking behaviour and the other involving public good provision. Our results are in conformity with empirical evidence.
D87|Una primera aproximación a la evaluación del impacto de la neuroeconomía para la teoría económica|El reciente auge de la neuroeconomía ha abierto una serie de preguntas sobre el impacto que esta nueva disciplina puede tener sobre la forma en que se hace teoría económica. Este trabajo busca resaltar la relevancia que la metodología en ciencia económica tiene como herramienta indispensable para resolver las preguntas y los retos que la neuroeconomía le plantea a la corriente principal. Se recopilan aquí los principales argumentos a favor y en contra de los aportes que la neuroeconomía puede brindarle a la economía. Se concluye a favor de una visión que deja abierta la posibilidad de un avance y un aporte sustancial, pero por ahora sólo potencial. Al tiempo se señalan las técnicas retóricas usadas por los exponentes de la corriente neuroeconómica con el ánimo de plantear una discusión donde no se demeriten los avances, pero tampoco se exageren los mismos.
D87|Efecto del estrés social en hombres y mujeres sobre la activación de la corteza orbitofrontal|Algunos estudios han mostrado que la corteza orbitofrontal está relacionada con tareas de valor de recompensa e integración de la información emocional, y que su activación está modulada por situaciones de estrés. A partir de la propuesta experimental de este trabajo se pretende esclarecer el papel de la corteza orbitofrontal en situaciones de elección asociadas al valor de recompensa y castigo, su relación con el estrés social y la posibilidad de su activación diferencial en hombres y mujeres, ya que la diferencia de género ha sido reportada en otras tareas que involucran incertidumbre. Se propone el uso de la técnica de Resonancia Magnética Funcional (RMf) para observar la activación de la corteza orbitofrontal durante la ejecución de la tarea de aprendizaje con reversión de contingencias, que evalúa la persistencia en la elección asociada a un estímulo discriminativo que predice una ganancia o pérdida con una probabilidad determinada.
D87|Smiling is a Costly Signal of Cooperation Opportunities: Experimental Evidence from a Trust Game|"We test the hypothesis that ""genuine"" or ""convincing"" smiling is a costly signal that has evolved to induce cooperation in situations requiring mutual trust. Potential trustees in a trust game made video clips for viewing by potential trusters before the latter decided whether to send them money. Ratings of the genuineness of smiles vary across clips; it is difficult to make convincing smiles to order. We argue that smiling convincingly is costly, because smiles from trustees playing for higher stakes are rated as significantly more convincing, so that rewards appear to induce effort. We show that it induces cooperation: smiles rated as more convincing strongly predict judgments about the trustworthiness of trustees, and willingness to send them money. Finally, we show that it is a honest signal: those smiling convincingly return more money on average to senders. Convincing smiles are to some extent a signal of the intrinsic character of trustees: less honest individuals find smiling convincingly more difficult. They are also informative about the greater amounts that trustees playing for higher stakes have available to share: it is harder to smile convincingly if you have less to offer."
D87|The Influence of Affect on Beliefs, Preferences, and Financial Decisions|Neuroeconomics research shows that brain areas that generate emotional states also process information about risk, rewards, and punishments, suggesting that emotions influence financial decisions in a predictable and parsimonious way. We find that positive emotional states such as excitement induce people to take risks and to be confident in their ability to evaluate investment options, while negative emotions such as anxiety have the opposite effects. Beliefs are updated so as to maintain a positive emotional state by ignoring information that contradicts individuals’ prior choices. Marketplace features or outcomes of past choices may change emotions and thus influence future financial decisions.
D87|The Economics of Risky Health Behaviors|Risky health behaviors such as smoking, drinking alcohol, drug use, unprotected sex, and poor diets and sedentary lifestyles (leading to obesity) are a major source of preventable deaths. This chapter overviews the theoretical frameworks for, and empirical evidence on, the economics of risky health behaviors. It describes traditional economic approaches emphasizing utility maximization that, under certain assumptions, result in Pareto-optimal outcomes and a limited role for policy interventions. It also details non-traditional models (e.g. involving hyperbolic time discounting or bounded rationality) that even without market imperfections can result in suboptimal outcomes for which government intervention has greater potential to increase social welfare. The chapter summarizes the literature on the consequences of risky health behaviors for economic outcomes such as medical care costs, educational attainment, employment, wages, and crime. It also reviews the research on policies and strategies with the potential to modify risky health behaviors, such as taxes or subsidies, cash incentives, restrictions on purchase and use, providing information, and restricting advertising. The chapter concludes with suggestions for future research.
D87|Professor Zak's empirical studies on trust and oxytocin|In supporting his thesis that “market behavior is morality embodied”, Professor Zak describes empirical studies on trust and oxytocin, with emphasis on his own work. I will discuss this work, suggesting that some conclusions are too enthusiastic.
D87|Smiling is a Costly Signal of Cooperation Opportunities: Experimental Evidence from a Trust Game|"We test the hypothesis that ""genuine"" or ""convincing"" smiling is a costly signal that has evolved to induce cooperation in situations requiring mutual trust. Potential trustees in a trust game made video clips for viewing by potential trusters before the latter decided whether to send them money. Ratings of the genuineness of smiles vary across clips; it is difficult to make convincing smiles to order. We argue that smiling convincingly is costly, because smiles from trustees playing for higher stakes are rated as significantly more convincing, so that rewards appear to induce effort. We show that it induces cooperation: smiles rated as more convincing strongly predict judgments about the trustworthiness of trustees, and willingness to send them money. Finally, we show that it is a honest signal: those smiling convincingly return more money on average to senders. Convincing smiles are to some extent a signal of the intrinsic character of trustees: less honest individuals find smiling convincingly more difficult. They are also informative about the greater amounts that trustees playing for higher stakes have available to share: it is harder to smile convincingly if you have less to offer."
D87|Dopamine receptor genes predict risk preferences, time preferences, and related economic choices|No abstract is available for this item.
D87|Dopamine and risk choices in different domains: Findings among serious tournament bridge players|Individuals differ significantly in their willingness to take risks, partly due to genetic differences. We explore how risk taking behavior correlates with different versions of the dopamine receptor D4 gene (DRD4). We focus on risk taking in the card game contract bridge, and economic risk taking as proxied by a financial gamble. We also explore self-reported general risk taking, and self-reported behavior in risk-related activities. Our participants are serious tournament bridge players, which gives them substantial experience in risk taking. We find some evidence that men with a 7-repeat allele (7R+) of DRD4 take more overall risk in bridge than individuals without this allele (7R-), and strong evidence that 7R+ men take more economic risk in an investment game. Interestingly, these relationships are not found in the women in our study. Although the number of 7R+ women in our sample is low, our results may reflect a gender difference in how the 7R+ genotype affects behavior. Bridge masterpoints measure past success, thus reflecting playing skill and experience. We show that masterpoint level modulates the effect of the DRD4 gene in men in a highly important manner. We find that higher ranked 7R+ men take significantly more good risks and significantly fewer bad risks than other men, whereas the opposite is found for less-expert 7R+ men. This is the first study to distinguish between advantageous and disadvantageous risk taking. We identify a strong interaction among desirable risk taking behavior, measured success, and genetic variation. Considering other risk measures, we find no difference between 7R+ and 7R- individuals in general risk taking or in any of a number of other risk-related activities. Our results indicate that the dopamine system plays an important role in explaining individual differences in risk taking in bridge and economic risk taking among men. Little relationship is found in other activities involving risk or among women.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D87|Reward Prediction Error in Online Game Trades|We use trade data from an online game economy to test the 'dopaminergic reward prediction error' (DRPE) hypothesis: upon buying a game item at a price which is obviously too low, a player should become more active in the trading market. We find that players are more willing to buy goods in the in-game market after such an trade incident. Hence, the effect predicted by the DRPE model is visible. Yet, contrary to the prediction of DRPE, the magnitude of the prediction error does not have any effect on the post-error trading activity.
D87|A Neurolinguistic Approach to Performativity in Economics|"What makes institutions ""real"" ? One central notion has been emerging recently in sociology, which is ‘performativity’, a term borrowed from the philosophy of language. The author proposes a neurolinguistic approach to performativity that is based on John Searle’s theory of institutions, especially his concept of a ""status function"" and his explanation of rule-following as a neurophysiological disposition. Positing a status function, the article shows, is a performative act. The author applies the concept of ""conceptual blending"" borrowed from cognitive science to the status function, and gives empirical applications from the research on performativity in financial markets. He also sketches the underlying neuroscience framework following the neural theory of metaphor, which is illustrated empirically with examples from behavioral finance and neuroeconomics."
D87|A neurolinguistic approach to performativity in economics| What makes institutions 'real'? One central notion has been emerging recently in sociology, which is 'performativity', a term borrowed from the philosophy of language. I propose a neurolinguistic approach to performativity that is based on John Searle's theory of institutions, especially his concept of a 'status function' and his explanation of rule-following as a neurophysiological disposition. Positing a status function is a performative act. I proceed in two steps to establish the neurolinguistic framework. First, I apply the concept of 'conceptual blending' borrowed from cognitive science on the status function, and give empirical applications from the research on performativity in financial markets. Second, I sketch the underlying neuroscience framework following the neural theory of metaphor, which I illustrate empirically with examples from behavioral finance and neuroeconomics.
D87|The Neuroeconomics of Learning and Information Processing; Applying Markov Decision Process|This paper deals with cognitive theories behind agent-based modeling of learning and information processing methodologies. Herein, I undertake a descriptive analysis of how human agents learn to select action and maximize their value function under reinforcement learning model. In doing so, I have considered the spatio-temporal environment under bounded rationality using Markov Decision process modeling to generalize patterns of agent behavior by analyzing the determinants of value functions, and of factors that modify policy- action-induced cognitive abilities. Since detecting patterns are central to the human cognitive skills, this paper aspires at uncovering the entanglements of complex contextual pattern identification by linking contexts with optimal decisions that agents undertake under hypercompetitive market pressure through learning which have however, implicative applications in a wide array of social and macroeconomic domains.
D87|What is the actual shape of perception utility?|Cumulative Prospect Theory (Kahneman, Tversky, 1979, 1992) holds that the value function is described using a power function, and is concave for gains and convex for losses. These postulates are questioned on the basis of recently reported experiments, paradoxes (gain-loss separability violation), and brain activity research. This paper puts forward the hypothesis that perception utility is generally logarithmic in shape for both gains and losses, and only happens to be convex for losses when gains are not present in the problem context. This leads to a different evaluation of mixed prospects than is the case with Prospect Theory: losses are evaluated using a concave, rather than a convex, utility function. In this context, loss aversion appears to be nothing more than the result of applying a logarithmic utility function over the entire outcome domain. Importantly, the hypothesis enables a link to be established between perception utility and Portfo-lio Theory (Markowitz, 1952A). This is not possible in the case of the Prospect Theory value function due its shape at the origin.
D87|Social science and neuroscience: how can they inform each other?|No abstract is available for this item.
D87|Neuroeconomics: two camps gradually converging: what can economics gain from it?|No abstract is available for this item.
D87|The New Science of Learning and Why Students Forget their Economics so Quickly|"The human brain has automatic, built-in abilities to filter and discard information so that the vast majority of the information that enters our senses is deleted. Consequently, the result is that teachers need to understand, model, and program student learning to work in harmony with these natural abilities. New discoveries in the ""science of learning"" that employ multi-disciplinary work in psychology, neuroscience, machine learning, and education have shown us how the human brain works. Furthermore, studies of child development, plasticity of the human brain, and computational approaches to learning have contributed to new understandings of how we learn and how long-term memory is formed. The most important of these findings are: 1. Learning is computational and probabilistic, using Bayesian Logic. 2. Learning is fundamentally social in nature. 3. Designated brain circuits link perception and action. 4. The human hippocampus and REM sleep collaborate to form and store long-term memories. In addition, we present the implications of this research for the teaching of economics and also present practical techniques that can be incorporated into classroom teaching to help students study more efficiently and improve student learning."
D87|Hormones and Social Preferences|We examine whether social preferences are determined by hormones. We do this by investigating whether markers for the strength of prenatal testosterone exposure (finger length ratios) and current exposure to progesterone and oxytocin (the menstrual cycle) are correlated with choices in social preference games. We find that subjects with finger ratios indicating high prenatal testosterone exposure give less in the trust, ultimatum and public good games and return a smaller proportion in the trust game. The choices of female subjects vary over the menstrual cycle according to a pattern consistent with a positive impact of oxytocin on giving in the trust and ultimatum games and a positive impact of progesterone on altruism. We find no impact for subjects taking hormonal contraceptives. We conclude that both prenatal and current exposure to hormones play an important role in shaping social preferences.
D87|Neuroökonomik, Institutionen und verteilte Kognition: Empirische Grundlagen eines nicht-reduktionistischen naturalistischen Forschungsprogramms in den Wirtschaftswissenschaften|No abstract is available for this item.
D87|Hayek 2.0: Grundlinien einer naturalistischen Theorie wirtschaftlicher Ordnungen|No abstract is available for this item.
D87|Human capital investment strategies in Europe|The paper analyses alternative investment policies and their consequences for the evolution of human capital in Europe based on a model of age dependent skill formation where the life span depends on investments during childhood. What makes the approach special is the analysis of the returns to education of alternative educational policies targeted at certain ages, countries, or productivity levels for two counterfactual policy regimes, one regime assuming the actual state of diversity and the other a unified Europe. Our results indicate that investments need to be directed more generally to people of younger ages in Europe. If equality is important enough additional investment should specifically be directed to disadvantaged individuals during childhood. Furthermore, high levels of life cycle income inequality and a high skill level increase the optimal amount of investments during younger adulthood. In a unified Europe, the effectiveness of policies to reduce inequality would be higher.
D87|Inflationary memory as restrictive factor of the impact of the public expense in the economic growth: lessons from high inflation Latin American countries using an innovative inflationary memory indicator|A new inflationary memory indicator was developed and applied here. A panel was built with the selected countries considering the economic growth as dependent variable in function of the convergence hypothesis, the inflation rate, the public expense and, the recursive variance of the inflation (VARINF) as inflationary memory indicator. The expected results of the panel were that the inflation and their variability affect the growth negatively neutralizing the possible effects that it could have the public expense on the same one. Five Latin American countries with experiences of high inflation were included (Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia, Peru and Nicaragua).
D87|Pavlovian Processes in Consumer Choice: The Physical Presence of a Good Increases Willingness-to-Pay|This paper describes a series of laboratory experiments studying whether the form in which items are displayed at the time of decision affects the dollar value that subjects place on them. Using a Becker-DeGroot auction under three different conditions — (i) text displays, (ii) image displays, and (iii) displays of the actual items — we find that subjects' willingness-to-pay is 40-61 percent larger in the real than in the image and text displays. Furthermore, follow-up experiments suggest the presence of the real item triggers preprogrammed consummatory Pavlovian processes that promote behaviors that lead to contact with appetitive items whenever they are available. (JEL C91, D03, D12, D87)
