E10|Assessing Global Potential Output Growth: April 2019|This note presents the updated estimates of potential output growth for the global economy through 2021. Global potential output is expected to grow by 3.3 per cent per year over the projection horizon. Two common themes are weighing on potential output growth across regions: trade disputes, which are reducing total factor productivity growth in the United States and China; and aging, which is having a negative impact on labour force participation in the United States, China, the euro area and Japan. While potential output growth is expected to remain fairly stable in the United States, there are offsetting dynamics across other regions. In emerging-market economies, potential growth is projected to strengthen, mainly due to a recovery of investment as well as structural reforms contributing to total factor productivity growth. Potential output is expected to slow in Japan, China and the euro area, as the effects on growth of population aging and declining labour inputs intensify in these regions over the next three years. A moderation in investment growth will also contribute to slower potential growth in China.
E10|Évaluation de la croissance de la production potentielle mondiale : avril 2019|Cette note présente les estimations actualisées de la croissance de la production potentielle pour l’économie mondiale jusqu’en 2021. La production potentielle mondiale devrait croître à un rythme de 3,3 % par année au cours de la période de projection. Deux éléments pèsent sur la croissance de la production potentielle dans l’ensemble des régions : les différends commerciaux, qui entravent la croissance de la productivité totale des facteurs aux États-Unis et en Chine, et le vieillissement démographique, qui influe négativement sur le taux d’activité de la population aux États-Unis, en Chine, dans la zone euro et au Japon. La production potentielle devrait continuer de croître à un rythme assez stable aux États-Unis, mais on observe des dynamiques qui se contrebalancent dans les autres régions. Ainsi, la croissance de la production potentielle devrait se raffermir dans les économies émergentes, notamment grâce à une reprise de l’investissement et à des réformes structurelles contribuant à un accroissement de la productivité totale des facteurs. Au Japon, en Chine et dans la zone euro, en revanche, on s’attend à un ralentissement sous l’effet modérateur croissant du vieillissement de la population et de la diminution du facteur travail au cours des trois prochaines années. Dans le cas de la Chine, une modération du taux de progression des investissements participera aussi au ralentissement de la croissance potentielle.
E10|The effects of climate change on a small open economy|We investigate the impact of climate change on the macroeconomic performance of a small open economy. The setup is a new Keynesian dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model of a small open economy without monetary policy independence in which a climate module that interacts with the economy has been incorporated. The model is solved numerically using common parameter values, fiscal data and projections about temperature growth from the Greek economy. Our results, suggest that climate change implies a significant output loss and a dramatic deterioration of competitiveness.
E10|Distributional effects of surging housing costs under Schwabe's Law|The upward sloping trend of rents and house prices has initiated a debate on the consequences of surging housing costs for wealth inequality and welfare. We employ a frictionless two-sectoral macroeconomic model with a housing sector to investigate the dynamics of wealth inequality and the determinants of welfare. Households have non-homothetic preferences, implying that the poor choose a higher housing expenditure share, which is compatible with Schwabe’s Law. We first examine the isolated effects of increasing housing costs in partial equilibrium. The model is closed by introducing a production sector that enables us to analyze the general equilibrium consequences of a widely discussed policy option, which aims at dampening the growth of housing costs. Abolishing zoning regulations triggers a slower rent growth and reduces wealth inequality by 0.7 percentage points (measured by the top 10 percent share). Average welfare increases by 0.5 percent. The household-specific welfare effects are asymmetric. The poor benefit more than the rich, and the richest wealth decile is even worse off.
E10|A Rational Inattention Unemployment Trap|We show that introducing rational inattention into a model with uninsurable unemployment risk can generate multiple steady states, when the same model with full information has a unique steady state. The model features heterogeneity and persistence in household labour market expectations, consistent with survey evidence. In a heterogeneous agent New Keynesian model, we find that rational inattention to the future hiring rate generates a high employment steady state with moderate inflation, and an unemployment trap with very low (but positive) inflation and a low job hiring rate.
E10|Fragile New Economy: The Rise of Intangible Capital and Financial Instability|This paper analyzes the endogenous risk in economies where intangible capital is essential and its limited pledgeability induces firms' liquidity demand. Banks emerge to intermediate the liquidity supply by holding claims on firms' tangible capital and issuing deposits that firms hold to pay for intangible investment. A bubbly value of tangible capital arises and increases in banks' balance-sheet capacity. Its procyclicality induces firms' investment and savings waves, which feed into banks' risk-taking and amplify downside risks. The model produces stagnant crises and replicates several trends in the decades leading up to the Great Recession: (1) the rise of intangible capital; (2) the increase of firms' cash holdings; (3) the growth of financial intermediation; (4) the declining real interest rate; (5) the rising prices of collateral assets.
E10|A Model-Based Assessment of the Distributional Impact of Structural Reforms|This paper studies the effects of structural reforms on the functional distribution of income in EU Member States. To study this mechanism we use a DSGE model (Roeger et al. 2008) with households supplying three types of labour, low-, medium- and high-skilled. We assume that households receive income from labour, tangible capital, intangible capital, financial wealth and transfers and we trace how structural reforms affect these types of incomes. The quantification of structural reforms is based on changes in structural indicators that can significantly close the gap of a country’s average income towards the best performing countries in the EU. We find a general trade-off between an increase in employment of a particular group and the income of the average group member relative to income per capita. In general, reforms which aim at increasing employment of low skilled workers are associated with a fall in wages relative to income per capita. Capital owners generally benefit from labour market reforms, with an increasing share in total income, due to limited entry into the final goods production sector. This suggests that labour market re-forms may lead to suboptimal distributional effects if there are rigidities in goods markets present, a finding which confirms the importance of ensuring that such reforms are accompanied or preceded by product market reforms.
E10|A Macro-Model to Monetary Transmission Analysis in Tunisia|In this paper, we develop a gap model based on a reduced form of the New Keynesian Model. The model offers various scenario structure tools which analyze the dynamics of key macroeconomic variables under diverse shocks and depicts their properties and historical decompositions. This framework rationalizes the monetary transmission mechanism as well as the effects of major shocks influencing the macroeconomic variables and can assess the role of monetary policy in reacting to observed and anticipated changes in inflation and other economic variables. This model provides a useful framework detailing monetary policy and helping policymakers mainly to react strongly to inflation.
E10|An ARDL Approach on Crude Oil Price and Macroeconomic Variables|Objective – The removal of fuel subsidies by the Malaysian government in 2014 has been implement with the managed float system for fuel prices. Methodology/Technique – This study investigates the impact of the managed floating system of crude oil prices on the Malaysian economy using ARDL approach by looking at macroeconomic variables such as inflation, economic growth and unemployment rates. Findings – The results show that all of the variables have short lived relationship with oil prices whereby inflation and economic growth are positively related to oil prices. However, unemployment rate has a negative relationship with the changes of WTI crude oil prices. Novelty – The major input in the economy of Malaysia contributes to a positive relationship between inflation and oil prices, whilst the contribution of Malaysia being an oil-producing country results in the positive relationship of economic growth and oil price. Likewise, as oil prices are high, the increase in demand results in increase in job opportunities. Lastly, the correlation test shows that inflation and economic growth have a high positive correlation while unemployment rate has a low negative correlation with oil price. Type of Paper: Empirical.
E10|Class, education and social mobility: Madrid, 1880-1905|Relying on an extremely rich data set of individuals living in Madrid in 1880 and 1905, this article explores the relationship between class, access to education and social mobility. In order to do so, we first focus on children and assess the probability of being literate according to their parents’ socio-economic status. Although inequality in education declined during the period under study, this social gap was still substantial in 1905. Linking where these children lived with the location of public schools, we show that, although the expansion of the supply of schools improved access to education of children from disadvantaged backgrounds, the public effort was clearly insufficient to overcome the challenges these families faced. Lastly, we analyse the returns to education by studying social mobility. In this regard, we have matched the children existing in our sample in 1880 with their corresponding adult-selves in 1905, 25 years later, using record linkage techniques. Our analysis shows that letting literate enhanced children's chances of moving up the social ladder. Taking together, our results show that high inequality levels, together with an inadequate schooling system, prevented a significant fraction of the schooling-age population to access education and thus limited subsequent economic growth.
E10|Money and modernization in early modern England|Classic accounts of the English industrial revolution present a long period of stagnation followed by a fast take-off. However, recent findings of slow but steady per capita economic growth suggest that this is a historically inaccurate portrait of early modern England. This growth pattern was in part driven by specialization and structural change accompanied by an increase in market participation at both the intensive and extensive levels. These, I argue, were supported by the gradual increase in money supply made possible by the importation of precious metals from America. They allowed for a substantial increase in the monetization and liquidity levels of the economy, hence decreasing transaction costs, increasing market thickness, changing the relative incentive for participating in the market, and allowing agglomeration economies to arise. By making trade with Asia possible, precious metals also induced demand for new desirable goods, which in turn encouraged market participation. Finally, the increased monetization and market participation made tax collection easier. This helped the government to build up fiscal capacity and as a consequence to provide for public goods. The structural change and increased market participation that ensued paved the way to modernization.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E10|Financial effects in historic consumption and investment functions|The global financial crisis has highlighted the importance of financial factors on economic performance. Most of the existing research analyses the post-World War 2 experience, and especially the 1980s onwards. This paper investigates the effects of stock prices, real estate prices and debt on consumption and investment expenditures by estimating consumption and investment equations for long historic datasets with about 100 years of data for Britain, France, Norway and Sweden. We find positive debt effects on consumption in three of four countries, but no consistent effects of share prices and house prices. We find positive effects of share prices on investment in all four countries. Effects are stronger in more market-based Britain than in more state-oriented France. For France, Sweden and Norway we find some evidence that effects of financial variables were weaker in the postwar period 1945-80. These findings suggest that the institutional context matters for how financial variables affect economic activity.
E10|What determines unemployment in the long run? Band spectrum regression on ten countries|This paper presents an empirical analysis of the relation between unemployment and macroeconomic performance. A strong correlation has been pointed out before, but a crucial question is over what time-horizon this holds. To the best of our knowledge, no previous cross-country study has shown that there is a long-run relationship between unemployment and macroeconomic performance over a time-period that stretches before the 1960s. To address this issue, we use wavelet analysis to decompose the time series into short, medium and long-run variations, and band spectrum regressions on the relation between unemployment, GDP, investment, long-term interest rate and TFP, covering ten countries 1913-2016. This methodology has several advantages compared to standard econometrical methods and other tools for decomposition. Our results show that unemployment correlates negatively with the long-run components of investment. This suggests that aggregate demand and capital formation inuence long-term labor market outcomes. According to our estimates ca 17-percent of overall variations in unemployment and 29 percent of the long-run variations may be explained by long-run variations in capital formation.
E10|Pension, Retirement, and Growth in the Presence Heterogeneous Elderly|This study explores the linkage between the labor force participation of the elderly and the long-run performance of the economy in the context of a two-period-lived overlapping generations model. We assume that the old agents are heterogeneous in their labor efficiency and they continue working if their income exceeds the pension that can be received in the case of full retirement. We inspect the long-run effects of changes in key factors that determine the labor force participation of the elderly. While the main part of the study treats a neoclassical growth model, we also discuss a model with endogenous growth.
E10|Evaluating Central Banks' Tool Kit: Past, Present, and Future|We develop a structural DSGE model to systematically study the principal tools of unconventional monetary policy – quantitative easing (QE), forward guidance, and negative interest rate policy (NIRP) – as well as the interactions between them. To generate the same output response, the requisite NIRP and forward guidance interventions are twice as large as a conventional policy shock, which seems implausible in practice. In contrast, QE via an endogenous feedback rule can alleviate the constraints on conventional policy posed by the zero lower bound. Quantitatively, QE1-QE3 can account for two thirds of the observed decline in the “shadow” Federal Funds rate. In spite of its usefulness, QE does not come without cost. A large balance sheet has consequences for different normalization plans, the efficacy of NIRP, and the effective lower bound on the policy rate.
E10|The decades-long dispute over scale effects in the theory of economic growth|The so-called ‘new growth theory’ is characterized by the now Nobel Prize winning insight that ideas are a non-rival input to and output from endogenous investment in innovation. Non-rivalry implies increasing returns to scale, but this also unintentionally creates an empirically-disputed scale effect that a growing population implies an ever-increasing growth rate. Empirical evidence supports fully-endogenous growth without scale effects, but theoretical issues sustain the decades-long dispute over exactly how to negate the scale effect. This article surveys theoretical approaches to resolving the scale effect and shows how four generations of endogenous growth theory are defined by the maturing of modeling techniques for constraining increasing returns. The synthesis suggests that the dispute over scale effects is really a narrative about how the powerful application of increasing returns has followed a standard theoretical development pattern. This implies that a fourth generation is now emerging that negates the scale effect while retaining fully-endogenous growth without relying on assumptions of linearity. Instead, the market response to excessive increasing returns to innovation constrains explosive growth by expanding the market, rather than by a linear assumption. This latest class of endogenous growth models may be the final chapter to resolving the long running dispute.
E10|The Great Recession and the teaching of macroeconomics: A critical analysis of the Blanchard, Amighini and Giavazzi textbook|The publication of the seventh edition of Blanchard’s textbook (Blanchard 2017) and of the third edition of the textbook authored by Blanchard, Amighini and Giavazzi (2017) represents a significant opportunity to assess the impact of the Great Recession on macroeconomic theory and on the teaching of macroeconomics. The authors acknowledge that the mainstream economic model presented in the previous editions of their textbooks is unable to offer a significant explanation of the causes of the crisis as it completely neglects the role of the financial system. They believe that the economics profession has learned the lesson of the crisis since economists understood the limitations of the theoretical model elaborated over the last decades. In the revised editions of their textbooks they present a new theoretical model taking into account the financial system. The objective of this work is twofold: i) to show that the new model does not allow to elaborate a coherent explanation of the Great Recession and: ii) to present the pillars of an alternative theoretical model based on the lessons of Keynes, Schumpeter and Minsky.
E10|Population Growth And Industrialization|The role of population growth in the process of industrialization is studied in a general equilibrium model. It provides a formal presentation of Rostow’s insight of the role of a leading sector in industrialization. Population growth may lead to a shortage of food and a breakdown of the industrialization process. However, population growth may benefit the manufacturing sector in the adoption of increasing returns to scale technologies. Elasticity of demand for agricultural goods plays an important role in determining whether an improvement of agricultural technology or an increase of population is beneficial to the manufacturing sector. A comparison of China and Britain before the Industrial Revolution shows that research and development are necessary for sustained growth. Achieving industrialization independently requires a combination of a sufficiently large market size from the demand side and a sufficiently large supply of technologies from the supply side. (JEL O14, E10, N10, Q01)
E10|On the interaction between real economy and financial markets|We introduce a dynamical model describing the interaction between a three-sectors real economy and a financial market with four assets. Investors and financial mediators have heterogeneous beliefs. The model may be used to investigate interdependence within economic fluctuations and assets volatility.
E10|An attitude of complexity: thirteen essays on the nature and construction of reality under the challenge of Zeno's Paradox|This book is about the construction of reality. The central aim of this study is to understand how gravity works and how it may be focused and manipulated. While I do not have an answer to this question, the discoveries along the way have been worth collecting into a single volume for future reference.
E10|The Consumption Function: A New Perspective|The behaviour of aggregate consumption is conventionally understood from the perspective of the permanent income and life cycle hypotheses. Both of these hypotheses are deduced from the theory of constrained optimization as applied to a ‘representative agent’ that consumes and saves. An alternative way of understanding aggregate consumption expenditure is to see it as primarily a systemic outcome of the adoption of widely upheld rules (‘meso-rules’) that enable trading and contracting in a complex economic system. Such systems require order to function but they must also adapt and evolve. Correspondingly, aggregate consumption can be viewed as being determined by two contrasting historical processes: one involves an aggregation of pre-committed, rule-bound choices and the other open-ended aspirational choices of novel products. Both of these processes are influenced by economic incentives. This is the domain of neoclassical economic theory and it is found that such theorising can tell us a great deal once it is set in its proper historical context. Although a modern complex system perspective derived from the natural sciences is adopted, it is embedded in economic thinking. For example, connections are made to the insights and intuitions of Alfred Marshall, Joseph Schumpeter, Simon Kuznets, Friedrich Hayek and Maynard Keynes. What we understand from them, along with modern complex system analysis, is that, although it is individual decisions that are fundamental in any economic system, it cannot be the case that what we observe at the aggregate level just reflects the optimization decision of a representative agent. As Hayek observed, the role of individual is much more complex and important than this. Using half a century of data, the US consumption function is modelled successfully on the presumption that the economy is a complex system in which there has been the diffusion of a ‘culture of consumerism’ in the post-war era. This has involved the increasing adoption of a particular bundle of meso rules and this has resulted in a steadily increasing ratio of consumption to GDP that has been tending towards a limit. It was found that variables and perspectives drawn from neoclassical economic theory are important in explaining variations in the growth of aggregate consumption.
E10|SVARs Identification through Bounds on the Forecast Error Variance| Sign-restricted Structural Vector Autoregressions (SVARs) are increasingly common. However, they usually result in a set of structural parameters that have very different implications in terms of impulse responses, elasticities, historical decomposition and forecast error variance decomposition (FEVD). This makes it difficult to derive meaningful economic conclusions, and there is always the risk of retaining structural parameters with implausible implications. This paper imposes bounds on the FEVD as a way of sharpening set-identification induced by sign restrictions. Firstly, in a bivariate and trivariate setting, this paper analytically proves that bounds on the FEVD reduce the identified set. For higher dimensional SVARs, I establish the conditions in which the placing of bounds on the FEVD delivers a non-empty set and sharpens inference; algorithms to detect non-emptiness and reduction are also provided. Secondly, under a convexity criterion, a prior-robust approach is proposed to construct estimation and inference. Thirdly, this paper suggests a procedure to derive theory-driven bounds that are consistent with the implications of a variety of popular, but different, DSGE models, with real, nominal, and financial frictions, and with sufficiently wide ranges for their parameters. The methodology is generalized to incorporate uncertainty about the bounds themselves. Fourthly, a Monte-Carlo exercise verifies the effectiveness of those bounds in identifying the data-generating process relative to sign restrictions. Finally, a monetary policy application shows that bounds on the FEVD tend to remove unreasonable implications, increase estimation precision, sharpen and also alter the inference of models identified through sign restrictions.
E10|MARTIN Has Its Place: A Macroeconometric Model of the Australian Economy|This paper introduces MARTIN – the Reserve Bank of Australia's (RBA) current model of the Australian economy. MARTIN is an economy-wide model used to produce forecasts and conduct counterfactual scenario analysis. In contrast to other large-scale models used at the RBA – and at many other central banks – which adhere to a narrow theoretical view of how the economy operates, MARTIN is a macroeconometric model that consists of a system of reduced form equations built to strike a balance between theoretical rigour and empirical realism. Most of the model's equations align closely with the way RBA staff typically interpret the behaviour of individual economic variables. However, combining these individual equations in a system can bring fresh insights that are not possible without model-based analysis. In the paper we provide an overview of the model, outline its core behavioural equations and describe its empirical properties. The Online Appendix presents the full set of model equations.
E10|Investment and savings in a dynamic context|In the 1980s Asimakopulos in dealing with the problems of finance, liquidity, investment and saving, criticized both Kalecki and Keynes for the way they dealt with the problem of the investment multiplier. Kalecki's and Keynes's insufficient attention to the time dimension of the multiplier process led them to underestimate the importance of financing investment projects, especially with regard to the problem of the conversion of the firms' short-term loans into long- term loans. When this issue is taken into due consideration, it appears that the economy's propensity to save plays some role in the determination of the conditions under which firms can carry out their investment plans. The paper concentrates on the main point made by Asimakopulos. In a dy- namical analytical context which takes explicit account of the time dimension of processes, the economy's propensity to save can a ect investment, even though this does not imply the rejection of the view that investment `comes first'. A dynamic approach has the merit to emphasize the important role that the financial system plays in the process of economic expansion and it allows to look at expansionary policies and their e ects in a more articulate and thorough way.
E10|Employment protection reform in European labor markets: the collective bargaining regime matters|"Policy advisers repeatedly call on Western European countries to reform their employment protection legislation (EPL) by adopting layoff taxes to finance unemployment insurance (UI). This new design, partly based on the existing ""experience-rating"" (ER) system in the U.S., would induce firms to internalize layoff fiscal costs and hence reduce unemployment. Its success remains uncertain in economies with a collective wage-setting system, as in many Western European countries. Using a matching model with endogenous job destruction, we provide an ex-ante evaluation of this policy reform’s effects on labor market outcomes in a firm-level bargaining economy and a sector-level bargaining one. Using numerical exercises, we show that compared to a scenario of a simple increase in EPL stringency, the implementation of an ER system results in a decrease in unemployment under both bargaining regimes. Because of the possibility for firms to adjust most terms and conditions of employment (including wage) in decentralized negotiations, juxtaposing the ER system with the existing EPL yields the best labor market performance under a firm-level bargaining regime. The lack of internal flexibility in sector-level bargaining calls for accompanying the implementation of the ER with a relaxation of the existing EPL’s stringency. Lastly, we show that in industries with a turbulent economic environment, accompanying the introduction of ER while reducing the existing EPL’s strictness is recommended."
E10|Where Did Good Jobs Go? Acemoglu and Marx on Induced (Skill Replacing) Technical Change|The paper lays out a hypothesis about the effect global oversupply of labor had on induced technological change, clarifying how it might have contributed to the demand reversal for high skill workers and other recent observed trends in technological change in the US. The argument considers the effect of market friendly political/institutional transformations of the 1980s on technology as they created a potential for an integrated global labor market. The innovations induced by the promise of this potential eventually culminated in the creation of global value chains and production networks. These required large set up costs and skill enhancing innovations, but once in place they reduced the dependence of expanding low skill employment around the globe on skill intensive inputs from advanced countries, giving rise to the wellobserved high skill demand reversal and sputtering of IT investment.
E10|Asymmetric competition, risk, and return distribution|We propose a parsimonious statistical model of firm competition where structural differences in the strength of competitive pressure and the magnitude of return fluctuations above and below the system-wide benchmark translate into a skewed Subbotin or asymmetric exponential power (AEP) distribution of returns to capital. Empirical evidence from US data illustrates that the AEP distribution compares favorably to popular alternative models such as the symmetric or asymmetric Laplace density in terms of goodness of fit when entry and exit dynamics of markets are taken into account.
E10|Globalisation and Economic Growth: A panel data approach|Using different kinds of panel unit root and cointegration tests as well as panel estimations this paper seeks to improve upon the existing literature by testing the possible relationship between globalisation and the real GDP of 29 countries across almost all continents for the period 1970–2013. The results obtained allow us to confirm that globalisation is clearly relevant to economic growth, mostly when globalisation is proxied by variables related to international transactions, but also when it is proxied with the globalisation indexes and sub-indexes provided by the database of the Swiss think-tank KOF. There is also clear evidence that the long-run relationships, measured through panel cointegration, are stronger among the countries belonging to the same continent, Europe, as well as among those with a higher GDP per capita.
E10|An econometric analysis of unconventional monetary policy : the cases of Japan and United States|In the wake of financial crisis, the use by major advanced countries of unconventional monetary policies, such as credit easing (CE) by central banks toward depository banks as well as quantitative easing (QE), is not without controversy. While QE increases the liability side of the central bank's balance sheet by expanding the monetary base, the new phase of CE policy enlarges the asset side by purchasing different types of credit in order to get credit markets functioning. Nevertheless, many studies have not taken this important difference in policy into account. They have shed light on mechanisms of the determination of interest rate but precluded any endogenous movement of items in the balance sheets of central banks. Instead, this paper attempts to construct a financial model, linked to a macro-econometric model, which reflects the central bank's balance sheet. The two linked models provide a better guide to explaining how a central bank's monetary policy generates impacts on the real economy via depository banks. By undertaking a comparative assessment of the cases of Japan and the USA, this study conducts scenario simulation using the two linked models. It thereby offers an alternative solution to current monetary policy that aims to tackle the problem of deflation.
E10|An introduction of a simple monetary policy with savings taxation in the overlapping generations model|In this paper, we introduce a simple monetary policy with savings taxation into Samuelson's (1958) overlapping generations model. In our model, we confirm that the real market interest rate increases in response to an increase in the rate of the savings taxation as a policy lending rate.
E10|Myopia and Anchoring|We consider a stationary setting featuring forward-looking behavior, strategic complementarity, and incomplete information. We obtain an observational equivalence result that recasts the aggregate dynamics of this setting as that of a representative-agent model featuring two distortions: myopia, as in models with imperfect foresight; and anchoring of the current outcome to the past outcome, as in models with habit persistence and adjustment costs. We further show that the as-if distortions are larger when the general-equilibrium feedback, or the strategic complementarity, is stronger. These results offer a fresh perspective on the observable implications of informational frictions; build a useful bridge to the DSGE literature; and help reduce an uncomfortable gap between the prevailing structural interpretations of the macroeconomic time series and the related microeconomic evidence. Finally, an empirical evaluation is offered in the context of inflation, wherein it is shown how our results can rationalize existing estimates of the Hybrid NKPC while also matching survey evidence on expectations.
E10|Poor country, rich history, many lessons: The evolution of wealth-income ratios in India 1860-2012|The evolution and metamorphoses of wealth underpins historical questions of growth and distribution. This article develops new, homogenized series of the wealth-income ratio in India over fifteen transformational decades: from colonial rule after the demise of the Mughals to the contemporary rise of Indian capitalists on a global scale. Over the long run, there were two major waves of wealth accumulation. The first ended around World War II and was characterized by a Ricardian vision - landlords appropriated surplus value under low productivity conditions, benefiting from a large divergence of asset prices relative to consumer price infl ation. Between 1939 and 2012, the Indian wealth-income ratio mimics the U shaped trend observed in other large economies. The second wave (between 1960 and 2012) is partly explained by capital accumulation but price effects consistently dominate large changes in wealth dynamics. Implications for distribution are noteworthy. Upswings of the wealth-income ratio are nearly always accompanied by rising concentration of economic power. Finally, over the last three decades the structure of national wealth favors private wealth over public capital. These ndings underline an important stylized fact: despite large structural differences between rich and emerging countries, wealth-income ratios are rising everywhere in the twenty first century.
E10|The changing dynamics of short-run output adjustment|Much of macroeconomic theorizing rests on assumptions that define the short-run output adjustment of a mass-production economy. The demand effect of investment on output, assumed much faster than its supply effect, works through employment expanding pari passu with changes in capacity utilization while productivity remains constant. Using linear Structural VAR and Time-Varying Parameter Structural VAR models, we document important changes in the short-run output adjustment in the USA. The link between changes in employment, capacity utilization and investment has weakened, while productivity became more responsive following demand shifts caused by investment since the early 1990s.
E10|Instability in the basic New Keynesian model under limited information|"New solutions to the basic standard New Keynesian model are explored. I extend De Grauwe’s model (2012), distinguishing two types of agents and different expectations rules. The central bank fixes the rate of interest. Families and firms determine aggregated demand and supply. Neither of them follows the hypothesis of perfect rational expectations. However, Popper’s principle of rationality is applied. From a situation of limited information, even though they learn through rational processes, they are unable to understand their mutual behaviour. Therefore, the expectations in the three equations do not coincide. As a result, the solution does not tend to a single, stationary equilibrium. This conclusion does not depend on the hypothesis of the ""animal spirits"". Finally, the possibility of a successful learning process is studied. It is considered whether the central bank could learn from the data, finally reaching a stationary optimum equilibrium. The answer is no. The New Keynesian model seems to be basically unstable when agents have limited information. The problem lies in the impossibility to get adequate coordination."
E10|Financial Deepening in a Two-Sector Endogenous Growth Model with Productivity Heterogeneity|We develop a tractable two-sector endogenous growth model in which heterogeneous entrepreneurs face borrowing constraints and the government collects tax to fund public eduction. This model is isomorphic to a Uzawa-Lucas model and there exists a balanced-growth path equilibrium in which the growth rate depends on the financial deepening level. We show that the policy tax rate exerts inverted U-shaped effects on the growth rate. Additionally, at the optimal policy tax rates the model's predictions are consistent with correlational regularities documented from 35 OECD countries with regards to financial deepening, factor accumulation and working hours.
E10|Do Households Actually Generate Rational Expectations? “Invisible Hand” for Steady State|The rational expectations hypothesis has been criticized for imposing substantial demands on economic agents, and this problem has not been sufficiently solved by introducing a learning mechanism. I present a new approach to this problem by assuming that households behave on the basis of not the rate of time preference but the capital-output (income) ratio. I show that households can equivalently reach and stay at a steady state without doing anything equivalent to computing a complex macro-econometric model. Although households are not required to implement anything difficult, they look to be behaving fully rationally, led by an “invisible hand.”
E10|Optimal Growth Policies in a Two-Sector Model with Financial Market Imperfections|This paper studies the pro-growth policies in an endogenous growth model where heterogeneous entrepreneurs face collateral constraints, skilled workers accumulate human capital, and the government intervenes to promote human and physical capital formation. It shows that the model has a balanced-growth path whose rate depends on government policy and financial development level. The theoretical analysis also shows that when the distribution of idiosyncratic productivity is heavy-tailed, the government must subsidize productive entrepreneurs to achieve optimal pro-growth policies.
E10|銀行の資本構成と自己資本比率規制<BR>[Banks' capital structures and capital regulations]|This study proposes a model that describes banks' decisions about their capital structures and analyzes the regulation of the capital adequacy ratio (CAR), that is, the ratio of equity finance to risky assets. The aim of this study is to investigate two questions. First, which level of CAR is optimal for a bank when both deposit finance and equity finance have advantages and disadvantages. Second, whether or not a bank reduces the amount of lending when it is required to rise its CAR. In this study, we analyze tow types of the model: one without a constraint on the maximum amount of funding a bank can obtain from households, and one with the constraint. In either case, the optimal CAR could be determined as an interior solution. In addition, a regulation of the CAR decreases a bank's profit if its CAR is not large enough to satisfy the regulation in either case. Even though an unsound bank always chooses to use more equity finance to satisfy regulation in the former case, it would choose to reduce the amount of lending in the latter case because its capital structure is affected by households portfolio optimizations. The model shows that the more risk-averse households are, the more likely a bank is to reduce lending. These results show that there is a positive probability that regulating banks' capital structures have a negative effect in economy, and to investigate such effect we consider the interaction between banks and households more carefully.
E10|Corporate Income Tax, Legal Form of Organization, and Employment|A dynamic stochastic occupational choice model with heterogeneous agents is developed to evaluate the impact of a corporate income tax reduction on employment. In this framework, the key margin is the endogenous entrepreneurial choice of legal form of organization. A reduction in the corporate income tax burden encourages adoption of the C corporation legal form, which reduces capital constraints on firms. Improved capital reallocation increases overall productive efficiency in the economy and therefore expands the labor market. Relative to the benchmark economy, a corporate income tax cut can reduce the non-employment rate by up to 7 percent.
E10|Bubbly Recessions|"We develop a tractable rational bubbles model with financial frictions, downward nominal wage rigidity, and the zero lower bound. The interaction of financial frictions and nominal rigidities leads to a ""bubbly pecuniary externality,"" where competitive speculation in risky bubbly assets can result in excessive investment booms that precede inefficient busts. The collapse of a large bubble can push the economy into a ""secular stagnation"" equilibrium, where the zero lower bound and the nominal wage rigidity constraint bind, leading to a persistent and inefficient recession. We evaluate a macroprudential leaning-against-the-bubble policy that balances the trade-off between the booms and busts of bubbles."
E10|Estimation bayésienne d’un modèle néo-keynésien pour l’économie marocaine|Ce travail porte sur l'estimation d'un modèle hybride néo-keynesien (HNKM) formé de trois équations structurelles caractérisant l'économie marocaine. Il s'agit de la courbe de demande, de la courbe d'o¤re et d'une règle Taylor augmentée des réserves de change. Le modèle est estimé par une approche bayésienne à partir des données trimestrielles couvrant la période 1998Q1-2016Q4. Parallèlement et s'inspirant des travaux de Del Negro et Schorfheide (2004), un modèle BVAR-DSGE a été estimé en exploitant les priors issus du modèle HNKM. Les fonctions de réponse impulsionnelles ont été comparées et les performances prédictives de ces deux modèles structurels ont été confrontées à des modèles statistiques alternatifs: le VAR classique et le BVAR. Il ressort des résultats des modèles HNKM et BVAR-DSGE que les réactions des variables aux di¤érents chocs sont globalement similaires et conformes aux prédictions de la théorie économique. L'étude de la qualité prévisionnelle des di¤érents modèles indique que le BVAR-DSGE et le HNKM présentent des avantages comparatifs mais sans dominer, en tous points, les modèles statistiques tels que le VAR classique et le VAR bayésien.
E10|Fiscal Compact and Debt Consolidation Dynamics|We analyse the macroeconomic effects of a debt consolidation policy in the Euro Area mimicking the Fiscal Compact Rule (FCR). The rule requires the signatory states to target a debt-to-GDP ratio below 60%. Within the context of Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium models (DSGE), we augment a fully micro-founded New-Keynesian model with a parametric linear debt consolidation rule, and we analyse the effects on the main macroeconomic aggregates. To fully understand its implications on the economy, we study different debt consolidation scenarios, allowing the excess debt to be re-absorbed with different timings. We show that including a debt consolidation rule can exacerbate the effects of the shocks in the economy by imposing a constraint on the public debt process. Secondly, we note that the effect of loosening or tightening the rule in response to a shock is heterogeneous. Shocks hitting nominal variables (monetary policy shock) are not particularly sensitive. On the contrary, we prove that the same change has a more pronounced effect in case of shock hitting real variables (productivity and public spending shocks). Finally, we show that the macroeconomic framework worsens as a function of the rigidity of the debt consolidation rule. As a limiting case, we show that the effects on output, employment, real wages, inflation, and interest rates are sizable.
E10|A Behavioral Model of the Credit Cycle|In a behavioral variant of a New Keynesian model, in which individuals use simple heuristic rules to forecast future in ation and output gap, if there are limits on the amount of debt that economic agents are allowed to bear, we observe occasionally severe downturns. Differences in beliefs combined with borrowing constraints tend to dampen expansions, but give rise to a chain reaction that exacerbates the recessions. The model is an example of endogenous credit cycles with expansions, severe recessions, and persistent inequality in the distribution of wealth. Monetary policy can both stabilize the economy and cause increased average output.
E10|Developing a shared environmental responsibility principle for distributing cost of restoring marine habitats destroyed by industrial harbors|For decades, industrial harbor expansion has been destroying coastal marine ecosystems. Many estuaries are sites for industrial harbors and critical fish nursery habitat. Considering fish population decreases and the global biodiversity crisis, restoring these habitats is justified and supported by international institutions. However, restoration programs can be prohibitively costly, particularly when considering the Polluter Pays Principle. While harbors destroy nurseries, at the same time they generate benefits for society and contribute to the public interest. This raises questions of who is responsible for environmental degradation and who can afford environmental restoration costs? One way to allocate restoration costs is in proportion of those who have benefitted from harbor activities. This paper addresses these questions by calculating burden-sharing scenarios with inputoutput matrix equations. These scenarios are based on a shared producer and consumer responsibility approach to distribute restoration costs among stakeholders that use, either directly or indirectly, harbor services. The scenarios are applied to the Seine estuary, France, and calculated as a function of sectorial value-added as well as direct and indirect economic linkages between economic sectors and harbor activities. Economic linkages with final consumers (e.g. households) are also included. The shared environmental responsibility calculation developed in this paper shares restoration costs for previously damaged marine habitats between a wide-range of economic agents, thereby preventing industrial harbors from bearing expensive restoration costs alone, and making restoration more likely.
E10|Les voies de la recherche cliométrique ouvertes par Le Capital au XXI e siècle|The publication of Thomas Piketty?s Capital in the 21st Century has revived interest in the issue of inequality in history. This book contains two key proposals: the author establishes a first principle of fundamental differences between the return on capital and wages, which would be the source of inequality in history. At the same time, the accumulation of capital is the factor that has historically driven economic growth. Piketty?s book explores these two aspects in succession, but he does not study the links between these two propositions: are inequalities a motor or a brake on economic growth in history? This is the thread of our analysis of the book, which examines two major questions: how to move from the statement of a ?historical law of capitalism? into a dynamic growth model? And, can savings be an obstacle to economic growth? In a final section, we suggest that the use of cliometrics can be a means of clarifying if not deciding these debates. JEL Classification: B4, E10, E11, E22, E23, E24, E61, E62, E64, N10, O4, O5, P1
E10|External debt composition and domestic credit cycles|We assess the role of external debt in shaping the dynamics of domestic credit cycles. Using quarterly data for 40 countries between 1980 and 2015, we examine four dimensions of external debt composition: instrument, sector, currency and maturity. We show that the first two dimensions provide valuable information about the likelihood of credit booms and busts. In particular, we find that a higher share of external bank lending in the form of bonds is associated with a greater likelihood of credit booms. Our results also reveal that credit busts tend to be associated with a lower share of interbank lending and a higher share of lending from banks to nonbanks.
E10|Continuous vs Discrete Time Modelling in Growth and Business Cycle Theory|Economists model time as continuous or discrete. For long, either alternative has brought about relevant economic issues, from the implementation of the basic Solow and Ramsey models of growth and the business cycle, towards the issue of equilibrium indeterminacy and endogenous cycles. In this paper, we introduce to some of those relevant issues in economic dynamics. First, we describe a baseline continuous vs discrete time modelling setting relevant for questions in growth and business cycle theory. Then we turn to the issue of local indeterminacy in a canonical model of economic growth with a pollution externality whose size is related to the model period. Finally, we propose a growth model with delays to show that a discrete time representation implicitly imposes a particular form of time–to–build to the continuous time representation. Our approach suggests that the recent literature on continuous time models with delays should help to bridge the gap between continuous and discrete time representations in economic dynamics.
E10|The changing dynamics of short-run output adjustment|Much of macroeconomic theorizing rests on assumptions that define the short-run output adjustment of a mass-production economy. The demand effect of investment on output, assumed much faster than its supply effect, works through employment expanding pari passu with changes in capacity utilization while productivity remains constant. Using linear Structural VAR and Time-Varying Parameter Structural VAR models, we document important changes in the short-run output adjustment in the USA. The link between changes in employment, capacity utilization and investment has weakened, while productivity became more responsive following demand shifts caused by investment since the early 1990s.
E10|Sharing Economy: Dynamic General Equilibrium Effects|Developments in digital technologies enabled the emergence and rapid growth of the sharing economy predicted to account for up to 5% of EU GDP in coming years. This paper contextualises these developments within a dynamic two sector model of the economy and analyses the effects of efficiency gains in the sharing sector on growth, income distribution and employment. We identify three sources of technological progress in the sharing sector and find that an expansion of this sector, in line with recent predictions, will lead to modest GDP growth and declines in both wage share and employment, if sharing is organised by profit maximising firms. We compare this solution to a case where households organise sharing directly and find that the sharing sector will be larger under the same technological conditions in the latter case.
E10|Information Content of DSGE Forecasts|This paper examines the question whether information is contained in forecasts from DSGE models beyond that contained in lagged values, which are extensively used in the models. Four sets of forecasts are examined. The results are encouraging for DSGE forecasts of real GDP. The results suggest that there is information in the DSGE forecasts not contained in forecasts based only on lagged values and that there is no information in the lagged-value forecasts not contained in the DSGE forecasts. The opposite is true for forecasts of the GDP deflator. Keywords: DSGE forecasts, Lagged values JEL Classification Codes: E10, E17, C53
E10|The effects of external shocks on Azerbaijan economy|This paper examines the effects of external shocks on the economy of oil rich Azerbaijan. Using oil price and macroeconomic indicators of three major trade partners of Azerbaijan – EU, Russia, and Turkey - as the external shock variables, we analyze the effects of those shocks on the domestic macroeconomic variables of Azerbaijan during the period from 2000Q1 to 2017Q4, in the SVAR framework with block exogeneity restriction. The results show that the overall importance of the four groups of shocks, in descending terms, is in the following order: oil shock, EU origin shocks, Russia origin shocks, and Turkey origin shocks. The major findings of the paper are: a) among considered foreign shocks oil price shock is the most important foreign shock for the economy of Azerbaijan; b) in general EU origin shocks has larger impact on considered domestic variables compared to other trade partners origin shocks; c) Turkey origin shocks have almost no impact in any of the considered domestic variables of Azerbaijan, d) among considered external shocks oil price is the main determinant of the non-oil sector of economy, and e) among considered external shocks GDP growth of the trade partners is the main determinant of the inflation in Azerbaijan.
E10|Investment, Current Account, and the Long Swings of Unemployment|We estimate the relationship between investment and unemployment over the time period 1960-2015 in 20 OECD countries. While neoclassical growth theory typically assumes full employment – with no effect of investment on unemployment – we find that over our sample period covering more than five decades, a statistically significant negative relationship does exist: when investment fell, unemployment increased. When the time period is broken down into two sub-periods to take account of the Great Recession, we find that the estimated coefficient of investment is slightly smaller when the period 2001-2015 is added to the 1960-2000 period. We also find a positive effect of the current account surplus on unemployment that very likely works through investment. A non-monetary model shows how an increase in policy uncertainty that sharply contracts investment and raises unemployment can lead to an increase in current account surplus.
E10|Assessing Global Potential Output Growth: April 2018|This note presents our estimates of potential output growth for the global economy through 2020. Overall, we expect global potential output growth to remain broadly stable over the projection horizon, averaging 3.3 per cent, although there is considerable uncertainty surrounding these estimates. There are offsetting dynamics across regions. Specifically, potential output growth is expected to increase in the United States, reflecting a slight rise in capital deepening. In emerging-market economies, potential growth is also projected to strengthen, mainly due to a recovery of investment as well as structural reforms contributing to total factor productivity growth. Population aging and declining labour inputs slow potential output growth in Japan, China and the euro area. Potential output in China also slows due to moderating investment growth.
E10|Climate change and the macro-economy: a critical review|Climatic factors can directly affect economic outcomes such as output, investment and productivity, and understanding the economic consequences of climate change is becoming a necessity not just for climate economists but also for a wider range of economic professionals involved in modelling and forecasting macroeconomic variables. The focus of this review is on the key theoretical and empirical modelling issues in the analysis of the macroeconomic risks deriving from climate change. The paper develops the taxonomy introduced by a number of previous Bank of England studies, which distinguish between physical and transition risks of climate change. The paper then identifies the different channels through which these risks are transmitted to the macro-economy, either through (unpredictable) economic shocks or through predictable, longer-term impacts. The different approaches to modelling these macroeconomic effects are then discussed and assessed in light of the increasing need to routinely monitor and quantify the impact of emerging climate change risks on the economy.
E10|Oil and Commodities Drive the World Business Cycle: A Long-Commodity-Cycle Model of the World Economy Over a Century and a Half|This paper explores the world business cycle using unfiltered data from 1870 and looks for a theory that could account for the long wave commodity cycle in the world economy. We build a simple DSGE model that includes a long time-to-build constraint in the commodity sector. We find that this model can produce long cycles in output and commodity prices as introduced by Kontradieff (1925) and Schumpeter (1935). Our findings show that these long business cycles are produced by the long gestation of commodity capacity which causes very large swings in commodity prices.
E10|A heterogeneous-agent model of growth and inequality for the UK|This paper analyses the effect of wealth inequality on UK economic growth in recent decades with a heterogeneous-agent growth model where agents can enhance individual productivity growth by undertaking entrepreneurship. The model assumes wealthy people are more able to afford the costs of entrepreneurship. Wealth concentration therefore stimulates entrepreneurship among the rich and so aggregate growth, whose fruits in turn are largely captured by the rich. This process creates a mechanism by which inequality and growth are correlated. The model is estimated and tested by indirect inference and is not rejected. Policy-makers face a trade-off between redistribution and growth.
E10|Financial stability: To regulate or not? A public choice inquiry|The paper takes the stand that the central banks as financial regulators have their own interest in imposing more regulations. It models the institutional behaviour for the central bank and government using the Indirect Inference testing and estimation method and it finds a set of coefficients of the model that can generate the actual observed behaviour for the US. The paper establishes that good monetary policy can reduce instability. Regulation at worse destabilises the economy and at best contributes little to stabilise the economy. After the financial crisis, financial regulations were too severe and thus actually increased instability.
E10|The Rate of Return on Everything, 1870–2015|What is the aggregate real rate of return in the economy? Is it higher than the growth rate of the economy and, if so, by how much? Is there a tendency for returns to fall in the long-run? Which particular assets have the highest long-run returns? We answer these questions on the basis of a new and comprehensive dataset for all major asset classes, including housing. The annual data on total returns for equity, housing, bonds, and bills cover 16 advanced economies from 1870 to 2015, and our new evidence reveals many new findings and puzzles.
E10|Production Integration in the European Union|Measured by trade in intermediate inputs, economic integration has increased between 2000 and 2014 between members of the European Union and even more with non-members. Integration is negatively related to economic size and positively to the number of years as a member. Germany is the largest hub in the production network and the centre of gravity has moved eastward. Older member states are increasingly exporting service inputs and new member states primary and manufacturing inputs. Wages are increasing faster in countries with low initial wages, indicating wage convergence as a result of production integration.
E10|Monetary policy under climate change|We study monetary policy under climate change in order to answer the question of whether monetary policy should take into account the expected impacts of climate change. The setup is a new Keynesian dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model of a closed economy in which a climate module that interacts with the economy has been incorporated, and the monetary authorities follow a Taylor rule for the nominal interest rate. The model is solved numerically using common parameter values and fiscal data from the euro area. Our results, which are robust to a large number of sensitivity checks, suggest non-trivial implications for the conduct of monetary policy.
E10|Equilibrium indeterminacy with parental altruism|Equilibria where altruistic generations are linked via positive bequests are indeterminate and subject to sunspot variables when each individual's utility in non-separable in her own age contingent consumption and sufficiently biased towards old age. This result does not require strong income effects and it applies if individuals select their own savings and bequests by taking the decisions of their offsprings and successors as given. In this case, the equivalence with the Dynastic Equilibria of a Ramsey-type model envisaged in Barro (1974) fails. To help interpreting my results I compare the olg cum altruism model with a canonical non-altruistic olg economy with two goods and age dependent per period utility functions. (Copyright: Elsevier)
E10|Information Content of DSGE Forecasts|This paper examines the question whether information is contained in forecasts from DSGE models beyond that contained in lagged values, which are extensively used in the models. Four sets of forecasts are examined. The results are encouraging for DSGE forecasts of real GDP. The results suggest that there is information in the DSGE forecasts not contained in forecasts based only on lagged values and that there is no information in the lagged-value forecasts not contained in the DSGE forecasts. The opposite is true for forecasts of the GDP deflator.
E10|Aggregation biases in empirical Euler consumption equations: evidence from Spanish data|In this paper we investigate the implications of aggregation in empirical analyses of Euler equations for consumption. We compare the results obtained after estimating the samemodel, using total and non-durable microeconomic consumption household data, from themaximum aggregation level (National Accounts) to individual data from the SpanishExpenditure Survey (Encuesta Continua de Presupuestos Familiares). We also use thesurvey to build cohort and aggregate data to test the model using different aggregatemeasures of consumption. The results we obtain confirm the theoretical predictionssummarised in Blundell and Stoker (2005) as well as in previous empirical evidence, i.e.aggregation turns out to be crucial to study empirically Euler equations for consumption. The estimated EIS with aggregated data is biased as compared with the correspondingestimate with microeconomic data. Further, the size of the bias increased with the level ofaggregation.
E10|Wealth inequality in the long run: A Schumpeterian growth perspective|This paper extends Piketty’s analysis of the wealth-income ratio used as a proxy for wealth inequality, to allow for innovation. Drawing on a Schumpeterian (R&D-based) growth model that incorporates both tangible and intangible capital and using historical data for 21 OECD countries, we find the wealth-income ratio to be significantly and positively related to R&D intensity and the fixed capital investment ratio, but negatively related to income growth. Accounting for the innovation-induced counteracting growth-effect on the wealth-income ratio, we show that the net effect of R&D on wealth inequality is positive.
E10|Bubbly Recessions|We analyze the welfare tradeoff of rational bubbles in a tractable growth model with financial frictions and downward nominal wage rigidity. The monetary authority follows an inflation targeting Taylor-type interest rate rule that is constrained by the zero lower bound. We show that competitive speculation in a risky bubbly asset can result in an excessive investment boom that precedes an inefficient bust, and a larger boom precedes a deeper bust. In particular, the collapse of a large bubble can push the economy into a “secular stagnation” equilibrium, where the zero lower bound and the nominal wage rigidity constraint bind, leading to a persistent recession with inefficiently low employment, investment and output. The inefficiency is due to the pecuniary externality of speculative investment that arises from combination of financial frictions and nominal rigidities. The model provides a framework to evaluate macroprudential leaning-against-the-bubble policies to balance the welfare tradeoff between the boom and bust phases of bubbly episodes.
E10|Regressive Welfare Effects of Housing Bubbles|We analyze the welfare effects of asset bubbles in a model with income inequality and financial friction. We show that a bubble that emerges in the value of housing, a durable asset that is fundamentally useful for everyone, has regressive welfare effects. By raising the housing price, the bubble benefits high-income savers but negatively affects low-income borrowers. The key intuition is that, by creating a bubble in the market price, savers' demand for the housing asset for investment purposes imposes a negative externality on borrowers, who only demand the housing asset for utility purposes. The model also implies a feedback loop: high income inequality depresses the interest rates, facilitating the existence of housing bubbles, which in turn have regressive welfare effects.
E10|International monetary policy coordination in a new Keynesian model with NICE features| The authors provide a static two-country new Keynesian model to teach two related questions in international macroeconomics: the international transmission of unilateral monetary policy decisions and the gains coming from the coordination monetary rules. They concentrate on “normal times” and use a thoroughly graphical approach to analyze the questions at hand. In this setting monetary policy is conducted using interest rates rules and economic integration between nations does not necessarily create the case for the coordination of monetary policy. In particular, they show that the conduct of optimal national monetary policies does not make any difference with the coordination of national policies, as this creates a situation where the international monetary system operates “Near an International Cooperative Equilibrium” (NICE).
E10|Red tape asset pricing|The equity premium–risk-free rate puzzle in standard consumption-based asset pricing models disappears once we remove the government-imposed component from the consumption expenditure series. I calibrate this component based on the growth rates of two proxies for government intervention, which I also show to forecast the short- and long-term equity premiums between 1974 (or 1981) and 2017. In summary, investors require large premiums to hold stocks because stocks give poor returns when government intervention increases, thereby systematically reducing individuals’ utility levels.
E10|Government Spending and the Income-Expenditure Model: The Multiplier, Spending Composition, and Job Guarantee Programs|This paper reconstructs the income - expenditure (IE) model to include a distinction between government purchases of output versus government production. The distinction has important consequences for output and employment multipliers. The paper also extends the IE model to incorporate a government job guarantee program (JGP), and the extended model illuminates the automatic stabilizer properties of a JGP. The model is then extended to include Kaleckian income distribution effects. That generates a novel Kaleckian balanced budget multiplier driven by changed composition of government spending. The paper concludes with some economic and political economy concerns about a JGP that are flagged by the model.
E10|The Fallacy of the natural rate of interest and Zero Lower Bound economics|This paper provides a critique of zero lower bound (ZLB) economics which has become the new orthodoxy for explaining stagnation. ZLB economics is an extension of pre-Keynesian economics which attributes macroeconomic dysfunction to rigidities and market imperfections. The ZLB is the latest rigidity in that pre-Keynesian tradition. The paper argues negative nominal interest rates, even if feasible, may be unable to remedy Keynesian demand shortage unemployment, and might even aggravate the problem. That is because there exist non-reproduced assets whose return dominates that of investment, and saving may also increase in response to negative rates. Consequently, there may be no natural rate of interest.
E10|Hansen and Sargent's Recursive Models of Dynamic Linear Economies: A Review Essay|Lars Peter Hansen and Thomas J. Sargent's book, Recursive Models of Dynamic Linear Economies, exposits, extends, and applies methods for solution and analysis of dynamic stochastic linear quadratic models. The book, which can be used as a monograph or in a graduate course, integrates theory, econometrics, and computation. This essay provides a summary and offers some mild complaints about material not included in what is already a remarkably comprehensive book.
E10|Assessing Global Potential Output Growth|This note estimates potential output growth for the global economy through 2019. While there is considerable uncertainty surrounding our estimates, overall we expect global potential output growth to rise modestly, from 3.1 per cent in 2016 to 3.4 per cent in 2019. This gradual increase is expected to be broad-based, reflecting growth-enhancing reforms in oil-importing emerging-market economies (excluding China) and in the euro area and the diminishing drag on investment in commodity-producing regions stemming from the 2014–15 decline in commodity prices. Potential output growth in the United States is expected to rise modestly through 2019 driven by a small recovery in trend total factor productivity growth. China is the only major economy where potential output growth is expected to slow, albeit moderately, as it gradually transitions to a more sustainable growth path featuring slower investment growth.
E10|New version of the quarterly model of Banco de España (MTBE)|The Quarterly Model of Banco de España (MTBE, Modelo Trimestral del Banco de España), is a large-scale macro-econometric model used for medium term macroeconomic forecasting of the Spanish economy, as well as for performing scenario simulations. The model is specified as a large set of error correction equations, and, especially in the short run, is mostly demand driven. This paper presents an update of the model, estimated with data from 1995 to 2014. In this iteration, a big revamp to the econometric techniques used in estimation has been implemented. Despite that, changes in coefficients and simulation results with respect to the previous version of the model are smaller than what we saw in earlier updates. Compared with MTBE-2014, this new version (MTBE-2017) shows less response of demand to interest rates and stock market prices but more to credit, less response of GDP to world demand but more to world prices and to the price of oil, more positive effects to output and employment from price and wage moderation, and slightly faster and bigger fiscal multipliers for some shocks (government consumption and investment, direct taxes to households) but smaller for others (indirect taxes, direct taxes to firms).
E10|The Bank of Italy econometric model: an update of the main equations and model elasticities|The Bank of Italy quarterly econometric model (BIQM) is a large-scale ‘semi structural’ macro-econometric model. It tries to strike the right balance between theoretical rigour and statistical fit to the data. This paper provides an update of the features and the properties of the model, focussing on the empirical estimates of its main equations and on the system responses to various shocks; interactions and feedback mechanisms between the financial and the real side of the economy are also illustrated. The BIQM is primarily used to produce macroeconomic forecasts, but it is also employed – in conjunction with other tools – for evaluating the impact of monetary and fiscal policy options and for counterfactual analyses. Examples of the types of macro-economic analyses carried out with the model are provided.
E10|Identifying Dornbusch's Exchange Rate Overshooting with Structural VECs: Evidence from Mexico|In this paper we use data from Mexico to identify Dornbusch's (1976) exchange rate overshooting hypothesis. We specify and estimate a structural cointegrated VAR that considers explicitly the presence of a set of long-run theoretical relations on macroeconomic variables (a purchasing power parity, an uncovered interest parity, a money demand, and a relation between domestic and U.S. output levels). We then impose a recursiveness assumption to identify the response of domestic variables to a monetary policy shock. The long-run restrictions embedded in the model are themselves identified, estimated, and tested using an ARDL methodology that is robust to the degree of persistence of the time series and, in particular, to whether they are trend- or first-difference stationary. With this approach, we are able to find that the response of the exchange rate to monetary policy shocks is consistent with Dornbusch's model.
E10|Equivalence between input-output and value-added economies|I show that, under standard assumptions, input-output (or network) economies are equivalent to value-added ones. Using a generalized version of the model in Acemoglu et al. (Econometrica, 2012), I show that the degree of influence of a given sector is equal to its value added share. This occurs because --by using the input-output network-- the output of a given sector indirectly contributes to the production of the final consumption of the rest of the sectors, which constitutes the source of its value. Thus, value-added economies deliver the same aggregate response to sectoral shocks than input-output ones. Despite this equivalence, the Leontief multiplier, which applies to sales and gross output, is intact.
E10|Assessing fiscal policy through the lens of the financial and the commodity price cycles|We assess the link between fiscal policy and credit and commodity price booms and busts. We do so by investigating the impact of financial and commodity price cycles on the identification of episodes of fiscal consolidation and stimulus and the size of the fiscal impulse. We find that controlling for the credit cycle has an impact on the magnitude of the change in the cyclically-adjusted budget balance. The impact is lower in the case of the commodity price cycle. In addition, we show that credit booms and busts influence the cyclicality of fiscal policy, but not to the extent of significantly altering the systematic response of fiscal policy to the dynamics of real economic activity. Again, the impact of the commodity price cycle is smaller and limited to some specific cases.
E10|The Macroeconomic Effects of Longevity Risk Under Private and Public Insurance and Asymmetric Information|Abstract We study the impact of a fully-funded social security system in an economy with heterogeneous consumers. The unobservability of individual health conditions leads to adverse selection in the private annuity market. Introducing social security—which is immune to adverse selection—affects capital accumulation and individual welfare depending on its size and on the pension benefit rule that is adopted. If this rule incorporates some implicit or explicit redistribution from healthy to unhealthy individuals then the latter types are better off as a result of the pension system. In the absence of redistribution the public pension system makes everybody worse off in the long run. Though attractive to distant generations, privatization of social security is not generally Pareto improving to all generations.
E10|China, Europe, and the Great Divergence: A Study in Historical National Accounting, 980–1850|Chinese GDP per capita fluctuated at a high level during the Northern Song and Ming dynasties before trending downwards during the Qing dynasty. China led the world in living standards during the Northern Song dynasty, but had fallen behind Italy by 1300. At this stage, it is possible that parts of China were still on a par with the richest parts of Europe, but by 1750 the gap was too large to be bridged by regional variation within China and the Great Divergence had already begun before the Industrial Revolution<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E10|Keynesian economics without the Phillips curve|We extend Farmer’s 2012b Monetary (FM) model in three ways. First, we derive an analog of the Taylor Principle and we show that it fails in U.S. data. Second, we use the fact that the model displays dynamic indeterminacy to explain the real effects of nominal shocks. Third, we use the fact the model displays steady-state indeterminacy to explain the persistence of unemployment. We show that the FM model outperforms the New-Keynesian model and we argue that its superior performance arises from the fact that the reduced form of the FM model is a VECM as opposed to a VAR.
E10|Macro needs micro|An emerging consensus on the future of macroeconomics views the incorporation of a role for financial intermediation, labour market frictions, and household heterogeneity in the presence of uninsurable unemployment risk as key needed extensions to the benchmark macro framework. I argue that this is welcome, but not sufficient for macro—and international macro—to tackle the menu of issues that have been facing policy-makers since the recent global crisis. For this purpose, macro needs more micro than the benchmark set-up has been incorporating so far. Specifically, artificial separations between business cycle analysis, the study of stabilization policies, and growth macro, as well as between international macroeconomics and international trade, must be overcome. I review selected literature contributions that took steps in this direction; outline a number of important, promising directions for future research; and discuss methodological issues in the development of this agenda.
E10|Behavioral Heterogeneity: Pareto Distributions of Homothetic Preference Scales and Aggregate Expenditures Income Elasticities|"We evaluate the income elasticity of the aggregate budget share spent on a sub-group of commodities, in a competitive framework, by a continuum of agents having the same income, but heterogeneous behavior described by an ""homothetic preferences scaling factor"" having a bounded Pareto distribution in the population. If individual budget share increases globally significantly in the limit from low to large incomes, aggregate budget share is locally increasing with medium range incomes when the logarithm of the heterogeneity factor has an increasing (exponential) density with a large support. Aggregate income elasticity converges to that exponential density parameter when its support becomes infinitely large. Symmetric results hold in the decreasing case. Applications are made to market expenditures, wealth effects on portfolio choice with many risky assets, concave expenditures, that are compatible with standard (expected) utility maximization or other ""behavioral"" decision making processes."
E10|Quelques leçons d'un modèle de macroéconomie écologique à 2 périodes|Cet article revisite un modèle néoclassique de l'enseignement de la macroéconomie (Williamson, 2014) en y introduisant une contrainte de ressource naturelle intertemporelle, tout en respectant le postulat de soutenabilité forte. Deux régimes, appelés respectivement contraint et non contraint, sont distingués selon que la contrainte de ressource (CR) est liante ou non. Dans le Régime contraint, un durcissement de la CR (i) a un impact négatif sur les indicateurs macroéconomiques d'activité a chaque période et (ii) modifie le partage de la valeur ajoutée au détriment du facteur travail (même si la ressource est gratuite). Une CR liante modifie aussi l'efficacité des politiques de soutien de la demande. Le progrès technique n'a un impact positif sur l'activité que s'il permet d'économiser le(s) facteur(s) de production limitant(s), c-a-d les facteurs travail et capital dans le cadre du Régime non contraint et la ressource dans le cadre du Régime contraint. Dans une extension ou l'usage de la ressource se traduit par de la pollution, nous étudions les conséquences d'une politique qui laisse délibérément une partie de la ressource inexploitée. Si la politique a des effets négatifs sur l'activité et la consommation, le bien-être des ménages augmente si leur désutilité marginale de la pollution est suffisamment forte. Ce résultat montre l'importance de considérer d'autres mesures que les indicateurs macroéconomiques traditionnels pour évaluer les politiques environnementales. We introduce an intertemporal resource constraint into the textbook 2-period neoclassical macro-model proposed by Williamson (2014). The resource is free but is an essential input in final production and is complementary to man-made inputs (labour and capital). Two regimes, called respectively constrained and unconstrained, are possible whether the resource constraint is binding or not. In the constrained regime, a strengthening of the resource constraint has a negative impact on economic activity and employment in the two periods. It also changes the value-added sharing in a way unfavourable to labour income. A binding resource constraint also alters the effectiveness of demand policies. Technical progress only improves economic activity in the two periods if it improves the productivity of man-made inputs in the unconstrained regime and the resource productivity in the constrained one.
E10|The Role of Marriage in Fighting HIV: A Quantitative Illustration for Malawi|How might policies that promote marriage and/or dissuade divorce help in the fight against HIV/AIDS? This question is addressed employing a choice-theoretic general equilibrium search model, using Malawi as a case study. In the framework developed, individuals can choose between married and single life. A single person can select among abstinence and sex with or without a condom. The results suggest that marriage-friendly policies can help to abate HIV/AIDS. The policy predictions that obtain from general equilibrium analysis are compared with those that arise from simulated synthetic field experiments and epidemiological studies.
E10|The Asymmetric Effects of Real and Nominal Uncertainty on Inflation and Output Growth: Empirical Evidence from Bangladesh|This study examines an empirical analysis of the causal links and volatility spillovers between inflation, output growth and their uncertainties in Bangladesh by utilizing the autoregressive AR(p)-exponential generalized AR conditional heteroscedasticity (EGARCH) model for the period 1993-2014. The study shows that EGARCH version provides the best statistical fit by investigating that volatility is variable and asymmetric than symmetric. The empirical results show an overwhelming support for Friedman-Ball hypothesis that inflationary shocks affect inflation uncertainty positively. Both inflation and output growth generate output uncertainty which is detrimental for real economic activity while nominal uncertainty (real uncertainty) is positively (negatively) affecting output growth. Finally, output uncertainty is reducing inflation uncertainty while there is no effect from the opposite side. Our estimated results suggest that policy makers should adopt dynamic stabilization policies in order to reduce a rise in inflation and to achieve economic stability for stimulating output growth further
E10|Does US monetary policy respond to oil and food prices?|A common view is that US monetary policy does not respond to changes in volatile energy and food prices. Despite this view, the popular New Keynesian models assume Taylor-type rules under which the short-term interest rates react to headline inflation. This paper evaluates the fit of alternative Taylor rules within an estimated New Keynesian model. A main finding is that the US central bank includes energy and food prices in its policy rule, although the weight assigned to these prices is much smaller than their share in the economy.
E10|The long-run growth effects of R&D policy|We assess the long-run growth effects of public policies to business R&D using data for US manufacturing industries and taking Schumpeterian growth theory as guideline. Our analysis indicates that R&D policy in the form of R&D tax credits fosters the rate of productivity growth over the long-term horizon. This effect is quantitatively important: increasing R&D tax credits by 10% raises the growth rate of labour productivity by 0.4% per year. We show that our findings are robust to controlling for several policy instruments, growth determinants and econometric issues. Moreover, the overall evidence is consistent with the predictions of second-generation fully-endogenous growth models.
E10|Consumption- and Productivity-Adjusted Dependency Ratio with Household Structure Heterogeneity|In this study, we construct a new dependency ratio measure by taking into account the consumption needs of the young and elderly people, and the productivity of middle-aged people. Different from the way that Cutler et al. (1990) and Weil (1999) constructed the relative needs by using the average consumptions of each age cohort of people, we estimate the factor of relative needs of people at different ages based on a regression model, which embraces the household age compositions and size in the assessment. Our analysis uses household survey data from five developing countries in Asia— Bangladesh, Cambodia, the People’s Republic of China (PRC), Thailand, and Viet Nam. To our best knowledge, this is among the pioneer work exploring such patterns for these countries. Focusing on the PRC, we further examine whether consumptions depend on the coresidence style. We found that (i) the consumption- and productivity-adjusted dependency ratio (both total and old dependency ratios) are consistently lower than the one that is traditionally defined across all five countries in our sample, and the differences vary from country to country; (ii) in the PRC, the differences between traditional dependency ratio and the consumption- and productivity-adjusted dependency ratio grow larger in more distant future; and (iii) in the PRC, the relatively younger elderly members between 65 and 72 years old help in reducing the consumption of young members in their households, and the elderly members who live alone consume more than their peers who live with their offspring. We also simulate the impacts of smaller households, urbanization, and economic growth on consumption for the PRC, based on our model.
E10|Endogenous political turnover and fluctuations in sovereign default risk|A sovereign default model in which the sovereign derives private benefits from public office and contests elections to stay in power is developed. The economy's growth process is modeled as a Markov switching regime, which is shown to be a better description of the data for our set of emerging economies. In the model, consistent with evidence, the sovereign is less likely to be reelected if economic growth is weak. In the low-growth regime, there is higher probability of loss of private benefits due to turnover, which makes the sovereign behave more myopically. This growth-linked variation in effective discount factor is shown to be important in generating volatility in sovereign spreads.
E10|Schumpeter and Schumpeterians on economic policy issues: re-reading Schumpeter through the lens of institutional and behavioral economics. An introduction to the special issue|Abstract We develop a critical interpretation of Schumpeter’s thinking that allows two alternative ‘operationalizations’ of his theoretical approach to economic development and institutions. We show that they are compatible with the two dominant neo-Schumpeterian economic dynamics approaches - one focused on the national economic and institutional conditions required for a commitment to an innovation based strategy for competing at the world technology frontier, and one that combines Schumpeter’s insights on technological change with Keynesian policies supporting demand for consumer goods and investment in the context of radical uncertainty and heterogeneous behavior. The implications for policy of these two perspectives are discussed in relation to Schumpeter’s ambiguous stance on economic policy issues. Finally, based on an articulation of institutions and individual behavior in light of recent developments in behavioral economics, we provide some implications for new perspectives on economic policy.
E10|The Economics of Natural Disasters: an Overview of the Current Research Issues and Methods|In the last decades, we have observed a dramatic increase in the number of reported natural disasters and of their widespread human, economic, and environmental losses. This paper presents an overview of the current status of economic research on natural disasters. Firstly, it discusses key issues related to disaster definition, available datasets, and cost assessment. Then, it presents the main methodological approaches for estimating impacts and effects of natural disasters on the economy. Finally, it proposes a number of possible future research directions.
E10|What is Driving Inflation and GDP in a Small European Economy: The Case of Croatia|In this paper we estimate and identify a small open economy Bayesian VAR model in order to disentangle the contribution of individual domestic, euro area-specific and global shocks to domestic macroeconomic developments. Our identification suggests that foreign (global and euro area - specific) shocks have a large impact on the variability of domestic variables - they account for approximately 40% of variation in GDP growth and around 50% of variation in inflation. Looking at the contribution of individual structural shocks our results emphasize two particular findings. First, low oil prices have played an important role for muted inflation in Croatia during the last two years while, at the same time, domestic real activity has not benefited much. We show how this finding depends crucially on the specific mix of economic shocks underlying the movements in oil prices (demand vs supply shocks). Second, our results suggest that the large-scale asset purchase programme launched by the ECB at the beginning of 2015 resulted in favourable, albeit limited, spillover effects on domestic economy.
E10|Conditional moment restrictions and the role of density information in estimated structural models|"While incomplete models are desirable due to their robustness to misspecification, they cannot be used to conduct full information exercises i.e. counterfactual experiments and predictions. Moreover, the performance of the corresponding GMM estimators is fragile in small samples. To deal with both issues, we propose the use of an auxiliary conditional model for the observables f(X|Z, '), where the equilibrium conditions E(m(X, #)|Z) = 0 are imposed on f(X|Z, ') using information projections, and (#, ') are estimated jointly. We provide the asymptotic theory for parameter estimates for a general set of conditional projection densities, under correct and local misspecification of f(X|Z, '). In either cases, efficiency gains are significant. We provide simulation evidence for the Mean Squared Error (MSE) both under the case of local and fixed density misspecification and apply the method to the prototypical stochastic growth model. Moreover, we illustrate that given (#ˆ, 'ˆ) it is now feasible to do counterfactual experiments without explicitly solving for the equilibrium law of motion."
E10|Should We Reject the Natural Rate Hypothesis?|Fifty years ago, Milton Friedman articulated the natural rate hypothesis. It was composed of two sub-hypotheses: First, the natural rate of unemployment is independent of monetary policy. Second, there is no long-run trade-off between the deviation of unemployment from the natural rate and inflation. Both propositions have been challenged. The paper reviews the arguments and the macro and micro evidence against each. It concludes that, in each case, the evidence is suggestive, but not conclusive. Policymakers should keep the natural rate hypothesis as their null hypothesis, but keep an open mind and put some weight on the alternatives.
E10|Optimal climate policies in a dynamic multi-country equilibrium model|This paper develops a dynamic general equilibrium model with an arbitrary number of different regions to study the economic consequences of climate change under alternative climate policies. Regions differ with respect to their state of economic development, factor endowments, and climate damages and trade on global markets for capital, output, and exhaustible resources. Our main result derives an optimal climate policy consisting of an emissions tax and a transfer policy. The optimal tax can be determined explicitly in our framework and is independent of any weights attached to the interests of different countries. Such weights only determine optimal transfers which distribute tax revenues across countries. We infer that the real political issue is not the tax policy required to reduce global warming but rather how the burden of climate change should be shared via transfer payments between different countries. We propose a simple transfer policy which induces a Pareto improvement relative to the Laissez faire solution. A calibrated example quantifies Pareto-improving transfers between rich and poor countries.
E10|Behavioral Heterogeneity : Pareto Distributions of Homothetic Preference Scales and Aggregate Expenditures Income Elasticities|"We evaluate the income elasticity of the aggregate budget share spent on a sub-group of commodities, in a competitive framework, by a continuum of agents having the same income, but heterogeneous behavior described by an ""homothetic preferences scaling factor"" having a bounded Pareto distribution in the population. If individual budget share increases globally significantly in the limit from low to large incomes, aggregate budget share is locally increasing with medium range incomes when the logarithm of the heterogeneity factor has an increasing (exponential) density with a large support. Aggregate income elasticity converges to that exponential density parameter when its support becomes infinitely large. Symmetric results hold in the decreasing case. Applications are made to market expenditures, wealth effects on portfolio choice with many risky assets, concave expenditures, that are compatible with standard (expected) utility maximization or other ""behavioral"" decision making processes."
E10|Demographic dynamics and long-run development: insights for the secular stagnation debate|Abstract This paper takes a global, long-run perspective on the recent debate about secular stagnation, which has so far mainly focused on the short term. The analysis is motivated by observing the interplay between the economic and demographic transition that has occurred in the developed world over the past 150 years. To the extent that high growth rates in the past have partly been the consequence of singular changes during the economic and demographic transition, growth is likely to become more moderate once the transition is completed. At the same time, a similar transition is on its way in most developing countries, with profound consequences for the development prospects in these countries, but also for global comparative development. The evidence presented here suggests that long-run demographic dynamics have potentially important implications for the prospects of human and physical capital accumulation, the evolution of productivity, and the question of secular stagnation.
E10|Shocks vs. Responsiveness: What Drives Time-Varying Dispersion?|The dispersion of many economic variables is countercyclical. What drives this fact? Greater dispersion could arise from greater volatility of shocks or from agents responding more to shocks of constant size. Without data separately measuring exogenous shocks and endogenous responses, a theoretical debate between these explanations has emerged. In this paper, we provide novel identification using the open-economy environment: using confidential BLS microdata, we document a robust positive relationship between exchange rate pass-through and the dispersion of item-level price changes. We show this relationship arises naturally in models with time-varying responsiveness but is at odds with models featuring volatility shocks.
E10|The L-Shaped Phillips Curve: Theoretical Justification and Empirical Implications|This paper has two parts. In the first part, I demonstrate that, in the absence of price and wage bounds, monetary models do not have current equilibria - and so lack predictive content - for a wide range of possible policy rules and/or beliefs about future equilibrium outcomes. This non-existence problem disappears in models in which firms face (arbitrarily loose) finite upper bounds on prices or positive lower bonds on nominal wages. In the second part, I study the properties of a class of dynamic monetary models with these kinds of bounds on prices/wages. Among other results, I show that these models imply that the Phillips curve is L-shaped, are consistent with the existence of permanently inefficiently low output (secular stagnation), and do not imply that forward guidance is surprisingly effective. I show too that economies with lower nominal wage floors have even worse equilibrium outcomes in welfare terms. It follows that models with arbitrarily low but positive nominal wage floors are not well approximated by models without wage floors.
E10|The Rate of Return on Everything, 1870-2015|This paper answers fundamental questions that have preoccupied modern economic thought since the 18th century. What is the aggregate real rate of return in the economy? Is it higher than the growth rate of the economy and, if so, by how much? Is there a tendency for returns to fall in the long-run? Which particular assets have the highest long-run returns? We answer these questions on the basis of a new and comprehensive dataset for all major asset classes, including-for the first time-total returns to the largest, but oft ignored, component of household wealth, housing. The annual data on total returns for equity, housing, bonds, and bills cover 16 advanced economies from 1870 to 2015, and our new evidence reveals many new insights and puzzles.
E10|Endogenous Production Networks|We develop a tractable model of endogenous production networks. Each one of a number of products can be produced by combining labor and an endogenous subset of the other products as inputs. Different combinations of inputs generate (prespecified) levels of productivity. Markets are “contestable” in the sense that production technologies are available to a large number of potential producers. We establish the existence and uniqueness of an equilibrium with an endogenous production network and provide comparative static results on how prices and endogenous technology choices (and thus the production network) respond to changes in parameters. These results show that improvements in technology (or reductions in distortions) spread throughout the economy via input-output linkages and reduce all prices, and under reasonable restrictions on the menu of production technologies, also lead to a denser production network. Using a dynamic version of the model, we show that the endogenous evolution of the production network could be a powerful force towards sustained economic growth. At the root of this result is the fact that the arrival of a few new products expands the set of technological possibilities of all existing industries by a large amount — that is, if there are n products, the arrival of one more new product increases the combinations of inputs that each existing product can use from 2 n-1 to 2 n , thus enabling significantly more pronounced cost reductions from the choice of optimal technology combinations. These cost reductions then spread to other industries that benefit from lower input prices and are further incentivized to adopt additional inputs.
E10|The MESANGE macroeconometric model: re-estimation and innovations|Mesange is a quarterly macroeconometric model of the French economy developed and used jointly by the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies (Insee) and the Treasury Directorate General (DG Trésor). This working paper presents the new version of the model, reestimated with the National Accounts data published in May 2016. Mesange displays Keynesian dynamics driven by aggregate demand in the short run but is pinned down in the long run by the supply side. The structure of the model, though similar to the previous version (Klein and Simon, 2010), is enriched to reflect the structural evolution of the French economy, to address the new challenges arising in public policy evaluation, and to better shed light on current economic debates. The French economy is modelled as a “small open economy” (exogenous international environment) and is broken down into five sectors (manufacturing, energy, tradable services exposed to international competition, non-tradable sheltered services and non-market sector). With respect to the previous version, the modelling of the labor market is substantially enriched with the distinction between skilled and unskilled labor force to account for the differentiated impact of targeted labour market policies.
E10|Fiscal policy coordination in a monetary union at the zero lower bound|[eng] Following the 2008 Financial Crisis, Euro Area governments faced adverse economic environments: high ratios of public debt to GDP, depressed outputs and the prospect of monetary policy hitting the zero lower bound (ZLB). This article assesses to what extent the conduct of fiscal policy differs within a monetary union at the ZLB. Using a fiscal DSGE model with two regions (North and South) calibrated to replicate the conditions where, absent any additional shock, the Euro Area economy would have been stuck at the ZLB for three years starting in 2013, we show that cross-border spillovers from fiscal policy are substantially higher without monetary offset and increase with the extent of fiscal consolidation measures. Spillovers can amount up to half (resp. one sixth) of the domestic impact in the case of VAT-based (resp. spending-based) consolidations. Outside the ZLB, fiscal expansion in one region triggers monetary tightening which has negative effect in the whole union, and gives rise to gains from fiscal cooperation. At the ZLB however, national objectives tend to be closer and the coordinated policy is less consolidating. Moreover, cooperation encourages symmetric rather than asymmetric policies.
E10|Inequality and Procedural Fairness in a Money Burning and Stealing Experiment|This paper presents the results of an experiment where an unequal wealth distribution was created and then subjects could act to change this wealth distribution. Subjects received money by betting and possibly by arbitrary (undeserved) gifts; they could then pay to reduce, redistribute and, in half of the sessions, steal money from others. The experimental results are incompatible with some standard models of interdependent preferences. Over 80% of redistributors were rank egalitarian, but how subjects perceived the problem significantly affected their redistribution activity: perceptions of fairness were not simply a matter of relative payoff, and changed according to whether a subject was undeservedly advantaged or otherwise.
E10|Optimal Equilibrium State in Two-Sector Growth Model|The paper studies a two-sector growth model for two cases: with flexible technology and with fixed coefficients. Different states of economic equilibrium (steady states) are compared. We find that the price of investment goods with respect to the price of consumer goods should be changed if the equilibrium state has shifted. Therefore, the aggregate production function cannot be considered as a purely technical. We assume that the income distribution is determined by the direct proportionality between the profits and the investment. Then the resulting function of aggregate output is continuous and differentiable in the domain of definition, even if the technology is fixed. In the last case the function has diminishing returns of capital under Uzawa capital-intensity condition; the state of economic equilibrium is stable only when this condition is valid. We suggest that the optimal is an equilibrium state that maximizes the total profit. The model with fixed coefficients predicts the possible existence of such an optimum.
E10|Concordian Economics: Beyond Micro and Macroeconomics|In Concordian economics there is no distinction between micro and macro economics, because the economic process is the same for the individual person, the city, the nation, or the world, What changes is the scale, but not the structure of the process. When micro and macro economics are seen as one, it makes no sense to add monetary wealth to real wealth. It becomes then evident that monetary wealth is not wealth; monetary wealth is a legal representation of real wealth.
E10|Corporate tax incidence and its implications for the labor market|The paper investigates the relationship between corporate taxation and labor market indicators. This research supports the idea that the increase in corporate income tax rates in the open economy will lead to the capital outflow to the low-tax jurisdictions, resulting in tax incidence on labor with consequent decrease in labor productivity. An empirical analysis demonstrated the negative relationship between labor freedom index and corporate tax rate. In countries with higher GDP per capita the strength of such relationship differs from countries where GDP per capita is relatively low. In terms of corporate tax incidence, this means that in developed countries the corporate tax burden is shifted onto workers in lesser extent compared with developing and emerging economies. The estimation of specific elements of labor freedom index allowed to identify main tendencies of impact of change of the corporate income tax rate on certain labor market indicators in countries with different GDP per capita. We suggested that corporate tax incidence diversely affects the labor productivity in countries with different GDP per capita, and the direction of such impact is determined by composition of labor force and openness of economy.
E10|A glance at Solow’s growth theory|This paper examines the growth theory of Robert Solow , which has been a point of reference of economic growth since the 1950s. First, the article analyzes the path-breaking model of growth contained in Solow’s article “A Contribution to the Theory of Economic Growth” published in The Quarterly Journal of Economics (1956). Second, it looks at the contribution of Solow to growth accounting and to the new method of studying capital formation in economic growth through the vintage approach. Therefore, the work analyzes the article “Technical Change and the Aggregate Production Function” published in The Review of Economics and Statistics (1957). In the latter publication, Solow, through the aggregate production function, tries to measure growth and provide an explanation of the nature of technical progress. The article also examines Solow’s 1960 essay “Investment and Technical Progress” based on the hypothesis of embodied technological progress and the vintage approach.
E10|International Productivity Growth Differentials Sectoral Analysis and Missing Productivity|In Jones (2002), Lucas (2009), and Lucas and Moll (2014), among others, growth is a function of new ideas, and reflects Kuznets (1960) useful knowledge (or testable knowledge) as a main driver of growth. In both Kuznets and Jones, the discovery of new ideas is tied to population growth. In the long run, the stock of ideas is proportional to the number of researchers, which is proportional to population. This is the scale factor, where essentially, long-run growth is tied to population growth in the advanced countries. The growth of knowledge due to new ideas depends on the number of people producing them and their productivity, essentially determines Total Factor Productivity growth (TFP). During the transition to the long-run, knowledge in excess of the long-run population growth, i.e., excess knowledge, explains most of the productivity growth. We use EUKLEMS 2017 data to show that the model explains 80 percent of the international productivity growth differentials because excess knowledge varies from one country to another. Effective world research efforts diffuse at a different pace from one country to another. We also modify the model and test hypotheses about sector-led growth such as finance and ICT. Finally, we shed light on the current missing productivity conundrum.
E10|Life in shakles? The quantitative implications of reforming the educational financing system|We conduct a quantitative analysis of educational financing systems in a stochastic overlapping generations model in which human capital can be enhanced through both formal schooling and learning-by-doing. The model is calibrated to the United States economy, including a stylized version of its student loan system. We find that moving to an income-contingent educational financing system, whereby transfers to students are financed from taxes on labor income, generates aggregate welfare gains. Such a system improves risk-sharing among college graduates and incentivizes individuals to obtain more education. These positive effects overturn the negative impact from labor supply distortions. Reforming the educational financing system towards income contingency, however, generates a considerable amount of transitional dynamics, so that welfare gains and losses are distributed unevenly across generations. (Copyright: Elsevier)
E10|Macroeconomic Fluctuations with HANK & SAM: An Analytical Approach|"New Keynesian models with unemployment and incomplete markets are rapidly becoming a new workhorse model in macroeconomics. Such models typically require heavy computational methods which may obscure intuition and overlook equilibria. We present a tractable version which can be characterized analytically. Our results highlight that - due to the interaction between incomplete markets, sticky prices and endogenous unemployment risk - productivity shocks may have radically different effects than in traditional NK models, that the Taylor principle may fail, and that pessimistic beliefs may be self-fulfilling and move the economy into temporary episodes of low demand and high unemployment, as well as into a long-lasting ""unemployment trap"". At the Zero Lower Bound, the presence of endogenous unemployment risk can create inflation and overturn paradoxical properties of the model. We further study financial asset prices and show that non-negligible risk premia emerge."
E10|Consumption- and Productivity-Adjusted Dependency Ratio with Household Structure Heterogeneity|This study constructs a new dependency ratio measure by taking into account the consumption needs of the young and elderly people, and the productivity of middle-aged people. Different from the way that Cutler et al. (1990) and Weil (1999) constructed the relative needs by using the average consumptions of each age cohort of people, it estimates the factor of relative needs of people at different ages based on a regression model, which embraces the household age compositions and size in the assessment. The analysis uses household survey data from five developing countries in Asiaâ€” Bangladesh, Cambodia, the Peopleâ€™s Republic of China (PRC), Thailand, and Viet Nam.
E10|Estimation of Output Gap for Pakistan|A comprehensive exercise is conducted for the estimation of potential output and output gap for Pakistan while considering shortcomings of existing relevant literature. A number of approaches, combining both state-space and structural estimation have been employed for this purpose. These include Bayesian inference, multivariate filter method, vector auto regression (with identification restrictions), state-space model and univariate filtering for estimation of output gap and potential output. The study finds fall in potential output growth of Pakistan during FY09 – FY13, has increased the economy’s vulnerability by making it more susceptible to demand shocks. Forecast of output gap on quarterly and annual frequencies for FY17 is also presented portraying upbeat aggregate demand going forward.
E10|Байесовский подход к оценке воздействия внешних шоков на макроэкономические показатели России. Bayesian approach to evaluate the impact of external shocks on russian macroeconomics indicators|Одним из перспективных подходов к моделированию макроэкономики страны и количественной оценке воздействия внешних и внутренних факторов на нее, в настоящее время активно используемым за рубежом, является байесовский подход к описанию макроэкономических процессов. В данном исследовании рассматриваются возможности применения модели байесовской векторной авторегрессии (BVAR) для оценки влияния внешних шоков, таких как цена на нефть марки «Brent», индекс волатильности на финансовых рынках VIX и индекс Шанхайской торговой биржи SSE, на динамику макроэкономических показателей России. Полученные результаты позволили оценить вклад внешних факторов в динамику макроэкономических показателей России как существенный. Представленный подход может успешно применяться для анализа российских данных, что подтверждают приведенные в статье результаты. One of the promising approaches of macroeconomic modeling and quantitative assessment of the impact of external and internal factors on macroeconomy of a country, which is actively used abroad, is a Bayesian approach to the description of macroeconomic processes. In this paper we examine Bayesian vector autoregression model (BVAR) to assess the impact of external shocks, such as the price of Brent crude oil, the volatility index VIX and the Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite index, on Russian macroeconomic indicators. The results allow us to estimate the contribution of external factors as a significant in the dynamics of Russia economic variables. This approach can be successfully applied for the analysis of Russian data, which was confirmed by the results presented in the article.
E10|Contribution of increased life expectancy to economic growth: evidence from CEE countries|Population ageing in a backdrop of growing average life expectancy can be seen in many advanced economies, but the rapid pace of these demographic changes in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) makes it a pressing matter for the region. We investigate these two phenomenon and compare results with prior research to determine their separate and combined effect on output growth in a panel regression model using Eurostat data for the period 1996 to 2013. Our findings point to both life expectancy and population ageing exerting a statistically significant, overlapping effect on real output. The conclusions of our research demonstrate the utility of augmenting macroeconomic models with a demographics-sensitive component.
E10|The Inclusion Of Natural Resource Wealth In The Index Of Economic Well-Being: Results For OECD Countries, 1980-2013|This report presents augmented estimates of the Index of Economic Well-being (IEWB) for 14 OECD countries for the 1980-2013 period
E10|Evolutions and Contradictions in Mainstream Macroeconomics: The Case of Olivier Blanchard| This article traces the complex intellectual path of Olivier Blanchard, a personification of the controversial evolution of macroeconomic research over the last three decades. After contributing to consolidation of the core of mainstream macroeconomics, Blanchard recently suggested ‘rethinking’ some of its key aspects to take stock of the lessons of the 2008 Great Recession, which he witnessed as the International Monetary Fund’s Chief Economist. This welcome discussion, which according to Blanchard should open mainstream macroeconomics to heterodox thinking, has so far produced a certainly interesting albeit theoretically contradictory synthesis and limited policy consequences. The most paradigmatic aspect of this rethinking of macroeconomics is represented by the abandonment in teaching of aggregate supply and demand in favor of a revival of the IS–LM model complemented by the Phillips curve. While this change of perspective does allow for the instability of ‘natural’ equilibrium to be emphasized, a deeper reading may prove incompatible with the neoclassical foundations of the mainstream approach.
E10|The Rise and Fall of Armies|For a thousand years, income growth was associated with a rising military employment share. But this share peaked in the early 20th century, after which military employment shares fell with income growth. I argue that rising military shares were driven by structural change out of agriculture, and the recent declines are driven by substitution from soldiers towards military goods. I document evidence for this substitution effect: as countries' incomes rise, the ratio of their military expenditure share to their military employment share rises too. I introduce a game theoretic model of growth and warfare that reproduces the time series patterns of military expenditure and employment. The model also correctly predicts the cross-sectional pattern, that military employment and expenditure shares are decreasing in income during wars. Finally, I show that faster economic growth can reduce military expenditure in the long run.
E10|Estimating the roles of financial sector development and international trade openness in underground economies: Evidence from the European Union|This paper investigates both the static and dynamic relationships between the development within the financial sector development and international trade openness with regard to the size of the underground economy in 20 EU (European Union) Countries. Panel data analysis will be conducted for the period 2006 to 2014, in order to examine the effect of the financial sector development and trade openness on the size of the underground economy. In addition to the static relationship framework, the Arellano-Bond Generalized Method of Moments econometric method will be applied to examine the dynamic framework between the variables. The main findings of this paper suggest that financial development has a significant impact on the size of the underground economy, and the existence of the negative correlation between the official GDP and the size of the underground economy is proven. In conclusion, the development within the financial sector is a significant contributor to the underground economy.
E10|Zero Lower Bound (ZLB) Economics|This paper explores zero lower bound (ZLB) economics. The ZLB is widely invoked to explain stagnation and it fits with the long tradition that argues Keynesian economics is a special case based on nominal rigidities. The ZLB represents the newest rigidity. Contrary to ZLB economics, not only does a laissez-faire monetary economy lack a mechanism for delivering the natural rate of interest, it may also lack such an interest rate. Moreover, the ZLB can be a stabilizing rigidity that prevents negative nominal interest rates exacerbating excess supply conditions.
E10|Abductive Reasoning in Macroeconomics|Macroeconomic analytical frameworks change with events they are unable to explain. The process is closer to abductive reasoning that is based on both events and analysis, unlike induction which is data-based and deduction where analysis dominates. Abduction reasons backwards from the outcome, to deduce the framework with which it is compatible. Therefore it is useful to study how macroeconomic conceptual frameworks evolve after anomalous outcomes such as crises. [WP-2016-022].
E10|The Right Fit for the Wrong Reasons: Real Business Cycle in an Oil-dependent Economy|Venezuela has an oil-dependent economy subject to large exogenous shocks and a rigid labor market. These features go straight to the heart of two weaknesses of real business cycle (RBC) theory widely reported in the literature: neither shocks are volatile enough nor real salaries sufficiently flexible as required by the RBC framework to replicate the behavior of the economy. We calibrate a basic RBC model and compare a set of relevant statistics from RBC-simulated time series with actual data for Venezuela and the benchmark case of the United States (1950-2008). Despite Venezuela being a heavily regulated economy, RBC-simulated series provide a good t, in particular with regard to labor markets.
E10|Análisis del producto interno bruto como determinante del crecimiento económico. Estudio comparativo: México-Argentina (2003-2013)|La riqueza que genera cualquier país se mide a través del producto interno bruto (PIB), este parámetro permite ver con claridad si existen avances o retrocesos como producto de la política económica aplicada, en esta investigación se decidió utilizar el PIB debido a que este indicador es utilizado comúnmente para medir el crecimiento económico de las naciones. Por tal motivo, se ha fijado como eje central de la investigación analizar algunas variables económicas que intervienen en la determinación del parámetro señalado, esta estimación se hace a través del método de la demanda final. Lo cual nos ayudará a observar si existen patrones comunes sobre el desempeño económico de los países./ The wealth generated by any country is measured by the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), this parameter allows you to see clearly whether there is progress or setbacks as a result of the economic policy applied in this investigation it was decided to use the GDP because this indicator is commonly used to measure economic growth of nations. For this reason, it has been set as the core of research analyzing some economic variables involved in determining the prescribed parameter, this estimate is made by the method of final demand. This will help us to see if there are common patterns on the economic performance of countries.
E10|Assessing The Detreminants Of Economic Growth In Ghana|African economies count among the fastest-growing economies in the world. In particular, West African economies have grown by an average of 5.7% in 2013 and 6% in 2014, despite the battle with the Ebola virus. Ghana has been at the forefront of this growth with an average economic growth of 8% in the period 2001-2014 (AfDB 2015). The challenge faced by African countries, such as Ghana, is to maintain this high economic growth rate in order to finance a number of developmental projects and curb the rampant poverty prevalent in a number of African countries. The sustainability of Ghana’s growth path and the economic policy that ensued necessitates a sound knowledge of the drivers and determinants of its economic growth. This paper contribute to the literature on economic growth in Ghana, as a case study of a fast-growing economy in Africa, by applying the BMA analysis in determining the drivers of the country’s economic growth. To the best of our knowledge, there is no study that identifies the drivers of economic growth in Ghana by using the BMA approach. The BMA technique provides the advantage over single-model techniques by combining and averaging different existing models and theories to determine the driver of economic growth. Yearly data ranging from 1970 to 2012 was collected from the World Bank Development Indicators (WDI 2012) and International Monetary Fund (IMF) statistics. There are 22 variables used in the model estimation, including the GDP per capita as the dependent variable. Explanatory variables are selected by taking into account their likelihood of determining economic growth in Ghana. Moreover, these variables are selected by accounting for the particularities of the Ghanaian economies, such as the existence of the dual economy and its reliance on natural resources for export revenues. Using the 50% threshold, as suggested by Raftery (1995), for the selection of relevant variables that drive economic growth in Ghana, the empirical results show that variables such as population density, crop production, inflation rate, labor force, current account balance and population growth are the important drivers of economic growth in Ghana. The paper suggests the following recommendation in the light of these results. Firstly, inflation targeting should remain the anchor of monetary policy in Ghana. Secondly, this paper recommends that the government of Ghana develops policies and strategies that enable the crowding-in of the private sector. Finally, this paper recommends that the government of Ghana promotes crop production in both commercial and subsistence sectors.
E10|Human Capital Accumulation and the Macroeconomy in an Ageing Society|Abstract How do population ageing shocks affect the long-run macroeconomic performance of an economy? To answer this question we build a general equilibrium overlapping generations model of a closed economy featuring endogenous factor prices. Finitely-lived individuals are endowed with perfect foresight and make optimal choices over the life cycle. In addition to selecting age profiles for consumption and the hours of time supplied to the labour market, they also choose their schooling level and retirement age. Human capital is accumulated as a result of work experience, the extent of which is determined by the intensity of labour supply. As the agent gets older, biological deterioration sets in and human capital depreciates at an increasing rate. This ultimately prompts the agent to withdraw from the labour market. The microeconomic and macroeconomic effects of three ageing shocks are studied, namely an increase in the length of biological life (biological longevity boost), an increase in both biological and productive life span (comprehensive longevity boost), and a decrease in the net birth rate (baby bust). Robustness checks are performed by allowing for capital market imperfections and indivisibility of labour supply.
E10|Complex Factors Behind Misguided Policies in Socioeconomics: From Mass Migration and Persistent Alienation to Rampant Crime and Economic Malaise|In a complex and chaotic world, people often gloss over the facts and jump to conclusions. Unfortunately, the hasty approach usually yields deficient and even harmful results. The domains affected range from migration and poverty to alienation and crime. According to the Myth of Boon, for instance, immigrants always benefit the host society. In this light, many people envisage the great migrations of the 19th century from Europe to America. However, the United States at that stage was itself a developing country; moreover the Civil War showed that clashing cultures cannot co-exist. Meanwhile the Myth of Multiculturalism asserts that a mashup of mores is always desirable; but the reality is otherwise. When immigrants in their millions pour into sparsely populated districts, they end up replicating the cultures that caused them to flee their homelands in the first place. The upshot is disruptive and distressing for all parties be they newcomers or incumbents. In addition, the Myth of Virtue declares that migrants of all backgrounds are equally upright. Yet comprehensive studies in Sweden have shown that violent crimes can be traced to immigrants at rates which are at least four times those for natives. From another angle, a drove of migrants is a godsend for criminals. For instance, a terrorist ring struck in France in 2015 and again in Belgium the following year. The perpetrators – who grew up in Belgium, France and Sweden – displayed immigrant backgrounds and included part of the cohort that traveled to the Mideast to receive training from militants then returned to Europe by posing as refugees. Since socioeconomic problems are intertwined rather than independent, a piecemeal approach will not fill the bill. Instead, a coherent grasp of the issues and their tie-ups is a prerequisite for devising a wholesome solution.
E10|Unified Money Circulation Equation and an Analogical Explanation for Its Solvability|The equation of exchange is well-known as a quantitative expression of money circulation, but it has a defect in that the relation between the velocity of money and the situation of economic agents is not clear. This paper attempts to found the velocity which pays attention to movement of money. For that purpose, this paper shows a money circulation equation in which agents of the whole society are unified. If this equation has a unique solution, the velocity of money is reduced to the expenditure rate of the whole society. Thereby, the defect of the equation of exchange can be remedied. Our attempt can be interpreted as connecting the velocity of money with the multiplier analysis. Success or failure of the trial depends on its solvability. This solvability problem of the money circulation equation is closely related to the missing problems of the monetary budget constraint. This paper also attempts to explain the missing problems in the case of the budget constraint of the whole society. This paper explains that a time irreversible disposal solves those problems by using an analogy.
E10|Cross-Sectional Features of Wealth Inequality in South Africa: Evidence from the National Income Dynamics Study|In this paper, we examine the cross-sectional distribution of wealth in South Africa by using survey data from the National Income Dynamics Study (NIDS) for 2010-2011 (wave 2) and 2014-2015 (wave 4). Our results show that wealth inequality is very high, with the bottom half of the population owning very little and the top decile holding about 85% of total wealth in 2010-2011 and 2014-2015. While the results also show that wealth inequality within-Race and between-Race are high, we find that wealth inequality within-Race is higher and particularly in the Black race, with a greater concentration of the Black population at the bottom end of the wealth distribution. Further, the results show that the racial wealth gap between the Black race and the White race is high, with a typical Black household holding relatively less than 5% of the wealth held by a typical White household. Finally, we find that wealth varies significantly over the age profile, suggesting support for the life cycle hypothesis.
E10|Factor Income Distribution and Endogenous Economic Growth - When Piketty Meets Romer -|We scrutinize Thomas Piketty’s (2014) theory concerning the relationship between an economy’s long-run growth rate, its capital-income ratio, and its factor income distribution put forth in his recent book Capital in the Twenty-First Century. We find that a smaller long-run growth rate may be associated with a smaller capital-income ratio. Hence, the key implication of Piketty’s Second Fundamental Law of Capitalism does not hold. In line with Piketty’s theory a smaller long-run growth rate may go together with a greater capital share. However, the mechanics behind this result are the opposite of what Piketty suggests. Our findings obtain in variants of Romer’s (1990) seminal model of endogenous technological change. Here, both the economy’s savings rate and its growth rate are endogenous variables whereas in Piketty’s theory they are both exogenous parameters. Including demographic growth in the spirit of Jones (1995) shows that a smaller growth rate of the economy may imply a lower capital share contradicting a central claim in Piketty’s book.
E10|Financial Vulnerability, Capital Shocks and Economic Growth: Evidence from China (2005—2014)|Taking the leading role of the banking industry in the financial system into consideration, this paper constructed a financial vulnerability index by using the method of principal component analysis, and found China’s financial vulnerability showed a slightly upward trend in general. In order to confirm the macro factors affecting financial fragility, dynamic regression models were constructed. As a result, the authors obtained seven major macro factors. Finally, the authors determined that an overheated economy, increasing inflation, excessive growth of the country’s fiscal expenditures, and export shocks will increase financial vulnerability. However, the increasing investment in real estates and fixed assets may reduce the risk in the financial market. Therefore, China needs to adapt to the new normal economic development model, weaken government intervention in the financial markets, deepen financial reforms, and maintain steady development in the financial system.
E10|Putting the Cycle Back into Business Cycle Analysis|This paper begins by re-examining the spectral properties of several cyclically sensitive variables such as hours worked, unemployment and capacity utilization. For each of these series, we document the presence of an important peak in the spectral density at a periodicity of approximately 36-40 quarters. We take this pattern as suggestive of intriguing but little-studied cyclical phenomena at the long end of the business cycle, and we ask how best to explain it. In particular, we explore whether such patterns may reflect slow-moving limit cycle forces, wherein booms sow the seeds of the subsequent busts. To this end, we present a general class of models, featuring local complementarities, that can give rise to unique-equilibrium behavior characterized by stochastic limit cycles. We then use the framework to extend a New Keynesian-type model in a manner aimed at capturing the notion of an accumulation-liquidation cycle. We estimate the model by indirect inference and find that the cyclical properties identified in the data can be well explained by stochastic limit cycles forces, where the exogenous disturbances to the system are very short lived. This contrasts with results from most other macroeconomic models, which typically require very persistent shocks in order to explain macroeconomic fluctuations.
E10|Informational Performance, Competitive Capital-Market Scaling, and the Frequency Distribution of Tobin’s Q|We develop a systemic interpretation of the functioning of capital markets that formally accounts for the observed frequency distribution of Tobin’s q, reported in Scharfernaker and dos Santos, 2015. Considering Tobin’s q as a ratio of expected total rates of return, we draw on an epistemological understanding of the tools of statistical mechanics to interpret capital markets as a competitive informational system. The strong modality in the distribution of q is taken to be conditioned by the arbitrage operations of corporate insiders. We take the persistent spread in the distribution of q to reflect the presence of obstacles to that agency, which impose an informational constraint on the operation of capital markets. This spread is also shaped by the fact that the measure of Tobin’s q e↵ectively scales the expected returns for an individual corporation relative to those expected of all corporations. This scaling reflects aggregate measures of bullishness in investors’ valuations that insiders do not seek to exploit. In addition to accounting for the frequency distribution of q observed for the past 50 years, this interpretation points to a systemic diagnostic for the presence of speculative equity-price bubbles, and o↵ers a new informational characterization efficiency in capital markets. According to the latter, U.S. capital markets have experienced a steady secular loss in their informational efficiency since the early 1980s.
E10|MELEZE: A DSGE model for France within the Euro Area|MELEZE, standing for Modèle économique linéarisé déquilibre en zone euro (linearised economic model of equilibrium in the euro area), is a new Keynesian DSGE model with the following characteristics: France and the rest of the Euro area form a monetary union; they are populated by infinitely lived households, of which a constant fraction is non Ricardian, consuming all of their current income; firms operate in monopolistic competition on the goods market, and so do workers on the labour market indistinctly of their financial constraints; prices and wages are sticky; consumption and investment goods can be freely exported/imported, whereas workers and installed capital cannot. The present paper presents the resolution and the calibration of the model as well as its full linearisation. In particular, we characterize the unique steady state in levels for the real variables and explicit the induced constraints on the parametrisation. In a second part, we present the behaviour of our model with respect to standard transitory shocks.
E10|Laffer curves and fiscal multipliers: lessons from Mélèze model|We use the two country DSGE model of the Euro area Meleze developed at Insee to perform ex ante fiscal reforms evaluations. The main features of the model compare with standard tools developed in international institutions and central banks. In practice, tax rates are below the government revenues maximizing rate identified by generalized equilibrium Laffer curves in the model. The extent of this result nevertheless depends on the degree of monopolistic competition on the goods market. We also analyse short and long term multipliers for numerous fiscal tools. These compare to standard DSGE simulations as well as to the macroeconometric model Mésange. However, depending on the behaviour of fiscal and monetary authorities, short-term fiscal multipliers variations are substantial, from 0.2 up to 1 point around the baseline in the most extreme case. All in all, there exists room of manoeuvre for so called mixed-strategies fiscal policy.
E10|Structural reforms in DSGE models: Output gains but welfare losses|In a standard DSGE model of the Euro Area, we shed new light on a popular exercise: pro-competitive reforms evaluation. The simple redefinition of households' utility function can lead to additional gains or losses of a few percentage points in output following such reforms. In addition, policy recommendations from welfare analysis are less clear-cut than those solely based on output gains. Both in the short and in the long run, structural reforms, although unambiguously output-enhancing, can prove detrimental to welfare. In addition, we show that goods market reforms reduce inequalities while labour market reforms are neutral. All in all, our results advocate for the extensive use of sensitivity analyses for quantitative policy purposes.
E10|Finance and climate: The transition to a low-carbon and climate-resilient economy from a financial sector perspective|Climate change is a major political and economic challenge. This paper sketches out its relevance for the financial sector. Necessary low-carbon investments imply a significant yet manageable financing gap. However, we argue that beyond capital mobilisation that has attracted most attention until now, the main challenge is ensuring a transition-consistent capital reallocation. The financial sector has a key role to play in that respect, complementary to appropriately designed climate policies. To help the financial system fulfil its role, the understanding of the economics of climate change should be deepened and a sector-wide businessoriented appropriation of these issues should be promoted. JEL classification: Q54, E10, E44, G12, G14, G21, G22, G23, G28. Keywords: Climate change, low carbon, climate finance, green finance, investment, capital allocation, financial system, risks
E10|Gibrat’s Law Redux: think profitability instead of growth|We argue that firm profitability can be conveniently characterized by one and the same diffusion process for all firms, akin to Gibrat’s seminal idea of a common stochastic description for the dynamics of firm growth. Here we show that the diffusion of profit rates applies across all surviving corporations, irrespective of their size or industry, which is not true for growth rates. The diffusion process is empirically consistent with both the cross-sectional distribution of profit rates and the individual time series of corporate profit rates, leading to the notion of a statistical equilibrium. This has stark and unexpected implications for our understanding of individual destinies, since the model and data suggest that idiosyncratic efforts have no impact on the aggregate distributional outcome. Instead, idiosyncratic efforts merely affect the individual persistence of abnormal profits from the system-wide norm. Put differently, corporations have to participate in the same game and can merely choose the speed at which they play it, but they cannot bend the rules.
E10|Tempered particle filtering|The accuracy of particle filters for nonlinear state-space models crucially depends on the proposal distribution that mutates time t−1 particle values into time t values. In the widely-used bootstrap particle filter, this distribution is generated by the state-transition equation. While straightforward to implement, the practical performance is often poor. We develop a self-tuning particle filter in which the proposal distribution is constructed adaptively through a sequence of Monte Carlo steps. Intuitively, we start from a measurement error distribution with an inflated variance, and then gradually reduce the variance to its nominal level in a sequence of tempering steps. We show that the filter generates an unbiased and consistent approximation of the likelihood function. Holding the run time fixed, our filter is substantially more accurate in two DSGE model applications than the bootstrap particle filter.
E10|Physical and Human Capital over the Business Cycle|The available disaggregated capital data are across industries. What one needs inter alia when calibrating multi-sector neoclassical growth models, are not industries’ capital endowments but the ones used in producing commodities, particularly consumption and investment goods. To fill this gap, following the existing literature on capital measurement and input-output analysis, we have sequentially produced these estimates for the US economy over the period 1998-2007. We have then used our estimates to calibrate and solve numerically a three-sector optimal growth model of physical and human capital accumulation. Using the right capital shares and stocks has improved the ability of the three-sector model to explain business cycle fluctuations.
E10|Investissements Sociaux et Pauvreté en R.D.Congo: Une Approche en Équilibre Général<BR>[Social Investments and Poverty in the D.R.Congo : A General Equilibrium Approach]|This work examines the impact of social investments and poverty in the D.R.Congo. The general equilibrium approach was used. To this end, a recursive dynamic computable general equilibrium model was built and calibrated based on the 2013 Social Accounting Matrix. Three scenarios were considered in terms of simulations: in the first, an increase in investment expenditure in the education sector has been envisaged; in the second, the corresponding increase in the health sector has been considered and the last scenario combines the two aforementioned. The results show the extent of the implications of such investments on the output and poverty. They reveal also transmission channels by which stakeholders are likely to be affected, while emphasizing the order of magnitude of impacts. The study concludes with a contribution.
E10|Continuous time, continuous decision space prisoner’s dilemma: A bridge between game theory and economic GCD-models|General Constrained Dynamic models (GCD – models) in economics are inspired by classical mechanics with constraints. Most macroeconomic models can be understood as special cases of GCD – models. Moreover, in this paper it will be shown that not only macroeconomic models but also game theoretic models are strongly related to GCD – models. GCD models are characterized by a system of differential equations in continuous time while most game theoretical models are set up in discrete time. Therefore it is necessary to build a bridge from game theoretical models denominated in discrete time to game theoretical models using continuous time. This bridge is illustrated in the following using the example of a continuous time, continuous decision space prisoner’s dilemma. Furthermore, it is shown that the differential equations which determine other continuous game theoretic models can be understood to a certain extent as special cases of the GCD – differential equations. Well known types of continuous game theoretic models include for instance “Evolutionary Game Theory” with the replicator equation, “Adaptive Dynamics” with the canonical equation, which is nothing else than a replicator – mutator equation, and the so called “Differential Games”, which are strongly related to optimal control theory with two controls and two different objectives (goals). Most of the GCD – models are characterised by 3 key feature: - mutual influence, - Power-factors - Constraints Nowak (2006b) and Taylor & Nowak (2007) show that there are five mechanisms which, under certain conditions, can lead to the evolution of cooperation in an iterated prisoner’s dilemma. Inspired by this, we apply the 3 key features of GCD – models to the standard prisoner’s dilemma in discrete time which yields 3 additional mechanisms which enable the evolution of cooperation. The assumption or axiom of the free market economy is that an individual optimisation strategy will lead to an overall optimum by virtue of Adam Smith’s invisible hand. Without additional conditions this assumption alone is fundamentally wrong. As in prisoner’s dilemma also in economics cooperation is essential to get an overall optimum. The big question of political economy is to analyse which additional measures could guarantee that the individual optimisation strategy characterising a free market economy leads to cooperation as precondition to get an overall optimum. From this point of view the different economic theories could be characterised in terms of which measures they assume to be sufficient to guarantee an overall optimum without abandoning the principle of individual optimisation.
E10|Inequality, Technical Change or Leverage?|Exploring the determinants of growing income inequality, I show how constant capital income shares and inequality can be explained without technical change. I show why despite the fact that technical change is capital augmenting, rather than labor augmenting, it may not be sufficient to explain the last few decades of growing capital share of income and inequality due to the balancing mechanism of depreciation. Finally, I show how the growth of leverage, which coincided with the growth of inequality, can explain the growth of capital share of income and inequality. I introduce a simple model of leverage and business cycle and show how leverage is justified by more leverage and how depressed interest rate allows leveraging and inequality growth to persist.
E10|Кризис И Рост Неравенства. Оптимальный Путь Экономического Роста<BR>[The crisis and increasing inequality. The best equilibrium growth path]|A new macroeconomic model is presented, which makes it possible to take a fresh look both at the long-term equilibrium growth process and at short-term deviations from it. The possibility of the existence of an optimal equilibrium path, which maximizes profits, is shown. Short-term deviations from the equilibrium path are described by monetized function of output, which is analytically derived here. The function has Cobb-Douglas form, but it is not neoclassical production function. Hence the strong technological progress (the key factor from the supply side) is not enough for the rapid productivity growth. A commensurate increase in relevant factor from the demand side (wage level) is required. This statement explains relatively slow labor productivity growth, which is observed in the developed countries. The consequence of the equality of aggregate demand and supply (respectively, total savings and investment) is the commensurability of profit and investment. Savings (profit) and investment are recognized as self-consistent, i.e. are both a course and consequence for each other, and these two values should not differ greatly. Noncompliance of this rule (large profit which is not reinvested) contributes to inequality and other instability factors, and may be the cause of the recent global financial crisis and subsequent stagnation.
E10|Industrious Selection: Explaining Five Revolutions and Two Divergences in Eurasian Economic History within a Unified Growth Framework|We develop a unified growth theory with Industrious Selection to explain the Five Revolutions in the development process (Agricultural Revolution, Structural Transformation, Industrial Revolution, Industrious Revolution, Demographic Revolution) and the Two Divergences in Eurasia (Little Divergence, Great Divergence) in AD0-AD2000. Industrious Selection refers to industrious (hardworking and cooperative) individuals gradually dominating the population composition through labor-leisure optimization and income effect on births. It raises working hours, improves production efficiency and accelerates development. The Black Death expedited Industrious Selection in late-Medieval Europe. Together with the population scale effect, the theory reconciles the British development process and Eurasian economic divergence during AD0-AD2000.
E10|GeoPopulation-Institution Hypothesis: Reconciling American Development Process and Reversal of Fortune within a Unified Growth Framework|We develop a unified growth theory for the Western Hemisphere during the colonization era. We posit a unified growth model with transatlantic migration and slavery trade to reconcile development in the Thirteen Colonies/United States during AD1700-AD1860. Then we apply the model across American regions/countries, and propose the GeoPopulation-Institution hypothesis to explain divergence: whenever its geographic or political environments relatively favored the buildup of Black slaves (or non-White forced labor), through slavery institution that disincentivized the Blacks to make improvements, a region/country was likely to suffer a reversal of fortune. Geography, population and institution are inseparable in understanding American economic history.
E10|Rise of Women in Unified Growth Theory: French Development Process and Policy Implications|Rise of Women, industrialization and demographic transition are integral components in a nation’s development. We posit a two-sector unified growth model with endogenous female empowerment to study the interrelationship between women and development. Female empowerment would hamper fertility, lower agricultural employment share, and decelerate development; development that checks fertility would raise female labor-force participation and women’s (economic) power. Our model reconciles French development process during AD1400-AD2100, including women’s distinctive fall-and-rise socio-economic status, absence of a Post-Malthusian regime, fertility control and innovation’s roles in modern growth. We also study the implications for policies promoting gender equality and innovation in Madagascar today.
E10|Complex Factors Behind Misguided Policies in Socioeconomics: From Mass Migration and Persistent Alienation to Rampant Crime and Economic Malaise|In a complex and chaotic world, people often gloss over the facts and jump to conclusions. Unfortunately, the hasty approach usually yields deficient and even harmful results. The domains affected range from migration and poverty to alienation and crime. According to the Myth of Boon, for instance, immigrants always benefit the host society. In this light, many people envisage the great migrations of the 19th century from Europe to America. However, the United States at that stage was itself a developing country; moreover the Civil War showed that clashing cultures cannot co-exist. Meanwhile the Myth of Multiculturalism asserts that a mashup of mores is always desirable; but the reality is otherwise. When immigrants in their millions pour into sparsely populated districts, they end up replicating the cultures that caused them to flee their homelands in the first place. The upshot is disruptive and distressing for all parties be they newcomers or incumbents. In addition, the Myth of Virtue declares that migrants of all backgrounds are equally upright. Yet comprehensive studies in Sweden have shown that violent crimes can be traced to immigrants at rates which are at least four times those for natives. From another angle, a drove of migrants is a godsend for criminals. For instance, a terrorist ring struck in France in 2015 and again in Belgium the following year. The perpetrators – who grew up in Belgium, France and Sweden – displayed immigrant backgrounds and included part of the cohort that traveled to the Mideast to receive training from militants then returned to Europe by posing as refugees. Since socioeconomic problems are intertwined rather than independent, a piecemeal approach will not fill the bill. Instead, a coherent grasp of the issues and their tie-ups is a prerequisite for devising a wholesome solution.
E10|Macroeconomic Imbalances in euro- and non-euro area member states|Abstract The recent reforms in the European economic governance framework add to the Stability and Growth pact requirements for establishing a new macroeconomic surveillance mechanism for both euro area and non-euro area countries. The early identification and the prevention of imbalances are of vital importance in a monetary union due to the limitations they impose on the tools available to economic policymaking. This paper examines the macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area countries in comparison with the non-euro area countries based on the set of indicators in the Scoreboard that is part of the Macroeconomic Imbalance Procedure (MIP), introduced in 2011. While the aim of the new alert mechanism is to identify potential risks this study goes further in measuring the level of risks by the scope of the deviation from the established thresholds. For this purpose an Integral Macroeconomic Imbalance Indicator (IMII) is constructed. It serves for comparing the level of imbalances between the countries in pre- and post-crisis period. The composed IMII indicates a tangible reduction in the scale of imbalances as compared to the pre-crisis period but the divergence between the countries enlarges. The results undermine the assumptions that the euro area countries will exhibit fewer imbalances as compared to the countries outside of the monetary union. Based on the dynamics of IMII it could be assumed that maintaining the macroeconomic framework within the thresholds is necessary but not sufficient to prevent future crisis. The results further question the ability of the alert mechanism to identify the sources of a future crisis.
E10|Capital flows and the current account: Taking financing (more) seriously|This paper questions the appropriateness of popular analytical frameworks that focus on current accounts or net capital flows as a basis for assessing the pattern of cross-border capital flows, the degree of financial integration and the vulnerability of countries to financial crises. In the process, it revisits the Lucas paradox, the Feldstein-Horioka puzzle and the notion of sudden stops. It argues that, in a world of huge and free capital flows, the centrality of current accounts in international finance, and hence in academic and policy debates, should be reconsidered.
E10|Firm Risk and Leverage-Based Business Cycles|"I characterize cyclical fluctuations in the cross-sectional dispersion of firm-level productivity. Using the micro-estimated dispersion, or ""risk,"" stochastic process as an input to a baseline small-scale financial accelerator model, I assess how well the model reproduces cyclical movements in both real and financial conditions of the economy. In the model, risk shocks calibrated to micro data lead to empirically-relevant steady-state leverage, a financial measure typically thought to be closely associated with real activity. In terms of aggregate quantities, pure risk shocks in the small-scale general equilibrium model account for a notable share of GDP fluctuations -- roughly 5%. The volatility of the risk process I measure using micro data is, remarkably, not very different compared to recent estimates of risk shocks based on medium- or large-scale models using macroeconomic data. These seemingly contrasting starting points for measuring risk shocks do not imply any dichotomy at the core of a popular class of DSGE financial frictions models. Rather, it is the particular transmission channels in financial-frictions models -- whether small scale or medium scale -- that are critical for aggregate quantity fluctuations to arise based on risk shocks. (Copyright: Elsevier)"
E10|Talent, Labor Quality, and Economic Development|We develop a theory of labor quality based on (i) the division of the labor force between unskilled and skilled workers and (ii) investments in skilled workers. In our theory, countries differ in two key dimensions: talent and total factor productivity (TFP). We measure talent using the observed achievement levels from the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) scores. Our findings imply that the quality of labor in rich countries is about twice as large as the quality in poor countries. Thus, the implied disparities in TFP levels are smaller relative to the standard growth model using a Mincerian measure of labor quality. In our model, the resulting elasticity of output per worker with respect to TFP is about 2. (Copyright: Elsevier)
E10|Robust endogenous growth|This paper studies a generalization of the Schumpeterian models with endogenous market structure that allows the overall production structure to be more than linear in the growth-driving factor and yet generates endogenous growth, defined as steady-state, constant, exponential growth of income per capita. This version of modern growth theory, therefore, is robust in the sense that its key result obtains for a thick set of parameter values instead of, as often claimed, for a set of measure zero. The paper, moreover, pays close attention to transitional dynamics, showing not only the existence but also the global stability of the endogenous-growth steady state.
E10|Exact present solution with consistent future approximation: a gridless algorithm to solve stochastic dynamic models|This paper proposes an algorithm that finds model solutions at a particular point in the state space by solving a simple system of equations. The key step is to characterize future behavior with a Taylor series expansion of the current period’s behavior around the contemporaneous values for the state variables. Since current decisions are solved from the original model equations, the solution incorporates nonlinearities and uncertainty. The algorithm is used to solve the model considered in Coeurdacier, Rey, and Winant (2011), which is a challenging model because it has no steady state and uncertainty is necessary to keep the model well behaved. We show that our algorithm can generate accurate solutions even when the model series are quite volatile. The solutions generated by the risky-steady-state algorithm proposed in Coeurdacier, Rey, and Winant (2011), in contrast, is shown to be not accurate
E10|Two Stages of Economic Development|We suggest that the development process of a less-developed country can be divided into two stages, which demonstrate significantly different properties in areas such as structural endowments, production modes, income distribution, and the forces that drive economic growth. The two stages of economic development have been indicated in the growth theory of macroeconomics and in the various “turning point” theories in development economics, including Lewis’s dual economy theory, Kuznets curve, and the middle-income trap. A dynamic macroeconomic model is constructed to simulate the development process that reveals these two stages. Using the two-stage theory of economic development, we find that the People’s Republic of China’s economy is currently at the intersection between the first and second stages. This is the definition of “new normal” in the current Chinese economy.
E10|European Funds Fraud: The Impact on the Process of Absorption of Structural and Cohesion Funds in Romania|The increase of the degree of absorption of European funds offered to Romania by the European Union represents one of its main objectives in the present and future situation. One of the main reasons that the funds are so important is the fact that, taking into consideration the microeconomic and macroeconomic situation that Romania is in, it represents an alternative financing mechanism of the economy that Romania can benefit in very advantageous conditions. Even under these conditions Romania- within 2007-2013 period of programming – couldn’t benefit from it by attracting as many structural and cohesion funds as possible, at least in comparison to other member states. In our opinion, that of the authors’ one of the reasons that led to such a low rate of absorption, alongside with the low administrative capacity of the state is the excessive bureaucracy, an inefficient legislative framework which is not harmonized with the European one, the lack of experience in using and administrating of European funds, the beneficiaries’ incapacity to sustain the financial support of the project (to assure the co-financing of the project), a low involvement of Romanian banking institutions in the process of supporting the beneficiaries of European funds. Another cause is the European funds fraud that happened in Romania. In the present article, the authors have decided to analyze the influence of European funds fraud on the degree of absorption of structural and cohesion funds in Romania. Classification-JEL: E10, E19, E29, E59, E60, E69, G23, K49, O20, O52, P50.
E10|The Upward Redistribution of Income|This paper examines the extent to which the growth in rents can explain the upward redistribution in income since 1980. It examines and provides preliminary estimates for the growth of rents in four main areas: increased patent and copyright rents, the growth of the financial sector, the increase in CEO pay due to the failure of the corporate governance, and the increase in pay for the most highly paid professionals due to protectionist barriers.
E10|The Innovation-Absorption Dichotomy, Distribution, and Efficiency| The fact that some firms innovate while others absorb technologies creates income differences and inefficiencies both within and between countries. We model the industrial market economy, characterized by the coexistence of: 1) large firms with innovation, as in manufacturing and technology, concentrating income and wielding market power, with profits accruing to a small mass of people; and 2) small, approximately competitive firms with little innovation capacity, mainly absorbing technologies. This economy is unequal and inefficient. Free market policies are suboptimal in levels, growth rates, wages, capital accumulation and equity. Their levels depend on the steady state of the innovation-absorption dynamics between the two sectors, and can all be improved by taxing profits and subsidizing both innovation and absorption, or by lowering profit margins through a market power tax with zero equilibrium revenues. Innovators access a higher return to their investment than the interest rate. Now, consider a second industrial economy whose large scale sector absorbs technologies from the first industrial economy. The first is a developed technological leader and the second an underdeveloped technological follower, that might grow in parallel or diverge. The underdeveloped industrial economy is also inefficient and unequal. Moreover, its small scale sector lags relatively further behind than in the developed economy. Technological policies for equitable, pro-poor growth in industrial economies, developed or underdeveloped, must be two-pronged: supporting both innovation and absorption.
E10|Can a Natural Economy Operate in Macroeconomy? A Caution for Deviation from Natural Economy|Abstract The fundamental problem issue of this paper is that a fundamental cause of economic crises, such as the dot-com bubble, the Lehman crash, or PIIGS, from which the current capitalist economy is suffering, lies in a large deviation from a natural economy. Any large deviation from the natural economy entails high risk. Akimoto (Int J Econ Sci III(4):1–37, 2014) proved this proposition. This leads to a question of whether a mechanism,in which a natural economy operates to begin with, exists in the macroeconomy. First, we adopt the definition by Pasinetti (Structural change and economic growth; a theoretical essay on the dynamics of the wealth of nation. Cambridge University Press, 1981) from a macroeconomic viewpoint, because it depends on the structure of the production process. However, there is no guarantee that the natural economy defined by Pasinetti (Structural change and economic growth; a theoretical essay on the dynamics of the wealth of nation. Cambridge University Press, 1981) operates in the macroeconomy. If Akimoto’s (Int J Econ Sci III(4):1–37, 2014) analysis is correct, we need to prove that a mechanism through which the natural economy operates does in fact exist in the macroeconomy. We construct a macroeconomic game with capitalists and workers as players. The macroeconomy involves circulating players’ savings to investments via capital markets. This process constructs Kaldor’s fundamental equation. We prove that a Nash equilibrium exists, which carries out a natural economy and balanced economic growth. In addition, the theoretical analysis demonstrates that Kaldor’s fundamental equation, which is Keynesian, becomes an identity, i.e., 1 $$=$$ = 1. This implies that the Keynesian equation brings about a classical result.
E10|Innovation vs. imitation and the evolution of productivity distributions|We develop a tractable dynamic model of productivity growth and technology spillovers that is consistent with the emergence of real world empirical productivity distributions. Firms can improve productivity by engaging in in-house R\&D, or alternatively, by trying to imitate other firms' technologies, subject to the limits of their absorptive capacities. The outcome of both strategies is stochastic. The choice between in-house R\&D and imitation is endogenous, and based on firms' profit maximization motive. Firms closer to the technological frontier face fewer imitation opportunities, and choose in-house R\&D, while firms farther from the frontier try to imitate more productive technologies. The equilibrium choice leads to a balanced-growth equilibrium featuring persistent productivity differences even when starting from ex-ante identical firms. The long-run productivity distribution can be described as a traveling wave with tails following a Pareto as can be observed in the empirical data.
E10|Das House-Kapital: A Theory of Wealth-to-Income Ratios|This paper provides a novel macroeconomic model that is specifically designed to investigate the evolution of housing wealth. To capture the importance of land as an input factor for housing production and for the evolution of wealth in a growing economy, the analysis builds on three premises: (1) the overall land endowment is fixed; (2) the production of new houses requires land as an essential input, whereas replacement investment does not; (3) land employed for real estate development must be permanently withdrawn from alternative uses. The calibrated model replicates the historical evolution of housing wealth after Word War II remarkably accurately and accounts for the close connection of house prices to land prices in the data. It suggests a considerable further increase in housing wealth, relative to income, that is associated with a future surge in land prices and house prices. The model also provides new insights into the dynamics of non-residential wealth.
E10|Financial Intermediaries, Credit Shocks and Business Cycles|I document key business cycle facts of aggregate financial flows in the U.S. banking sector : (i) Bank credit, deposits and loan spread are less volatile than output, while net worth and leverage ratio are more volatile, (ii) bank credit and net worth are procyclical, while deposits, leverage ratio and loan spread are countercyclical, and (iii) financial variables lead the output fluctuations by one to three quarters. I then present an equilibrium real business cycle model with a financial sector, that is capable of matching these newly documented stylized facts. An agency problem between banks and their depositors induces endogenous capital constraints for banks in obtaining funds from households. Empirically-disciplined shocks to bank net worth alter the ability of banks to borrow and to extend credit to firms. I find that these financial shocks are important not only for explaining the dynamics of financial flows but also for the dynamics of standard macroeconomic aggregates. They play a major role in driving real fluctuations due to their impact on the tightness of bank capital constraint and the credit spread. The tightness measure of credit conditions in the model tracks the index of tightening credit standards constructed by the Federal Reserve Board quite well.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E10|Animal Spirits and the International Transmission of Business Cycles|It is well-known that the high synchronization of the business cycles among industrial countries cannot easily be replicated in standard open economy macroeconomic models without assuming that the exogenous shocks hitting these countries are highly correlated. We develop a two-country behavioral macroeconomic model where the synchronization of the business cycle is produced endogenously. The main channel of synchronization occurs through a propagation of “animal spirits”, i.e. waves of optimism and pessimism that become correlated internationally. We find that this propagation occurs with relatively low levels of trade integration. We also study the transmission of demand and supply shocks from one country to the other and find that the size of this transmission also depends on animal spirits. As a result, the size of the transmission depends on the timing of the shock.
E10|Das House-Kapital: A Theory of Wealth-to-Income Ratios|This paper presents a novel dynamic general equilibrium model to examine the evolution of two major wealth-to-income ratios - housing wealth and non-residential wealth - in advanced countries since WWII. Our theory rests on three premises: (1) the overall land endowment is fixed; (2) the production of new houses requires land as an essential input; (3) land employed for real estate development must be permanently withdrawn from alternative uses. The model distinguishes, for the first time, between the extensive and the intensive margin of housing production. The calibrated model replicates the post WWII increase in the two major wealth-to-income ratios. It also suggests a moderate further increase in wealth-to-income ratios that is associated with a considerable future surge in land prices and house prices. Higher population density and technological progress do, however, not affect long run wealth-to-income ratios. The model also accounts for the close connection of house prices to land prices in the data.
E10|Factor Income Distribution and Endogenous Economic Growth - When Piketty meets Romer -|We scrutinize Thomas Piketty’s (2014) theory concerning the relationship between an economy’s long-run growth rate, its capital-income ratio, and its factor income distribution put forth in his recent book Capital in the Twenty-First Century. We find that a smaller long-run growth rate may be associated with a smaller capital-income ratio. Hence, the key implication of Piketty’s Second Fundamental Law of Capitalism does not hold. In line with Piketty’s theory a smaller long-run growth rate may go together with a greater capital share. However, the mechanics behind this result are the opposite of what Piketty suggests. Our findings obtain in variants of Romer’s (1990) seminal model of endogenous technological change. Here, both the economy’s savings rate and its growth rate are endogenous variables whereas in Piketty’s theory they are both exogenous parameters. Including demographic growth in the spirit of Jones (1995) shows that a smaller growth rate of the economy may imply a lower capital share contradicting a central claim in Piketty’s book.
E10|The Big Push and Economic Growth: Empirical Evidence|"Since the introduction in the 1940s of the ""big push"" as a concept and a conceptual frame, it has served to explain the divergent processes of economic growth and development of different countries. This article attempts to link the advance in the theory of the big push made by (Murphy, Shleifer and Vishny, 1988), with other studies that empirically confirm this development. The results show that the mathematical development made by (Murphy et al., 1988) can be supported empirically, which means that in fact the actual inter-sectoral dependence, under certain conditions, helps to build virtuous circles contributing to economic growth and development."
E10|Interpelaciones desde la condición posmoderna a la disciplina histórica|Nadie escapa a su tiempo y el tiempo todo lo transforma, las condiciones de existencia, los valores y las posturas subjetivas, así como las teóricas a partir de las cuales se vive y se interpreta la realidad. Los cambios de apreciación son desechados por algunos, por disolutos, confusos y faltos de referentes certeros; mientras que otros acogen la novedad por su apertura a otros mundos, vivencias y posibilidades. El debate sobre la posmodernidad no escapa a tal polémica, así como no es posible estar por fuera de la condición posmoderna. A partir de dos pares de conceptos se revisan grandes cambios paradigmáticos en las maneras de vivir, concebir y valorar la historia. De lo estructural a las particularidades y de lo singular a las pluralidades. ****** Nobody escapes to his time and the time change everything, existence conditions, the values and subjective stance, as well as the theoretical from which you live and you interpret reality. The interpretations changes are throw away by some, by dissolute, confused and lacking accurate references; while others welcome the novelty for its openness to other worlds, experiences, and possibilities. The debate on postmodernity does not escape such controversy, just as it is not possible to be outside the postmodern condition. From two pairs of concepts major paradigmatic changes in the ways of living, conceiving and valuing history are reviewed. From the structural to the particularities and from the singular to the pluralities.
E10|The New Keynesian Wage Phillips Curve: Calvo vs. Rotemberg|We systematically evaluate how to translate a Calvo wage duration into an implied Rotemberg wage adjustment cost parameter in medium-scale New Keynesian DSGE models by making use of the well-known equivalence of the two setups at first order. We consider a wide range of felicity functions and show that the assumed household insurance scheme and the presence of labor taxation greatly matter for this mapping, giving rise to differences of up to one order of magnitude. Our results account for the inclusion of wage indexing, habit formation in consumption, and the presence of fixed costs in production.
E10|The New Keynesian Wage Phillips Curve: Calvo vs. Rotemberg|We systematically evaluate how to translate a Calvo wage duration into an implied Rotemberg wage adjustment cost parameter in medium-scale New Keynesian DSGE models by making use of the well-known equivalence of the two setups at first order. We consider a wide range of felicity functions and show that the assumed household insurance scheme and the presence of labor taxation greatly matter for this mapping, giving rise to differences of up to one order of magnitude. Our results account for the inclusion of wage indexing, habit formation in consumption, and the presence of fixed costs in production.
E10|Macroeconomic fluctuations with HANK & SAM: an analytical approach|New Keynesian models with unemployment and incomplete markets are rapidly becoming a new workhorse model in macroeconomics. Such models typically require heavy computational methods which may obscure intuition and overlook equilibria. We present a tractable version which can be characterized analytically. Our results highlight that ñdue the interaction between incomplete markets, sticky prices and endogenous unemployment risk ñproductivity shocks may have radically di§erent e§ects than in traditional NK models, that the Taylor principle may fail, and that pessimistic beliefs may be self-fulÖlling and move the economy into temporary episodes of low demand and high unemployment, as well as into a long-lasting ìunemployment trapî. At the Zero Lower Bound, the presence of endogenous unemployment risk can create ináation and overturn paradoxical properties of the model. We further study Önancial asset prices and show that non-negligible risk premia emerge.
E10|Shocks and Crashes|Three shocks, distinguished by whether their effects are permanent or transitory, are identified to characterize the post-war dynamics of aggregate consumer spending, labor earnings, and household wealth. The first shock accounts for virtually all of the variation in consumption; we argue that it can be plausibly interpreted as a permanent total factor productivity shock. The second shock, which underlies the vast bulk of quarterly fluctuations in labor income growth, permanently reallocates rewards between shareholders and workers but leaves consumption unaffected. Over the last 25 years, the cumulative effect of this shock has persistently boosted stock market wealth and persistently lowered labor earnings. We call this a factors share shock. The third shock is a persistent but transitory innovation that accounts for the vast majority of quarterly fluctuations in asset values but has a negligible impact on consumption and labor earnings at all horizons. We call this an exogenous risk aversion shock. We show that the 2000-02 asset market crash and recession surrounding it was characterized by a negative transitory wealth (positive risk aversion) shock, predominantly affecting stock market wealth. By contrast, the 2007-09 crash and recession was characterized by a string of large negative productivity shocks, as well as positive risk aversion shocks.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E10|La TVA sociale : bonne ou mauvaise idée ?|[eng] The authors use two general-equilibrium models to assess the quantitative and dynamic impact of “ social VAT”, i.e., a tax reform that would substitute a value-added tax for employers’ social contributions. The first model is a Walrasian model with no frictions other than distortionary taxes on labor income, capital income, and consumption. The second model adds labor-market matching frictions. We examine two scenarios for social-VAT implementation. In both scenarios, the tax reform generates a small, long-term effect on levels of aggregate variables and a modest welfare gain. In the no-friction model , the gain is substantially reduced when the reform is pre-announced six quarters prior to enactment. The announcement effect is milder in the model with labor-market frictions. [fre] L’impact quantitatif et dynamique de la TVA sociale, i.e. une réforme fiscale consistant à substituer de la TVA aux charges patronales, est évalué à l’aide de deux modèles d’équilibre général dynamique. Le premier est un modèle walrasien sans autres distorsions que des taxes sur les revenus du travail et du capital et sur la consommation. Le second introduit en plus des frictions d’appariement sur le marché du travail. Deux scenarii de mise en œuvre de la TVA sociale sont envisagés. Dans tous les cas, la réforme fiscale se traduit par un effet de long terme de faible ampleur sur le niveau des variables agrégées et une amélioration modeste du bien-être. Dans le modèle sans frictions, ces gains sont substantiellement réduits lorsque la réforme est pré-annoncée six trimestres avant sa mise en oeuvre effective. L’effet d’une préannonce est moindre dans le modèle avec frictions sur le marché du travail.
E10|La TVA sociale : bonne ou mauvaise idée ?| The authors use two general-equilibrium models to assess the quantitative and dynamic impact of “social VAT, ” i.e., a tax reform that would substitute a value-added tax for employers’ social contributions. The first model is a Walrasian model with no frictions other than distortionary taxes on labor income, capital income, and consumption. The second model adds labor-market matching frictions. We examine two scenarios for social-VAT implementation. In both scenarios, the tax reform generates a small, long-term effect on levels of aggregate variables and a modest welfare gain. In the no-friction model, the gain is substantially reduced when the reform is pre-announced six quarters prior to enactment. The announcement effect is milder in the model with labor-market frictions.
E10|Beyond DSGE Models: Toward an Empirically Based Macroeconomics|David Colander has been writing about economic methodology for over 30 years, but he goes out of his way to emphasize that he does not see himself as a methodologist. His pragmatic methodology is applicable to what economists are doing and attempts to answer questions that all economists face as they go about their work. The articles collected in this volume are divided, with the first part providing a framework underlying Colanderâ€™s methodology and introducing Colanderâ€™s methodology for economic policy within that framework. Part two presents Colanderâ€™s view on the methodology for microeconomics, while part three looks at Colanderâ€™s methodology for macroeconomics. The book closes with discussions of broader issues.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E10|Rentabilités d'actifs et fluctuations économiques : une perspective d'équilibre général dynamique et stochastique|[eng] This review of the literature presents the main tools and results of research at the crossroads between finance and macroeconomics. The literature seeks to jointly analyze the economic cycle and fluctuations in financial-asset prices. Our article follows this approach : we offer a critical analysis of the modeling mechanisms that should be factored into a DSGE model so as to make it compatible with the stylized facts of asset returns without necessarily sacrificing to the facts of the economic cycle. [fre] Cette revue de la littérature présente les principaux outils et résultats de la recherche se situant à l’intersection de la finance et de la macroéconomie. L’ambition de cette littérature est de fournir une analyse conjointe du cycle économique et des fluctuations des prix d’actifs financiers. Cet article adopte cette perspective et propose une analyse critique des mécanismes de modélisation à prendre en considération dans un modèle DSGE, afin que celui-ci soit compatible avec les faits stylisés des rentabilités des actifs financiers sans pour autant sacrifier aux faits du cycle économique.
E10|Rentabilités d'actifs et fluctuations économiques : une perspective d'équilibre général dynamique et stochastique|This review of the literature presents the main tools and results of research at the crossroads between finance and macroeconomics. The literature seeks to jointly analyze the economic cycle and fluctuations in financial-asset prices.Our article follows this approach:we offer a critical analysis of themodelingmechanisms that should be factored into aDSGE model so as tomake it compatible with the stylized facts of asset returns without necessarily sacrificing to the facts of the economic cycle.
E10|Une maquette de moyen terme de l'économie française|This paper presents a simple small-scale model of the French economy, which can be used for forecasting and assessing shocks and macroeconomic policies. We model a small open economy with fixed exchange rates and a given real interest rate. The economy has two sectors, namely tradable and non-tradable goods. Agents’behaviour is described simply and robustly, without the introduction of rational expectations and with the systematic use of error correction mechanisms. The dynamics of financial wealth are taken into account, since wealth effects naturally ensure the long-run convergence of per capita wealth and the satisfaction of solvency constraints. The short-run dynamics incorporate the Keynesian sticky price and wage elements. The model’s long-run aspect is largely calibrated and the short-run dynamics are estimated.
E10|Une maquette de moyen terme de l'économie française|[eng] A Medium-Run Model of the French Economy . by Antoine d''Autume and Alain Quinet . This paper presents a simple small-scale model of the French economy, which can be used for forecasting and assessing shocks and macroeconomic policies. We model a small open economy with fixed exchange rates and a given real interest rate. The economy has two sectors, namely tradable and non-tradable goods. Agents’ behaviour is described simply and robustly, without the introduction of rational expectations and with the systematic use of error correction mechanisms. The dynamics of financial wealth are taken into account, since wealth effects naturally ensure the long-run convergence of per capita wealth and the satisfaction of solvency constraints. The short-run dynamics incorporate the Keynesian sticky price and wage elements. The model’s long-run aspect is largely calibrated and the short-run dynamics are estimated. . [fre] L’article présente une maquette simple de l’économie française, susceptible d’être utilisée pour des travaux de prévision et d’évaluation des chocs et des politiques macroéconomiques. On se situe dans le cadre d’une petite économie ouverte, en changes fixes, faisant face à un taux d’intérêt réel donné. L’économie comprend un secteur des biens échangeables et un secteur des biens non échangeables. Les comportements sont spécifiés de manière simple et robuste, sans faire intervenir d’anticipations rationnelles et en utilisant systématiquement des représentations à correction d’erreurs. La dynamique des richesses financières est prise en compte, les effets de richesse assurant de manière naturelle la convergence de long terme des niveaux d’actifs et le respect des contraintes de solvabilité des agents. La dynamique de court terme incorpore des éléments keynésiens, liés à la viscosité des prix et salaires. Le long terme de la maquette fait largement appel à la calibration, la dynamique de court terme est estimée.
E10|The Macrofoundations of Micro|This paper argues that there are two contending visions of macroeconomics: the micro vision--in which macroeconomics results are just the combination of results of atomistic individuals, and the macro vision--in which the interaction of atomistic individuals leads to such complexity that the aggregate results cannot be rationally deduced from the analysis of individual atomistic individuals. Using a macro vision, the economy cannot be analyzed contextually taking into account the constraints imposed on individuals by the macro institutions necessary to coordinate individuals behavior sufficiently so that markets can work. This macro foundation to micro approach offers a serious challenge to New Classical economics that other approaches to Keynesian macro do not.
