E13|Synergizing Ventures|Venture capital (VC) and growth are examined both empirically and theoretically. Empirically, VC-backed startups have higher early growth rates and initial patent quality than non-VC-backed ones. VC backing increases a startup's likelihood of reaching the right tails of the firm size and innovation distributions. Furthermore, outcomes are better for startups matched with more experienced venture capitalists. An endogenous growth model, where venture capitalists provide both expertise and financing for business startups, is constructed to match these facts. The presence of venture capital, the degree of assortative matching between startups and financiers, and the taxation of VC-backed startups matter significantly for growth.
E13|Monetary Policy Strategies for a Low-Rate Environment|"In low-rate environments, policy strategies that involve holding rates ""lower for longer"" (L4L) may mitigate the effects of the effective lower bound (ELB). However, these strategies work in part by managing the public's expectations, which is not always realistic. Using the Fed's large-scale macroeconometric model, we study the effectiveness of L4L policies when financial market participants are forward-looking but other agents are not. We find that the resulting limited ability to manage expectations reduces but does not eliminate the advantages of L4L policies. The best policies provide adequate stimulus at the ELB while avoiding sizable overshoots of inflation and output."
E13|Housing Choices and Their Implications for Consumption Heterogeneity|No abstract is available for this item.
E13|Don't Tax Capital---Optimal Ramsey Taxation in Heterogeneous Agent Economies with Quasi-Linear Preferences|"We build a tractable infinite-horizon Aiyagari-type model with quasi-linear preferences to address a set of long-standing issues in the optimal Ramsey taxation literature. The tractability of our model enables us to analytically establish several strong and novel results: (i) The optimal capital tax is exclusively zero in a Ramsey steady state regardless of the modified golden rule and government debt limits. (ii) Along the transition path toward a Ramsey steady state, optimal capital tax depends positively on the elasticity of intertemporal substitution. (iii) When a Ramsey steady state (featuring a non-binding government debt limit) does not exist but is erroneously assumed to exist, the modified golden rule always ""holds"" and the implied ""optimal"" long-run capital tax is strictly positive, reminiscent of the result obtained by Aiyagari (1995). (iv) Whether the modified golden rule holds depends critically on the government's capacity to issue debts, but has no bearing on the planner's long-run capital tax scheme. (v) The optimal debt-to-GDP ratio in the absence of a binding debt limit, however, is determined by a positive wedge times the modified-golden-rule saving rate; the wedge is decreasing in the strength of the individual self-insurance position and approaches zero when the idiosyncratic risk vanishes or markets are complete. The key insight behind our results is the Ramsey planner's ultimate concern for self-insurance. Since taxing capital in the steady state permanently hinders individuals' self-insurance positions, the Ramsey planner prefers (i) taxing capital only in the short run and (ii) issuing debt rather than imposing a steady-state capital tax to correct the capital-overaccumulation problem under precautionary saving motives. Thus, in sharp contrast to Aiyagari's argument, permanent capital taxation is not the optimal tool to achieve aggregate allocative efficiency despite overaccumulation of capital, and the modified golden rule can fail to hold in a Ramsey equilibrium whenever the government encounters a debt-limit."
E13|Premature mortality and poverty measurement in an OLG economy|Abstract Following Kanbur and Mukherjee (Bull Econ Res 59(4):339–359 2007), a solution to the “missing poor” problem (i.e., selection bias in poverty measures due to income-differentiated mortality) consists in computing hypothetical poverty rates while assigning a fictitious income to the prematurely dead. However, in a dynamic general equilibrium economy, doing “as if” the prematurely dead were still alive is likely to affect wages, output and capital accumulation, with an uncertain effect on poverty. We develop a three-period OLG model with income-differentiated mortality and compare actual poverty rates with hypothetical poverty rates that would have prevailed if everyone faced the survival conditions of the top income class. Including the prematurely dead has an ambiguous impact on poverty, since it affects income distribution through capital dilution, composition effects, and horizon effects. Our results are illustrated by quantifying the impact of income-differentiated mortality on poverty measures for France (1820–2010).
E13|Macroprudential Policies in the EAGLE FLI Model Calibrated for Hungary|In this paper we develop the Hungarian version of the EAGLE FLI (Euro Area GLobal Economy model with Financial LInkages) model which is the EAGLE model enriched with financial frictions and country-specific banking sector. The EAGLE FLI features the intermediation of loanable funds (ILF) view in banking whereby the creation of new loans requires banks to collect additional deposits. Households and firms borrow in the model using housing as collateral. We find that macroprudential policies such as an increase in capital requirements, decreases in the loan-to-value ratio or loan-to-income ratio of borrower households (and firms) limits banks’ credit creation with negative spillover effects to the real economy due to the financial accelerator mechanism in the model. On the other hand, these policies strengthen banks’ capital and limit the vulnerability of households and firms to negative financial shocks.
E13|The Brexit Vote, Productivity Growth and Macroeconomic Adjustments in the United Kingdom|The UK economy has experienced significant macroeconomic adjustments following the 2016 referendum on its withdrawal from the European Union. This paper develops and estimates a small open economy model with tradable and non-tradable sectors to characterise these adjustments. We demonstrate that many of the effects of the referendum result can be conceptualised as news about a future slowdown in productivity growth in the tradable sector. Simulations show that the responses of the model economy to such news are consistent with key patterns in UK data. While overall economic growth slows, an immediate permanent fall in the relative price of non-tradable output (the real exchange rate) induces a temporary ‘sweet spot’ for tradable producers before the slowdown in tradable sector productivity associated with Brexit occurs. Resources are reallocated towards the tradable sector, tradable output growth rises and net exports increase. These developments reverse after the productivity decline in the tradable sector materialises. The negative news about tradable sector productivity also leads to a decline in domestic interest rates relative to world interest rates and to a reduction in investment growth, while employment remains relatively stable. As a by-product of our analysis, we provide a quantitative analysis of the UK business cycle.
E13|Are small farms really more productive than large farms?|We revisit the long-standing empirical evidence of an inverse relationship between farm size and productivity using rich microdata from Uganda. We show that farm size is negatively related to yields (output per hectare), as commonly found in the literature, but positively related to farm productivity (a farm-specific component of total factor productivity). These conflicting results do not arise because of omitted variables such as land quality, measurement error in output or inputs, or specification issues. Instead, we reconcile the findings emphasizing the role of farm-specific distortions and returns to scale in traditional farm production. We exploit unique regional variation in land tenure regimes in Uganda in evaluating the role of farm-specific distortions. Our findings point to the limited value of yields (or land productivity) in establishing the farm size-productivity relationship. More generally, we demonstrate the limitation of using farm size in guiding policy applications.
E13|Do Potential Future Health Shocks Keep Older Americans from Using Their Housing Equity?|Many retirees retain their housing equity until they die and do not utilize it to help finance spending on consumption. In this paper, I examine how older Americans (age 55+) may use their house as a form of precautionary savings in the event they face an increase in out-of-pocket medical expenses due to a health shock. I find that households are 12-percentage points more likely to own a home in their late retirement years if they might face an unexpected increase in medical bills, indicating that many of such households prefer not to own but choose to knowing they may get sick and face an increase in out-of-pocket medical expenses. Accordingly, I propose an insurance policy that would cover any out-of-pocket medical expenses not covered by Medicaid. When the price of the insurance policy is between 0.15%-0.50% of each householdâs house value, 12.8% of households purchase the insurance policy. In the presence of an insurance policy and health shocks, the homeownership and moving rates look like an economy without health shocks, thus correcting a possible market failure that causes households to use their house as a form of precautionary savings.
E13|Don’t Tax Capital — Optimal Ramsey Taxation in Heterogeneous Agent Economies with Quasi-Linear Preferences|"We build a tractable heterogeneous-agent incomplete-markets model with quasi-linear preferences to address a set of long-standing issues in the optimal Ramsey taxation literature. The tractability of our model enables us to analytically prove the existence of a Ramsey steady state and establish several novel results (i) Depending on the government's capacity to issue debt, there can exist different types of Ramsey steady states but they have the same implications for optimal long-run tax policies. (ii) The optimal capital tax is exclusively zero in a Ramsey steady state regardless of the modified golden rule and government debt limits. (iii) Along the transition path toward a Ramsey steady state, the optimal capital tax depends positively on the elasticity of intertemporal substitution. (iv) When a Ramsey steady state (featuring a non-binding government debt limit) does not exist but is erroneously assumed to exist, the modified golden rule always ""holds"" and the implied ""optimal"" long-run capital tax is strictly positive. (v) Whether the modified golden rule holds depends critically on the government's capacity to issue debts, but has no bearing on the planner's long-run capital tax scheme. (vi) The optimal debt-to-GDP ratio in the absence of a binding debt limit, however, is determined by a positive wedge times the modified-golden-rule saving rate: The wedge is decreasing in the strength of the individual self-insurance position and approaches zero when the idiosyncratic risk vanishes or markets are complete. The key insight behind our results is the Ramsey planner's ultimate concern for individuals' self-insurance positions. Since taxing capital in the steady state permanently hinders individuals' self-insurance position, the Ramsey planner prefers (i) issuing debt rather than imposing a steady-state capital tax to correct the capital-overaccumulation problem even if the government's debt-limit constraint binds, and (ii) taxing capital only in the short run regardless of the government's debt position. Thus, permanent capital taxation is not the optimal tool to achieve aggregate allocative efficiency despite overaccumulation of capital, and the modified golden rule can fail to hold in a Ramsey equilibrium whenever the government encounters a debt limit."
E13|Human Capital and Economic Growth|The aim of this entry is (I) to undertake a critical reading of the seminal contribution of Lucas’ work to construct a model which represents the complexity of the links between human capital and economic growth (II) to review the empirical assessments of its endogenous nature.
E13|The Gold Standard and the Great Depression: a Dynamic General Equilibrium Model|Was the Gold Standard a major determinant of the onset and the protracted character of the the Great Depression of the 1930s in the United States and Worldwide? In this paper, we model the ‘Gold-Standard hypothesis’ in a dynamic general equilibrium framework. We show that encompassing the international and monetary dimensions of the Great Depression is important to understand what happened in the 1930s, especially outside the United States. Contrary to what is often maintained in the literature, our results suggest that the vague of successive nominal exchange rate devaluations coupled with the monetary policy implemented in the United States did not act as a relief. On the contrary, they made the Depression worse.
E13|Can Capital Deepening Explain the Global Decline in Labor's Share?|We estimate an aggregate elasticity of substitution between capital and labor near or below one, which implies that capital deepening cannot explain the global decline in labor's share. Our methodology derives from transition paths in the neo-classical growth model. The elasticity of substitution is identified from the cross-country correlation between trends in the labor share and a theoretically derived proxy for the rental rate of capital. Trends in labor's share and the rental rate are weakly correlated across countries, and inversely related in most samples. Previous cross-country estimates of this elasticity were substantially greater than one, which we show was largely due to omitted variable bias: earlier studies used investment prices alone to proxy for the rental rate, whereas the growth model relates rental rates to investment prices and consumption growth. (Copyright: Elsevier)
E13|Macroprudential policy with capital buffers|"This paper studies optimal bank capital requirements in a model of endogenous bank funding conditions. I find that requirements should be higher during good times such that a macroprudential ""buffer"" is provided. However, whether banks can use buffers to maintain lending during a financial crisis depends on the capital requirement during the subsequent recovery. The reason is that a high requirement during the recovery lowers bank shareholder value during the crisis and thus creates funding-market pressure to use buffers for deleveraging rather than for maintaining lending. Therefore, buffers are useful if banks are not required to rebuild them quickly."
E13|Macroprudential Policy with Capital Buffers|This paper studies optimal bank capital requirements in a model of endogenous bank funding conditions. I find that requirements should be higher during good times such that a macroprudential “buffer” is provided. However, whether banks can use buffers to maintain lending during a financial crisis depends on the capital requirement during the subsequent recovery. The reason is that a high requirement during the recovery lowers bank shareholder value during the crisis and thus creates funding-market pressure to use buffers for deleveraging rather than for maintaining lending. Therefore, buffers are useful if banks are not required to rebuild them quickly.
E13|News-driven inflation expectations and information rigidities|We investigate the role played by the media in the expectations formation process of households. Using a news-topic-based approach we show that news types the media choose to report on, e.g., (Internet) technology, health, and politics, are good predictors of households' stated in ation expectations. In turn, in a noisy information model setting, augmented with a simple media channel, we document that the underlying time series properties of relevant news topics explain the timevarying information rigidity among households. As such, we not only provide a novel estimate showing the degree to which information rigidities among households vary across time, but also provide, using a large news corpus and machine learning algorithms, robust and new evidence highlighting the role of the media for understanding infl ation expectations and information rigidities.
E13|News-driven inflation expectations and information rigidities|We investigate the role played by the media in the expectations formation process of households. Using a novel news-topic-based approach we show that news types the media choose to report on, e.g., fiscal policy, health, and politics, are good predictors of households' stated inflation expectations. In turn, in a noisy information model setting, augmented with a simple media channel, we document that the underlying time series properties of relevant news topics explain the time-varying information rigidity among households. As such, we not only provide a novel estimate showing the degree to which information rigidities among households varies across time, but also provide, using a large news corpus and machine learning algorithms, robust and new evidence highlighting the role of the media for understanding inflation expectations and information rigidities.
E13|Parameter Learning in Production Economies|We examine how parameter learning amplifies the impact of macroeconomic shocks on equity prices and quantities in a standard production economy where a representative agent has Epstein-Zin preferences. An investor observes technology shocks that follow a regime-switching process, but does not know the underlying model parameters governing the short-term and long-run perspectives of economic growth. We show that rational parameter learning endogenously generates longrun productivity and consumption risks that help explain a wide array of dynamic pricing phenomena. The asset pricing implications of subjective long-run risks crucially depend on the introduction of a procyclical dividend process consistent with the data.
E13|Risk Pooling, Leverage, and the Business Cycle|This paper investigates the interdependence between the risk-pooling activity of the financial sector and: output, consumption, risk-free rate, and Sharpe ratio in a dynamic general equilibrium model of a productive economy. Due to their exposure to idiosyncratic shocks and market segmentation, heterogeneous households/entrepreneurs (h/entrepreneurs) are willing to mitigate their risk through a financial sector. The financial sector pools risky claims issued by different firms within its assets, faces an associated intermediation cost and, via leverage, provides a risk-free asset to h/entrepreneurs. Exogenous systematic shocks change the relative size of the financial sector, and thus the equilibrium amount of pooled risk, making financial leverage state-dependent and counter-cyclical. We study how this mechanism endogenously channels amplification of consumption and mitigation of output fluctuations. In equilibrium, financial sector leverage also determines counter-cyclical Sharpe ratios and pro-cyclical risk-free interest rates. Last, we investigate the relationship between the size of the financial sector, leverage, and welfare. We show that limiting financial sector leverage determines a sub-optimal pooling of idiosyncratic risk but fosters the growth rate of the h/entrepreneurs' consumption. On the other side, when the financial sector is too large, it destroys too many resources after intermediation costs. Therefore, the h/entrepreneurs benefit the most when the financial sector is neither too small nor too big.
E13|Colombian Economic Growth, Investment and Saving: From 1954 to 2019 and Beyond|No abstract is available for this item.
E13|The Brexit Vote, Productivity Growth and Macroeconomic Adjustments in the United Kingdom|"The UK economy has experienced significant macroeconomic adjustments following the 2016 referendum on its withdrawal from the European Union. This paper develops and estimates a small open economy model with tradable and non-tradable sectors to characterize these adjustments. We demonstrate that many of the effects of the referendum result can be conceptualized as news about a future slowdown in productivity growth in the tradable sector. Simulations show that the responses of the model economy to such news are consistent with key patterns in UK data. While overall economic growth slows, an immediate permanent fall in the relative price of non-tradable output (the real exchange rate) induces a temporary ""sweet spot"" for tradable producers before the slowdown in the tradable sector productivity associated with Brexit occurs. Resources are reallocated towards the tradable sector, tradable output growth rises and net exports increase. These developments reverse after the productivity decline in the tradable sector materializes. The negative news about tradable sector productivity also lead to a decline in domestic interest rates relative to world interest rates and to a reduction in investment growth, while employment remains relatively stable. As a by-product of our Brexit simulations, we provide a quantitative analysis of the UK business cycle."
E13|Default, Bailouts and the Vertical Structure of Financial Intermediaries|Should we break up banks and limit bailouts? We study vertical integration of deposit-taking institutions and those investing in risky equity. Integration, by eliminating a credit spread, increases output but entails larger, more frequent bailouts. Bailouts of leveraged institutions boost economic activity but are costly. The optimal structure of intermediaries depends largely on the efficiency of government intervention, the competitiveness of the Önancial sector and shocks hitting the economy. Separated institutions are preferred when profit margins are small, financial shocks systemic and volatile, and bailouts costly. For a baseline calibration, universal banks are typically preferred.
E13|A critical analysis of the secular stagnation theory|In this paper a novel critique of the neoclassical Secular Stagnation theory is presented. Focusing in particular on the ‘demand side’ explanation, it is in the first place argued for the impossibility of a longrun equilibrium position to host a negative natural interest rate, which is its main feature. The problem is theoretical and not methodological, and can be highlighted even neglecting the ‘Cambridge capital controversies’. Secondly, it is argued that, despite the label, there is not a true role for aggregate demand in determining a stagnation. It is also maintained that while the ‘supply side’ viewpoint does not suffer from these shortcomings, it cannot provide a clarification since there is no place in it for involuntary unemployment. Therefore, a demand-led alternative is advocated to be better equipped for the sake of accounting for high and persistent unemployment caused by a shortfall of aggregate demand.
E13|Relative Prices and Sectoral Productivity|We develop a model of the structural transformation with three sectors: agriculture, industry, and services. In addition to reallocation across sectors over time, the model also features a reallocation of consumption across services that differ in their labor intensity and a distribution sector. We use the model to infer sectoral productivity levels across countries by imposing restrictions from data on sectoral employment and final expenditure relative prices. The model implies that productivity levels in services relative to industry are lower in poor relative to rich countries, even though the final expenditure price of services to goods is higher in rich relative to poor countries. These sectoral labor productivity implications across countries are broadly consistent with the available sectoral data. The results suggest that improving productivity levels in services is critical in the aggregate productivity catch up of poor relative to rich countries.
E13|Policy Distortions and Aggregate Productivity with Endogenous Establishment-Level Productivity|The large differences in income per capita across countries are mostly accounted for by differences in total factor productivity (TFP). What explains these differences in TFP across countries? Evidence suggests that the (mis)allocation of factors of production across heterogenous production units is an important factor. We study factor misallocation in a model with an endogenously determined distribution of establishment-level productivity. In this framework, policy distortions not only misallocate resources across a given set of productive units, but they also worsen the distribution of establishment-level productivity. We show that in our model, compared to the model with an exogenous distribution, the quantitative effect of policy distortions is substantially amplified. Whereas empirically-plausible policy distortions in our model generate TFP that is 14 percent that of a benchmark economy with no distortions, with an exogenous distribution the same policy distortions generate TFP that is 86 percent of the benchmark, a 6-fold amplification factor.
E13|Are Small Farms Really more Productive than Large Farms?|We revisit the long-standing empirical evidence of an inverse relationship between farm size and productivity using rich micro data from Uganda. We show that farm size is nega- tively related with yields (output per hectare), as commonly found in the literature, but positively related with farm productivity (a farm-specific component of total factor pro- ductivity). These conflicting results do not arise because of omitted variables such as land quality, measurement error in output or inputs, or specification issues. Instead, we reconcile the findings emphasizing decreasing returns to scale in farm production and farm-specific distortions. We exploit regional variation in land tenure regimes in Uganda in evaluating the role of farm-specific distortions. Our findings point to the limited value of yields (or land productivity) in establishing the size-productivity relationship. More generally, we highlight farm size as an ineffective instrument for policy implementation since size is deeply con- founded by distortions in developing countries.
E13|Human Capital and Economic Growth|The aim of this entry is (I) to undertake a critical reading of the seminal contribution of Lucas’ work to construct a model which represents the complexity of the links between human capital and economic growth (II) to review the empirical assessments of its endogenous nature.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E13|Risk Pooling, Leverage, and the Business Cycle|This paper investigates the interdependence between the risk-pooling activity of the financial sector and: output, consumption, risk-free rate, and Sharpe ratio in a dynamic general equilibrium model of a productive economy. Due to their exposure to idiosyncratic shocks and market segmentation, heterogeneous households/entrepreneurs (h/entrepreneurs) are willing to mitigate their risk through a financial sector. The financial sector pools risky claims issued by different firms within its assets, faces an associated intermediation cost and, via leverage, provides a risk-free asset to h/entrepreneurs. Exogenous systematic shocks change the relative size of the financial sector, and thus the equilibrium amount of pooled risk, making financial leverage state-dependent and counter-cyclical. We study how this mechanism endogenously channels amplification of consumption and mitigation of output fluctuations. In equilibrium, financial sector leverage also determines counter-cyclical Sharpe ratios and pro-cyclical risk-free interest rates. Last, we investigate the relationship between the size of the financial sector, leverage, and welfare. We show that limiting financial sector leverage determines a sub-optimal pooling of idiosyncratic risk but fosters the growth rate of the h/entrepreneurs’ consumption. On the other side, when the financial sector is too large, it destroys too many resources after intermediation costs. Therefore, the h/entrepreneurs benefit the most when the financial sector is neither too small nor too big.
E13|The rebound effect and its representation in energy and climate models|In this paper, we review the state-of-the-art and common practice of energy and climate modeling vis-à-vis the rebound literature, in particular regarding how macroeconomic energy and climate models quantify and include energy and greenhouse gas rebound effects. First, we focus on rebound effects in models of costless energy efficiency improvement that hold other attributes constant (zero-cost breakthrough), and an energy efficiency policy that may be bundled with other product changes that affect energy use (policy-induced efficiency improvement) (Gillingham et al. 2015). Second, we examine macroeconomic studies focusing on energy efficiency both in industry and in private households. Third, we go through a general theoretical revision from micro- to macroeconomic levels (the aggregation level) to include a review of the so-called meso-level studies (focused on the analysis of the production side). From 118 recent studies along the aggregation level, out of which 25 compute rebound calculations, we find that the average energy rebound effect is 58% with a standard deviation of 58%, and when we include green house gas rebound calculations, the magnitude is of the order of 43% with a standard deviation of 55%. Finally, we argue that the rebound effect is a phenomenon that requires a sound understanding of the complex interactions from different dimensions (e.g. aggregation level, heterogeneity, climate, energy conservation and economic growth), and we provide some ideas and motivations for future research.
E13|Fertility Shocks and Equilibrium Marriage-Rate Dynamics|Why did the marriage probability of single females in France after World War 1 rise 50% above its pre-war average, despite a 33% drop in the male/female singles ratio? We conjecture that war-time disruption of the marriage market generated an abnormal abundance of men with relatively high marriage propensities. Our model of matching over the lifecycle, when calibrated to pre-war data and two war-time shocks, succeeds in matching the French time path under the additional assumption of a pro-natalist post-war preference shock. We conclude that endogeneity issues make the sex ratio a potentially unreliable indicator of female marriage prospects.
E13|A neoclassical perspective on Switzerland’s 1990s stagnation|We study Switzerland’s 1990s growth weakness through the lens of the business cycle accounting framework by Chari, Kehoe, and McGrattan (2007). Our main result is that weak productivity growth cannot account for the experienced stagnation. Rather, the stagnation is explained by factors that made labor and investment expensive. We show that an increase in labor income taxes and financial frictions are plausible causes. Holding these factors constant, counterfactual real annualized output growth over the 1992Q1–1996Q4 period is 1.93%, compared to a realized growth of 0.35%.
E13|Corporate governance, tax evasion and business cycles|We develop an agency model of corporate tax evasion and auditing by a residual claimant government and embed it to a macroeconomic environment characterised by credit constraints. In our economy, tax auditing by the government reduces the information asymmetry between lenders and entrepreneurs with an investment opportunity. Corporate governance quality consequently affects macroeconomic variables; with changes in tax rates, auditing and quality of corporate governance having aggregate effects. We show that changes in the revenue system; tax and audit rates, can directly affect asset prices and inflate the effects of exogenous shocks to the economy.
E13|Demographics and FDI: Lessons from China’s One-Child Policy|Lucas (1990) argues that the neoclassical adjustment process fails to explain the relative paucity of FDI inflows from rich to poor countries. In this paper we consider a natural experiment: using China as the treated country and India as the control, we show that the dynamics of the relative FDI flows subsequent to the implementation of China’s one-child policy, as seen in the data, are consistent with neoclassical fundamentals. In particular, following the introduction of the one-child policy in China, the capital-labor (K/L) ratio of China increased relative to that of India, and, simultaneously, relative FDI inflows into China vs. India declined. These observations are explained in the context of a simple neoclassical OLG paradigm. The adjustment mechanism works as follows: the reduction in the (urban) labor force due to the one-child policy increases the savings per capita. This increases the K/L ratio and reduces the marginal product of capital (MPK). The reduction in MPK (relative to India) reduces the relative attractiveness of investment in China and is thus associated with lower FDI/GDP ratios. Our paper contributes to the nascent literature exploring demographic transitions and their effects on FDI flows.
E13|A New Theory of Demand-Restricted Growth|Mainstream growth theory is dominated by variations of the neoclassical approach. Growth is explained fully by elements of the supply side. In this paper we examine the general mechanism of technology growth and capital accumulation. However, instead of following a fully supply-side driven neoclassical approach we suggest a hybrid approach that allows for growth restrictions induced by demand-side elements. We obtain a demand-restricted growth by suggesting an unconventional equilibrium concept in a stochastic environment. We define macroeconomic equilibrium as stationary no-expectation-error equilibrium. This equilibrium concept relates to the Nash idea of individual stationary behavior as long as expectations prove to be realized. No rigidities are introduced. Even if potential growth is generated by technical change and capital accumulation, the level of the path and the growth rate are restricted by effective earnings. Both can be stable below the neoclassical potential growth. The growth rate in the demand restricted regime is semi-endogenous and determined by entrepreneurial conditions and activities. However, the growth process mutates to the neoclassical process if effective earnings are sufficient and the earnings ratio turns to one. As a result, the demand side cannot generate growth, but the demand side can permanently restrict growth which could have been generated by the supply side. Our hybrid model could help to bridge a gap between Keynesian and neoclassical ideas of economic growth.
E13|Long and Plosser meet Bewley and Lucas|We develop an N-sector business cycle network model a la Long and Plosser (1983), featuring heterogenous money demand a la Bewley (1980) and Lucas (1980). Despite incomplete markets and a well-defined distribution of real money balances across heterogeneous households, the Bewley–Lucas–Long–Plosser model remains analytically tractable with closed-form solutions. Relying on the tractability, we establish several important results: (i) The economy’s input-output network linkages become endogenously time varying over the business cycle—thanks to the endogenous time-varying distribution of money demand and its influence on cross-sector allocations of commodities. (ii) Despite flexible prices, transitory money injections can generate highly persistent effects on sectoral output, also thanks to the time-varying distribution of money demand and its effect on input-output coefficients. (iii) Although money injection is distributed equally across households by design, the real effects are asymmetric across production sectors; e.g., the impact of money is strongest on downstream sectors that purchase intermediate goods from the rest of the economy, but weakest on upstream sectors that supply intermediate goods to the other sectors, in sharp contrast to the case of sectoral technology shocks and government spending shocks. Our model also provides a micro-foundation for the labor wedge and shows that movements in the distribution of money demand can explain the cyclical behavior of the labor wedge.
E13|Evolution of Modern Business Cycle Models: Accounting for the Great Recession|Modern business cycle theory focuses on the study of dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) models that generate aggregate fluctuations similar to those experienced by actual economies. We discuss how these modern business cycle models have evolved across three generations, from their roots in the early real business cycle models of the late 1970s through the turmoil of the Great Recession four decades later. The first generation models were real (that is, without a monetary sector) business cycle models that primarily explored whether a small number of shocks, often one or two, could generate fluctuations similar to those observed in aggregate variables such as output, consumption, investment, and hours. These basic models disciplined their key parameters with micro evidence and were remarkably successful in matching these aggregate variables. A second generation of these models incorporated frictions such as sticky prices and wages; these models were primarily developed to be used in central banks for short-term forecasting purposes and for performing counterfactual policy experiments. A third generation of business cycle models incorporate the rich heterogeneity of patterns from the micro data. A defining characteristic of these models is not the heterogeneity among model agents they accommodate nor the micro-level evidence they rely on (although both are common), but rather the insistence that any new parameters or feature included be explicitly disciplined by direct evidence. We show how two versions of this latest generation of modern business cycle models, which are real business cycle models with frictions in labor and financial markets, can account, respectively, for the aggregate and the cross-regional fluctuations observed in the United States during the Great Recession.
E13|Recursive Equilibrium in Krusell and Smith (1998)|This paper combines the tools developed in two important and independent literatures - one on large economies started with Aumann (1964) and the other on dynamically incomplete markets, notably Duffie et al (1994)- to study Krusell and Smith’s incomplete markets economy with both idiosyncratic and aggregate shocks. It establishes the existence of sequential competitive equilibrium, generalized recursive equilibrium, recursive equilibrium with an extended-state space, and characterizes several important properties of the equilibrium variables. The equilibrium process admits an ergodic measure, which enables the application of the ergodic theorem for the simulation and calibration of the model. Without aggregate shocks, the existence and some characterization results carry over to economies with only idiosyncratic shocks such as Huggett (1997)’s economy. However, the existence of recursive equilibrium with the natural minimal state space in Krusell and Smith's economy remains elusive, as in finite-agent incomplete markets economies.
E13|International Business Cycle and Financial Intermediation|The world-wide financial crisis of 2007 to 2009 caused bankruptcy and bank failures in the US and many other parts such as Europe. Recent empirical evidence suggests that this simultaneous drop in output was strongest in countries with greater financial ties to the US economy with important cross border deposit and lending. This paper develops a two-country framework to allow for banking structures within an international real business cycle model. The banking structure across countries is modelled using the production approach to financial intermediation. We allow both countries. banks to be able to take deposits both locally and internationally. We analyze the transmission mechanism of both goods and banking sector productivity shocks. We show that goods total factor productivity (TFP) and bank TFP have different effects on the finance premium. Most countries have shown procyclic equity premium over their histories but with evidence that these are countercyclic during the Great Recession especially. The model has the ability to explain the countercyclical movements of credit spreads during major recession and financial crisis when goods TFP also affects banking productivity. This we model as a cross correlation of shocks to replicate the recent events during the crisis period. Importantly, the model can also explain business cycles facts and the countercyclical behaviour of the trade balance.
E13|The Welfare Cost of Ináation with Banking Time|The paper presents the welfare cost of inflation in a banking time economy that models exchange credit through a bank production approach. The estimate of welfare cost uses fundamental parameters of utility and production technologies. It is compared to a cash-only economy, and a Lucas (2000) shopping economy without leisure, as special cases. The paper estimates the welfare cost of a 10% inflation rate instead of zero, for comparison to other estimates, as well as the cost of a 2% inflation rate instead of a zero inflation rate. The zero rate is specified as the US inflation rate target in the 1978 Employment Act amendments. The paper provides a conservative welfare cost estimate of 2% inflation instead of zero at $33 billion a year. Estimates of the percent of government expenditure that can be financed through a 2% vs. zero inflation rate are also provided.
E13|The Welfare Cost of Inflation with Banking Time|The paper presents the welfare cost of inflation in a banking time economy that models exchange credit through a bank production approach. The estimate of welfare cost uses fundamental parameters of utility and production technologies. It is compared to a cash-only economy, and a Lucas (2000) shopping economy without leisure, as special cases. The paper estimates the welfare cost of a 10% inflation rate instead of zero, for comparison to other estimates, as well as the cost of a 2% inflation rate instead of a zero inflation rate. The zero rate is specified as the US inflation rate target in the 1978 Employment Act amendments. The paper provides a conservative welfare cost estimate of 2% inflation instead of zero at $33 billion a year. Estimates of the percent of government expenditure that can be financed through a 2% vs. zero inflation rate are also provided.
E13|Sweat Equity in U.S. Private Business|This paper uses theory disciplined by U.S. national accounts and business census data to measure private business sweat equity, which is the value of time to build customer bases, client lists, and other intangible assets. We estimate an aggregate sweat equity value of 0.65 times GDP, with little cross-sectional dispersion in valuations when compared to business net incomes and large cross-sectional dispersion in rates of return. Our estimate of sweat equity is close to the estimate of marketable fixed assets used in production by private businesses, implying a high ratio of intangible to total assets. We use the model to evaluate the impact of greater tax compliance of private businesses and lower tax rates on the net income of both privately held and publicly traded businesses.
E13|Financing Ventures|The relationship between venture capital and growth is examined using an endogenous growth model incorporating dynamic contracts between entrepreneurs and venture capitalists. At each stage of financing, venture capitalists evaluate the viability of startups. If viable, VCs provide funding for the next stage. The success of a project depends on the amount of funding. The model is confronted with stylized facts about venture capital; viz., statistics by funding round concerning the success rate, failure rate, investment rate, equity shares, and the value of an IPO. Raising capital gains taxation reduces growth and welfare.
E13|Capital Reallocation|Capital reallocation is procyclical, despite measured productive reallocative opportunities being acyclical, or even countercyclical. This paper reviews the advances in the literature studying the causes and consequences of capital reallocation (or lack thereof). We provide a comprehensive set of capital reallocation stylized facts for the US, and an illustrative model of capital reallocation in equilibrium. We relate capital reallocation to the broader literatures on business cycles with financial frictions, and on resource misallocation and aggregate productivity. Throughout, we provide directions for future research.
E13|From Population Growth to Firm Demographics: Implications for Concentration, Entrepreneurship and the Labor Share|The US economy has undergone a number of puzzling changes in recent decades. Large firms now account for a greater share of economic activity, new firms are being created at a slower rate, and workers are getting paid a smaller share of GDP. This paper shows that changes in population growth provide a unified quantitative explanation for these long-term changes. The mechanism goes through firm entry rates. A decrease in population growth lowers firm entry rates, shifting the firm-age distribution towards older firms. Heterogeneity across firm age groups combined with an aging firm distribution replicates the observed trends. Micro data show that an aging firm distribution fully explains i) the concentration of employment in large firms, ii) and trends in average firm size and exit rates, key determinants of the firm entry rate. An aging firm distribution also explains the decline in labor’s share of GDP. In our model, older firms have lower labor shares because of lower overhead labor to employment ratios. Consistent with our mechanism, we find that the ratio of nonproduction workers to total employment has declined in the US.
E13|Demographics and FDI: Lessons from China's one-child policy|"Following the introduction of the one-child policy in China, the capital-labor (K/L) ratio of China increased relative to that of India, and, simultaneously, FDI inflows relative to GDP for China versus India declined. These observations are explained in the context of a simple neoclassical OLG paradigm. The adjustment mechanism works as follows: the reduction in the growth rate of the (urban) labor force due to the one-child policy permanently increases the capital per worker inherited from the previous generation. The resulting increase in China's (domestic K)/L thus ""crowds out"" the need for FDI in China relative to India. Our paper is a contribution to the nascent literature exploring demographic transitions and their effects on FDI flows."
E13|Flexible Labour, Income Eï¬€ects, and Asset Prices|This paper studies how ï¬‚exible labour decisions aï¬€ect asset pricing in a Real Business Cycle model. It uses Jaimovich-Rebelo preferences with internal habits in consumption and distinguishes between two income effect channels (i) the â€˜habit income eï¬€ectâ€™ channel and (ii) the â€˜separability income eï¬€ectâ€™ channel. I ï¬ nd that asset prices are superior when the ï¬ rst channel is strong and the second is weak, this is the case of using GHH preferences with internal habits in consumption.
E13| Capacidad productiva, cambio técnico y productividad: Estimaciones alternativas del producto de largo plazo| Esta investigación presenta las estimaciones del producto de largo plazo y de la brecha del producto, correspondientes a dos enfoques teóricos. El primero es el enfoque del crecimiento dirigido por la demanda. Se estiman dos modelos de producción de largo plazo. El modelo de Shaikh y Moudud (2004) con una ligera modificación para captar el cambio técnico determinado por la demanda en el sentido Kaldoriano (Kaldor, 1957); y, el modelo de Thirlwall (1979) según el cual las tasas teóricas de crecimiento de largo plazo de la economía están determinadas, en el largo plazo, por las tasas de crecimiento de las exportaciones. El segundo enfoque es el neoclásico de Solow-Swan (1956). Este enfoque sostiene que el crecimiento de largo plazo está limitado por factores de oferta y, entre estos se encuentran ciertamente los factores de producción capital y trabajo. Se utiliza la misma técnica de cointegración para estimar los modelos de ambos enfoques para de este modo facilitar su comparación. JEL Classification-JEL: E12 , E13 , E23 , O11 , O40 , O47 , O49
E13|Capital Accumulation and the Rate of Profit in a Two-Class Economy with Optimization Behavior|By building a growth model with two classes, workers and capitalists, this study investigates the existence and the stability of the long-run equilibrium along the lines of Pasinetti (1962) and Samuelson and Modigliani (1966). Unlike preceding studies in which the propensity to save of each class is exogenously given, this study assumes that workers solve a two-period overlapping generations model while capitalists solve an infinite-horizon dynamic optimization model. Depending on the combinations of both classes' time preference rate, the parameter of the production function, and the population growth rate, we obtain two kinds of long-run equilibria, the Pasinetti equilibrium and dual equilibrium \`a la Samuelson-Modigliani. We show that under realistic values of the parameters, the economy is likely to converge to the Pasinetti equilibrium.
E13|What Remains of Cross-Country Convergence?|We examine the record of cross-country growth over the past 50 years and ask if developing countries have made progress on closing income gap between their per capita incomes and those in the advanced economies. We conclude that, as a group, they have not and then survey the literature on absolute convergence with particular emphasis on that from the last decade or so. That literature supports our conclusion of a lack of progress in closing the income gap between countries. We close with a brief examination of the recent literature on cross-individual distribution of income which finds that, despite the lack of progress on cross-country convergence, global inequality has tended to fall since 2000.
E13|Growth and real business cycles in Vietnam and the ASEAN-5. Does the trend shock matter?|We examine Vietnam’s economy together with its closest trade partners. We show that capital accumulation has been the primary growth engine since the start of its transition to the pro-market economy in 1986–the Doi Moi. We also show that the cyclical behavior of its macro-aggregates is similar to the one of its ASEAN-5 peers and other developing countries. We extend the standard small-open-economy RBC model by considering habit persistence and government consumption which allows a close match of the moments of the growth variables. At the business cycle frequency, transitory productivity shocks account for approximately one-half of Vietnam’s output variance, while country-risk and non-transitory productivity shocks account to close to one-fifth each. Regarding Solow residual's volatility, we find that the trend component merely accounts for 12% of this variance in Vietnam, while in Thailand it is only 6%. These findings refute “the cycle is the trend” hypothesis in Aguiar and Gopinath (2007), and align to those in García-Cicco, Pancrazi, and Uribe (2010) and Rhee (2017), in which the stationary component is overwhelmingly dominant. We claim that technological progress and productivity-enhancing measures are fundamental for Vietnam's economy to sustain a high growth.
E13|New Frontiers in the Euro Debate in Iceland|The debate on currency arrangements and monetary policy frameworks in lceland has been motivated by developments in lceland and internationally in recent decades. Historically, lcelanders' colonial experience and struggle to retain control of vital natural resources made them hesitant participants in the European integration process. While sidestepping direct participation in the process leading to EU and EMU membership, they joined EFTA, the EEA and Schengen. Economic growth and development have been rapid, but the modernisation and liberalisation of the economy have been attended by signi:ficant volatility in nominal and real variables. At the same time, the European integration process has continued with its own set of challenges. It is in this context that a vibrant debate has taken place on the choice of currency and associated policies. The main emphasis has been on whether to adopt the euro (through EU membership) or retain the Icelandic króna with the most efficacious monetary policy framework possible. This article offers a review of salient contributions to the debate and the main lessons drawn from it. The key themes of the debate involve the impact currency choice would have on economic growth and resilience to shocks. While the early debate was mostly concerned with trade-theoretic issues, institutional factors have become increasingly important. A new theory concerning a heretofore overlooked policy variable, the evolution of inequality as measured by the wage-productivity gap, is discussed. It is shown to be potentially important for economic and financial outcomes, with implications for the debate.
E13|Money Neutrality: An Empirical Assessment for Mexico|The quantity theory of money assumes that money itself is neutral with respect to real output, both in the long and short term. Therefore, this last period should not be affected by changes in money supply. A review of the literature is carried out in order to provide a framework for the empirical analysis. To test the above proposition for Mexico, M1 is used, while GDP, duly adjusted for inflation stands for output. The period under consideration covers from the first quarter of 1993 to the first quarter of 2018. The results expose a cubic function. For the long term and with respect to M1, the price elasticity is positive with a substantial coefficient (10.03). In its squared portion, the coefficient is inelastic and negative (-0.49). Finally, the cubic coefficient is close to zero (0.01). These three coefficients bear a one period lag. Besides, a dummy variable comprising the four quarters of 1995, when the Mexican economy experienced a recession, was introduced. In the short term, the coefficient for the straight section is considerably large (38.19), being negative and elastic in its square tranche (-1.81), and almost negligible in its cubic portion (0.03). As a result of the above estimates, while there has been a considerable effect in real output as a result of increases in the money supply, particularly in the early years considered, its value has been receding at a considerable pace. These results apply in the long as well as in the short term. The only difference in this similar pattern is that such effect has been stronger during the short term. With respect to the theoretical tenets underling the subject, it should be observed that the effects of money supply in real output are mixed, depending on the periods under consideration.
E13|(Un)expected Monetary Policy Shocks and Term Premia|We analyze an estimated stochastic general equilibrium model that replicates key macroeconomic and financial stylized facts during the Great Moderation of 1983-2007. Our model predicts a sizeable and volatile nominal term premium - comparable to recent reduced-form empirical estimates - with real risk two times more important than in ation risk for the average nominal term premia. The model enables us to address salient questions about the effects of monetary policy on the term structure of interest rates. We nd that monetary policy shocks can have differing effects on risk premia. Actions by the monetary authority with a persistent effect on households' expectations have substantial effects on nominal and real risk premia. Our model rationalizes many of the opposing ndings on the effects of monetary policy on term premia in the empirical literature.
E13|Financing Ventures|The relationship between venture capital and growth is examined using an endogenous growth model incorporating dynamic contracts between entrepreneurs and venture capitalists. At each stage of financing, venture capitalists evaluate the viability of startups. If viable, venture capitalists provide funding for the next stage. The success of a project depends on the amount of funding. The model is confronted with stylized facts about venture capital; viz., statistics by funding round concerning the success rates, failure rates, investment rates, equity shares, and IPO values. Raising capital gains taxation reduces growth and welfare.
E13|Public Debt Frontier. A toolkit for analyzing fiscal policy and debt sustainability|This paper provides a twofold contribution. First, it proposes a synthetic and visual indicator to assess public debt sustainability. This indicator summarizes in a single diagram the linkage between economic activity, government’s budget, and the maximum amount of public debt that is sustainable in the long run. The backing theory is a neoclassical growth model augmented with endogenous tax revenues, disaggregated public spending, different production technologies for public and private goods, non-atomistic wage setters in public labor (unions), and a fully specified maturity curve for public bonds. The second contribution of the paper is to develop and present a stand-alone software that analyzes public debt sustainability in response to variations of fiscal policy. This toolkit is useful for managing public debt or to place an additional constraint on government’s budget. We provide an example of its usage for the emblematic case of Greece during the last public debt crisis.
E13|The Rebound Effect and its representation in Climate and Energy models|In this paper, we review the state-of-the-art and common practice of energy and climate modeling vis-a-vis the rebound literature, in particular regarding how macroeconomic energy and climate models quantify and include energy and greenhouse gas rebound effects. First, we focus on rebound effects in models of costless energy efficiency improvement that hold other attributes constant (zero-cost breakthrough), and an energy efficiency policy that may be bundled with other product changes that affect energy use (policy-induced efficiency improvement) (Gillingham et al. 2015). Second, we examine macroeconomic studies focusing on energy efficiency both in industry and in private households. Third, we go through a general theoretical revision from micro- to macroeconomic levels (the aggregation level) to include a review of the so-called meso-level studies (focused on the analysis of the production side). From 118 recent studies along the aggregation level, out of which 25 compute rebound calculations, we find that the average energy rebound effect is 58% with a standard deviation of 58%, and when we include green house gas rebound calculations, the magnitude is of the order of 43% with a standard deviation of 55%. Finally, we argue that the rebound effect is a phenomenon that requires a sound understanding of the complex interactions from different dimensions (e.g. aggregation level, heterogeneity, climate, energy conservation and economic growth), and we provide some ideas and motivations for future research.
E13|Housing and the business cycle revisited|I present a multisectoral DSGE model with housing, real frictions, and variable capital utilization that generates aggregate and sectoral co-movements due to uncorrelated sector-specific shocks. Major advances are the robust positive correlations of residential investment with house prices and business investment. In addition, business investment is lagging other economic activities. The key improvements are adjustment costs to business investment. I identify the parameters of the exogenous shock processes, business adjustment costs, and variable capital utilization with Bayesian estimation; the results confirm those obtained from earlier work in this field.
E13|Predetermined interest rates in an analytical RBC model|We solve a version of the analytical Real Business Cycle (RBC) model with a predetermined rate of return on household saving. The solution differs from that of the benchmark RBC model along two dimensions: (i) Policy functions depend on the variance of the technology shock. (ii) There is a suboptimal pattern of excess saving. We discuss the economic intuition underlying these properties. We also demonstrate that unconditional welfare can be higher in the suboptimal model with predetermined interest rates, providing a clear illustration of the pitfall with unconditional welfare comparisons.
E13|Curvas Laffer de la Tributación en Colombia|En este documento se estiman las curvas de Laffer para los impuestos al trabajo, al capital y al consumo en Colombia. Se utiliza un modelo neoclásico de crecimiento con capital humano del tipo insinuado por Trabandt y Uhlig (2011), el cual es calibrado con la información de las cuentas nacionales para el período 1994 a 2015. Los resultados permiten, por una parte, comparar las tarifas impositivas efectivas actuales sobre los factores de producción frente aquellas que maximizaría los recaudos del gobierno y, por consiguiente, derivar el espacio fiscal que eventualmente tiene el gobierno por el lado de los impuestos. Por otra, permiten simular ejercicios de la política fiscal mediante el uso de sus principales instrumentos y, finalmente, contrastar las tarifas tributarias efectivas y las curvas de Laffer en Colombia frente a la de los países de la OECD. **** This paper estimates the Laffer curves in Colombia for taxes on labor income, capital gains, and consumption. We used a neoclassical growth model with human capital, as that suggested by Trabandt and Uhlig (2011), inputting data from the national accounts system, for the period 1994 to 2015. The results permit to compare the current effective tax rates on the factors of production against that which would maximize the government's revenues, and therefore derive the government's possible taxrelated fiscal space. Furthermore, they help us perform some fiscal-policy simulations employing the policy's main tools, and they let us contrast Colombia's effective tax rates and Laffer curves with those of the OECD countries.
E13|Payments, credit and asset prices|This paper studies a modern monetary economy: trade in both goods and securities relies on money provided by intermediaries. While money is valued for its liquidity, its creation requires costly leverage. In ation, security prices and the transmission of monetary policy then depend on the institutional details of the payment system. The price of a security is higher if it helps back inside money, and lower if more inside money is used to trade it. In ation can be low in security market busts if bank portfolios suffer, but also in booms if trading absorbs more money. The government has multiple policy tools: in addition to the return on outside money, it affects the mix of securities used to back inside money.
E13|Paradise lost? A brief history of DSGE macroeconomics|Since the Global Financial Crisis, academic economists and policymakers have had to deal with uncomfortable questions about the quality of their models and the state of macroeconomics as a profession. This note offers a summary of this discussion, focusing on the Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium (DSGE) framework and its underpinnings. This class of models reflects both theoretical advances and perennial modeling challenges. While DSGE modeling developed in times of scarce micro data and limited computational resources, it has much room for improvement given progress along these dimensions and advances in other branches of economics. Key tasks on the to-do-list for model improvement include the modeling on the financial sector, departures from the representative agent and rationality, as well as clarification of the empirical relevance of the Lucas critique. The framework is likely to remain a major research and policy tool, although its limitations call for greater robustness, validation and open recognition of uncertainty in drawing real-life quantitative conclusions.
E13|Wealth Preference and Rational Bubbles|We consider a neoclassical economy where households derive utility from holding wealth. We show that, under some conditions, there can be rational bubbles. Hence, we provide a microfoundation for bubbles that relies on a frictionless infinite-horizon economy without any heterogeneity across households. While our bubbly equilibria are very similar to those obtained by Tirole (1985) in an overlapping generation economy, the underlying economics is different. Turning to public debt, we show that Ponzi schemes can be sustainable. Hence, in general, the limit on the accumulation of public debt by the government is not given by its no-Ponzi condition but, instead, by the representative household's transversality condition. The Ricardian equivalence must hold in any of our equilibria. Finally, in the presence of money, the real equilibrium structure of the economy remains unchanged. We carefully investigate the effects of helicopter drops of money on the possibility of Ponzi schemes and of speculative hyperinflation or deflation.
E13|Is Hard Brexit Detrimental to EU Integration? Theory and Evidence|In the struggle between the forces of free trade and the restrictive influence of insularism the latter recently seems to have the upper hand. This is illustrated by the referendum of June 23, 2016 where the United Kingdom (UK) voted to leave the European Union (EU). In this paper we evaluate the consequences of this event for EU integration. In particular, we analyze how the extent of EU economic integration would change once the UK leaves the Union. To that end we develop an integration benchmark that consists of the steady state production equilibrium characterized by arbitrage pricing and perfect factor mobility. We apply metrics to measure the distance between this benchmark and the data. We find that the integration in the EU is incomplete and its trend is non-linear while Brexit would not bring negative consequences to its development..
E13|Optimal Amount of Attention to Capital Income Risk and Heterogeneous Precautionary Saving Behavior|This paper studies heterogeneous precautionary saving behavior under rational inattention. In the model, consumers face uninsured capital income risk, have CRRA preferences, and suffer from an information-processing capacity constraint. For given attention devoted to capital income risk, I solve for the optimal consumption-saving choices and show that the expected utility from consumption is increasing with the amount of attention. Furthermore, I solve for the optimal attention choice and find that households with more initial wealth would pay less attention to capital income risk. As a result, wealthier households have higher perceived uncertainty in their future capital income and display precautionary motive by saving at higher rates. I also provide empirical evidence to support these results by using data from 2016 wave of the Survey of Consumer Finances.
E13|Current Account Balance in Emerging Asia|The current account balance is an important indicator which reveals information on a country’s economic situation such as investments, capital flows, and indebtedness. The main purpose of this study is to examine the current account balance conditions in emerging Asian countries. In this respect, the long-run and causality relationship between current account balance, economic growth, government expenditure, real interest rates, and foreign direct investment was examined. The panel data analysis was applied using the data dated 1986 to 2015. Our results revealed a causal effect from economic growth and government expenditure to current account balance mainly dependent on saving tendency.
E13|Asset Prices in a Production Economy with Long-run and Idiosyncratic Risk|This paper studies risk premia in an incomplete-markets economy with households facing idiosyncratic consumption risk. If the dispersion of idiosyncratic risk varies over the business cycle and households have a preference for early resolution of uncertainty, asset prices will be affected not only by news about current and expected future aggregate consumption (as in models with a representative agent), but also by news about current and future changes in the cross-sectional distribution of individual consumption. I investigate whether this additional effect can help explain high risk premia in a production economy where the aggregate consumption process is endogenous and thus can potentially be affected by the presence of idiosyncratic risk. Analyzing a neoclassical growth model combined with Epstein-Zin preferences and a tractable form of household heterogeneity, I find that countercyclical idiosyncratic risk increases the risk premium, but also effectively lowers the willingness of households to engage in intertemporal substitution and thus changes the dynamics of aggregate consumption. Nevertheless, with the added flexibility of Epstein-Zin preferences, it is possible both to increase risk premia and to maintain the same dynamics of quantities if we allow for higher intertemporal elasticity of substitution at the individual level.
E13|Efectos de reducir el impuesto a la ganancia (equilibrio parcial versus equilibrio general)|En este documento se presenta un conjunto de estimaciones sobre los efectos de reducir la tarifa del impuesto a la ganancia de las empresas en el caso colombiano. La estimación realizada bajo un esquema de equilibrio parcial genera resultados diferentes y menos confiables que los de la estimación que se basa en un modelo de equilibrio general.
E13|El agente representativo: ¿supuesto fuerte y equívoco u opción reductora de dificultades analíticas para el estudio macroeconómico?|En el presente documento se realiza un breve análisis del pensamiento de autores clásicos aún vigentes para el estudio económico de la sociedad moderna, con el fin de comparar sus metodologías de análisis con las metodologías actuales. Específicamente, se hace seguimiento al supuesto de agentes representativos y las consecuencias que su consideración tiene en los modelos de crecimiento neoclásicos básicos a partir de los cuales se hace política económica. Se reconoce la importancia de los supuestos en conjunto dentro del análisis neoclásico y su formalización, pero se considera su impacto en el análisis de los efectos distributivos del crecimiento y la desigualdad. Se encuentra que se debe tener especial precaución al sacar conclusiones de modelos que integren a este supuesto debido a que los efectos redistributivos no son despreciables.
E13|A new solution to an old problem: a temporary equilibrium version of the Ramsey model|Convergence toward the optimal capital accumulation path in infinite horizon has always been tackled in the literature by means of the assumption that individuals (or a central planner) are able to select the unique convergent (saddle-)path among the infinitely many paths which satisfy the equi-marginality condition of the intertemporal choice problem (the Euler's condition). This is tantamount to assuming that individuals have 'colossal' rational capabilities. Conversely, any minor deviation from the saddle-path would inevitably lead to a crash on a 0 per-capita consumption path. This paper aims to show that this contraposition is false. An asymptotic convergence result to the optimal equilibrium path will be obtained for an individual who plans myopically, that is, that optimizes his present and future consumption levels under a rudimentary hypothesis about future savings. He then partially readjusts his choices in each subsequent period, like people normally do. A similar result was already proved by the author for the central planner problem. In this paper, a 'market' solution is provided, following a temporary equilibrium approach à la Hicks.
E13|Wealth Preference and Rational Bubbles|We consider a neoclassical economy where households derive utility from holding wealth. We show that, under some conditions, there can be rational bubbles. Hence, we provide a microfoundation for bubbles that relies on a frictionless infinite-horizon economy without any heterogeneity across households. While our bubbly equilibria are very similar to those obtained by Tirole (1985) in an overlapping generation economy, the underlying economics is different. Turning to public debt, we show that Ponzi schemes can be sustainable. Hence, in general, the limit on the accumulation of public debt by the government is not given by its no-Ponzi condi-tion but, instead, by the representative household’s transversality condition. The Ricardian equivalence must hold in any of our equilibria. Finally, in the presence of money, the real equilibrium structure of the economy remains unchanged. We carefully investigate the effects of helicopter drops of money on the possibility of Ponzi schemes and of speculative hyperinflation or deflation.
E13|The role of factor substitution and technical progress in China's great expansion|We offer a macroeconomic assessment of China’s Reform Period, highlighting several neglected channels underlining its great expansion. Estimating the supply side of the post-Reform economy reveals the relatively high (above unity) value of the elasticity of factor substitution and the time-varying pattern of factor-saving technical change. The latter we relate to trade, human capital and reallocation factors. We then demonstrate how, in addition to factor accumulation and technical progress, the above-unity elasticity of substitution can be a source of growth (the ‘de La Grandville hypothesis’). We then draw upon our estimated framework to rationalize China’s high and rising savings ratio as well as the dynamic nature of its convergence path. JEL Classification: D24, E13, O11
E13|The Great Escape? A Quantitative Evaluation of the Fed's Liquidity Facilities|We introduce liquidity frictions into an otherwise standard DSGE model with nominal and real rigidities and ask: can a shock to the liquidity of private paper lead to a collapse in short-term nominal interest rates and a recession like the one associated with the 2008 US financial crisis? Once the nominal interest rate reaches the zero bound, what are the effects of interventions in which the government provides liquidity in exchange for illiquid private paper? We find that the effects of the liquidity shock can be large, and show some numerical examples in which the liquidity facilities of the Federal Reserve prevented a repeat of the Great Depression in the period 2008-2009.
E13|Optimal Capital Regulation|We study constrained-efficient bank capital regulation in a model with market-imposed equity requirements. Banks hold equity buffers to insure against sudden loss of funding access. However, bank equity is privately costly in the model such that banks choose only partial self-insurance. Equity requirements are occasionally binding as a result. Constrained-efficient regulation requires banks to build up additional equity buffers and compensates them for the cost of equity with a permanent increase in lending margins. When buffers are depleted regulation relaxes market-imposed equity requirements by raising bank future prospects via temporarily elevated lending margins.
E13|Demographic trends and the real interest rate|We quantify the impact of past and future global demographic change on real interest rates, house prices and household debt in an overlapping generations model. Falling birth and death rates can explain a large part of the fall in world real interest rates and the rise in house prices and household debt since the 1980s. These trends will persist as the share of the population in the high-wealth 50+ age bracket continues to rise. As the United States ages relatively slowly, its net foreign liability position will grow. The availability of housing and debt as alternative stores of value attenuates these trends. The increasing monopolisation of the economy has ambiguous effects.
E13|Large Firm Dynamics and Secular Stagnation: Evidence from Japan and the U.S|Focusing on the recent secular stagnation debate, this paper examines the role of large firm dynamics as determinants of productivity fluctuations. We first show that idiosyncratic shocks to large firms as well as entry, exit, and reallocation effects account for 30 to 40 percent of productivity fluctuations in Japan and the U.S. Second, since the mid-2000s, the slowdown in large foreign firm entry into the U.S. has led to a decline in business dynamics and downward pressures on productivity growth. Third, we identify demand and supply shocks by matching idiosyncratic large-firm shocks in the granular residual (Gabaix, 2011) and changes in sectoral inflation rates and show that the prolonged slowdown in productivity growth in Japan and the U.S. was mostly driven by supply shocks. Overall, our results support the supply-side views of Gordon (2012, 2015, 2016) in the secular stagnation debate.
E13|Commodity booms and busts in emerging economies|Emerging economies, particularly those dependent on commodity exports, are prone to highly disruptive economic cycles. This paper proposes a small open economy model for a net commodity exporter to quantitatively study the triggers of these cycles. The economy consists of two sectors, one of which produces commodities with prices subject to exogenous international fluctuations. These fluctuations affect both the competitiveness of the economy and its borrowing terms, as higher commodity prices are associated with lower spreads between the country's borrowing rate and world interest rates. Both effects jointly result in strongly positive effects of commodity price increases on GDP, consumption, and investment, and a negative effect on the total trade balance. Furthermore, they generate excess volatility of consumption over output and a large volatility of investment. Besides explicitly incorporating a double role of commodity prices, the model structure nests the various candidate sources of shocks proposed in previous work on emerging economy business cycles. Estimating the model on Argentine data, we find that the contribution of commodity price shocks to fluctuations in post-1950 output growth is in the order of 38%. In addition, commodity prices account for around 42% and 61% of the variation in consumption and investment growth, respectively. We find transitory productivity shocks to be an important driver of output fluctuations, exceeding the contribution of shocks to the trend, which, though smaller, is not negligible.
E13|Commodity Booms and Busts in Emerging Economies|Emerging economies, particularly those dependent on commodity exports, are prone to highly disruptive economic cycles. This paper proposes a small open economy model for a net commodity exporter to quantitatively study the triggers of these cycles. The economy consists of two sectors, one of which produces commodities with prices subject to exogenous international fluctuations. These fluctuations affect both the competitiveness of the economy and its borrowing terms, as higher commodity prices are associated with lower spreads between the country's borrowing rate and world interest rates. Both effects jointly result in strongly positive effects of commodity price increases on GDP, consumption and investment, and a negative effect on the total trade balance. Furthermore, they generate excess volatility of consumption over output and a large volatility of investment. The model structure nests various candidate sources of shocks proposed in previous work on emerging economy business cycles. Estimating the model on Argentine data, we find that the contribution of commodity price shocks to fluctuations in post-1950 output growth is in the order of 38%. In addition, commodity prices account for around 42% and 61% of the variation in consumption and investment growth, respectively. We find transitory productivity shocks to be an important driver of output fluctuations, exceeding the contribution of shocks to the trend, which is smaller, although not negligible.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E13|Family Economics Writ Large|Powerful currents have reshaped the structure of families over the last century. There has been (1) a dramatic drop in fertility and greater parental investment in children; (2) a rise in married female labor-force participation; (3) a significant decline in marriage; (4) a higher degree of positive assortative mating; (5) more children living with a single mother; and (6) shifts in social norms governing premarital sex and married women's roles in the workplace. Macroeconomic models explaining these aggregate trends are surveyed. The relentless flow of technological progress and its role in shaping family life are stressed.
E13|Optimal fertility under age-dependent labour productivity|Abstract In the so-called Rapport Sauvy (1962), the French demographer Alfred Sauvy argued that Wallonia’s fertility rate was socially suboptimal, and recommended a 20 % rise of fertility, on the grounds that a society with too low a fertility leads to a low-productive economy composed of old workers having old ideas. This paper examines how Sauvy’s intuition can be incorporated in the Samuelsonian optimal fertility model (Samuelson, Int Econ Rev 16:531–538, 1975). We build a four-period OLG model with physical capital and with two generations of workers (young and old), the skills of the latter being subject to some form of decay. We characterize the optimal fertility rate and show that this equalizes, at the margin, the sum of the capital dilution effect (Solow effect) and the labour age-composition effect (Sauvy effect) with the intergenerational redistribution effect (Samuelson effect). Numerical simulations show that it is hard, from a quantitative perspective, to reconcile Sauvy’s recommendation with facts. This leads us to examine other potential determinants of optimal fertility, by introducing technological progress and a more general social welfare function.
E13|Secular Satiation|"Satiation of need is generally ignored by growth theory. I study a model where con- sumers may be satiated in any given good but new goods may be introduced. A social planner will never elect a trajectory with long-run satiation. Instead, he will introduce enough new goods to avoid such a situation. In contrast, the decentralized equilibrium may involve long run satiation. This, despite that the social costs of innovation are second order compared to their social benefits. Multiple equilibria may arise: depending on expectations, the economy may then converge to a satiated steady state or a non satiated one. In the latter equilibrium, capital and the number of varieties are larger than in the former, while consumption of each good is lower. This multiplicity comes from the following strategic complementary: when people expect more varieties to be introduced in the future, this raises their marginal utility of future consumption, inducing them to save more. In turn, higher savings reduces interest rates, which boosts the rate of innovation. When TFP grows exogenously and labor supply is endogenized, the satiated equilibrium generically survives. For some parametrer values, its growth rate is positive while labor supply declines over time to zero. Its growth rate is then lower than that of the non satiated equilibrium. Hence, the economy may either coordinate on a high leisure, low growth, satiated ""leisure society"" or a low leisure, high growth, non satiated ""consumption society""."
E13|The Productivity Slowdown and the Declining Labor Share: A Neoclassical Exploration|We explore the possibility that a global productivity slowdown is responsible for the widespread decline in the labor share of national income. In a neoclassical growth model with endogenous human capital accumulation a la Ben Porath (1967) and capital-skill complementarity a la Grossman et al. (2017), the steady-state labor share is positively correlated with the rates of capital-augmenting and labor-augmenting technological progress. We calibrate the key parameters describing the balanced growth path to U.S. data for the early post-war period and find that a one percentage point slowdown in the growth rate of per capita income can account for between one half and all of the observed decline in the US labor share.
E13|Agriculture to Industry: the End of Intergenerational Coresidence|We show that the structural change of the economy from agriculture to industry was a major determinant of the observed shift in intergenerational coresidence. We build a one-good, two-sector overlapping generation model of the structural change out of agriculture, in which the coresidence choice is endogenous. We calibrate the model on U.S. data and simulate it. The model can match the decline in U.S. intergenerational coresidence both qualitatively and quantitatively. (Copyright: Elsevier)
E13|Redistributive Innovation Policy, Inequality and Efficiency|Using a heterogenous-agent growth model with in-house R&D and incomplete capital markets, we examine the efficiency and distributional effects of alternative public R&D policies that target high-tech and low-tech sectors. We find that such policies have important implication for efficiency, inequality and social mobility. A regressive public R&D investment financed by income tax could boost growth and welfare via a positive effect on individual savings and effort. However, it could also discourage them via its effect on the efficiency-inequality trade off. The relationship between public R&D spending and welfare is therefore hump shaped admitting an optimal degree of regressivity in public R&D spending. A case for optimal progressive public R&D investment, however, can be made with a properly designed R&D policy that combines consumption tax and investment subsidy policies.
E13|The optimal consumption function in a Brownian model of accumulation. Part C: a dynamical system formulation|This Paper continues the study of the Optimal Consumption Function in a Brownian Model of Accumulation, see Part A [2001] and Part B [2014]; a further Part D, dealing with the effects of perturbations of the Brownian model, is in preparation. We begin here with a review of the o.d.e. system S which was used in Part B for the proof of the existence of an optimal consumption function. This system is non-linear, two dimensional but bilaterally asymptotically autonomous with limiting systems as log-capital tends to plus/minus infinity, each of which has a unique saddle point. An important part is played in the existence proof by the sets of forward/backward ‘special’ solutions, i.e. solutions of S converging to the asymptotic saddle points, and by their representing functions f and g. A ‘star’ solution, which is both a forward and a backward special solution, corresponds to an optimal consumption function. It is shown here that the sets of special solutions of S are C(1) sub-manifolds of R(3), hence that the functions f and g are continuously differentiable. The argument involves the construction of an imbedding of S in a 3-D autonomous dynamical system such that the asymptotic saddle points are mapped to saddle points of the 3-D system and the sets of forward/backward special solutions are mapped into stable/unstable manifolds. The usual Stable/Unstable Manifold Theorem for hyperbolic stationary points then yields the required C(1) properties locally (i.e. near saddle points), and these properties can be extended globally. A ‘star’ solution of S then corresponds to a saddle connection in the 3-D system. A stability result for the saddle connection is given for a special case.
E13|Mining Surplus: Modeling James A. Schmitz'S Link Between Competition And Productivity|James A. Schmitz documents, in a well‐known case study (Journal of Political Economy 113 (2005), 582–625), a dramatic rise in productivity in the American and Canadian iron‐ore industry following an increase in competition from Brazil. Prior to the increased competition, the industry was not competitive. Economic profits were divided between business and unions. Schmitz attributes the increase in productivity to a change in work practices in the industry, as old negotiated union work rules were abandoned or modified. This research formalizes a mechanism through which a rise in competition can lead to increased productivity in the iron‐ore industry.
E13|To Augment Or Not To Augment? A Conjecture On Asymmetric Technical Change|Following standard macroeconomic theory, a non-increasing long-run share of labor in income combined with a capital-labor substitution elasticity of less than unity implies that productivity growth should be labor-augmenting. Employing an industry decomposition for the U.S., we find that technical progress is factor neutral. However, we stress potential inflation measurement errors manifested in the form of non-positive long-term productivity growth in a number of industries. We illustrate that estimates of the bias of technical change are quite sensitive to these measurement issues. If aggregate inflation is annually overstated by as little as a third of a percentage point, technical progress is already over 50 percent higher in the labor-intensive sector than in the capital-intensive sector. Thus, even the presence of small positive inflation biases could very well mean that technical change is notably labor augmenting.
E13|Technology Adoption, Capital Deepening, and International Productivity Differences|Cross-country differences in capital intensity are larger in the agricultural sector than in the non-agricultural sector, indicating that rich and poor countries differ in agricultural technology adoption. I build a two-sector general equilibrium model featuring technology adoption in agriculture. As the economy develops, farmers gradually adopt a modern capital-intensive technology to replace the traditional labour-intensive technology, as is observed in the U.S. historical data. Using this model, I find that the technology adoption channel is key to accounting for low agricultural capital intensity and labour productivity in poor countries. In the model, measured aggregate factors – land endowment, economy-wide productivity, and barriers to investment – can explain 1.56-fold more in rich-poor agricultural productivity differences compared to a model without technology adoption. I further show that land market frictions in agriculture impede technology adoption and magnify productivity differences.
E13|The Macroeconomic Effects of Housing Wealth, Housing Finance, and Limited Risk Sharing in General Equilibrium|This paper studies a quantitative general equilibrium model of housing. The model has two key elements not previously considered in existing quantitative macro studies of housing finance: aggregate business cycle risk and a realistic wealth distribution driven in the model by bequest heterogeneity in preferences. These features of the model play a crucial role in the following results. First, a relaxation of financing constraints leads to a large boom in house prices. Second, the boom in house prices is entirely the result of a decline in the housing risk premium. Third, low interest rates cannot explain high home values.
E13|Urbanization, Long-Run Growth, and the Demographic Transition|Advanced economies undergo three transitions during their development: 1. They transition from a rural to an urban economy. 2. They transition from low income growth to high income growth. 3. Their demographics transition from initially high fertility and mortality rates to low modern levels. The timings of these transitions are correlated in the historical development of most advanced economies. I unify complementary theories of the transitions into a nonlinear model of endogenous long run economic and demographic change. The model reproduces the timing and magnitude of the transitions. Because the model captures the interactions between all three transitions, it is able to explain three additional empirical patterns: a declining urban-rural wage gap, a declining rural-urban family size ratio, and most surprisingly, that early urbanization slows development. This third prediction distinguishes the model from other theories of long-run growth, so I test and confirm it in cross-country data.
E13|Allocative efficiency of UK firms during the Great Recession|This paper argues that the fall and persistently low level of UK Total Factor Productivity (TFP) following the Great Recession was caused by the turnover (entry and exit) of firms, rather than by resource misallocation between firms within industries. I conduct a misallocation exercise employing the Hsieh and Klenow (2009) and the Olley and Pakes (1996) methods using the FAME microlevel dataset that contains more than 9 million firms within the UK over the 2006 - 2014 period. The main findings are that, first, service sector TFP drops far more than manufacturing TFP and therefore drives the fall and long-lasting depression in aggregate productivity. Second, within-industry misallocation cannot account for the drop in TFP. Third, the entry and exit of firms both contribute to the decline in aggregate TFP while the entry of firms has a larger negative effect on TFP than the exit of firms. And fourth, the pattern of within-industry misallocation and firm dynamics is the same for the manufacturing and the service sector.
E13|Bofinger and Ries versus Borio and Disyatat: macroeconomics after endogenous money. A brief note|A paper by Peter Bofinger and Mathias Ries (2017a/b) strays from the recent rethinking in monetary analysis to criticise Summers’ “saving glut” explanation of the prevalence of low real interest rates. A similar critical perspective is held by Borio and Disyatat (e.g. 2011a/b, 2015), who are criticised, however, by Bofinger and Reis for their Wicksellian background. In this note, we compare and assess these two different views. Both Bofinger and Reis (B&R) and Borio and Disyatat (B&D) reject traditional “loanable fund theory” in favour of an endogenous money view of credit, but while B&R regard conventional marginalist (real) theory as inconsistent with the endogenous money view, B&D, following Wicksell, regard it as consistent. We sympathize with B&R’s criticism of conventional theory, especially their Keynesian view of the interest rate as a purely monetary phenomenon. Interestingly, B&R refer to the problems of marginalist capital theory as undermining the natural interest rate concept
E13|Interest Rate Volatility And Macroeconomic Dynamics: A Cross-Country Analysis|Employing relatively novel computational techniques, this paper examines the relation between real interest rate volatility and macroeconomic dynamics for a diverse panel of countries. Empirically, we find that interest rate volatility is quite high and persistent overall, with estimates exhibiting non-negligible heterogeneity across countries. Moreover, we highlight that volatility increases at higher interest rate levels, while it is negatively correlated with measures of macroeconomic performance such as output, consumption and investment. Our analysis demonstrates that the empirical facts can be generated by a DSGE model augmented with stochastic volatility shocks.
E13|Striking a balance: optimal tax policy with labor market duality|"We develop a dynamic general equilibrium model in which firms may evade the employer contribution component of social security taxes by offering some workers ""secondary contracts"". When calibrated, the model yields estimates of secondary labor market participation consistent with empirical evidence for the EU14 countries and the US. We investigate the optimal mix of the avoidable and unavoidable components of labor taxes and analyze the fiscal and macroeconomic effects of bringing the composition to the welfare optimum. We find that partial labor tax evasion makes tax revenues more elastic, but full tax compliance need not be a welfare enhancing policy mix."
E13|Migration and investment: a business cycle perspective|This paper addresses the dynamic effects of a migration inflow on the host country. In particular, we focus on the role of skill composition and investment behaviour of migrants and show how these affect labour supply and investment behaviour of natives and, hence, the adjustment path of the economy to various shocks in a real business cycle model. We quantify these effects for the recent refugee inflow into the German economy in 2014 and 2015.
E13|Optimal Monetary Policy under Negative Interest Rate|In responding to the extremely weak global economy after the financial crisis in 2008, many industrial nations have been considering or have already implemented negative nominal interest rate policy. This situation raises two important questions for monetary theories: (i) Given the widely held doctrine of the zero lower bound on nominal interest rate, how is a negative interest rate (NIR) policy possible? (ii) Will NIR be effective in stimulating aggregate demand? (iii) Are there any new theoretical issues emerging under NIR policies? This article builds a model to show that (i) money injections can remain effective even when the nominal bank lending rate has reached zero or become negative; (ii) it is a good policy to keep the nominal interest rate as low as possible by purchasing government bonds with money; and (iii) the conventional wisdom on the notion of the liquidity trap and the Fisherian decomposition between the nominal and real interest rate can be invalid.
E13|Optimal Ramsey Capital Income Taxation —A Reappraisal|This paper addresses a long-standing problem in the optimal Ramsey capital taxation literature. The tractability of our model enables us to solve the Ramsey problem analytically along the entire transitional path. We show that the conventional wisdom on Ramsey tax policy and its underlying intuition and rationales do not hold in our model and may thus be misrepresented in the literature. We uncover a critical trade off for the Ramsey planner between aggregate allocative efficiency in terms of the modified golden rule and individual allocative efficiency in terms of self-insurance. Facing the trade-off, the Ramsey planner prefers issuing debt rather than taxing capital if possible. In particular, the planner always intends to supply enough bonds to relax individuals'' borrowing constraints to achieve the modified golden rule by crowding out capital. A capital tax is not the optimal tool to achieve aggregate allocative efficiency, despite possible over-accumulation of capital. Thus, the optimal capital tax can be zero, positive, or even negative, depending on the Ramsey planner's ability to issue debt. The modified golden rule can fail to hold whenever the government encounters a debt limit. Finally, the planner's desire to relax individuals'' borrowing constraints may lead to unlimited debt accumulation, resulting in a dynamic path featuring no steady state.
E13|Financing Ventures: Some Macroeconomics|The relationship between venture capital and growth is examined using an endogenous growth model incorporating dynamic contracts between entrepreneurs and venture capitalists. At each stage of financing, venture capitalists evaluate the viability of startups. If viable, venture capitalists provide funding for the next stage. The success of a project depends on the amount of funding. The model is confronted with stylized facts about venture capital; viz., statistics by funding round concerning the success rates, failure rates, investment rates, equity shares, and IPO values. Raising capital gains taxation reduces growth and welfare.
E13|Productivity, taxes, and hours worked in Spain: 1970–2015|Abstract In the early 1970s, hours worked per working-age person in Spain were higher than in the United States. Starting in 1975, however, hours worked in Spain fell by 40%. We find that 80% of the decline in hours worked can be accounted for by the evolution of taxes in an otherwise standard neoclassical growth model. Although taxes play a crucial role, we cannot argue that taxes drive all of the movements in hours worked. In particular, the model underpredicts the large decrease in hours in 1975–1986 and the large increase in hours in 1994–2007. The lack of productivity growth in Spain during 1994–2015 has little impact on the model’s prediction for hours worked.
E13|Striking a balance: optimal tax policy with labor market duality|We develop a dynamic general equilibrium model in which firms may evade the employer contribution component of social security taxes by offering some workers secondary contracts. We calibrate the model to data from the United States and EU-14 countries and obtain estimates of the secondary labor market participation consistent with empirical evidence. We then investigate the optimal mix of the avoidable and unavoidable components of labor taxes and analyze the fiscal and macroeconomic effects of bringing the composition to the welfare optimum. We find that partial labor tax evasion makes tax revenues more elastic, but full tax compliance need not be a welfare enhancing policy mix. Relating to the highly cited work of Trabandt and Uhlig (2011), we extend their framework to analyze the phenomenon of non-standard employment. We distinguish between avoidable and unavoidable labor taxation -- the former may be evaded by firms if they formulate a contract with a worker as a non-standard employment contract and may be associated with employers' share in labor taxation. The latter is paid by worker--households. Our results enrich the intuition about the optimal mix of the two types of labor taxation. We show that in countries where the share of avoidable labor taxes is relatively low, substantial welfare gains can be achieved by changing the mix of the two types of labor taxes. The gains emanate from higher labor supply and consumption which accompanies modest increases in secondary employment. These gains are obtained without loss to aggregate fiscal revenue. In addition to these main results, we also show that plausible estimates of the levels of tax evasion, the efficiency of tax auditing and the shares of secondary employment can be obtained from aggregate tax revenue data.
E13|Secular Satiation|"Satiation of need is generally ignored by growth theory. I study a model where consumers may be satiated in any given good but new goods may be introduced. A social planner will never elect a trajectory with long-run satiation. Instead, he will introduce enough new goods to avoid such a situation. In contrast, the decentralized equilibrium may involve long run satiation. This, despite that the social costs of innovation are second order compared to their social benefits. Multiple equilibria may arise: depending on expectations, the economy may then converge to a satiated steady state or a non satiated one. In the latter equilibrium, capital and the number of varieties are larger than in the former, while consumption of each good is lower. This multiplicity comes from the following strategic complementary: when people expect more varieties to be introduced in the future, this raises their marginal utility of future consumption, inducing them to save more. In turn, higher savings reduces interest rates, which boosts the rate of innovation. When TFP grows exogenously and labor supply is endogenized, the satiated equilibrium generically survives. For some parameter values, its growth rate is positive while labor supply declines over time to zero. Its growth rate is then lower than that of the non satiated equilibrium. Hence, the economy may either coordinate on a high leisure, low growth, satiated ""leisure society"" or a low leisure, high growth, non satiated ""consumption society""."
E13|Interest premium and economic growth: the case of CEE|This paper views the growth and convergence process of the four Visegrad economies - the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia - through the lens of the open economy, stochastic neoclassical growth model. We use a unified framework to understand both the long-run convergence path and fluctuations around it. Our empirical exercise highlights both the role of initial conditions such as indebtedness and capital intensity, and random shocks in the growth process. In particular, we explore the importance of the external interest rate premium, and its role in driving investment and the trade balance.
E13|How Credit Constraints Impact Job Finding Rates, Sorting & Aggregate Output|We empirically and theoretically examine how consumer credit access affects dis- placed workers. Empirically, we link administrative employment histories to credit reports. We show that an increase in credit limits worth 10% of prior annual earnings allows individuals to take .15 to 3 weeks longer to find a job. Conditional on finding a job, they earn more and work at more productive firms. We develop a labor sorting model with credit to provide structural estimates of the impact of credit on employ- ment outcomes, which we find are similar to our empirical estimates. We use the model to understand the impact of consumer credit on the macroeconomy. We find that if credit limits tighten during a downturn, employment recovers quicker, but output and productivity remain depressed. This is because when limits tighten, low-asset, low- productivity job losers cannot self-insure. Therefore, they search less thoroughly and take more accessible jobs at less productive firms.
E13|(Un)expected monetary policy shocks and term premia|We analyze an estimated stochastic general equilibrium model that replicates key macroeconomic and financial stylized facts during the Great Moderation of 1983-2007. Our model predicts a sizeable and volatile nominal term premium - comparable to recent reduced-form empirical estimates - with real risk two times more important than inflation risk. The model enables us to address salient questions about the effects of monetary policy on the term structure of interest rates. We find that monetary policy can have sizeable and differing effects on nominal and real risk premia, rationalizing many opposing findings in the empirical literature.
E13|Növekedés és pénzügyi környezet<BR>[Growth and the financial environment]|A tanulmányban a magyar gazdaság 1995-2015 közötti növekedési pályájának külső meghatározóit vizsgáljuk. Fő kérdésünk az, hogy mely sokkok magyarázzák elsősorban a GDP és fő összetevőinek volatilitását a vizsgált időszakban. Az elemzéshez a neoklasszikus növekedési modell sztochasztikus változatát használjuk, amelyben elsősorban a technológiai, növekedési, illetve a kamat pré mium sokkok hozzájárulását elemezzük. Az empirikus sokkok dekom po zí ciójá hoz bayesi becslést végzünk, magyar növekedési idősorokat használva. Eredményeink azt mutatják, hogy a magyar GDP-növekedés változásait elsősorban perzisztens technológiai sokkok magyarázták, míg a növekedés összetételében a külső kamat prémium sokkok is jelentős szerepet játszottak. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: E13, O11, O41, O47.
E13|The Impact of Taxes and Transfers on Skill Premium|The level of wage inequality has varied across advanced industrial countries. One of the main reasons has been a significant difference in the skill wage premium. This study analyzes the impact of taxes and transfers on the skill wage premium and social welfare in the context of a heterogeneous-agents incomplete-markets model, in which the population consists of skilled workers and unskilled workers, and the production technology exhibits capital-skill complementarity. The analysis indicates that a significant fraction of the difference in the skill wage premium between the United States and Japan can be accounted for by differences in the tax system.
E13|The EAGLE model for Hungary - a global perspective|In this paper we adopt the Hungarian version of the EAGLE (Euro Area GLobal Economy) model. The version of the EAGLE model used in this paper allows for the high import content of export a typical feature of small open economies such as Hungary. We study the effects of four globally important shocks on Hungary: i) a slowdown of the Chinese economy, ii) more restrictive US monetary policy, iii) a reduction in oil prices, and iv) more protectionist US trade policy. We found these policies to have non-negligible indirect e/ects (beyond the relatively small direct ones) on Hungary mostly due to the workings of the shock to the eurozone which is our main trade partner.
E13|Interest premium and economic growth: the case of CEE|This paper views the growth and convergence process of the four Visegrad economies - the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia - through the lens of the open economy, stochastic neoclassical growth model. We use a unified framework to understand both the long-run convergence path and fluctuations around it. Our empirical exercise highlights both the role of initial conditions such as indebtedness and capital intensity, and random shocks in the growth process. In particular, we explore the importance of the external interest rate premium, and its role in driving investment and the trade balance.
E13|The Investment CAPM|A new class of Capital Asset Pricing Models (CAPM) arises from the first principle of real investment for individual firms. Conceptually as â€˜causalâ€™ as the consumption CAPM, yet empirically more tractable, the investment CAPM emerges as a leading asset pricing paradigm. Firms do a good job in aligning investment policies with costs of capital, and this alignment drives many empirical patterns that are anomalous in the consumption CAPM. Most important, integrating the anomalies literature in finance and accounting with neoclassical economics, the investment CAPM has succeeded in mounting an efficient markets counterrevolution to behavioural finance over the past 15 years.
E13|Dampening General Equilibrium: From Micro to Macro|We argue that standard modeling practices often overstate the potency of general-equilibrium (GE) mechanisms. We formalize the notion that GE adjustment is weak, or that it takes time, by modifying an elementary Walrasian economy in two alternative manners. In one, we replace Rational Expectations Equilibrium with solution concepts that mimic Tâtonnement or Cobweb dynamics, Level-k Thinking, Reflective Equilibrium, and certain kinds of cognitive discounting. In the other, we maintain rational expectations but remove common knowledge of aggregate shocks and accommodate higher-order uncertainty. This permits us, not only to illustrate the broader plausibility of the notion that the GE adjustment may be weak or slow, but also to illustrate the sense in which our preferred approach—the one based on lack of common knowledge—can be seen as a disciplined substitute to certain kinds of bounded rationality. We finally discuss possible applications, including how our results may help reduce the gap between the macroeconomic effects of interest and the micro or local effects estimated in a growing empirical literature.
E13|Does the Investment Model Explain Value and Momentum Simultaneously?|Two innovations in the structural investment model go a long way in explaining value and momentum jointly. Firm-level investment returns are constructed from firm-level accounting variables, and are then aggregated to the portfolio level to match with portfolio-level stock returns. In addition, current assets form a separate production input besides physical capital. The model fits well the value, momentum, investment, and profitability premiums jointly, and partially explains the positive stock-investment return correlations, the procyclicality and short-term dynamics of the momentum and profitability premiums, and the countercyclicality and long-term dynamics of the value and investment premiums. However, the model fails to explain momentum crashes.
E13|Pricing sovereign debt in resource rich economies|This paper investigates the link between commodity price movements and risk premiums in resource-dependent,developing economies. I develop a stochastic general equilibrium model of a small open economy that receives a stream of resourc erevenues.The government sells bonds to foreign investors which it can renege on in the future, at some cost, whilst international investors form expectations on the likelihood of sovereign default. This delivers an endogenous risk premium which is inversely related to the price of oil.The model is able to explain a large proportion of the business cycle fl uctuations in interest-rate spreads in resource dependent developing economies. I then ask how specific structural features of developing economies affect the relationship between commodity prices and the optimal price of sovereig ndebt, including:a higher dependence on natural resource revenues, impatient consumers and governments,a higher degree of risk-aversion, and a lower ability to substitute consumption inter-temporally. Including them in the model significantly improves the ability of the model to explain the key macroeconomic co-movements in a resource rich, developing economy context. Model simulations reveal an interesting policy insight. An endogenous risk premium that is driven by falling oil prices, provides an additional rationale for a volatility fund in which liquidity buffers are accumulated to manage debt repayments. These buffers should be larger the stronger the link between oil prices and the domestic economy is, the more impatient policymakers are and the more willing they are to substitute current for future consumption.
E13|A Note on the Solow Growth Model with a CES Production Function and Declining Population|This study investigates the relationship between per capita output growth and population growth using the Solow growth model when population growth is negative. When the Cobb-Douglas production function is used, the per capita output growth rate is positive even if the technological progress rate is zero. In contrast, when the CES production function is used, the per capita output growth rate is zero if the technological progress rate is zero.
E13|Piyasa ekonomisine geçiş süreci ve sonrasında Türkiye'de GINI katsayılarının analizi: Alternatif GINI formülü yaklaşımı<BR>[During and after the process of transition to market economy, an analysis of income distribution in Turkey: An alternative GINI formula approach]|This study considers the Gini 1 and alternative Gini 2 coefficients for households’ % income shares from 1963 to 2015 in Turkey. Throughout regarding calibrations, one might see that, despite the existence of some deviations from trend and some Gini 1 and Gini 2 coefficients’ differences, (a) there exists an improvement in the distribution of income until 2011, except for the year 2009 when the global crisis was experienced, but an average deterioration in the distribution for 2011-2015 period is experienced, (b) the geographical regions of the Turkish economy reveal different outcomes. For the period 2006-2015, it is observed that in the regions of Istanbul, West Marmara, Central Anatolia and North East Anatolia, the Lorenz curve has moved away from full equilibrium line, but in the regions of Aegean, Eastern Marmara and Eastern Black Sea, on the average, a convergence towards the equilibrium from the Lorenz curve has appeared. In other three regions, the Gini coefficients improve on average in Western Anatolia, Mediterranean and Western Black Sea regions. The Gini coefficients are increasing in the period 2006-2011 in the Middle East Anatolia and falling in 2015. In the South East Anatolia Region, there is no progress in the period 2006-2011, but, there happens to be a recovery in income distribution in 2015.
E13|Is Rentier Capitalism That Bad? Rent, Efficiency and Inequality Dynamics|The current economic context shows a tendency to inequality and rather weak growth. Rent-seeking behavior is often blamed for that. The purpose of this paper is to analyze the consequences, on the accumulation trajectory, of the existence of a rent levied by the rich on the poor. The model is inspired by the articles Stiglitz 1969, Schilcht 1975 and Bourguignon 1981. In particular, convex saving is used. We seek to see to what extent the introduction of a rent may call into question the Pareto-superiority of inequality proved by Bourguignon 1981 or alter the risk of decline highlighted in Mabrouk 2016. Within the limits of the assumptions of the model and of the numerical simulations carried out, we arrive at interesting and rather unexpected observations. Namely, a moderate rent levied by the rich on the poor may not only allow a Pareto-improvement of the economy and prevent the risk of decline, but also, it may unlock the economy from under-accumulation trap even if initial capital endowment is insufficient. The disadvantages of such a rent for the poor are felt only if the economy approaches or exceeds the golden rule where the net marginal productivity of capital is zero.
E13|Firm size, bank size, and financial development|Financial intermediation facilitates economic development by providing entrepreneurs with external finance. The relative costs of financing depend on the efficiency of the financial sector and the sector using financial intermediation services, the production sector. These costs determine the occupational choices and the set of active establishments in the production and financial sectors. A model of establishment-size distributions in the production and financial sectors results. This model is calibrated to match facts about the U.S. economy, such as the interest-rate spread and the establishment-size distributions in the production and financial sectors. The model is then used to evaluate the importance of the technological progress in the production and financial sectors and the observed decline in the real interest rate for the dynamics of the value added and the average establishment size in the production and financial sectors. The model accounts for the observed positive trend in the share of the value added and the negative trend in the average establishment size in the U.S. and Taiwanese financial sectors during the last three decades.
E13|Redistributive Innovation Policy, Inequality and Efficiency|Using a heterogenous-agent growth model with in-house R&D and incomplete capital markets, we examine the efficiency and distributional e¤ects of alternative public R&D policies that target high-tech and low-tech sectors. We nd that such policies have important implication for efficiency, inequality and social mobility. A regressive public R&D investment nanced by income tax could boost growth and welfare via a positive e¤ect on individual savings and e¤ort. However, it could also discourage them via its effect on the efficiency inequality trade off. The relationship between public R&D spending and welfare is therefore hump shaped admitting an optimal degree of regressivity in public R&D spending. A case for optimal progressive public R&D investment, however, can be made with a properly designed R&D policy that combines consumption tax and investment subsidy policies.
E13|Competition of Currencies: An Alternative to Legal Tender|The aim of this paper is to question the scenario with legal tender law by an analysis of potential competition of alternative currencies. To accomplish such a goal, this study offers an original version of the dynamic macroeconomic model based on the money in the utility function. This model compares the current monetary conditions with the potential situation permitting more currencies circulating alongside. The main assumption about individuals’ preferences over stable currencies underlines the whole paper with emphasis on the mathematical model. The outcome of the model reveals lower inflation rate in scenario with competition among currencies in comparison to the present scenario. This result by itself seems to favour the idea of an exclusion of legal tender clause and allowance of free currency competition. The final simulation of the model, using statistical software, brings to this so far “unambiguous” view scepticism due to possible difficulties during the discovery process.
E13|Jaká je optimální míra úspor z pohledu příjemců úroků?<BR>[What is the Optimum Saving Rate from the Perspective of the Receivers of Interest?]|This paper investigates the optimum saving rate from the perspective of the receivers of interest. The first part lists major contributions detected in the literature on the optimum saving rate and differential games of capitalism. The second part explores the socially optimal saving rate connected to the maximum sustainable consumption per person. A new graphical method is used to show the distribution of consumption goods between wage earners and receivers of interest. The optimum saving rate of the receivers of interest is derived in the third section. The mathematical formula indicates that this rate is lower than the golden rule, and it coincides with the optimum of the Ramsey-Cass-Koopmans model only under specific circumstances.
E13|Human Capital Misallocation, TFP, and Redistributive Policies|We analyse the impact of income inequality and redistribution on the misallocation of resources and TFP, in economies with financial market imperfections. We calibrate a model based on Benaboui's (2002) model of human capital, but with the addition of physical capital. In the absence of a credit market TFP losses due to misallocation can be signifcant and are comparable in size to those found in Hsieh and Klenow (2009). However, redistributive policies aimed at reducing these TFP losses have only small positive effects on TFP but large negative eÂ§ects on per capita output.
E13|Optimal Capital Regulation|We study constrained-efficient bank capital regulation in a model with market-imposed equity requirements. Banks hold equity buffers to insure against sudden loss of access to funding. However, in the model, banks choose to only partially self-insure because equity is privately costly. As a result, equity requirements are occasionally binding. Constrained-efficient regulation requires banks to build up additional equity buffers and compensates them for the cost of equity with a permanent increase in lending margins. When buffers are depleted, regulation relaxes the market-imposed equity requirements by raising bank future prospects through temporarily elevated lending margins.
E13|Technology Adoption, Capital Deepening, and International Productivity Differences|Cross-country differences in capital intensity are larger in agriculture than in the non-agricultural sector. I build a two-sector model featuring technology adoption in agriculture. As the economy develops, farmers gradually adopt modern capital-intensive technologies to replace traditional labor-intensive technologies, as is observed in the U.S. historical data. Using this model, I find that technology adoption is key to explaining lower agricultural capital intensity and labor productivity in poor countries. By allowing for technology adoption, my model can explain 1.56-fold more in rich-poor agricultural productivity differences. I further show that land misallocation impedes technology adoption and magnifies productivity differences.
E13|Catch-up cycle: A general equilibrium framework|Certain stylized facts are common among successful economic latecomers: an inverse U-shaped gross domestic product and capital per capita growth rate, high growth rates during the catch-up period, and rapid structural changes. We propose, for the first time, a general equilibrium framework to document the catch-up cycle that a successful latecomer is likely to experience. We argue that technology adoption and imitation, and diminishing marginal returns to capital are the two driving forces of the catch-up cycle. The technological gap and speed/efficiency of technological catching-up are two fundamental factors for successful catching-up. This paper concludes with a case study for the People’s Republic of China and sheds light on the different policy choices at various stages of the catch-up cycle.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E13|The Turning Tide: How Energy has Driven the Transformation of the British Economy Since the Industrial Revolution|Since the Industrial Revolution, the economy of the UK has transformed from that of an industrial manufacturing giant to a service economy and a central hub for the financial sector. Energy and energy services derived from fossil fuels have played a key role as drivers behind this structural change. Using data from 1855—2015 on capital, labor, and energy in a CES production function, we show that during this period input factors were mostly gross complements. However, between 1960 and 1980, the elasticity of substitution of energy increased substantially, from around 0.7 to more than 2.4. These high elasticity estimates were not permanent, and this wave of change that characterized the transition has since dissipated. Elasticities have since returned to even lower values around 0.3, indicating that energy services which depend primarily on fossil fuel inputs, such as transportation, pose a serious limit to the efficacy of efforts aimed at reducing fossil fuel consumption.
E13|Uninsured risk, stagnation, and fiscal policy|Japan is in the midst of a protracted spell of depressed economic activity. Japan's economic stagnation has occurred against a background of rising earnings risk. Occupational stability is falling as routine occupations disappear and implicit lifetime employment guarantees are gradually disappearing. At the same time, earnings in some high-skilled occupations have continued to grow. The resulting polarization in earnings has also been accompanied by an increase in wealth inequality. We develop a framework that relates these observations. In our model, an increase in uninsured earnings risk depresses output and increases wealth inequality. We then analyze the efficacy of alternative fiscal measures in terms of their ability to increase economic activity, reduce wealth inequality, and improve welfare. We find that a lower tax rate on capital achieves all of these objectives.
E13|Macrofinancial History and the New Business Cycle Facts|"In advanced economies, a century-long, near-stable ratio of credit to GDP gave way to rapid financialization and surging leverage in the last forty years. This ""financial hockey stick"" coincides with shifts in foundational macroeconomic relationships beyond the widely noted return of macroeconomic fragility and crisis risk. Leverage is correlated with central business cycle moments, which we can document thanks to a decade-long international and historical data collection effort. More financialized economies exhibit somewhat less real volatility, but also lower growth, more tail risk, as well as tighter real-real and real-financial correlations. International real and financial cycles also cohere more strongly. The new stylized facts that we discover should prove fertile ground for the development of a new generation of macroeconomic models with a prominent role for financial factors."
E13|Macrofinancial History and the New Business Cycle Facts|In advanced economies, a century-long near-stable ratio of credit to GDP gave way to rapid financialization and surging leverage in the last forty years. This “financial hockey stick” coincides with shifts in foundational macroeconomic relationships beyond the widely-noted return of macroeconomic fragility and crisis risk. Leverage is correlated with central business cycle moments, which we can document thanks to a decade-long international and historical data collection effort. More financialized economies exhibit somewhat less real volatility, but also lower growth, more tail risk, as well as tighter real-real and real-financial correlations. International real and financial cycles also cohere more strongly. The new stylized facts that we discover should prove fertile ground for the development of a new generation of macroeconomic models with a prominent role for financial factors.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E13|Interpreting Shocks to the Relative Price of Investment with a Two-Sector Model|Consumption and investment comove over the business cycle in response to shocks that permanently move the price of investment. The interpretation of these shocks has relied on standard one-sector models or on models with two or more sectors that can be aggregated. However, the same interpretation continues to go through in models that cannot be aggregated into a standard one-sector model. Furthermore, such a two-sector model with distinct factor input shares across production sectors and commingling of sectoral outputs in the assembly of final consumption and investment goods, in line with the U.S. Input-Output Tables, has implications for aggregate variables. It yields a closer match to the empirical evidence of positive comovement for consumption and investment.
E13|Relative Income Traps|Despite economic growth in the post-World War II period, few developing countries have been able to catch up to the income levels in the United States or other advanced economies. Such countries remain trapped at a relative low- or middle-income level. In this article, the authors redefine the concept of income traps as situations in which income levels relative to the United States remain constantly low and with no clear sign of convergence. This approach allows them to study the issue of economic convergence (or lack of it) directly. The authors describe evidence pointing to the existence of both relative low- and middle-income traps and examine cross-country historical transitions between income groups at the global and regional levels. Finally, they point out challenges to the benchmark neoclassical growth theory, which predicts convergence to the developed world over time, and discuss existing theories with the potential to explain income traps.
E13|RBC Methodology and the Development of Aggregate Economic Theory|This essay reviews the development of neoclassical growth theory, a unified theory of aggregate economic phenomena that was first used to study business cycles and aggregate labor supply. Subsequently, the theory has been used to understand asset pricing, growth miracles and disasters, monetary economics, capital accounts, aggregate public finance, economic development, and foreign direct investment.
E13|An aggregate model for policy analysis with demographic change|Many countries are facing challenging fiscal financing issues as their populations age and the number of workers per retiree falls. Policymakers need transparent and robust analyses of alternative policies to deal with the demographic changes. In this paper, we propose a simple framework that can easily be matched to aggregate data from the national accounts. We demonstrate the usefulness of our framework by comparing quantitative results for our aggregate model with those of a related model that includes within-age-cohort heterogeneity through productivity differences. When we assess proposals to switch from the current tax and transfer system in the United States to a mandatory saving-for-retirement system with no payroll taxation, we find that the aggregate predictions for the two models are close.
E13|A Confusion of Capital in the United States|Thomas Piketty’s book, Capital in the Twenty-First Century, reopens fundamental questions about the role and rewards of capital that economists have never resolved. It does so by exploring the history of capital and derives much of its credibility from the evidence it marshals in defence of its claims. In this paper, I evaluate the basis for Piketty’s arguments by considering them in light of the history of US capitalism. I argue that it is extremely difficult to make economic sense of Piketty’s historical analysis of capital in the US in the 19th and 20th centuries. That is true, only in part, due to the distinctive choices he makes, compared to mainstream economists, in defining and measuring capital. Much more problematic, in fact, are theoretical commitments he shares with them that preclude an understanding of capital’s historical role and rewards in the US economy. Based on a discussion of several important features of US economic history, I have argued that such an understanding demands an historical analysis of capital, both productive and financial capital, in relation to the evolving social organisation of capitalism in the US.
E13|Imperfect Markets and the Properties of Macro-economic-environmental Models as Tools for Policy Evaluation|Economic-Environmental Models are deeply disaggregated macro-economic systems, which are used in economic environmental studies to explain the emissions of pollutions and the extraction of resources. Concerning the economic base two approaches can be differentiated – the neoclassical and the Keynesian paradigm. Models based on the neoclassical paradigm are depicting equilibrium of perfectly competitive markets, whereas the models based on the Keynesian paradigm have been developed from a critical position vis-a-vis neoclassical theory stressing the importance of market imperfections. The paper at hand shows in its theoretical part that this fundamental difference to a large extent is responsible for differences in modeling results concerning the impact of policy instruments on the economy and the environment. Furthermore the two paradigms prefer different ways of parameterization which has consequences for the empirical validation of the models, the construction of the references and the effects of environmental policy. The paper at hand further shows that the theoretical arguments allow explaining the totally different and partly opposite results of concrete policy simulations in the POLFREE project, where the large scale economic environmental models EXIOMOD (neoclassical) and GINFORS (Keynesian) have been used.
E13|Financial Integration, Growth and Volatility|The aim of the paper is to evaluate the welfare gains from financial integration for developing and emerging economies. To do so, we build a stochastic endogenous growth model for a small open economy that can (i) borrow from the rest of the world, (ii) invest in foreign assets, and (iii) receive FDI. The model is calibrated on 32 emerging and developing economies for which we evaluate the upper bound for the welfare gain from financial integration. For plausible values of preference parameters and actual levels of financial integration, the mean welfare gain from financial integration is about 10 percent of the existing wealth. Compared to financial autarky, actual levels of financial integration translate into slightly higher annual growth rates (around 0.4 percentage points per year.)<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E13|Long-term care and births timing|Due to the aging process, the provision of long-term care (LTC) to the dependent elderly has become a major challenge of our epoch. But our societies are also characterized, since the 1970s, by a postponement of births, which, by raising the intergenerational age gap, can affect the provision of LTC by children. In order to examine the impact of those demographic trends on the optimal policy, we develop a four-period OLG model where individuals, who receive children's informal LTC at the old age, must choose, when being young, how to allocate births along their life cycle. It is shown that, in line with empirical evidence, early children provide more LTC to their elderly parents than do late children, because they face a lower opportunity cost of providing LTC. When comparing the laissez-faire with the long-run social optimum, it appears that individuals have, at the laissez-faire, too few early births, and too many late births. We then study, in first-best and second-best settings, how the social optimum can be decentralized by encouraging early births, in such a way as to reduce the social burden of LTC provision.
E13|Le retour de l’économie keynésienne|Pre-crisis standard macroeconomic models, qualified as neo Keynesian, rely more on the concept of natural rate of interest than on global demand. But new insights in macroeconomic theory build far more realistic models, especially as regards labour and good and services markets. These models renew with the Keynes intuitions – under-consumption, savings paradox – and are more suitable to reality confrontation. The Keynesian or neo-classical pattern should no more be a political or theoretical stake but rather an empirical one. For example, recent econometric studies highlight that the American economy behaves as Keynesian during the biggest crisis but as non Keynesian during smaller ones. This should be a guide for policy makers. Classification JEL: E12, E13, E17.
E13|Productivity Distribution and Economic Growth|This paper develops a tractable model of economic growth in which heterogeneous households produce capital a la Romer (1986). The paper demonstrates that depending on its varying degrees of persistence, productivity heterogeneity dictates economic growth. A regression analysis based upon a reduced-form version of the model shows that the persistence of human capital is the driving force behind the positive effects of productivity dispersion on economic growth
E13|Teaching Economics and Providing Visual “Big Pictures”|The goal of this paper is to investigate the importance of providing visual “big pictures” in the teaching of economics. The plurality and variety of concepts, variables, diagrams, and models involved in economics can be a source of confusion for many economics students. However, reviewing the existing literature on the importance of providing visual “big pictures” in the process of learning suggests that furnishing students with a visual “big picture” that illustrates the ways through which those numerous, diverse concepts are connected to each other could be an effective solution to clear up the mentioned mental chaos. As a practical example, this paper introduces a “big picture” that can be used as a good resource in intermediate macroeconomics classes. This figure presents twenty-seven commonly-discussed macroeconomic diagrams in the intermediate macroeconomics course, and gives little detail on some of these diagrams, aiming at helping students to get the whole picture at once on a single piece of paper. This macroeconomics big picture mostly focuses on the routes through which common diagrams in macroeconomics are connected to each other, and finally introduces the general macroeconomic equilibrium that is graphically derived through those connections.
E13|Business Cycles, Asset Prices, and the Frictions of Capital and Labor|We propose a simple real business cycle model to explain two of the most important aspects of macroeconomics: business cycle facts and the asset pricing mechanism. Based on US and Japanese quarterly data, we estimate the model with capital and labor adjustment costs. Our analysis reveals that this simple model can explain the key business cycle facts, even without other frictions such as sticky prices, sticky wages, and search and matching frictions. Furthermore, this simple model also has explanatory power for whether a stock price will increase or decrease. However, this feature of the model is weaker for the Great Recession in the US economy.
E13|Directed Technical Change and Capital Deepening: A Reconsideration of Kaldor's Technical Progress Function|This note proposes a growth model that is derived from the standard Solow growth model by replacing the neoclassical production function with Kaldor’s technical progress function while maintaining a marginalist theory of factor prices in the spirit suggested by von Weizsäcker (1966, 1966b). The hybrid model so obtained accounts for balanced growth in a way that appears less arbitrary than the Solow model, especially because it directly accounts for Harrod neutral technical change, without any need for further assumptions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E13|Capital accumulation and the welfare gains from trade|Abstract We measure the gains from a trade cost reduction in a model with dynamic accumulation of factors. We show that the tight link between import intensity and gains from trade that exists in static models breaks down along transition paths in dynamic models. When trade costs are reduced, the need to accumulate factors temporarily shifts spending from consumption to investment. Import intensity may rise or fall along the transition path, depending on the relative import intensity of consumption and investment. Calibrating the model to the US economy, we find that investment is more import intensive than consumption, so that import intensity is falling along the transition path even as consumption is rising. Therefore, while higher import intensity is associated with higher consumption when comparing steady states (as in static models), it is associated with lower consumption along a given transition path. We also consider the case of endogenous firm creation as another form of investment and factor accumulation, and again find a negative relationship between consumption and import intensity along the transition path.
E13|Interest Rates Rules|The paper uses a monetary economy to derive a ‘Taylor rule’ along the dynamic path and within the business cycle frequency of simulated data, a Fisher equation within the low frequency of simulated data, and predictions of Lucas-like policy changes that shift balanced growth path equilibria and expectations. The inflation coefficient is always greater than one when the velocity of money exceeds one, thus exhibiting robust Taylor principle behavior in a monetary economy. Successful estimates of the magnitude of the coefficient on inflation and the rest of the interest rate equation are presented using Monte Carlo simulated data for both business cycle and medium term frequencies. Policy analysis shows the biases in interest rate predictions as depending on whether changes in structural parameters and expectations about variables are correctly included.
E13|Fragility of Purely Real Macroeconomic Models|Over the past thirty years, a great deal of business cycle research has been based on purely real models that abstract from the presence of nominal rigidities, and so (at least implicitly) assume that the Phillips curve is vertical. In this paper, I show that such models are fragile, in the sense that their implications change significantly when the Phillips curve is even slightly less than vertical. I consider a wide class of purely real macroeconomic models and perturb them by introducing a non-vertical Phillips curve. I show that in the perturbed models, if there is a lower bound on the nominal interest rate, then current outcomes necessarily depend on agents' beliefs about the long-run level of economic activity. The magnitude of this dependence becomes arbitrarily large as the slope of the Phillips curve becomes arbitrarily large in absolute value (closer to vertical). In contrast, the limiting purely real model ignores this form of monetary non-neutrality and macroeconomic instability. I conclude that purely real models are too incomplete to provide useful guides to questions about business cycles. I describe what elements should be added to such models in order to make them useful.
E13|Skewed Wealth Distributions: Theory and Empirics|Invariably across a cross-section of countries and time periods, wealth distributions are skewed to the right displaying thick upper tails, that is, large and slowly declining top wealth shares. In this survey we categorize the theoretical studies on the distribution of wealth in terms of the underlying economic mechanisms generating skewness and thick tails. Further, we show how these mechanisms can be micro-founded by the consumption-saving decisions of rational agents in specific economic and demographic environments. Finally we map the large empirical work on the wealth distribution to its theoretical underpinnings.
E13|Neoclassical Models in Macroeconomics|This chapter develops a toolkit of neoclassical macroeconomic models, and applies these models to the US economy from 1929 to 2014. We first filter macroeconomic time series into business cycle and long-run components, and show that the long-run component is typically much larger than the business cycle component. We argue that this empirical feature is naturally addressed within neoclassical models with long-run changes in technologies and government policies. We construct two classes of models that we compare to raw data, and also to the filtered data: simple neoclassical models, which feature standard preferences and technologies, rational expectations, and a unique, Pareto optimal equilibrium, and extended neoclassical models, which build in government policies and market imperfections. We focus on models with multiple sources of technological change, and models with distortions arising from regulatory, labor, and fiscal policies. The models account for much of the relatively stable postwar US economy, and also for the Great Depression and World War II. The models presented in this chapter can be extended and applied more broadly to other settings. We close by identifying several avenues for future research in neoclassical macroeconomics.
E13|The Great Recession in the Shadow of the Great Depression: A Review Essay on “Hall of Mirrors: The Great Depression, The Great Recession and the Uses and Misuses Of History”|This essay reviews Barry Eichengreen's recent book that compares the Great Depression and the Great Recession. Eichengreen focuses on deficient aggregate demand as the key reason for why both downturns were so deep and why they lasted so long. I assess the book's arguments regarding the causes and consequences of these episodes from a neoclassical perspective. I provide an alternative framework for analyzing these episodes, and argue that a key difference between the 1930s and today reflects the factors that continued to depress both economies after their respective troughs. The post-Depression economy featured rapid productivity growth, whereas today's economy is plagued by low productivity growth. I discuss how the post-Great Depression economy recovered to trend quickly once policies that depressed competition were removed. I also argue that returning today's economy to trend may be considerably more challenging.
E13|Accounting for Business Cycles|We elaborate on the business cycle accounting method proposed by Chari et al. (2006), clear up some misconceptions about the method, and then apply it to compare the Great Recession across OECD countries as well as to the recessions of the 1980s in these countries. We have four main findings. First, with the notable exception of the United States, Spain, Ireland, and Iceland, the Great Recession was driven primarily by the efficiency wedge. Second, in the Great Recession, the labor wedge plays a dominant role only in the United States, and the investment wedge plays a dominant role in Spain, Ireland, and Iceland. Third, in the recessions of the 1980s, the labor wedge played a dominant role only in France, the United Kingdom, and Belgium. Finally, overall in the Great Recession, the efficiency wedge played a more important role and the investment wedge played a less important role than they did in the recessions of the 1980s.
E13|Public Debt as Private Liquidity: Optimal Policy|We study the Ramsey policy problem in an economy in which public debt contributes to the supply of assets that private agents can use as buffer stock and collateral, or as a vehicle of liquidity. Issuing more debt eases the underlying financial friction. This raises welfare by improving the allocation of resources; but it also tightens the government budget by raising the interest rate on public debt. In contrast to the literature on the Friedman rule, the government’s supply of liquidity becomes intertwined with its debt policy. In contrast to the standard Ramsey paradigm, a departure from tax smoothing becomes desirable. Novel insights emerge about the optimal long-run quantity of public debt; the optimal policy response to shocks; and the sense in which a financial crisis presents the government with an opportunity for cheap borrowing.
E13|Behavioral macroeconomics: Towards a new synthesis?|This article overviews the existing possibilities of synthetizing New Keynesian optimization models with the research in behavioral economics. These approaches allow to build empirically adequate macroeconomic models and to expound this framework as a new research program, as a unification of traditional macroeconomic theory and behavioral economics.
E13|Towards a Micro-Founded Theory of Aggregate Labour Supply|We build a heterogeneous agents life cycle model that captures a large number of salient features of individual male labour supply over the life cycle, by education, both along the intensive and extensive margins. The model provides an aggregation theory of individual labour supply, firmly grounded on individual-level micro-evidence, and is used to study the aggregate labour supply responses to changes in the economic environment. We find that the aggregate labour supply elasticity to a transitory wage shock is 1.75, with the extensive margin accounting for 62% of the response. Furthermore, we find that the aggregate labour supply elasticity to a permanent-compensated wage change is 0.44.
E13|Modern Paradigm in Macroeconomic Monetary Theories|In this paper we tried to present an objective perspective over modern monetary theories andtheir impact on economic activity. In the end, our research stressed some specific actions thatinfluence the macroeconomic equilibrium. Neoclassical and New Keynesian trends supported modern macroeconomic stabilizationpolicies. New Keynesian paradigm assumed that, in general, agents have rational expectations. Thiscontroversial subject points out that although the expectations can be wrong on average they areactually correct. Neoclassical economists will have a different approach towards the theory of expectations,saying that decisions were based on the expectations that people have and not on what reallyhappen. We appreciated that in order to achieve macroeconomic stability a mix between monetary andfiscal policies is needed, fixed rules should be applied in interdependence with discretionarygovernment measures and acting upon incomes is the best way to fight against inflation.
E13|Why Are Real Interest Rates So Low? The Role of the Relative Price of Investment Goods|Abstract Across the industrialised world, real interest rates and nominal investment rates have fallen, while house prices and household debt ratios have risen. We present a calibrated OLG model which quantifies how much of these four trends can be explained with a fifth—the widespread fall in the relative price of investment goods. Relative to other explanations for low real interest rates, this trend is important because it can also account for the fall in nominal investment rates. The model can reproduce a small but economically significant part of the observed fall in interest rates and rises in house prices and household debt, and a larger part of the fall in the investment rate.
E13|The paradox of thrift in an inegalitarian neoclassical economy|" Schilcht (1975) and Bourguignon (1981) studied the case of a convex saving function in the Stiglitz (1969) model. They have shown that if one of the two proportions of the rich or the poor is below a certain threshold, there is a two-class equilibrium. However, they have only proved the existence of this threshold. We give here a system of equations to calculate this threshold which we interpret as the maximum proportion of rich for having a stable two-class configuration. If the proportion of rich exceeds this threshold, the economy enters a phase of decline although the golden-rule capital has not yet been reached. The mechanism of this decline recalls the description given in Keynes (1936), of the decline which happens when there is too much savings in an inegalitarian context. This is an example of what is known as the ""paradox of thrift"". It is remarkable that this paradox takes place in a neoclassical setting that does not include key Keynesian elements such as saturation of demand, monetization of savings, short-term effects, expectation problems, involuntary unemployment and rigidities. Numerical simulations are given to illustrate and analyze the mechanisms involved."
E13|The paradox of thrift in an inegalitarian neoclassical economy|"Schilcht (1975) and Bourguignon (1981) studied the case of a convex saving function in the Stiglitz (1969) model. They have shown that if one of the two proportions of the rich or the poor is below a certain threshold, there is a two-class equilibrium. However, they have only proved the existence of this threshold. We give here a system of equations to calculate this threshold which we interpret as the maximum proportion of rich for having a stable two-class configuration. If the proportion of rich exceeds this threshold, the economy enters a phase of decline although the golden-rule capital has not yet been reached. The mechanism of this decline recalls the description given in Keynes (1936), of the decline which happens when there is too much savings in an inegalitarian context. This is an example of what is known as the ""paradox of thrift"". It is remarkable that this paradox takes place in a neoclassical setting that does not include key Keynesian elements such as saturation of demand, monetization of savings, short-term effects, expectation problems, involuntary unemployment and rigidities. Numerical simulations are given to illustrate and analyze the mechanisms involved."
E13|Effekte des Geldmarktzinses auf die Preis- und Produktivitätsentwicklung. Eine Analyse der deutschen Volkswirtschaft 1970-2014<BR>[Effects of the money market interest rate on the development of prices and productivity: An analysis of the German economy 1970-2014]|The European Central Bank is doing all it can to prevent deflation and to push inflation at the mark of two percent annually; it is currently not successful. Instead of reaching that goal, unintended side effects can be observed and new risks are evolving. Some people surmise that low interest rates on capital markets damage the productivity of an economy. This raises the question of why consumer prices have not started to rise. Standard models of neo-classical synthesis give an unambiguous answer: there is no demand as a result of a growing economy in Europe. The neo-classical paradigm is open to further, potentially more precise answers. Some people hypothesize that inflation will not come before the amount of consumption by the rich rises considerably. Both hypotheses – (i) a negative effect of low interest rates on productivity and (ii) luxurious consumption as a driver of prices – would be a surprising enrichment of the macroeconomic theory. The development of the German economy from 1970 – 2014 confirms the standard models, but not those supplementary theories.
E13|How accounting accuracy affects DSGE models|This paper explores how accounting consistency affects DSGE models. As many DSGE models descended from real business cycle models, I explore a simple labor-only RBC model with an exogenous external sector introduced. The conclusion reached in this paper is that once an external sector is introduced, DSGE models may suffer from accounting inconsistency, unless disequilibrium or some non-orthodox theory of price level, real monetary supply or bonds is accepted.
E13|How accounting accuracy affects DSGE models|This paper explores how accounting consistency affects DSGE models. As many DSGE models descended from real business cycle models, I explore a simple labor-only RBC model with an exogenous external sector introduced. The conclusion reached in this paper is that once an external sector is introduced, DSGE models may suffer from accounting inconsistency, unless disequilibrium or some non-orthodox theory of price level, real monetary supply or bonds is accepted.
E13|The perils of first-order conditions of New Keynesian models|For deriving equilibrium of sticky-price/monopolistic competition New Keynesian models, first-order conditions are often used. This paper shows that they may not be sufficient and presents a case out of a simple model where there exists no equilibrium. This is true even when Taylor rule is assumed.
E13|A simple theory of exploding household debts|In this paper, I explore how a household budget constraint allows one to construct a simple theory of exploding household debts. The conclusion reached in this paper is that in case the household started off being indebted, maintaining balanced budget all the time is a very dangerous choice. For analysis, government is assumed to be non-existent.
E13|Does a small cost share reflect a negligible role for energy in economic production? Testing for aggregate production functions including capital, labor, and useful exergy through a cointegration-based method|Neoclassical models disregard the role of energy in production, equating a factor's output elasticity with its cost share, but failing to explain growth without a residual term. In contrast, ecological economics acknowledges energy's importance in production, regardless of its cost share. The aggregate production function (APF) concept, central to neoclassical theory, is also disputed. We apply cointegration analysis to test for APFs between output, capital, and labor. We investigate the inclusion of energy inputs, measuring energy's capacity to generate productive work (useful exergy). Plausible APFs must verify cointegration and Granger-causality between output and inputs; and non-negative output elasticities. This method recognizes cases where: a) plausible APFs don't exist; b) energy impacts growth directly; c) energy impacts growth indirectly, through other inputs. We apply the method to Portugal (1960-2009), considering standard and quality-corrected capital and labor measures. Plausible APFs are rarely obtained for capital-labor models. When they are, the residual growth component is large, and output elasticities disagree with historical cost shares. However, the residual is virtually eliminated for capital-labor-energy models with two cointegration relationships: a) a capital-labor APF, with output elasticities matching historical cost shares; b) a function estimating capital from useful exergy. These models reconcile energy's significance in production with cost-share neoclassical assumptions.
E13|Analysis of tax effects on consolidated household/government debts of a nation in a monetary union under classical dichotomy|Unlike many analysis of tax effects on consolidated household/government debts in a monetary union, this paper builds up analysis from a consolidated budget constraint, instead of starting from a model. By a monetary union, it is assumed that all nations in the union share same currency. Also, if taxes are assumed to be in real values, or if one assumes that government targets real value of taxes $T/P$, then it is also possible to produce the size of fiscal multiplier on real value of consolidated debts, if relaxed version of classical dichotomy - that agents' decisions are only affected by real variables - is assumed. This paper argues that size is $db/dt_r = -1$ where $t_r$ is real value of taxes or ``real taxes'' and $b = B/(PR)$ where $B = -D$ with $D$ nominal debt, $P$ price and $R-1$ nominal interest rate , or in terms of real debts, $dd/dt_r = 1$.
E13|Aspects of Stickiness in Understanding Inflation|This paper examines the question of how conventional understanding of inflation relates to stickiness. Several results that often go unnoticed are re-examined.
E13|Extended Ricardian Equivalence Theorem for Helicopter Money|This paper develops the Extended Ricardian Equivalence Theorem for helicopter money. It is shown that helicopter money, or money printing, to finance fiscal spending is inconsistent with existence of an equilibrium under ordinary assumptions used to derive the Ricardian Equivalence theorem. By relaxing some equality constraints into inequality constraints or by an open economy assumption, one may be able to save helicopter money from not being a part of an equilibrium.
E13|Ignorance is bliss: Should a pension reform be announced?|This paper studies whether a pension reform, namely a switch from a pay-as-you-go (PAYG) to a more-funded scheme should be announced. We show that such an announcement increases savings, leading to a decline in interest rates. Smaller returns to savings lead to higher losses for the first transitional generation, which suffers from the reform the most. On the other hand, higher savings by the first transitional generation lead to faster capital accumulation, which benefits younger generations. We argue that if a government cares about the agents with the most to lose, it may more beneficial not to announce such a reform.
E13|The steady-state growth conditions of neoclassical growth model and Uzawa theorem revisited|Based on a neoclassical growth model including adjustment costs of investment, this paper proves that the essential condition for neoclassical model to have steady-state growth path is that the sum of change rate of the marginal efficiency of capital accumulation (MECA) and the rate of capital-augmenting technical change (CATC) be zero. We further confirm that Uzawa(1961)’s steady-state growth theorem that says the steady-state technical change of neoclassical growth model should exclusively be Harrod neutral, holds only if the marginal efficiency of capital accumulation is constant, which in turn implies that the capital supply should be infinitely elastic. Uzawa’s theorem has been misleading the development of growth theorem by not explicitly specifying this prerequisite, and thus should be revisited.
E13|Stationary Growth and the Impossibility of Capital Efficiency Gains|Improving the efficiency either in the process of factor accumulation or in the process of production of final output is often considered as a main driving force for the sustainable growth of modern economies. However, this article proves that for the most important input, physical capital, total efficiency, i.e. the total efficiency gained in the process of accumulation and in the production process, must be zero along a stationary growth path.
E13|What determines the direction of technological progress?|What are the key determinants of the direction of technological progress is of central importance for many problems in macroeconomics. In the existing literature, the changing relative production factor prices as suggested by Hicks (1932) and the relative market sizes as indicated by Acemoglu (2002) are considered as the two major determinants. However, by allowing for adjustment costs in factor accumulation processes to expand Acemoglu’s (2003) model, this paper argues that, at least in the steady-state equilibrium, the direction of technological progress may be due to neither of them, but to the relative size of material factor price elasticities, and is biased towards the factor with the relatively smaller elasticity. In addition, contrary to the Uzawa(1961) steady-state theorem, this paper demonstrates that along a steady-state equilibrium path, technological progress can simultaneously include labor- and capital-augmenting elements alongside with unchanged factor income shares. Furthermore, this paper identifies more general conditions for the existence of a steady-state equilibrium of which Uzawa’s theorem obtains as a special case. Based on these results, the paper argues that technological progress may have not included labor-augmentation during the preindustrial era because labor supply was infinitely elastic with respect to wages, and no capital-augmentation after the industrial revolution because of the high capital supply elasticity with respect to the interest rate.
E13|Inequality, Technical Change or Leverage?|Exploring the determinants of growing income inequality, I show how constant capital income shares and inequality can be explained without technical change. I show why despite the fact that technical change is capital augmenting, rather than labor augmenting, it may not be sufficient to explain the last few decades of growing capital share of income and inequality due to the balancing mechanism of depreciation. Finally, I show how the growth of leverage, which coincided with the growth of inequality, can explain the growth of capital share of income and inequality. I introduce a simple model of leverage and business cycle and show how leverage is justified by more leverage and how depressed interest rate allows leveraging and inequality growth to persist.
E13|Estática comparativa e indeterminación de signos en un modelo macroeconómico neoclásico sencillo<BR>[Comparative statics and sign indeterminacy in a simple neoclassical macroeconomic model]|In this paper, we analyse a simple two-period neoclassical macroeconomic model -short and long term- that exclusively considers the real sector of the economy (labour and goods markets). It is shown how, under a general characterization, some important signs of comparative statics are undetermined. This ambiguity is a consequence of the ubiquity of the real interest rate tying intertemporarily the four markets considered. By adding simplifying assumptions, the signs are determined at the cost of losing generality and empirical adequacy. This fact limits the empirical relevance of a large part of the models commonly used in teaching macroeconomics, where ambivalent results are avoided because of the need of clear answers on the effects of fiscal and monetary policy interventions. Taking a positive view, these results compels to take general interdependence seriously and to pay more attention to the complete set of theoretical possibilities that arise when modelling macroeconomic systems.
E13|Walras' Law in the steady state of DSGE models|The determination of the steady state of DSGE models remains the obscure stage of the resolution methods of this modeling. Researchers seek to solve a nonlinear system rather than understand the theory behind these models. In order to fill this gap and help in learning this methodology, this paper develops a procedure for finding the steady- state by using concepts that rest on Walras' Law.
E13|Investigating the Relationship Between DSGE and SVAR Models|DSGE models often contain variables for which data is not observed when estimating. Although DSGE models generally imply that there is a finite order SVAR in all the variables this may no longer be true for SVARs just in observable variables, and so there is a VAR-truncation problem. The paper examines this issue. It looks at five different studies using DSGE models that appear in the literature. Generally it emerges that the truncation issue is probably not that important, except possibly in small open economy models with external debt. Even when there is no truncation problem in VARs which control the dynamics) the structural impulse responses from both models may be different due to differing initial responses. It is shown that DSGE models incorporate some strong restrictions on the nature of SVAR models and these would need to employed for the two approaches to give the same initial estimates.
E13|Contribución de los choques externos en el crecimiento económico del Perú: un modelo semi-estructural|En este documento se estudia la contribución del sector externo en el crecimiento de la economía peruana en el periodo 1996-2015. Se usa un modelo semi-estructural similar a los desarrollos disponibles (Berg y otros, 2006; Salas, 2011; Adler y Sosa, 2012; Han, 2014),) de modo que los choques externos se propagan endógenamente hacia el crecimiento de una economía pequeña, abierta y parcialmente dolarizada mediante los canales reales (comercio y términos de intercambio) y financiero (volatilidad y tipo de cambio). Se encuentra que los efectos conjuntos de los choques externos que enfrentó la economía peruana son heterogéneos en el tiempo y según el tipo de choque: en los periodos 2005-2008 y 2010-2013 los choques externos representan hasta el 36% y 28% del crecimiento observado, respectivamente. Asimismo, durante el 2009 se hubiera crecido 4,2 puntos porcentuales mayor al observado en dicho año (1,1%) si es que no hubiera ocurrido la crisis económica mundial.
E13|Baby Busts and Baby Booms: The Fertility Response to Shocks in Dynastic Models|While there has been a substantial effort to understand the Demographic Transition alongside the transition to sustained economic growth, fertility fluctuations have not been analyzed in the business cycle literature. This paper builds a model of fertility choice with dynastic altruism, age-structured population and aggregate productivity shocks. We show that, under reasonable parameter values, fertility is pro-cyclical and that, following a shock, fertility continues to cycle. Applied to the U.S. experience in the 20th century, the Great Depression generates a baby bust of 58% of that seen in the U.S. in the 1930s, followed by a Baby Boom of 77% of that seen in the U.S. in the 1950s. As observed in U.S. estate data, the model predicts that small cohorts receive relatively large per child transfers from parents. Finally, statistical analysis across countries in the 1930s and 1950s further supports our theory. (Copyright: Elsevier)
E13|Implications of Heterogeneity in Preferences, Beliefs and Asset Trading Technologies in an Endowment Economy|This paper analyzes and computes the equilibria of economies with large numbers of heterogeneous agents who have different asset trading technologies, preferences and beliefs. We illustrate the value of our method by using it to evaluate the implications of these heterogeneities through several quantitative exercises. (Copyright: Elsevier)
E13|Parameter Learning in General Equilibrium: The Asset Pricing Implications|Parameter learning strongly amplifies the impact of macroeconomic shocks on marginal utility when the representative agent has a preference for early resolution of uncertainty. This occurs as rational belief updating generates subjective long-run consumption risks. We consider general equilibrium models with unknown parameters governing either long-run economic growth, rare events, or model selection. Overall, parameter learning generates long-lasting, quantitatively significant additional macroeconomic risks that help explain standard asset pricing puzzles. (JEL C52, D83, E13, E32, G12)
E13|Money and Asset Liquidity in Frictional Capital Markets|We endogenize asset liquidity and financing constraints in a dynamic general equilibrium model with search frictions on capital markets. Assets traded on frictional capital markets are only partially saleable. Liquid assets, such as fiat money, instead, are not subject to search frictions and can be used to insure idiosyncratic investment risks. Partially saleable assets thus carry a liquidity premium over fully liquid assets. We show that, in equilibrium, low asset saleability is typically associated with lower asset prices, tighter financing constraints, thus stronger demand for public liquidity. Lower asset liquidity feeds into real allocations, constraining real investment, consumption, and production.
E13|Optimal Contracts, Aggregate Risk, and the Financial Accelerator|This paper derives the optimal lending contract in the financial accelerator model of Bernanke, Gertler, and Gilchrist (1999), henceforth, BGG. The optimal contract includes indexation to the aggregate return on capital, household consumption, and the return to internal funds. This triple indexation results in a dampening of fluctuations in leverage and the risk premium. Hence, compared with the contract originally imposed by BGG, the privately optimal contract implies essentially no financial accelerator. (JEL D11, D81, D86, D92, E13, G31, L26)
E13|Rational Inattention to News: The Perils of Forward Guidance|This paper studies the social value of information about the future. In a stylized OLG model, agents need to forecast the future price level, they observe the current price and perceive with idiosyncratic noise the expectation announced by a more informed authority. When forward guidance communication is loose, the market becomes a main source of information about the future. Reliance on market information amplifies the impact of shocks on prices, which increases ex ante uncertainty and worsens agents' forecasting ability, harming social welfare. However, an appropriate policy can convert the perils of the announcement in opportunities. (JEL D83, E13, E52, E62, H63)
E13|Excessive Financing Costs in a Representative Agent Framework|This paper highlights a pecuniary externality that results in excessive financing costs. Firms borrow to finance purchases of an inelastically supplied input, bidding up its price. Since higher input prices necessitate more debt obligations, this leads to an increase in intermediation costs. A quantitative interpretation of the model suggests that it is optimal to tax financial intermediation by increasing the borrowing rate by 3 percentage points. (JEL E13, E44, G21, G32, H21, H25)
E13|Applications of sudden stops of international capital to the Mexican economy|There was nothing in the fundamentals of the Mexican economy that would suggest at the moment the beginning of a crisis of such magnitude. The 1994 crisis was extremely unexpected for households and domestic and foreign firms, because there were good economic indicators so far, together with the financial stability of the previous years. The Mexico of 1994 had a de jure fixed exchange rate regime, but in practice, it was an intermediate peg, not a serious hard peg. Our goal is to try to find out whether things would have been different if there would have been instead either a floating exchange rate regime or a hard peg in Mexico at the time of the crisis of 1994. In our aim at trying to answer this question, we set up a Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium Model (DSGE) that shared the main stylized characteristics of the Mexican economy of that time. We considered a pure exchange, monetary, small open economy with a DSGE framework in discrete time that obtains from micro-foundations.
E13|Contribución de los choques externos en el Crecimiento Económico del Perú: un modelo semi-estructural|En este documento se estudia la contribución del sector externo en el crecimiento de la economía peruana en el periodo 1996-2015. Se usa un modelo semi-estructural similar a los desarrollos disponibles (Berg y otros, 2006; Salas, 2011; Adler y Sosa, 2012; Han, 2014),) de modo que los choques externos se propagan endógenamente hacia el crecimiento de una economía pequeña, abierta y parcialmente dolarizada mediante los canales reales (comercio y términos de intercambio) y financiero (volatilidad y tipo de cambio). Se encuentra que los efectos conjuntos de los choques externos que enfrentó la economía peruana son heterogéneos en el tiempo y según el tipo de choque: en los periodos 2005-2008 y 2010-2013 los choques externos representan hasta el 36% y 28% del crecimiento observado, respectivamente. Asimismo, durante el 2009 se hubiera crecido 4,2 puntos porcentuales mayor al observado en dicho año (1,1 %) si es que no hubiera ocurrido la crisis económica mundial.
E13|Financial Crisis Interventions|This paper develops a model of an economy where bank credit supports both productive investment and individual consumption smoothing in the face of idiosyncratic income risk. Bank credit is constrained by bank equity capital. When policy-makers inject equity capital during financial crises, they trade off stimulating credit supply immediately against long-term distortions related to funding equity injections. I calibrate my model and show that the bank equity capital injection that maximizes average utilitarian welfare redistributes from the poor to the wealthy. While wealthy savers benefit immediately from an increased supply of safe assets, less affluent borrowers and savers suffer from long-term distortions.
E13|Business Cycles In Small Open Economies: Evidence From Panel Data Between 1900 And 2013| Using a novel data set for 17 countries between 1900 and 2013, we characterize business cycles in both small developed and developing countries in a model with financial frictions and a common shock structure. We estimate the model jointly for these 17 countries using Bayesian methods. We find that financial frictions are an important feature for not only developing but also small developed countries. Furthermore, business cycles in both groups of countries are marked with trend productivity shocks. Common disturbances explain one third of the fluctuations in small open economies, especially during important worldwide phenomena.
E13|Capital Flows to Developing Countries: Is There an Allocation Puzzle?|Foreign direct investment inflows are positively related to growth across developing countries—but so are savings in excess of investment. I develop an explanation for this well-established puzzle by focusing on the limited availability of consumer credit in developing countries together with general equilibrium effects. In my model, fast-growing developing countries increase their holdings of safe assets, which creates net capital outflows despite inflows of foreign direct investment. The world risk-free interest rate falls as a result, and slow-growing developing countries reduce their holdings of safe assets, which creates net capital inflows despite outflows of foreign direct investment.
E13|Potential growth of the spanish economy|This paper presents an estimate of the Spanish economy’s potential growth. This estimate is based on a production function methodology that includes certain refi nements on previous versions and generates less procyclical potential output growth estimates than those traditionally considered in the literature. As a result, the (positive) output gap estimated in expansions is higher and that estimated in recessions is lower. According to these results, given the available population projections and under the assumption that total factor productivity (TFP) and structural unemployment will behave in line with historical patterns, the Spanish economy’s potential growth is expected to recover gradually over the coming years but, in line with projections by international organisations, to lower rates than those in the expansion period. However, per capita growth rates fully recover to the pre-crisis levels, which highlights the importance of population projections in shaping the Spanish potential growth.
E13|How Credit Constraints Impact Job Finding Rates, Sorting & Aggregate Output|We empirically and theoretically examine how consumer credit access affects displaced workers. Empirically, we link administrative employment histories to credit reports. We show that an increase in credit limits worth 10% of prior annual earnings allows individuals to take .15 to 3 weeks longer to find a job. Conditional on finding a job, they earn more and work at more productive firms. We develop a labor sorting model with credit to provide structural estimates of the impact of credit on employment outcomes, which we find are similar to our empirical estimates. We use the model to understand the impact of consumer credit on the macroeconomy. We find that if credit limits tighten during a downturn, employment recovers quicker, but output and productivity remain depressed. This is because when limits tighten, low-asset, low-productivity job losers cannot self-insure. Therefore, they search less thoroughly and take more accessible jobs at less productive firms.
E13|Hipótesis de ingreso permanente y consumo en Colombia 1952-2014|El presente trabajo pone a prueba la Hipótesis de Ingreso Permanente (HIP) y examina los principales determinantes del Consumo Privado Real para Colombia en el Periodo 1952-2014. Para esto, se utiliza una metodología de series de tiempo y, se estima la relación entre el Consumo Privado Real como proporción del Ingreso Nacional Disponible con un conjunto de variables que recogen los efectos permanentes y transitorios del ingreso. De manera complementaria, se estima un modelo en el que el logaritmo del Consumo Privado Real está en función de los componentes permanente (tendencial) y transitorio (cíclico) del ingreso, obtenidos por medio del filtro Hodrick y Prescott al Ingreso Nacional Disponible. Los resultados de las estimaciones sugieren que en Colombia: i) el Consumo Privado Real es una función de sus valores inmediatamente anteriores, lo cual valida la Hipótesis de Expectativas Adaptativas de Hall en la que el consumo se comporta como un paseo aleatorio y, ii) se cumple la HIP, no obstante, los ingresos transitorios también ejercen influencia sobre el consumo.
E13|Firm Size and Development|Firm size increases with GDP per capita. The paper develops a simple framework to explore three alternative sources of variation that may explain this correlation: (1) excessive entry; (2) differences in the distribution of rm productivities; and (3) differences in returns to scale. The results show that all these sources of variation lead to substantial differences in rm size. GDP per capita is also signi cantly affected, but by an order of magnitude less.
E13|Paul Anthony Samuelson and his work (on the hundredth anniversary of his birth)|Aim: The purpose of this article is an attempt to systematise and evaluate the achievements of the American Nobel laureate in economic sciences and co-founder of ‘neoclassical synthesis’ — P.A. Samuelson. Motivation: This economist greatly developed the methodology and theory of economics. Preferring the mathematical method in scientific inquiry and introducing new graphic solutions, he contributed to the mathematisation of economics. He enriched the theory of consumption by revealed preferences, devised the 45° line to determine the Keynesian short-term equilibrium in the goods market, as well as the consumer demand, investment demand, and savings function curves, and he also defined collective goods. He completed the theory of division with the modified Lorenz curve, presented the problem of the allocation of scarce resources by the curve of production possibilities, and generalised — together with R.M. Solow — the Phillips curve. In addition, he created a model of the interdependence of the multiplier and accelerator, and developed the theory of foreign trade by the ‘Stolper-Samuelson effect’ and the statement of the impact of prices of production factors on the allocation of resources. Results: Caring for affordability of the exposition of basic economic knowledge contained in his textbook Economics, he made a revolution in the teaching of economics. Owing to these achievements, P.A. Samuelson earned his inclusion in the circle of the greatest economists of the twentieth century.
E13|Heterogeneity in Returns to Wealth and the Measurement of Wealth Inequality|Lacking a long time series on the assets of the very wealthy, Saez and Zucman (2015) use US tax records to obtain estimates of wealth holdings by capitalizing asset income from tax returns. They document marked upward trends in wealth concentration. We use data on tax returns and actual wealth holdings from tax records for the whole Norwegian population to test the robustness of the methodology. We document that measures of wealth based on the capitalization approach can lead to misleading conclusions about the level and the dynamics of wealth inequality if returns are heterogeneous and even moderately correlated with wealth.
E13|Credit booms, debt overhang and secular stagnation|Why do economies fall into prolonged periods of economic stagnation, particularly in the aftermath of credit booms? We study the interactions between household debt, liquidity and asset prices in a model of persistent demand shortage. We show that financially more deregulated economies are more likely to experience persistent stagnation. Credit booms or asset price booms mask this structural aggregate demand deficiency. However, the resulting debt overhang permanently depresses spending in the long run. Hence, the contractionary long run effects of relaxing lending standards are the opposite of their expansionary short run effects. These findings are in line with the macroeconomic developments in Japan during its lost decades and other advanced economies before and during the Great Recession.
E13|Understanding and applying long-term GDP projections|We project gross domestic product (GDP) for 140 world economies from 2020 to 2050 based on United Nation's demographic projections, the International Monetary Fund's GDP statistics and estimates of potential labour productivity derived from the World Economic Forum's Global Competitiveness Index (GCI) and a methodology published by the Australian Treasury. We review the conceptual framework underpinning this model, and identify its core assumptions. Finally, we highlight potential applications for this model, including : considering the dispersion of global economic activity; assessing the potential scale of activity across different trading blocs; and quantifying the impact of domestic policy reform scenarios in individual economies. Rather than provide an exhaustive analysis of the results, we make the data and results freely available . The views expressed in this paper represent the views of the authors and not those of the Australian Treasury.
E13|Understanding and applying long-term GDP projections|We project gross domestic product (GDP) for 140 world economies from 2020 to 2050 based on United Nation's demographic projections, the International Monetary Fund's GDP statistics and estimates of potential labour productivity derived from the World Economic Forum's Global Competitiveness Index (GCI) and a methodology published by the Australian Treasury. We review the conceptual framework underpinning this model, and identify its core assumptions. Finally, we highlight potential applications for this model, including : considering the dispersion of global economic activity; assessing the potential scale of activity across different trading blocs; and quantifying the impact of domestic policy reform scenarios in individual economies. Rather than provide an exhaustive analysis of the results, we make the data and results freely available . The views expressed in this paper represent the views of the authors and not those of the Australian Treasury.
E13|How will a nationwide carbon market affect regional economies and efficiency of CO2 emission reduction in China?|As the country with the greatest energy consumption and CO2 emissions globally, China has commenced preparations for a nationwide carbon market, to be established during the period 2016–2020. Given the spatial heterogeneity of economic development across different regions, the nationwide market will have differing impacts on China's regional economies. The present paper uses a multi-regional CGE model to examine the effects of a nationwide carbon market on regional economies and CO2 reduction efficiency under different emission reduction targets. The results indicate that such a market can effectively reduce costs across the whole society, improving welfare and allocation efficiency of production factors and so reducing regional economic disparities and promoting coordinated regional development. These measures can help China to achieve more ambitious reduction targets with the same abatement costs, and large-scale inter-regional transfer of funds during emissions trading can be invested in CO2 mitigation technologies in economically backward regions, promoting CO2 reduction efficiency and industrial upgrading.
E13|NIT picking: The macroeconomic effects of a Negative Income Tax|I study a revenue-neutral reform of the U.S. income tax and welfare system that involves the adoption of a Negative Income Tax (NIT). The reform is undertaken in a life-cycle economy with individual heterogeneity and uninsurable idiosyncratic labor risk. The optimal NIT consists of a 22% rate and a transfer equivalent to 11% of per-capita GDP. The ex-ante average welfare gain is a 2.1% annual increase of individual consumption. I show that a NIT outperforms a flat tax reform (income tax plus deduction) by a considerable margin. The key consequence of the reform is that high-productivity agents increase their relative importance in the labor supply at the expense of low-productivity agents.
E13|On the existence of stable population in life cycle models|A common assumption adopted in life cycle general equilibrium models is that the population is stable at steady state, that is, its relative age distribution becomes constant over time. An open question is whether the demographic assumptions commonly adopted in these models in fact imply that the population becomes stable. In this article we prove the existence of a stable population in a demographic environment where both the age-specific mortality rates and the population growth rate are constant over time, the setup commonly adopted in life cycle general equilibrium models. Hence, the stability of the population do not need to be taken as assumption in these models.
E13|Capital goods, measured TFP and growth: The case of Spain|The effect of investing in equipment and/or structures on TFP and long run growth is investigated here. We argue that economies can grow in spite of stagnant TFP if the investment rate is inefficiently high. We study the case of Spain where real GDP per worker grew at 2.74 percent annually and TFP was stagnant during 1996–2007. We show that low Spanish TFP is due to low ISTC and an inefficiently high investment in residential structures. We quantify the effect of the housing boom of the 2000s, the total cost of subsidies to residential structures in terms of TFP and income growth.
E13|Accounting for the economic relationship between Japan and the Asian Tigers|This paper applies the business cycle accounting method of Chari, Kehoe and McGrattan (2007) to a two-country, two-good model based on Backus, Kehoe and Kydland (1994) to investigate the economic relationship between Japan and the Asian Tigers from 1980Q1 to 2008Q2. We find that the main driver of long-run shifts and short-run fluctuations in output in each economy is domestic production efficiency. Furthermore, the recent increase in the cross-country business cycle correlation between the two can be attributed to an increase in the cross-country correlation of production efficiencies.
E13|Short-sighted managers and learnable sunspot equilibria|This paper assumes that firm managers make choices over a finite horizon while households plan over an infinite horizon. Following Shea (2013), I assume that labor exhibits firm-specific learning by doing so that newly employed labor is less productive than experienced labor. In the model, optimization requires that firm managers make conjectures about how their choices affect the labor demand choices of their successors. The model yields two steady states; one where the firm manager behaves as if she cares only about the present period and another where she is forward looking. The former (myopic) steady state usually exhibits higher output than the non myopic steady state. The non-myopic steady state also exhibits two regions of indeterminacy where extraneous, self-fulfilling expectational errors add volatility. One of these regions of indeterminacy is usually stable under adaptive learning while the other never is stable under learning.
