E14|A Review of Rent-seekers, Profits, Wages and Inequality, The Top 20%, 2019 by Peter Mihalyi and Ivan Szelenyi|The authors, Péter Mihályi and Iván Szelényi, set themselves the ambitious task of formulating an alternative discourse about inequality in which the extent of inequality per se is not the problem but rather where inequalities stem from? Herein lies their fundamental divergence with Piketty (2014) for whom the excessive growth of “profits” is assumed to be the source of inequalities. The problem with mainstream economics and Piketty is that “profit” and “rent” are lumped together. A critical distinction between the two is warranted to grasp the relationship between inequalities, innovation and economic growth. In line with Kornai’s criticism of Piketty (2016), the authors insist on the source of inequality. Are they engendered by wages and profits earned on competitive markets or are they originated from rents due to imposed restrictions on market competition? In contrast with Piketty, the general assumption of the authors is that higher profits and wages often add to the annual growth or national income. Rents on the other hand lower annual growth. Although some forms of rent may even be useful, excessive rents breeds economic stagnation.
E14|Demand regimes, financialisation and hysteresis. New Keynesian and post-Keynesian macroeconomic underpinnings of the Varieties of Capitalism|The recent integration of post-Keynesian insights into Comparative Political Economy is an exciting development. Post-Keynesian theory differs from neoclassical and Marxist theories in its analysis of the role of income distribution and of finance. It allows for wage-led demand regimes and it regards finance to be endogenously created and a source of instability. The paper contributes to the debate on the integration of demand regimes in the Varieties of Capitalism analyses. It contrasts post-Keynesian theory to the New Keynesian three equation model. It highlights that post-Keynesian theory gives prominence to the role of income distribution and allows for wage-led demand regimes; financial variables play a key role, which gives rise to endogenous instability and financial cycles (Minskyan debt cycles); economic growth is regarded as a path dependent process (with unemployment hysteresis due to wage norms) and is not anchored in a supply side equilibrium. However, PKE has so far mostly provided a normative analysis of government interventions. The ability to generate income and wealth rather than competitiveness is regarded as key criteria for a viable variety of capitalism.
E14|Bringing the helicopter to ground: a historical review of fiscal-monetary coordination to support economic growth in the 20th century|In the face of the perceived high public and private debt levels and sluggish recovery that has followed the financial crisis of 2007-08, there have been calls for greater fiscal-monetary coordination to stimulate nominal demand. Policy debates have been focused upon the inflationary expectations that may be generated by monetary financing or related policies, consistent with New Consensus Macroeconomics theoretical frameworks. Historical examples of fiscal-monetary policy coordination have been largely neglected, along with alternative theoretical views, such as post-Keynesian perspectives that emphasise uncertainty and demand rather than rational expectations. This paper begins to address this omission. First, we provide an overview of the holdings of government debt by both central banks and commercial banks as an imperfect but still informative proxy for fiscal-monetary coordination in advanced economies in the 20th century. Second, we develop a new typology of forms of fiscal-monetary coordination that includes both direct and less direct forms of monetary financing, illustrating this with case-study examples. In particular, we focus on the 1930s-1970s period when central banks and ministries of finance cooperated closely, with less independence accorded to monetary policy and greater weight attached to fiscal policy. We find a number of cases where fiscal-monetary coordination proved useful in stimulating economic growth, supporting industrial policy objectives and managing public debt without excessive inflation.
E14|Functional Finance: A Comparison of the Evolution of the Positions of Hyman Minsky and Abba Lerner|"This paper examines the views of Hyman Minsky and Abba Lerner on the functional finance approach to fiscal policy. It argues that the main principles of functional finance were relatively widely held in the immediate postwar period. However, with the rise of the Phillips curve, the return of the Quantity Theory, the development of the notion of a government budget constraint, and accelerating inflation at the end of the 1960s, functional finance fell out of favor. The paper compares and contrasts the evolution of the views of Minsky and Lerner over the postwar period, arguing that Lerner's transition went further, as he embraced a version of Monetarism that emphasized the use of monetary policy over fiscal policy. Minsky's views of functional finance became more nuanced, in line with his Institutionalist approach to the economy. However, Minsky never rejected his early beliefs that countercyclical government budgets must play a significant role in stabilizing the economy. Thus, in spite of some claims that Minsky should not be counted as one of the ""forefathers"" of Modern Money Theory (MMT), this paper argues that it is Minsky, not Lerner, whose work remains essential for the further development of MMT."
E14|70 years after the German currency and economic reform: The monetary, economic and political order in Europe is disturbed|The currency reform on 20 June 1948, together with a comprehensive liberalisation of prices and the implementation of monopoly control, formed the basis for the West German economic miracle. From then on, the market principles formulated by Walter Eucken und implemented by Ludwig Erhard became the economic backbone of the European integration process. 70 years later, little remains of the basic principles of the German social market economy. An increasingly expansive monetary policy of the European Central Bank undermines market principles, growth and social cohesion in Europe, thereby eroding political stability. To ensure Europe's economic, political and social stability, a return to a stable currency and a marketoriented order is needed.
E14|New Austrian macro theory: A call for inquiry|Abstract This essay sketches some contours of what we think can reasonably be called New Austrian macro theory. By New Austrian, macro we mean a style of theorizing that incorporates the core of traditional or Old Austrian macro and pushes that core in new directions by using new analytical tools and methods. We would note that New Austrian is not some invention or construction de novo, but is a product of blending some traditional Austrian insights and formulations with new analytical formulations that were never part of the Austrian tradition but which can multiply the analytical oomph of that tradition. In this essay, we explain that the traditional Austrian macro theory suffers not from analytical wrong-headedness but from an underdevelopment of those complementary pieces of intellectual capital that would render Austrian macro once again a significant player in the efforts of economists to theorize about the properties of economic systems in their entirety.
E14|The unresolved problem of gratuitous credit in Austrian banking theory|Abstract Ludwig von Mises called gratuitous credit, the ability banks have to create new credit, the chief problem in a theory of banking. This paper traces how Mises and succeeding generations of Austrian-school economists have grappled with this problem, but have failed to find resolution. The result is that Austrian economists disagree on a variety of issues in banking and business cycle theory, such as whether there is an endogenous business cycle under free banking, or cycles only occur under central banking. Before a resolution can be attempted, current thinking must be clarified. This paper divides Austrian economists into five schools of thought. It points to a possible resolution in the economic development writings of Joseph Schumpeter.
E14|Secular Satiation|"Satiation of need is generally ignored by growth theory. I study a model where con- sumers may be satiated in any given good but new goods may be introduced. A social planner will never elect a trajectory with long-run satiation. Instead, he will introduce enough new goods to avoid such a situation. In contrast, the decentralized equilibrium may involve long run satiation. This, despite that the social costs of innovation are second order compared to their social benefits. Multiple equilibria may arise: depending on expectations, the economy may then converge to a satiated steady state or a non satiated one. In the latter equilibrium, capital and the number of varieties are larger than in the former, while consumption of each good is lower. This multiplicity comes from the following strategic complementary: when people expect more varieties to be introduced in the future, this raises their marginal utility of future consumption, inducing them to save more. In turn, higher savings reduces interest rates, which boosts the rate of innovation. When TFP grows exogenously and labor supply is endogenized, the satiated equilibrium generically survives. For some parametrer values, its growth rate is positive while labor supply declines over time to zero. Its growth rate is then lower than that of the non satiated equilibrium. Hence, the economy may either coordinate on a high leisure, low growth, satiated ""leisure society"" or a low leisure, high growth, non satiated ""consumption society""."
E14|Towards a New Austrian Macroeconomics|Abstract Austrian macroeconomists of the interwar period saw the economy as a complex adaptive system, in which macroeconomic variables emerge from the interaction between millions of purposefully acting agents. Recent advances in computation technology allow us to build empirically salient synthetic economies in silico, and thereby formalize many Austrian insights. We present a workhorse model with firms on an input-output network. Macroeconomic variables evolve through the interaction between micro-economic decisions. We use the model to explain an effect of monetary shocks on the price distribution and provide a sketch of other potential applications.
E14|Economic Diversification: Explaining the pattern of diversification in the global economy and its implications for fostering diversification in poorer countries|Economic diversification is very relevant for poorer developing countries to create jobs and foster economic development. That need has been recognized in key internationally agreed development goals. The empirical economic literature has identified several stylized facts about the pattern of diversification of economies, but the development of explanations for those patterns in general has been only loosely associated with economic theory on growth, trade, technology change and structural transformation. Making that connection is relevant because it could inform policymakers in developing countries in designing and implementing policies for promoting diversification. This paper presents a model of structural economic dynamics and endogenous technological change that is able to replicate empirical regularities related to economic diversification. The model is used to study strategies to foster diversification in poorer countries, which could help to better target action in the implementation of internationally agreed goals related to the economic diversification of these countries.
E14|Economic diversification: Explaining the pattern of diversification in the global economy and its implications for fostering diversification in poorer countries|Economic diversification is very relevant for poorer developing countries to create jobs and foster economic development. That need has been recognised in key internationally agreed development goals. The empirical economic literature has identified several stylised facts about the pattern of diversification of economies, but the development of explanations for those patterns in general has been only loosely associated with economic theory on growth, trade, technology change and structural transformation. Making that connection is relevant because it could inform policymakers in developing countries in designing and implementing policies for promoting diversification. This paper presents a model of structural economic dynamics and endogenous technological change that is able to replicate empirical regularities related to economic diversification. The model is used to study strategies to foster diversification in poorer countries, which could help to better target action in the implementation of internationally agreed goals related to the economic diversification of these countries.
E14|Biased technological change and Kaldor’s stylized facts|This paper presents a theory of biased technological change in which firms pursue a random, local, search for productivity-enhancing innovations. They implement profitable innovations at fixed prices, subsequently adjusting prices and wages. Factor productivity growth rates are shown to respond positively to factor cost shares. Combined with price-setting behavior, an equilibrium is characterized by constant cost shares and productivity growth rates. Under target-return pricing, capital productivity growth is zero at equilibrium, yielding Kaldor’s “stylized facts” of constant capital productivity and rate of profit. Equilibrium can be disturbed by changes in the pricing regime or technological potential for productivity improvement.
E14|Monetary Policy Crisis Management as a Threat to Economic Order|The paper analyses the effects of the monetary policy crisis management of the European Central Bank on the economic order of Germany. It is argued that in post-war Europe the German social market economy as designed by Eucken (1952) and Müller-Armack (1966) has been a core element of growth, welfare, social cohesion and political stability in Germany and Europe as a whole. It is shown that the monetary policy rescue measures of the European Central Bank have undermined the constitutive principles of the German social market economy, which has considerably contributed to the erosion of (productivity) growth and welfare in Germany and Europe. As the outcome is crumbling social cohesion and growing political instability, a timely exit from ultra-expansionary monetary policy is postulated.
E14|Possibilities of use of the noble metals market in the life insurance|Motivation: The financial crisis of 2008 undermined the trust of many people to the financial markets. During such crises one can observe growing prices and trust among others to tangible assets including noble metals. Noble metals, to which following metals are classed: gold, silver, palladium and platinum, in contrary to current financial instruments (shares, bonds, derivatives, bank deposits) do not generate interests. They are instead one of forms of thesaurisation. Moreover, they constitute (mainly gold) good protection from inflation in contrary to the fiat money. In Poland this market is not very developed yet, but its growing popularity can be already observed. Aim: The main aim of this paper is to analyse the possibilities to use the market of noble metals in the market of life insurances. Results: The insurance companies can potentially use noble metals in typically protective products as well as in saving. Additional aim of this paper is to determine the attitude of people purchasing noble metals to the financial markets (including the insurance industry) and investigating their attitude to risk. For the purpose of the researching part, a survey among people purchasing noble markets was used. Moreover, this group can be potentially most interested in purchasing insurance products based on gold or silver.
E14|Explaining regional economic performance: the role of competitiveness, specialization and capabilities|How should differences in regional economic performance be explained? This chapter examines the different approaches to this question, including their empirical underpinnings, which have developed in the scholarly literature, with particular emphasis on identifying issues that continue to be of central importance for scholars in the field today. It is noted, however, that as far as theories and perspectives are concerned, the research area under scrutiny here is a highly porous one. In fact, the theoretical perspectives guiding researchers in this area usually apply to other spatial levels as well. For this reason, a very sharp distinction between the bodies of knowledge on, for instance, national and regional economic performance may not be very fruitful. The chapter presents an overview of how theoretical and applied work of relevance for the analysis of regional economic performance has evolved to its present stance. This leads to the identification of two central factors for regional economic performance, that is, capability building and specialization. Issues concerned with the availability of relevant data for exploring the relationships between these factors and economic development are then considered. The analysis shows that regional economic performance and capability building does indeed go hand in hand, while the evidence regarding the impact of specialization is more mixed. The chapter then concludes by considering lessons and implications for policy and future research.
E14|Foreign Direct Investment, Institutional Framework and Economic Growth|The paper explores the role of institutional quality on economic growth and more specifically the role it plays through foreign direct investment. The paper uses an economic performance relevant indicators of institutional quality (both in aggregate and individual indicators) to evaluate its direct impact on economic growth and an indirect impact on economic growth via foreign direct investment. The paper applied instrumental variable model to a larger dataset of 106 countries and found that besides a strong direct positive effect on economic growth the aggregate institutional quality variable as well as all individual variables except for the rule of law have a small but significant indirect impact on economic that takes place through boosting foreign direct investment.
E14|The Decline in Asset Return Predictability and Macroeconomic Volatility|We document strong U.S. stock and bond return predictability from several macroeconomic volatility series before 1982, and a significant decline in this predictability during the Great Moderation. These findings are robust to alternative empirical specifications and out-of-sample tests. We explore the predictability decline using a model that incorporates monetary policy and shocks with time-varying volatility. The decline is consistent with changes in both policy and shock dynamics. While an increase in the response to inflation in the interest-rate policy rule decreases volatility, more persistent and less volatile shocks explain the lower predictability.
E14|Secular Satiation|"Satiation of need is generally ignored by growth theory. I study a model where consumers may be satiated in any given good but new goods may be introduced. A social planner will never elect a trajectory with long-run satiation. Instead, he will introduce enough new goods to avoid such a situation. In contrast, the decentralized equilibrium may involve long run satiation. This, despite that the social costs of innovation are second order compared to their social benefits. Multiple equilibria may arise: depending on expectations, the economy may then converge to a satiated steady state or a non satiated one. In the latter equilibrium, capital and the number of varieties are larger than in the former, while consumption of each good is lower. This multiplicity comes from the following strategic complementary: when people expect more varieties to be introduced in the future, this raises their marginal utility of future consumption, inducing them to save more. In turn, higher savings reduces interest rates, which boosts the rate of innovation. When TFP grows exogenously and labor supply is endogenized, the satiated equilibrium generically survives. For some parameter values, its growth rate is positive while labor supply declines over time to zero. Its growth rate is then lower than that of the non satiated equilibrium. Hence, the economy may either coordinate on a high leisure, low growth, satiated ""leisure society"" or a low leisure, high growth, non satiated ""consumption society""."
E14|Investments, balance of payment equilibrium and a new industrial policy in Europe|This paper aims to indicate that an economic recovery of the European economy can be pulled by an increase of the aggregate demand and by the adoption of a new industrial policy having a territorial dimension. While the Domar's and Thirlwall's model indicates that growth is determined by the growth of exports and does not consider investments, the paper indicates that an appropriate distribution of investments between the exporting and the domestic sector can determine both an increase of GDP and an equilibrium of the balance of payment. The model of innovation and investment pulled growth illustrated in the paper, indicates that a greater immaterial investment in R&D, education and project design and planning leads to greater innovation; this latter is the factor leading to an increase of the propensity to invest by the firms and then the investment leads to an increase of GDP, which may be compatible with the constraint of the equilibrium of the balance of payment. The paper clarifies the specific characteristics of the domestic goods and services, such as those of: housing, mobility, health and education, leisure and culture, energy and environment, which aim to respond to the increasing needs by the European citizens of new goods and services and better infrastructures, especially in the largest European cities. A new industrial policy differs from horizontal policies aiming to enhance the supply of the production factors or by the traditional industrial policies focusing on key technologies and sectors or on selected leading companies and should be pulled by the demand and innovation and be organized according to the new markets (lead-markets) and productions, which are emerging in developed countries notwithstanding the current slow growth. JEL Codes: E14, L52, O14, O18, O33, Keywords: balance of payment, investment, innovation, industrial structure, industrial policies, macroeconomic policies
E14|Geldpolitik, Arabellion, Flüchtlingskrise|Seit dem Jahr 2015 ist Europa mit einer großen Flüchtlingswelle aus dem Nahen Osten und Nordafrika konfrontiert. Es wird argumentiert, dass die Geldpolitik der großen Industrieländer indirekt eine wichtige Bestimmungsgröße dieser Flüchtlingswelle ist. Ab der Jahrtausendwende haben starke Zinssenkungen der großen Zentralbanken in Reaktion auf das Platzen der Dotcom-Blasen Spekulation auf den Rohstoff- und Lebensmittelmärkten begünstigt. Der daraus resultierende drastische Anstieg der Rohstoff- und Lebensmittelpreise hatte einschneidende Verteilungswirkungen auf den Nahen Osten und Nordafrika, wo einerseits kleine Eliten große Rohstoffvorkommen kontrollieren und andererseits breite Bevölkerungsschichten in großer Armut leben. Die Arabellion wird nicht als Streben nach Demokratie, sondern als Brotunruhe und Aufbegehren gegen nicht zuletzt durch die Geldpolitik verstärkte soziale Missstände interpretiert.
E14|Structuration processes in complex dynamic systems - an overview and reassessment|Many questions addressing the emergence and dynamics of economic networks are still unresolved, especially regarding dynamics on and of networks. Previous research shows that processes at the micro-level affect socio-economic systems at aggregated levels. These insights facilitated the development of models taking the network structure explicitly into account. However, what is still missing is a systemic network theory that considers the full complexity of socio-economic systems. We argue that sociological, economic and institutional theories are complementary in many respects and have the potential to fill this gap by providing the theoretical ground for an eclectic network theory. In this paper, we address key concepts that are concerned with structuration processes in socio-economic networks, review and reassess the literature in this field and discuss approaches to explain pattern formation processes at higher aggregation levels. We propose to take advantage of the complementarities of the above outlined yet unconnected research programs.
E14|Effekte des Kapitalmarktzinses auf die Preis- und Produktivitätsentwicklung: Eine Analyse der deutschen Volkswirtschaft 1970-2014|Die EZB tut alles, um ihr Inflationsziel von 2 Prozent zu erreichen - bislang ohne Erfolg. Stattdessen machen sich unerwünschte Nebeneffekte breit. So wird vermutet, dass niedrige Zinssätze auf dem Kapitalmarkt der Produktivität einer Volkswirtschaft schaden. Auf die Frage, warum die Konsumenten-Preise trotz niedriger Zinssätze und eines wachsenden Geldangebotes nicht steigen, geben die Standardmodelle der neoklassischen Synthese eine eindeutige Antwort: Es fehlt die Nachfrage einer wachsenden Wirtschaft. Das neoklassische Paradigma ist jedoch offen für weitere, möglicherweise präzisere Antworten. So wird vermutet, dass die Inflation erst einsetzt, wenn der Konsum der Reichen ansteigt. Beide Hypothesen - der negative Einfluss niedriger Zinsen auf die Produktivität und der Luxuskonsum als Preistreiber - wären eine überraschende Bereicherung der makroökonomischen Theorie. Die langfristige Entwicklung der deutschen Volkswirtschaft bestätigt zwar die Aussagen der Standardmodelle, nicht aber jene Ergänzungen.
E14|Upward and downward complementarity: the meso core of evolutionary growth theory|Abstract We propose that the concept of complementarity can take two distinct meanings in evolutionary economics: one referring to Adam Smith’s notion of increasing specialization and the division of labour, which we denote ‘downward complementarity’ (wholes into new parts); and a second type that refers to the discovery of emergent complementarity between extant or new components and products, which we call ‘upward complementarity’ (parts into new wholes). We outline this new conception and explore some of its analytic and theoretic implications.
E14|Institutional failures and transaction costs of Bulgarian private research institutes|The paper analyses the reasons for poor performance of private research institutes in Bulgaria. In this regard the Institutional Economics methods are used. A connection between smart growth policy goals and Bulgarian membership in EU is made. The gaps in the institutional environment are identified as well as measures for their elimination are proposed. The main accent of the study is put on the identification of transaction costs, arisen as a result of the failures of the institutional environment where Bulgarian private research institutes operate. An additional objective of the publication is to identify the cumulative impact of transaction and social costs concerning the same transaction. Special attention is paid to the need of distinguishing the joint effect and at the same times it to be distinguished by the aforementioned factors in order to be taken into account in future econometric researches. A definition of the term “private research institutes” so as to be distinguished from Think-Tank organizations is proposed.
E14|Innovation and investments in a regional cross-sectoral growth model: A change is needed in European cohesion policies|This paper aims to indicate that an economic recovery of the European economy can be pulled by an increase of the aggregate demand and by the adoption of a new European cohesion policy having an industrial and a territorial dimension. The paper illustrates a theoretical model: the model of the 'cross-sectoral demand' and the 'cross-sectoral supply', where growth is based on the interdependent changes of the sectoral structure of the supply and the demand. A crucial role is attributed to the flows of new knowledge, innovation and investment, as factors which affect both the aggregate supply and the aggregate demand. The paper illustrates the characteristics of the equilibrium and the pattern of growth in the model of the 'cross-sectoral demand' and the 'cross-sectoral supply' and it compares this model with the traditional macroeconomic 'AD-AS model'. Then, it indicates that industrial and regional policies are complementary to the monetary and fiscal policies, as they may promote the creation of new productions and determine an increase of GDP and employment at the regional and national level, also in a short-medium term perspective and not only for long term development.
E14|Exponential structure of income inequality: evidence from 67 countries|Abstract Economic competition between humans leads to income inequality, but, so far, there has been little understanding of underlying quantitative mechanisms governing such a collective behavior. We analyze datasets of household income from 67 countries, ranging from Europe to Latin America, North America and Asia. For all of the countries, we find a surprisingly uniform rule: income distribution for the great majority of populations (low and middle income classes) follows an exponential law. To explain this empirical observation, we propose a theoretical model within the standard framework of modern economics and show that free competition and Rawls’ fairness are the underlying mechanisms producing the exponential pattern. The free parameters of the exponential distribution in our model have an explicit economic interpretation and direct relevance to policy measures intended to alleviate income inequality.
E14|Megtakarítási típusok - egy adaptív-evolúciós megközelítés<BR>[Types of saving - an adaptive-evolutionary approach]|"A közgazdaságtanban az ágensalapú modellezés egyik alkalmazási területe a mak ro ökonómia. Ebben a tanulmányban néhány népszerű megtakarítási szabály létét feltételezve adaptív-evolúciós megközelítésben endogén módon próbálunk következtetni e szabályok relatív életképességére. Három különböző típusú ágenst vezetünk be: egy prudens, egy rövidlátó és egy, a permanensjövedelem-elméletnek megfelelően működőt. Rendkívül erős szelekciós nyomás mellett a prudens típus egyértelműen kiszorítja a másik kettőt. A második legéletképesebbnek a rövidlátó típus tűnik, de már közepes szelekciós nyomásnál sem tűnik el egyik típus sem. Szokásos tőkehatékonyság mellett a prudens típus túlzott beruházási tendenciát visz a gazdaságba, és a gazdaság az aranykori megtakarítási rátánál magasabbat ér el. A hitelkorlátok oldása még nagyobb mértékű túlzott beruházáshoz vezethet, a hitelek mennyiségének növekedése mellett a tőketulajdonosok mintegy ""kizsákmányoltatják"" magukat azokkal, akiknek nincs tőkejövedelmük. A hosszú távú átlagos fogyasztás szempontjából a három típus kiegyensúlyozott aránya adja a legjobb eredményt, ugyanakkor ez jóval nagyobb ingadozással jár, mint amikor csak prudens típusú háztartások léteznek. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: E03, E14, E27."
E14|Money, liquidity, and the structure of production|We use a model in which media of exchange are essential to examine the role of liquidity and monetary policy on production and investment decisions in which time is an important element. Specifically, we consider the effects of monetary policy on the length of production time and entry and exit decisions for firms. We show that higher rates of inflation cause households to substitute away from money balances and increase the allocation of bonds in their portfolio thereby causing a decline in the real interest rate. The decline in the real interest rate causes the period of production to increase and the productivity thresholds for entry and exit to decline. This implies that when the real interest rate declines, prospective firms are more likely to enter the market and existing firms are more likely to stay in the market. Finally, we present reduced form empirical evidence consistent with the predictions of the model.
E14|Geldpolitik, Arabellion und Flüchtlingskrise: Die sehr lockere Geldpolitik der großen Industrieländer kommt in Form der Flüchtlingskrise auf Europa zurück|No abstract is available for this item.
E14|The economics of radical uncertainty|"In situations of what we now describe as radical uncertainty, the core model of agent behaviour, of rational autonomous agents with stable preferences, is not useful. Instead, a different principle, in which the decisions of an agent are based directly on the decisions and strategies of other agents, is offered as a relevant core model. Preferences are not stable, but evolve. It is not a special case in such circumstances, but the general one. The author provides empirical evidence to suggest that as a description of behaviour in the modern world, economic rationality is applicable in a declining number of situations. He discusses models drawn from the modern literature on cultural evolution in which imitation of others is the basic strategy, and suggests a heuristic way of classifying situations in which the different models are relevant. The key point is that in situations where radical uncertainty is present, we require theoretical ""null"" models of agent behaviour which are different from those of economic rationality. Under uncertainty, fundamentally different behavioural rules are ""rational"". The author gives an example of a very simple pure sentiment model of the business cycle, in which agents use very simple heuristic decision rules. It is nevertheless capable of approximating a number of deep features of output growth over the cycle."
E14|Hayeks Überinvestitionstheorie|"Die Austrian Business Cycle-Theorie behauptet, dass am Anfang eines konjunkturellen Aufschwungs eine kreditfinanzierte Überinvestition stattfindet, die (in der Version Garrisons und in Anlehnung an von Mises) eventuell von einer Überkonsumtion begleitet wird. Beiden Varianten liegt die Überinvestitionstheorie Hayeks zugrunde, die dieser umfassend in ""Preise und Produktion"" (1931) darstellt, wobei er eine Reihe von Vorarbeiten benutzt, unter anderem seine eigenen Überlegungen zur Konjunktur- und Geldtheorie von 1929. In den beiden Jahren dazwischen erfolgt eine Verschiebung des Objekts seiner Kritik vom Bankensystem zur Zentralbank, der Hayek im Jahr 1931, das heißt inmitten einer weltweiten Deflation und angesichts knappen Geldes, empfiehlt, das Geld noch mehr an die Zügel zu legen, die Zinsen nicht zu senken, sondern zu erhöhen. Solche paradoxen Konsequenzen sind gerechtfertigt, wenn sie aufgrund einer logisch einwandfreien Theorie gezogen werden, die den härtesten empirischen Überprüfungen ausgesetzt worden ist. Letzteres setzt eine mathematische Modellierung voraus, die sowohl den Intentionen Hayeks als auch den Anforderungen der Volkswirtschaftlichen Gesamtrechnungen genügt. Ein hoffentlich erfreulicher Nebeneffekt der vorgeschlagenen algebraischen Modellierung der Überinvestitionstheorie Hayeks besteht darin, dass dem modernen Ökonomen die Überinvestitionstheorie Hayeks näher gebracht wird, deren theoretischen Gehalt und empirische Fruchtbarkeit er nach Durchsicht dieser Seiten wohl selber beurteilen können wird."
E14|Capire la deflazione|L'articolo esamina gli effetti redistributivi della dinamica dei prezzi e le conseguenze espansive/recessive che questa puÃ² avere sulla congiuntura. Si richiama l'attenzione sul ruolo del contesto istituzionale (concorrenza e regolamentazione) e sui costi di aggiustamento che ne seguono. Si conclude affermando che i costi della deflazione sono in realtÃ i costi relativi ai fenomeni che hanno condotto alla deflazione, i quali possono dilatarsi in presenza di rigiditÃ strutturali e/o degli errori sistematici che gli agenti sono indotti a commettere dalle autoritÃ di politica economica.
E14|Das Ende der Kapitalknappheit und sein Verhältnis zur Keynesschen Theorie|Abstract: Im Rahmen eines Mehrsektoren-Modells der österreichischen Kapitaltheorie entwickle ich für die Parameter des 21. Jahrhunderts die Hypothese des negativen natürlichen Zinses, d.h. des Gleichgewichtszinses in einem Zustand ohne Staatsschulden. Ich nenne dies das NNIM-Modell (negative natural interest model). Ich zeige, wie mithilfe eines geeigneten Ausmaßes von Staatsschulden der Zinssatz auf das Niveau der Wachstumsrate der Volkswirtschaft angehoben werden kann, was Wohlstandsgewinne mit sich bringt. Ich analysiere die mikro-ökonomische Voraussetzung für das Keynessche Unterbeschäftigungsgleichgewicht: Marktasymmetrie, d.h. Transaktionshunger auf der Anbieterseite und Transaktionssättigung auf der Nachfrageseite. Hieraus leite ich das bekannte Phänomen der Preisträgheit ab. Diese macht, wie auch Keynes argumentiert, deflatorische Anpassungsprozesse sehr langwierig und schmerzhaft. In der Quintessenz ist der Keynessche Ansatz der Effektive Demand das dynamische Korrelat zum Steady State NNIM-Modell. Keynes bleibt daher höchst aktuell für das 21. Jahrhundert.
E14|Auf dem Prüfstand: die Argumentation gegen die EZB-Staatsanleihenkäufe|This paper reviews the arguments against the ECB’s extended asset purchase programme. It is shown that the main lines of arguments — arguments those suggesting that under current economic conditions it was not needed to pursue quantitative easing, and arguments those indicating that purchases of government bonds should be avoided in principle — do not add upmatch. However, the argumentation becomes compellent consistent when the underlying monetary theory is taken into account, as it implies a do- nothing monetary policy stance when inflation rates are low. This theory was rejected on 22 January 2015, as it is inconsistent with the prevailing Governing Council definition of the ECB mandate. Copyright ZBW and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
E14|Animal spirits and credit cycles|In this paper we extend the behavioral macroeconomic model as proposed by De Grauwe (2012) to include a banking sector. The behavioral model takes the view that agents have limited cognitive abilities. As a result, it is “rational” to use simple forecasting rules and to subject the use of these rules to a fitness test. Agents are then driven to select the rule that performs best. The behavioral model produces endogenous and self-fulfilling movements of optimism and pessimism (animal spirits). Our main result is that the existence of banks intensifies these movements, creating a greater scope for booms and busts. Thus, banks do not create but amplify animal spirits. We find that increases in the equity ratios of banks tend to reduce the importance of animal spirits over the business cycle. The other policy conclusion we derive from our results is that the central bank has an important responsibility for stabilising output: output stabilization is an instrument to “tame the animal spirits”. This has the effect of improving the trade-off between inflation and output volatility.
E14|Ants and crickets: arbitrary saving rates in an agent-based model with infinitely lived-agents|Savings behaviour seems to exhibit heterogeneity across nations, and within nations, too. Large changes in saving rates have been observed in the last decades that can be viewed as signs of the arbitrariness of saving. There is a long tradition in the savings literature that separates people into two groups: those who behave soberly (ants), and those who act in an extremely short-sighted fashion (crickets). A puzzle remains: why does an apparently inferior behavioural pattern persist? Our aim is to provide a model that exhibits the arbitrariness of savings by exploring the two-types idea, and also makes intelligible why both types can coexist in the long run. Our approach consists in setting up an agent-based model starting from a traditional production and factor market framework. The model features an evolutionary mechanism that promotes the behaviour conducive to the highest satisfaction of the consumption goal. Our main findings include the prevalence of non-ergodicity, and the genericity of non-stationarity. The model becomes stationary when the selection pressure is very high, and crickets are eliminated. Though in general ants have somewhat higher per capita consumption than crickets, and are less indebted, we have found cases where the total average consumption is higher with many crickets than without them.
E14|Aprendizaje, instituciones y desempeño económico|En este artículo ofrecemos una visión amplia de la interacción entre cognición, sistemas de creencias e instituciones, y de la manera cómo estos afectan el desempeño económico. Argumentamos que una comprensión más profunda del surgimiento, las propiedades operativas y los efectos de las instituciones en los resultados económicos y políticos debería comenzar por el análisis de procesos cognitivos. Exploramos la naturaleza del aprendizaje individual y colectivo, haciendo énfasis en que el asunto no es si los agentes son perfecta o limitadamente racionales, sino cómo los seres humanos en realidad razonan y eligen de forma individual o colectiva. Luego atamos el proceso de aprendizaje con el análisis institucional, ofreciendo argumentos a favor de lo que se puede caracterizar como “institucionalismo cognitivo”. Además, mostramos que un tratamiento completo del fenómeno de sendero-dependencia debe comenzar en el nivel cognitivo, pasar por el nivel institucional, y culminar en el nivel económico.
E14|Is Monetary Financing Inflationary? A Case Study of the Canadian Economy, 1935-75|Historically high levels of private and public debt coupled with already very low short-term interest rates appear to limit the options for stimulative monetary policy in many advanced economies today. One option that has not yet been considered is monetary financing by central banks to boost demand and/or relieve debt burdens. We find little empirical evidence to support the standard objection to such policies: that they will lead to uncontrollable inflation. Theoretical models of inflationary monetary financing rest upon inaccurate conceptions of the modern endogenous money creation process. This paper presents a counter-example in the activities of the Bank of Canada during the period 1935-75, when, working with the government, it engaged in significant direct or indirect monetary financing to support fiscal expansion, economic growth, and industrialization. An institutional case study of the period, complemented by a general-to-specific econometric analysis, finds no support for a relationship between monetary financing and inflation. The findings lend support to recent calls for explicit monetary financing to boost highly indebted economies and a more general rethink of the dominant New Macroeconomic Consensus policy framework that prohibits monetary financing.
E14|How Darwinian should an economy be?|"This paper studies aggregate dynamics in a cobweb model where learning takes place through a selection mecanism, by which more successful firms are replicated at a higher rate. The structure of the model allows to characterize analytically the aggregate dynamics, and to compute the effect on welfare of alternative levels of selectivity. A central aspect is that greater selectivity, while bringing the distribution of firm types closer to the optimal one at a given date, tends to make the economy less stable at the aggregate level.As in Nelson and Winter (1982), firms differ in their labor/capital ratio.They do not choose it optimally, rather it is a characteristic of a .rm. The distribution of firms evolves over time in a way that favors the most profitable firm types. Selection may be inadequate because firms are being selected on the basis of incorrect market signals. Selection itself may reinforce such mispricing, thus generating instability.I compare economies that differ in the volatility and persistence of their productivity shocks, as well as the elasticity of labor supply. The key findings are as follows.First, a trade-o¤ arises since greater selection allows to better track shocks and limits mutational drift in firm types; on the other hand, selection may strengthen cobweb oscillatory dynamics.Second, there seems to be a value in maintaining a diverse ""ecology of firms"", in order to cope with future shocks.These observations explain the key results. Optimal selectivity is larger, the less ""cobweb unstable"" the economy, i.e. the more elastic the labor supply.Second, optimal selectivity is larger, the more persistent the aggregate productivity shocks. Finally, optimal selectivity is larger, the lower the variance of productivity innovations.The model can be extended to allow for firm entry and trend productivity growth, and a selection process with memory. Empirical evidence suggests that, in accordance to the model, countries with less regulated product markets exhibit lower aggregate inertia."
E14|How Darwinian Should an Economy Be?|"This paper studies aggregate dynamics in a cobweb model where learning takes place through a selection mechanism, by which more successful firms are replicated at a higher rate. The structure of the model allows to characterize analytically the aggregate dynamics, and to compute the effect on welfare of alternative levels of selectivity. A central aspect is that greater selectivity, while bringing the distribution of firm types closer to the optimal one at a given date, tends to make the economy less stable at the aggregate level. As in Nelson and Winter (1982), firms differ in their labor/capital ratio. They do not choose it optimally, rather it is a characteristic of a firm. The distribution of firms evolves over time in a way that favors the most profitable firm types. Selection may be inadequate because firms are being selected on the basis of incorrect market signals. Selection itself may reinforce such mispricing, thus generating instability. I compare economies that differ in the volatility and persistence of their productivity shocks, as well as the elasticity of labor supply. The key findings are as follows. First, a trade-off arises since greater selection allows to better track shocks and limits mutational drift in firm types; on the other hand, selection may strengthen cobweb oscillatory dynamics. Second, there seems to be a value in maintaining a diverse ""ecology of firms"", in order to cope with future shocks. These observations explain the key results. Optimal selectivity is larger, the less ""cobweb unstable"" the economy, i.e. the more elastic the labor supply. Second, optimal selectivity is larger, the more persistent the aggregate productivity shocks. Finally, optimal selectivity is larger, the lower the variance of productivity innovations. The model can be extended to allow for firm entry and trend productivity growth, and a selection process with memory. Empirical evidence suggests that, in accordance to the model, countries with less regulated product markets exhibit lower aggregate inertia."
E14|Modelling and Simulation: An Overview|The papers in this special issue of Mathematics and Computers in Simulation cover the following topics: improving judgmental adjustment of model-based forecasts, whether forecast updates are progressive, on a constrained mixture vector autoregressive model, whether all estimators are born equal: the empirical properties of some estimators of long memory, characterising trader manipulation in a limit-order driven market, measuring bias in a term-structure model of commodity prices through the comparison of simultaneous and sequential estimation, modelling tail credit risk using transition matrices, evaluation of the DPC-based inclusive payment system in Japan for cataract operations by a new model, the matching of lead underwriters and issuing firms in the Japanese corporate bond market, stochastic life table forecasting: a time-simultaneous fan chart application, adaptive survey designs for sampling rare and clustered populations, income distribution inequality, globalization, and innovation: a general equilibrium simulation, whether exchange rates affect consumer prices: a comparative analysis for Australia, China and India, the impacts of exchange rates on Australia's domestic and outbound travel markets, clean development mechanism in China: regional distribution and prospects, design and implementation of a Web-based groundwater data management system, the impact of serial correlation on testing for structural change in binary choice model: Monte Carlo evidence, and coercive journal self citations, impact factor, journal influence and article influence.
E14|Modeling and Simulation: An Overview|The papers in this special issue of Mathematics and Computers in Simulation cover the following topics. Improving judgmental adjustment of model-based forecasts, whether forecast updates are progressive, on a constrained mixture vector autoregressive model, whether all estimators are born equal. The empirical properties of some estimators of long memory, characterising trader manipulation in a limitorder driven market, measuring bias in a term-structure model of commodity prices through the comparison of simultaneous and sequential estimation, modeling tail credit risk using transition matrices, evaluation of the DPC-based inclusive payment system in Japan for cataract operations by a new model, the matching of lead underwriters and issuing firms in the Japanese corporate bond market, stochastic life table forecasting. A time-simultaneous fan chart application, adaptive survey designs for sampling rare and clustered populations, income distribution inequality, globalization, and innovation. A general equilibrium simulation, whether exchange rates affect consumer prices. A comparative analysis for Australia, China and India, the impacts of exchange rates on Australia's domestic and outbound travel markets, clean development mechanism in China. Regional distribution and prospects, design and implementation of a Web-based groundwater data management system, the impact of serial correlation on testing for structural change in binary choice model. Monte Carlo evidence, and coercive journal self citations, impact factor, journal influence and article influence.
E14|Marx, Globalization, and the Falling Rate of Profit: A Critical Study|This paper argues that Marx’s views on globalization and its supposed inevitability underwent a substantial evolution and revision after the publication of the Communist Manifesto. His writings relating to India, and particularly China and Russia, show that he was no longer certain that “the country that is more developed industrially only shows, to the less developed, the image of its own future” (Vol. I, p. 13). In the case of China, a prime example of the Asiatic mode of production, Marx even doubted whether globalization (capitalism) would ever be able to accomplish its historical mission of developing the forces of production and creating the material conditions for a higher mode of production, viz., Communism. While in the Russian case, he seriously entertained the notion that it could bypass the hardships and vicissitudes of capitalism and forge its own unique path to socialism. If accepted, this interpretation represents a serious challenge to the universality and validity of Marx’s materialist conception of history. The paper also addresses the role of the law of the tendency of the falling rate of profit in the geographic expansion of competitive capitalism. It contends that Marx did not believe there was an iron-clad connection between the falling rate of profit and globalization; in addition, it argues that Marx believed that the capitalists’ insatiable search for colonial markets was driven by their desire to overcome recurrent (and growing) realization problems in the home market arising from deficient aggregate demand on the part of both workers and capitalists.
E14|Wheat Facts and Futures 2009| For nearly half a century, the international wheat breeding system has delivered improved high yielding varieties of wheat that created (along with rice) the Green Revolution and underpinned strong growth in wheat productivity in irrigated and rainfed, developed and underdeveloped, regions. Future priorities for breeding and complementary sciences will still include yield but will also diversify in response to changing market demands and growing environments, particulary in developing countries. It is argued that in the coming decades research on wheat quality characteristics will become increasingly important to plant breeders, whose work will be supported by the development of markers and advanced tools from molecular biology. Breeders will have to contend with increased heat stress and variability stemming from climate change, which is expected to create regional winners, as the northern high latitudes grow warmer and moister, and losers, as the sub-tropics and tropics increasingly suffer from heat stress and drought. Yield response of improved varieties in farmers’ fields depends to a very great degree on sustainable systems management, which also is essential to reverse the ongoing degradation of agricultural resources. Finally, the importance of expanding the systems lens from farmers to policy makers, and of linking farmers, commerce, science, and policy is illustrated for the rice-wheat farming systems of South Asia.
E14|Adoption of Maize Production Technologies in the Coastal Lowlands of Kenya| Maize is the major food crop grown in the coastal region of Kenya and constitutes a major component of the diet of the population in the region. However, average yields are far below the potential for the region and low production levels create serious food deficits. Over the years, new technologies have been introduced but adoption has remained low, especially for fertilizer. This paper examined current maize-farming practices and technological and socioeconomic factors that influenced adoption in the Kilifi and Kwale Districts of the Coast Province, that together account for half of maize production in the region. The study found low adoption levels for improved maize varieties and technology, especially fertilizer, among farmers in the area. Farmers cited poor availability of improved varieties, high cost, lack of knowledge, and unfavourable characteristics of improved varieties as reasons for non-adoption. The high price and poor availability of fertilizers, farmers’ inexperience with them, and their perception that soils were already fertile were among reasons given for low fertilizer use. The low levels of adoption of improved varieties indicate that they are not meeting farmers’ needs. The authors recommend that researchers communicate with and include farmers’ criteria when breeding varieties. In addition, alternative options should be extended to farmers who are not able to use inorganic fertilizers. Finally, given the major influence of the institutional environment found in the study, it is recommended that extension services be strengthened, especially where lack of knowledge was cited as a hindrance to adoption.
E14|Adoption of Improved Wheat Technologies by Small-Scale Farmers in Mbeya District, Southern Highlands, Tanzania| This study was conducted to gain an understanding of how small-scale farmers in Mbeya District have adopted improved wheat technologies promoted by the wheat research program at MARTI-Uyole. The specific objectives were to assess farmers’ wheat management practices, determine the technical and socioeconomic factors affecting the adoption of improved wheat technologies, and draw implications for research, extension, and policy. A purposive multistage sampling procedure was used to select 202 farmers, 160 from Tembela Division and 42 from Isangati Division, which are two important wheat-growing areas in Mbeya District. Primary data were collected using structured questionnaires and supplemented by secondary information obtained from MARTI-Uyole. Juhudi was the preferred improved wheat variety grown by adopters. For all farmers, the most important characteristics preferred in a variety were high yield, marketability, grain color, and early maturity. In 1997, about 74% of sample farmers adopted improved wheat varieties. The rate of adoption increased between 1989 and 1995 for a number of reasons, including provision of seed and fertilizer by Sasakawa Global-2000 (SG-2000), the collapse of the pyrethrum industry, and market liberalization. After 1995, adoption declined because SG-2000 was phased out and the varieties had succumbed to stem rust and foliar diseases. Tobit analysis showed that farm size, family size, and the use of hired labor were significant factors affecting the proportion of land allocated to improved wheat. Farm size, family size, hired labor, and credit all significantly affected the amount of fertilizer used. Additional improved varieties need to be developed, not only to replace the old varieties, but to give farmers a wider choice. Fertilizer recommendations need to be reviewed to take into consideration farmers’ circumstances such as cash availability and soil fertility. Extension services in the area should be increased and the link between extension workers and landholders strengthened to promote the adoption of improved wheat technologies. The formal credit market is only weakly involved in supplying credit to wheat farmers, but rising input prices, especially for fertilizer, make access to credit increasingly important for farmers. Policymakers and bankers should focus on providing loans to small-scale wheat farmers with high rates of loan recovery and low cost of credit. Farmers should also be encouraged to form their own savings and credit cooperatives at the village level. Policymakers should continue to encourage and support the private sector to invest in input acquisition and distribution so that inputs (especially seed and fertilizer) are available when farmers need them.
E14|Localization Economies, Vertical Organization, and Trade|This paper develops a model of regional production networks based on localization economies. I consider an industry with two activities: one with location-specific external economies, the other with constant returns. Under autarky, localization economies imply the formation of an industry center. Agglomeration drives up wages in the center, causing the constant returns activity to disperse to outlying regions. Trade recreates the regional production network on a global scale. I apply the model to data from the Mexican apparel industry. Estimation results on Mexico's pre- and post-trade regional apparel wage structure are consistent with localization economies. Implications for the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) are discussed.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E14|Liquidity and Financial Intermediation|This paper examines the errect of liquidity prden'nce on investment, output, and prices in competitive markets, with allernative struclures of financial intermediation. The need for liquidity is due to uncertainty in the preferences of individuals. Investment in physical capilal is unobservable, and so illiquid. Individuals are willing to carry liquid assets which are dominaled in lheir rate of return. We examine three types of economies: one with money, the second with bonds, and the third with investment banking. Monetary and interest rate policiles can have expansionary effects; the qualitative impact of policy interventions differ across asset structures. We also examine the aggregate provision for liquidity, as well as liquidity and term premia at equilibrium.
E14|Financial Reforms, Stability of the Money Demand Function and Monetary Policy in Bangladesh: An Econometric Investigation|This paper estimates a quarterly short run money demand model for Bangladesh for the 1976q4-89q1 period and tests for its stability. Real income, interest rate and the expected rate of inflation are found to be the major determinants of money demand in Bangladesh. Both the Chow and CUSUM and CUSUMSQ tests of stability suggest that although the broad money demand function remained largely stable during most of the 1980s, the narrow money demand function exhibited instability during the 1982-87 period. The instability in the money demand function might have been caused by financial reforms in Bangladesh since the early 1980s.
E14|Liquidity and Financial Intermediation|This paper examines the errect of liquidity prden'nce on investment, output, and prices in competitive markets, with allernative struclures of financial intermediation. The need for liquidity is due to uncertainty in the preferences of individuals. Investment in physical capilal is unobservable, and so illiquid. Individuals are willing to carry liquid assets which are dominaled in lheir rate of return. We examine three types of economies: one with money, the second with bonds, and the third with investment banking. Monetary and interest rate policiles can have expansionary effects; the qualitative impact of policy interventions differ across asset structures. We also examine the aggregate provision for liquidity, as well as liquidity and term premia at equilibrium.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
