E19|An attitude of complexity: thirteen essays on the nature and construction of reality under the challenge of Zeno's Paradox|This book is about the construction of reality. The central aim of this study is to understand how gravity works and how it may be focused and manipulated. While I do not have an answer to this question, the discoveries along the way have been worth collecting into a single volume for future reference.
E19|The drivers of household indebtedness reconsidered: An empirical evaluation of competing arguments on the macroeconomic determinants of household indebtedness in OECD countries| Household debt is at a record high in most Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries and it played a crucial role in the recent financial crisis. Several arguments on the macroeconomic drivers of household debt have been put forward, and most have been empirically tested, albeit in isolation of each other. This article empirically tests 7 competing hypotheses on the macroeconomic determinants of household indebtedness together in one econometric study. Existing arguments suggest that residential house prices, upward movements in the prices of assets demanded by households, the income share of the top 1%, falling wages, the rolling back of the welfare state, the age structure of the population, and the short-term interest rate drive household indebtedness. We formulate these arguments as hypotheses and test them for a panel of 13 OECD countries over the period 1993–2011 using error correction models. We also investigate whether effects differ in boom and bust phases of the debt and house price cycles. The results show that the most robust macroeconomic determinant of household debt is real residential house prices, and that the phase of the debt and house price cycles plays a role in household debt accumulation.
E19|The drivers of household indebtedness re-considered: an empirical evaluation of competing macroeconomic arguments on the determinants of household indebtedness in OECD countries|Household debt is at a record high in most OECD countries and it played a crucial role in the recent financial crisis. Several arguments on the macroeconomic drivers of household debt have been put forward, and most have been empirically tested, albeit in isolation of each other. This paper empirically tests seven competing hypotheses on the macroeconomic determinants of household indebtedness together in one econometric study. Existing arguments suggest that residential house prices, upward movements in the prices of assets demanded by households, the income share of the top 1%, falling wages, the rolling back of the welfare state, the age structure of the population and the short-term interest rate drive household indebtedness. We formulate these arguments as hypotheses and test them for a panel of 13 OECD countries over the period 1993 - 2011 using error correction models. We also investigate whether effects differ in boom and bust phases of the debt and house price cycles. The results show that the most robust macroeconomic determinant of household debt is real residential house prices, and that the phase of the debt and house price cycles plays a role in household debt accumulation.
E19|Embedding Cooperation in General-equilibrium Models|Humans cooperate a great deal in economic activity, but our two major models of equilibrium – Walrasian competitive in markets and Nash in games – portray us as only non-cooperative. In earlier work, I have proposed a model of cooperative decision making (Kantian optimization); here, I embed Kantian optimization in general equilibrium models and show that ‘Walras-Kant’ equilibria exist and often resolve inefficiencies associated with income taxation, public goods and bads, and non-traditional firm ownership, which typically plague models where agents are Nash optimizers. In four examples, introducing Kantian optimization in one market – often the labor market – suffices to internalize externalities, generating Pareto efficient equilibria in their presence. The scope for efficient decentralization via markets appears to be significantly broadened with cooperative behavior.
E19|Aggregation bias-correcting approach to the health–income relationship: Life expectancy and GDP per capita in 148 countries, 1970–2010|A large amount of data consisting of 148 countries for the years 1970 to 2010 is analysed in the context of the health–income relationship. The literature suggests that the biased income–health effect obtained with macro data can be a result of the aggregation of individual concave income functions on average health. This aggregation problem is analysed in detail, and a bias-correcting method is proposed to overcome it. The results with new model alternatives show that they correct the income effects on average health in the right direction; that is, they produce smaller parameter estimates than biased models. Augmenting the results with the quantile regression approach, which is sensitive to health differences between countries, indicates that the poorest countries’ income gradient is still much larger than that of rich countries. However, the median life expectancy effect of the log of GDP per capita across the countries decreased during the sample decennials. The results for income inequality measured with the Gini coefficient indicate that the effects of inequality on health are still significant in the poorest countries but non-significant among rich countries after the year 2000. We argue that the proposed bias-correcting method retains the interest in macro health modelling and offers new model alternatives in other contexts.
E19|Existence and uniqueness of equilibrium in a distorted dynamic small open economy|We provide a set of sufficient conditions for existence and uniqueness of recursive equilibrium for a class of small open economies with distortion. The second welfare theorem is not available in this framework and usual approach for studying optimal neoclassical growth models is also not applicable.
E19|Monetary Policy, Market Structure and the Income Shares in the U.S|Abstract A general equilibrium model of heterogeneous capital is employed to investigate whether, how and to what extent monetary policy and market structure may have contributed to the decline of the labor share in the U.S. in recent decades. By construction the model allows monetary policy to affect the labor share through two channels, i.e. one linking the policy rate to the real interest rate and another linking the latter to the useful life of producers’ goods, whereas regarding market structure, the more competitive the economy, the higher the labor share. From its solution using U.S. data over the period 2000–2014 it emerges that the persistent reduction in the policy rate on the one hand slowed down the decline in the labor share and on the other accelerated it, because the reduction in the policy rate was accompanied by a robust upward trend in the equilibrium real rate of interest, which increased the useful life of producers’ goods. In turn, to gauge the relative strength of these two opposite effects, the equation of the labor share is estimated by means of the autoregressive distributed lag method. The results show that the adverse effect of monetary policy through the useful life of producers’ goods was more than 12 times as strong as the favorable effect of the policy rate and on this ground I conclude that the monetary policy contributed to the decline of the labor share significantly, at least since 2000. As for the market structure, it is found that even if firms had and attempted to exercise monopoly power, it would be exceedingly difficult to exploit it because the demand of consumers’ goods is significantly price elastic.
E19|Keynes's attack on the citadel: proportionality, the two-price theory, and monetary circulation|In the Treatise, Keynes claimed that the price levels of consumption and investment goods would not necessarily move in opposite directions. He further argued that the first claim had nothing to do with monetary circulation. If these two claims could be established, they would have constituted a direct attack on Ricardian economics and the economics of Marx, both of which are identified as self-adjustment mechanisms as in Say's law by Keynes. This paper seeks to evaluate these claims through the lenses of sector balance, the two-price theory, and monetary circulation.
E19|Wealth-In-Utility and Time-Consistent Growth: Real Excursions with an “Overlapping” Welfare Function|This research explores the dynamic potential of point-wise utility functions optimization of representative agent economies. Such functions were generically considered to depend upon current consumption and wealth to be made available for next period usage or income generation, implying an endogenous (pseudo-)rate of time preference. At first inspection, the framework reproduced closely the dynamics and steady-state properties of the traditional Solow-Swan and Ramsey models – with population growth, exogenous technical progress, land, or increasing returns to scale - as well as, when human capital/knowledge was introduced, the Lucas-Uzawa endogenous growth set-up. General uncertainty – simulated at different decision stages - resulted in intuitively appealing solutions. Overlapping optimization of the capital stock generated forward-looking recursive dynamics. Homothetic preferences (CES or generalized Cobb-Douglas) - implying a constant consumption-(lead)wealth ratio along an optimal path and resulting in steady-state saving rates independent of CRS technologies features in simple structures -, were assumed for illustration, and also generic separable forms in the arguments. The latter were useful under uncertainty, allowing the inspection of the role of risk-aversion and diminishing marginal returns to capital in equilibrium and steady-state determination.
E19|The Nature of Money in Modern Economy – Implications and Consequences|Reforming the contemporary monetary and financial system has come under the limelight with the onset of the last international financial crisis. Zarlenga and Poteat focus on the elimination of credit money and the return of the exclusive right of issuing money to the government as a key to reforming the system. In this comment, I argue that they are right, but reform should be wider and more comprehensive. My arguments are inspired by Al-Jarhi’s model of an Islamic monetary system (1981)
E19|Concordian economics and the economic bubble|In Concordian economics, a bubble is defined as a separation of monetary values from values of real wealth. This separation is effected by the fundamental proposition of Concordian economics: Investment is income minus hoarding. This definition, in turn, allows us to identify a set of crucial relationships that exist in the economic process, namely more hoarding, less investment and less growth; more hoarding, more inflation; more hoarding, more poverty.
E19|European Funds Fraud: The Impact on the Process of Absorption of Structural and Cohesion Funds in Romania|The increase of the degree of absorption of European funds offered to Romania by the European Union represents one of its main objectives in the present and future situation. One of the main reasons that the funds are so important is the fact that, taking into consideration the microeconomic and macroeconomic situation that Romania is in, it represents an alternative financing mechanism of the economy that Romania can benefit in very advantageous conditions. Even under these conditions Romania- within 2007-2013 period of programming – couldn’t benefit from it by attracting as many structural and cohesion funds as possible, at least in comparison to other member states. In our opinion, that of the authors’ one of the reasons that led to such a low rate of absorption, alongside with the low administrative capacity of the state is the excessive bureaucracy, an inefficient legislative framework which is not harmonized with the European one, the lack of experience in using and administrating of European funds, the beneficiaries’ incapacity to sustain the financial support of the project (to assure the co-financing of the project), a low involvement of Romanian banking institutions in the process of supporting the beneficiaries of European funds. Another cause is the European funds fraud that happened in Romania. In the present article, the authors have decided to analyze the influence of European funds fraud on the degree of absorption of structural and cohesion funds in Romania. Classification-JEL: E10, E19, E29, E59, E60, E69, G23, K49, O20, O52, P50.
E19|Sticker shocks: using VAT changes to estimate upper-level elasticities of substitution|We estimate the upper-level elasticity of substitution between goods and services of a nested aggregate CES preference specification. We show how this elasticity can be derived from the long-run response of the relative price of a good to a change in its VAT rate. We estimate this elasticity using new data on changes in VAT rates across 74 goods and services for 25 E.U. countries from 1996 through 2015. Our results point to an upper-level elasticity of between 1, at a high level of aggregation that distinguishes 12 categories of goods and services, and 3, at the lowest level of aggregation with 74 categories.
E19|Performance of tourism sector with regard to the global crisis - a comparative study between Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore|Tourism contributes to the growth of economy of a nation through employment, multiplier effect, and foreign exchange earnings and also contributes to positive balance of payments. Therefore, developed and developing countries have incorporated tourism into their long-term economic development planning. However, tourism is vulnerable to crisis events, such as outbreaks, political turmoil and also financial crisis. This study examines the performance of tourism sector in Indonesia, Malaysia, and Singapore with regard to the recent global crisis. The three countries are chosen because of several reasons. Firstly, they have incorporated tourism as one of the focuses in their long-term economic development plan. Secondly, although they are closely related in terms of geographic proximity and regional cooperation, they differ in terms of size and openness of economy. All the commonalities and differences make it more intriguing to carry out the study. This study employs ordinary least squares method to investigate the significance of tourism in relation to economic growth. There are two models used in this study. First model employs GDP to represent economic growth and the number of international tourist arrival to represent tourism growth. Second model employs hotel’s rate of occupancy, average length of stay, and the number of tourist arrival as proxy of tourism growth. Comparative study is also done in the discussion in order to analyze how the respective countries differ in tourism performance. The study finds out that for the three countries, tourism is of significance for the economic growth. Tourism was also affected by financial crisis, as seen from the short dip in the performance of the tourism sector in terms of the number of tourist arrival and hotel’s rate of occupancy in first quarter of 2009. Nevertheless, the sector is considered as a resilient sector as it successfullyrecovered in 2010a. Based on the comparison, it is found that Singapore is affected much in comparison with the other two. It may be linked to strong real effective exchange rate, which makes the price less competitive compared to the other two. This study also finds that regional tourists actually play an important role in the development of tourism, because they comprise the largest portion of tourist arrival compared to outside-regional tourists, and the number has remained stable. Based on the result obtained, we consider tourism development as one of strategic economic pillars since it has significantly positive impact on GDP growth. We also deliberate that the countries should focus on catering to the preferences of regional tourists to accelerate the growth of this sector.
E19|On the mathematic prediction of economic and social crises: toward a harmonic interpretation of the Kondratiev Wave, revised and corrected, with a new appendix, February 12, 2015|In Part One of this paper we use the harmonic analogy of a musical octave to analyze mathematic ratios of U.S. real GNP. These ratios are generated by bringing together figures for U.S. real GNP over intervals of time – “spreads of years” – as numerator and denominator in a single fraction. Using a range of 7-year to 18-year “spreads,” we find that this approach provides strong evidence that American economic history is composed of four 14-year quarter-cycles within a 56 year circuit in the real GNP of the United States, 1869-2007. These periods correlate closely with analysis by Nickolai Kondratiev and provide a framework for predicting an annual steady state rate of growth for the United States falling between 3.4969% and 3.4995% per year. In Part Two of this paper we provide three postscripts including: (1) correlations / speculations on the political and social consequences of this model, (2) simplification / expansion of the geometries implied, and (3) analysis / prediction based upon this approach as concluded by a brief afterword and an extensive Appendix. These post-script refinements narrow the steady state rate of growth predicted to between 3.4969% and 3.4973% per year correlating closely with the 3.4971% rate for annualized quarterly data calculated for Okun’s Law, 1947-2007. The size and interconnectedness of world economies, and the virtually exact correlations provided herein, suggest that the dates predicted for future crises will see changes which are unexpectedly global, dramatic and fierce.
E19|Essentials of Constructive Heterodoxy: Financial Markets|What stands before all eyes as failed Orthodoxy is ultimately caused by the wrong answer to Mill's Starting Problem. It is now pretty obvious that one cannot put utility maximization, equilibrium, well-behaved production functions, ergodicity or any other physical or psychological or sociological or behavioral assumption into the premises. No way leads from such premises to the explanation of how the actual market economy works. The logical consequence is to discard them. Having first secured a superior formal starting point, the present paper addresses the question of how the various types of financial markets emerge from the elementary monetary circuit.
E19|An attitude of complexity: thirteen essays on the nature and construction of reality under the challenge of Zeno's Paradox|This book is about the construction of reality. The central aim of this study is to understand how gravity works and how it may be focused and manipulated. While I do not have an answer to this question, the discoveries along the way have been worth collecting into a single volume for future reference.
E19|Equilibrium to Equilibrium Dynamics in a Climate Change Economy|Different from past economic research, I incorporate recent theories by climatologists that burning fossil fuels increases the equilibrium level of carbon dioxide, CO2, in the atmosphere into a macroeconomic growth model. In the model, both production and consumption produces $CO_2$ emissions. I also assume that Anthropogenic Global Warming, AGW, not only damages production, but also capital stock and utility. In addition, a boundary condition similar to the Simpson-Kombayashi-Ingersoll (SKI) Limit holds, that there exists a critical temperature which leads to runaway greenhouse warming. Under these assumptions with no alternative fuel sources, and unlimited fossil fuel supply, the economy eventually flat lines (dies). Abatement only delays the inevitable. Using discount factors of .95 and .99, modest abatement policy can increase world welfare but do not increase life expectancy. When the discount factor is zero, conclusions of which policy is best is sensitive to the time horizon policy makers use. If a 100 year time horizon is used, modest consumption abatement may be the best policy, which may actually decrease life expectancy. However, a theoretical infinite time horizon may imply near zero emissions as the growth of damages is reduced and the probability of survival increases. Unfortunately, because humans have finite lives, this creates an ethical dilemma. In order for society to be better off, the current living must sacrifice by accepting policies that lead them to experience near zero output, consumption and near zero lifetime utility and welfare.
E19|Economic Growth Theories, Conceptual Elements, Characteristics|The approach of economic growth involves understanding the concept and growth factors, respectively, analysing the growth theories, their trend in the context of the development of economic and social life. The economic growth signifies a process aimed at increasing activities in the national economy, expressed by macroeconomic indicators, respectively, the dynamics of the overall Gross Domestic Product or per inhabitant. It can appreciate that, in the short term, this process signifies phases of economic prosperity and on the long-term, expresses an upward trend, a consequence of the succession of increases and decreases. The study presents some elements which outlines the concept of economic growth, that is, definitions, meanings and the main characteristics of the theories of growth, as well as some of its determinant factors. Also, it gives a brief overview of the main theories of economic growth, as they have evolved over time, in line with the economic reality dynamics and the development of the instruments of economic analysis, starting from the classical theories to the new theories and models of economic growth of the modern age.
E19|Cluster Analysis of the EU Countries in Terms of Labor Market Indicators|Dynamics of main indicators in the EU labor market context reflects that the EU labor market as whole remains tense, and that differs substantially from one country to another. This paper includes an analysis of recent developments in labor market participation, employment, unemployment, education level with special concerning on data disaggregated by age and sex. Paper aims to group the EU countries according to key indicators of the labor market for gaps and similarities identification in order to achieve the objectives of cohesion policies at EU level. To achieve this propose it was used hierarchical cluster analysis method.
E19|Are Economic Sanctions “Growth Killers”?|The article reflects the first step in investigating the perception that economic sanctions seriously damage a country’s economic potential and results. Upon testing several hypothesis the basic - the effect of sanctions is widely exaggerated and overestimated; and additional assumption - the countries that are under economic sanctions respond with industry growth) it has been revealed that at least in several randomly selected cases economic sanctions don’t cause severe negative consequences.
E19|Mathematical Proof of the Breakdown of Capitalism|The existence proof of general equilibrium, which is based on subjective-behavioral axioms, is replaced by the existence proof of a final turning point, which is based on objective-structural axioms. The final turning point is characterized by an irreversible switch from profits to losses for the business sector as a whole and marks the beginning of the breakdown of the monetary economy. This has nothing to do with any market failures or irrationalities. The final turning point can be preceded by an arbitrary number of temporary profit/loss reversals and is in full accordance with the households’ optimal intertemporal consumption plans.
E19|Towards an economic architecture of the rings of Saturn: On the Political Economy Wave, Kaluza’s fifth dimension and an alternative derivation of the Roche Limit|This paper presents interesting correlations which exist between a model of long-wave economic activity and crisis in the United States – “the Political Economy wave” – and the structure of the rings of Saturn, one of the most confounding structures known to science. At the present time gaps appear between rings which are unexplained; dynamism within the rings which should disperse the rings does not do so; edges of the rings are not diffuse but well defined; satellites between rings appear to have an impact but this is uncertain. This paper explores the possibility that the mathematics of consciousness, taken as a fifth dimension and understood as incarnate in the study of economics, may assist in the understanding of physics, and possibly vice versa.
E19|On the architecture of the rings of Saturn: An “identity” theory of the distribution of gaps within rings|In the physical world the “identity” of something is taken generally as a given; an apple is an apple; this apple is this apple. When dealing with planetary structure and extension into space, however, the problem of the planet’s “identity” in the surrounding cosmos is writ large. What does a planet’s “identity” imply? What functions must it take on? What internal logic holds it together as a functional “being” in the universe? A model of long-wave economic activity and crisis in the United States – “the Political Economy wave” – portrays the quest for social and economic “identity” with three simple curves: a sine curve over 56 years (20,454 days), a damping cosine curve of one-half the period of the sine curve, and the addition of these two in a “Political Economy Wave.” The logic of this wave is a recurring structure which shapes social “identity” over time. This paper compares the main peaks, intersections and troughs of the Political Economy wave for the United States, 1800-to-present, with the structure of the rings of Saturn, one of the most confounding structures known to science. At the present time gaps appear between rings which are unexplained; dynamism within the rings which should disperse the rings does not do so; edges of the rings are not diffuse but well defined; satellites between rings appear to have an impact but this is uncertain. Comparing these gaps with the various “crises” which predictably impact the “self identity,” the self-understanding, of society, this paper explores the possibility that the mathematics of identity may assist in the understanding of astrophysics, and possibly vice versa.
E19|Using asymmetric Okun law and Phillips curve for potential output estimates: an empirical study for Romania|Having in view the economic crisis that Romania has crossed and the delayed effects on the macroeconomic indicators, the objective of the paper is the study of the modifications incurred on the unemployment time varying NAIRU and output gaps paths.Using some computed data in previous works, and also quarterly data from NIS Statistics and NBR statistics, in the paper it is estimated time varying NAIRU using Phillips asymmetric curve approach and Kalman Filter approach as well. The output gaps computing is based on time varying NAIRU recalculated in this article and symmetric and asymmetric dynamic Okun’s laws.
E19|Innovation diffusion, technological convergence and economic growth|The paper investigates the mechanics through which novel technological principles are developed and diffused throughout an economy consisting of a technologically heterogeneous ensemble of firms. In the model entrepreneurs invest in the discovery and in the diffusion of a technological principle and their profit flow depends on how many firms adopt the innovation and on how long it takes other entrepreneurs to improve it. We show that technological convergence emerges from the competition among entrepreneurs for the profit flow and characterize the economy's growth rate.
E19|Métodos para predecir índices Bursátiles|Este artículo presenta una revisión bibliográfica acerca de los métodos que se han utilizado en las últimas dos décadas para predecir Índices Bursátiles. Los métodos estudiados van desde aquellos que logran capturar las características lineales presentes en los índices de bolsa, pasando por los que se enfocan en las características no lineales y finalmente métodos híbridos que son más robustos, pues capturan características lineales y no lineales. Además, se incluyen aquellos métodos que utilizan variables macroeconómicas para predecir los índices de diferentes Bolsas de Valores en el mundo.
E19|Factors to Overcome the Economic Crisis and to Support the Sustainable Development from the Citizens’ Perspective|The goal of the study is focused on the identification of the citizens’ perceptions regarding the main factors for supporting the sustainable regional development and for an adequate mitigation of the financial and economic crisis. Besides the quantitative approach of the sustainable development, revealed by the statistical data analysis, the people’s specific views could contribute to a more refined analysis with an important qualitative focus. In order to better understand the people’s views related to the sustainable development in the region where they live, a pilot survey has been organized, encompassing 154 respondents randomly selected. Simultaneously, the citizens have provided their opinions related to potential solutions for reducing the effects of the crisis and for supporting the future sustainable development. The main outcomes of the research consist in the qualitative analysis of the citizens’ perceptions. Due to the number of the participants and the sampling methods implemented, the results could not been generalized, illustrating only the existing trends in the region, according to the residents’ specific views. Moreover the pilot research revealed the citizens’ commitment to identify the main development factors, as well as their availability to participate with their experience and know-how in the process of the design and implementation of the regional sustainable strategy. Consequently, the people’s willingness to engage themselves in the process of the design of the regional sustainable development strategy can be further exploited for redefining the respective procedures in order to become widely participatory.
E19|Does “Okun’s Law” state a Pi:1 ratio? Toward a harmonic interpretation of why Okun’s Law works|In Albers & Albers (Spring, 2013) we demonstrated that the historic development of U.S. real GNP, 1869-present, may be structured in recurring 14-year periods. A steady-state rate of growth of 3.4969% is thereby calculated, generating an increase in real GNP proportional to the famous “Golden Mean” (1:phi or 1:1.6180) every fourteen years on average. Building on this foundation we show herein that “Okun’s Law,” a 3:1 proportion between percent growth in real GNP and percent decrease in the rate of unemployment, is actually a pi:1 proportion, created through a form of mathematic / harmonic inverse. The resulting model of economics in the United States is thereby aligned with geometric, harmonic and trigonometric analysis, rather than purely statistical methods.
E19|Okun’s Law as a Pi-to-1 ratio: A harmonic / trigonometric theory as to why Okun’s Law works|“Okun’s Law” states a 3:1 proportion between percent growth in U. S. real GNP and percent decrease in the rate of unemployment. This paper argues that this ratio is actually a Pi:1 proportion, heretofore unrecognized because it is displayed through a form of mathematic / harmonic inverse. In Part One the Cartesian coordinate system is merged with the legal doctrines of actus reus (x-axis, actions) and mens rea (y-axis, thoughts). A unit circle of personal choice – including economic choice (trading vs. keeping) – may thereby be devised. This unit circle is then aggregated into a torus, half the circumference of which represents U.S. real GNP (Pi), the antipodal half-circumference its monetary value (Pi) and the radius the rate of employment necessary to its production (R = 1). Mainstream econometric analysis appears to support this theory of inverses with proximities of within 1.3%, 1.0%, 0.35%, 0.00105% and less than half a degree. In Part Two this model of Okun’s Law is connected closely to an analysis of the well-known Kondratiev Wave, a 56-year “Long Wave” of evolving social and economic relationships. This approach to macroeconomics is thereby aligned with a geometric, harmonic and trigonometric analysis of empirical data, rather than purely statistical methods.
E19|The Ideal Economy: A Prototype|Standard economics starts with behavioral assumptions that are formally expressed as axioms. This approach met with little scientific success but still enjoys some popularity for lack of a convincing alternative. To replace the subjective formal foundations by objective structural axioms is the first task of this paper. To give a correct account of how the monetary economy works is the second. This entails an explanation of the continuous clearing of both the product and the labor market in the random consumption economy, that is, of how the economy could establish ongoing full employment and price stability in principle.
E19|On the tracks of Zimbabwe’s Hyperinflation: A Quantitative Investigation|This paper primarily investigates and examines the relationship between money supply growth and inflation in Zimbabwe. The theoretical analysis is based on a modified form of the “Quantity Theory of Money” (QTM) - a theory developed in the classical equilibrium framework- illustrating the relationship between the money supply, velocity of money, the interest rate and the price level in the Zimbabwean economy using monthly data from 1995:1 to 2006:12. Understanding the causes and especially the effects of inflation can provide us with policy tools to attain price stability and economic growth. The analysis rests on an error correction version of the Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model that determines the short and the long-run trend in Zimbabwe’s inflation. The results show clearly that the main determinants of inflation in Zimbabwe are parallel market premium movements and especially the change in money supply growth. The lagged change in the 3-month-deposit rate, however, seems to have a positive effect on inflation in Zimbabwean. This anomaly could be explained by the manipulation of the Treasury bill market by the Zimbabwe government. Moreover, a Granger causality test indicates the direction of causality from money supply and parallel premium to inflation.
E19|Macroeconomics Framework Considered Risk Factors: Based on Default Distance|This paper adopts the macro-financial engineering method, taking risk factors into account to build a new framework for macroeconomic research in the IS-LM-BP model. Based on the balance of commodity markets, currency markets and the international balance of payments, the framework studies the balance of the level of risk, and analyzes a series of changes of the BP curve under given risk factors. Meanwhile, this paper also conducts empirical study using Chinese data from years 2007-2010.
E19|A note on institutional hierarchy and volatility in financial markets| From a statistical point of view, the prevalence of non-Gaussian distributions in financial returns and their volatilities shows that the Central Limit Theorem (CLT) often does not apply in financial markets. In this article, we take the position that the independence assumption of the CLT is violated by herding tendencies among market participants, and investigate whether a generic probabilistic herding model can reproduce non-Gaussian statistics in systems with a large number of agents. It is well known that the presence of a herding mechanism in the model is not sufficient for non-Gaussian properties, which crucially depend on the details of the communication network among agents. The main contribution of this article is to show that certain hierarchical networks, which portray the institutional structure of fund investment, warrant non-Gaussian properties for any system size and even lead to an increase in system-wide volatility. Viewed from this perspective, the mere existence of financial institutions with socially interacting managers contributes considerably to financial volatility.
E19|The Emergence of Profit and Interest in the Monetary Circuit|Efficient progress of the monetary theory of production (MTP) is hampered by an unsatisfactory account of how profit and interest emerge in the monetary circuit. As matter of fact, this question puzzled already the classics. It seems evident that it cannot be answered by applying the usual tools. The present paper's purpose is to overcome the deadlock. This is done by setting the circulation approach on general structural axiomatic foundations. View the Open Peer Discussion of this paper »
E19|Una lectura no walrasiana del equilibrio general con demanda efectiva restringida|En el presente texto se desarrolla un modelo macroeconómico, desde una aproximación no walrasiana, en un escenario de rigideces en los precios y de competencia imperfecta. Asimismo, se indaga por la posibilidad del establecimiento de un equilibrio general con múltiples mercados y se describen, explícitamente, los conceptos de equilibrio general para dos casos extremos: uno con todos los precios rígidos, otro con todos los precios flexibles, ambos en un régimen de competencia imperfecta.
E19|Productivity and convergence in India: A state-level analysis|Total factor productivity plays an important role in the growth of the Indian economy. Using state-level data from 1993 to 2005 that were recently made available, we find widespread regional variation in productivity changes. In the years immediately following economic liberalization, productivity growth improved technical efficiency; however, in subsequent years, productivity growth was propelled by technological progress. We find a tendency toward convergence with regard to productivity growth among states; however, the states that were technically efficient when the economic reforms were instituted remained innovative in later years.
E19|Modelos contables y comprensión de la crisis financiera|Este artículo muestra que los modelos macroeconómicos contables ayudaron a prever la crisis de crédito y la recesión económica, mientras que los modelos de equilibrio ubicuos en la formulación de política y la investigación de la corriente principal no. Explora los antecedentes intelectuales del enfoque contable como alternativa a la economía neoclásica y el ascenso y declive de los modelos de flujo de fondos durante la posguerra. Incluye estudios de caso actuales de ambos tipos de modelos y analiza por qué el enfoque contable se ha mantenido fuera de la corriente dominante. Hace recomendaciones constructivas para revisar los métodos de evaluación de la estabilidad financiera y aboga por una “contabilidad de la economía”
E19|Profits in (Partial) Equilibrium and (General) Disequilibrium| In a many-sector production economy where each sectorâ€™s output is used as input for every sector, a general equilibrium implies zero profit for everyone, whereas one market in excess demand implies positive profits for all others in their partial equilibrium. If more than one market is stuck in excess demand, every market allows positive profits.
E19|Economic, Financial and Geopolitical Governance: USA, European Union and China|No abstract is available for this item.
E19|Reference models of endogenous economic growth|The new endogenous growth theories are a very important research area for shaping the most effective policies and long term sustainable development strategies. Endogenous growth theory has emerged as a reaction to the imperfections of neoclassical theory, by the fact that the economic growth is the endogenous product of an economical system.
E19|Territorial Regionalization, A Challenge? Territorial Regionalization Effect On Regional Accounts, The Case Of Romania|Part of the national economy, regional economy of a country targeting both the region, as a part of geographical territory, and the enclosures of the free zones, warehouses and factories under customs control located in these regions. Although there are many difficulties in collecting and processing information needed in regional accounts, however, it can be determined by factors such as: regional gross domestic product, household regional accounts, regional accounts of public administration, gross fixed capital by regions balance of payments accounts at regional, national wealth account, etc. Regional accounts, developed by ESA’ 95 methodology, are analogous to national accounts and reflects, in aggregate form, economic flows and relationships between them, studying intra and inter regional links while checking compatibility indicators.
E19|Competition for Listings|We develop a model in which stock exchanges compete for IPO listings. They choose the listing fees paid by entrepreneurs wishing to go public and control the trading costs incurred by investors. All entrepreneurs prefer lower trading costs but differ in how much they value a decrease in trading costs. Hence, in equilibrium, competing exchanges can obtain positive expected profits by choosing different trading costs and different listing fees. The model has testable implications on the cross-sectional characteristics of IPOs on different-quality exchanges and the relationship between the level of trading costs and listing fees.
E19|"""Gesell Tax"" and Efficiency of Monetary Exchange"|"A periodic ""Gesell Tax"" on money holdings as a way to overcome the zero-lower-bound on nominal interest rates is studied in a framework where money is essential. For this purpose, I characterize the efficiency properties of taxing money in a full-fledged macroeconomic business cycle model of the third-generation of monetary search models. Both, inflation and ""Gesell taxes"" maximize steady state capital stock, output, consumption, investment and welfare at moderate levels. The Friedman rule is sub-optimal, unless accompanied by a moderate “Gesell tax”. In a recession scenario a Gesell tax speeds up the recovery in a similar way as a large fiscal stimulus but avoids ""crowding out"" of private consumption and investment."
E19|Enhancing the competitiveness of the Arab SMEs|Statistics show that SMEs represent 90% of total companies in the vast majority of economies worldwide and provide 40-80% of total job opportunities in addition to contributing largely to GDPs of many countries. For example, SMEs constitute more than 99%1 of all non-agricultural private enterprises in Egypt and account for nearly three-quarters of new employment generation. for Kuwait, this sector constitutes approximately 90% of the private workforce, including labor and imported an estimated 45% of the labor force, employment and national rates of less than 1%, in Lebanon, more than 95% of the total enterprises, contribute about 90% of the jobs. In the UAE , small and medium enterprises accounted about 94.3% of the economic projects in the country, and employs about 62% of the workforce and contributes around 75% of the GDP of the state. In addition, they account for 96% of the GDP in Yemen in 2005, and about 77%, 59%, 25% in Algeria, Palestine and Saudi Arabia, respectively, during the same year.It is often argued that the Governments should promote SMEs because of their greater economic benefits compared to the large firms in terms of job creation, efficiency and growth.Following are the major driving force to strengthen SMEs in the Arab countries: (1) SMEs are the important vehicle in terms of employments and poverty alleviation. SME employs a large share of the labour force in many Arab countries. (2) SMEs make significant contributions to the national economy of the country; and Can be a tool to accelerate the growth of exports. (3) SMEs foster an entrepreneurial culture and make the economy more resilient to the global fluctuations. The aim of this research is to study enhancing the competitiveness of Arab small and medium enterprises.
E19|The Golden Mean, the Arab Spring and a 10-step analysis of American economic history|The Long-Wave theories of Nikolai Kondratiev and others claim to find mathematic waves in economic and other social data which are at present in dispute. Currently the theory is considered outside the scope of mainstream economics under several rationales. Despite the lack of mainstream acceptance, we make a strong case for the existence of long waves in the Real GNP of the United States with a 56 year cycle. Our analysis bypasses many of the issues cited by Long-Wave theory critics and in fact clarifies the mathematical structure of the theory.
E19|Modeling the Financial Behavior of Population (I) – Conceptual Assignations|The paper shows a few conceptual assignations concerning the financial behavior of the population. Thus, there are defined attached predicates (the inclusion into the economic behavior category, the existence of a monetary factor, the action for goods and non-autonomous flows, as well as for goods and nominal flows), the sources that generate the financial behavior (acquisition of real goods and services, acquisition of financing sources, acquisition of saving sources), the process of non-autonomous financial flow formation and finally, there are identified categories of nominal flows attached to the financial behavior of the population.
E19|Standard Of Living Improvement – Consequence Of Human Development And Economic Liberalization In The Current Period|In this paper we want to present, in both a succinct and a theoretical way, the possible relation between economic liberalization, human development and standard of living in the present society based, more than ever, on knowledge.It is known that economic liberalization is one of the phenomena that have manifested themselves in increasingly active manner in recent decades so, nobody can deny its benefits especially on human development - economic and social main objective of all states, regional and global formations. Actually, the progress in human development translates into improved population standard of living. A better life, a decent standard of living for the greater share of people is the real proof of the effectiveness of economic and social processes including liberalization, economic growth and development and the motivation for future efforts to be made in this direction. Our theoretical approach is made on the basis of some specific indicators characteristic to the analyzed processes, indicators compiled and made available by various international organizations in the field. These statistical figures shall enable a comparison between the situation of some representative countries, including Romania.
E19|Equilibrium Model in a Monetary Economy|The paper consists of three parts. In the first part a monetary economy, based on credit money, is introduced. All financial instruments are considered as substitutes for money. In the second part the possibility of equilibrium convergence, under certain conditions, is studied. The conclusion is that that the equilibrium convergence requires monetary velocity acceleration. The velocity of money is introduced as complex variable derived as a solution of a matrix equation and implying the existence of closed money circulation cycles. The third part is dedicated to the interplay between the real and the financial sectors under the process of equilibrium convergence and economic stabilization. Keynesian, monetarist and real business cycle type of stabilization are studied. The conclusion about the possibility of the destabilizing role of the financial sector is drawn.
E19|Equilibrium Model in a Monetary Economy|The paper consists of three parts. In the first part a monetary economy, based on credit money, is introduced. All financial instruments are considered as substitutes for money. In the second part the possibility of equilibrium convergence, under certain conditions, is studied. The conclusion is that that the equilibrium convergence requires monetary velocity acceleration. The velocity of money is introduced as complex variable derived as solution of a matrix equation and implying the existence of closed money circulation cycles. The third part is dedicated to interplay between the real and the financial sectors under the process of equilibrium convergence and economic stabilization. Keynesian, monetarist and real business cycle type of stabilization are studied. The conclusion about the possibility of destabilizing role of financial sector is drawn.
E19|Are there Goodwin employment-distribution cycles? International empirical evidence|El modelo depredador-presa de Goodwin predice ciclos en el sentido del reloj en el planoempleo-distribución. Se presenta evidencia cualitativa de comportamiento no lineal parauna muestra de 67 países, algunos con ciclos como los de Goodwin. Los centrosestimados yacen por fuera de los ciclos observados. El tipo de ciclo (en el sentido delreloj, contrario o atípico) parece relacionarse con el tipo de capitalismo del país.Economías con capitalismo de mercado o europeo, y las economías en transición nopresentan ciclos de demanda; los países en desarrollo con capitalismo mediterráneo nopresentan ciclos de Goodwin.
E19|Quantitative Evidence of Goodwins Non Linear Growth Cycles|The article searches for quantitative evidence in favor of an extended version of Goodwin´s predator-prey model of endogenous distribution-employment cycles for 16 countries. The model is extended to include several harmonics in both series. The model fits all the observations both within sample and out of sample for half of the countries, with a 10% error, and for 4 countries with a 5% error. This suggests that the model may be useful in empirical work.
E19|Equity Criteria as Instrument to Ensure Sustainability of Pareto or Kaldor-Hicks Efficiency: A Correlation Hidden by Sources of Confounding as Key for Sorting Out the Global Economic Crisis|The hypothesis is that Pareto and Kaldor-Hicks Efficiency have an aspect of sustainability in relation to inequality. The analysis finds efficient situations reached increasing inequality as diminishing in the long term effective demand in a larger measure than counterbalancing increases thanks to total factor productivity growth. Equity and efficiency in welfare economics, rather than being quite contrasting objectives, are as such related and mutually necessary. As such countries are called to implement redistributive policies together with Kaldor-Hicks movements. These would make some parts of the economic agents less well off, while they would reinstate effective demand on the demand side. This latter increases output and wealth throughout the economy for all economic agents in general. Redistributive policies increase also imports, benefiting third countries and remunerating therefore their potential free-rider behaviour. The concerned demand side policies, requiring cooperation and redistribution, call the international institutions to coordinate their action for harmonizing such policies and restrain free-rider behaviour.
E19|Can Integrity Replace Institutions? Theory and Evidence|Institutions are important for proper economic performance, but are replaceable by trust or other social norms. We show that when proper institutions and trust are missing, integrity of the individuals can replace them. We construct a model of a transactions-based economy with contracts preceding the transactions, and show that any one of (1) institutions, (2) trust, or (3) integrity, foster economic growth. We construct data of economic performance of social groups in Lebanon, measure integrity and other values of these groups, and use this data and data from Kenya to support one of the model’s predictions. Policy implications are discussed.
E19|The role of search frictions for output and inflation dynamics: a Bayesian assessment|Search frictions in the goods market have proven to be a fruitful deviation from the fiction of a centralized Walrasian market providing a micro-foundation of the use of money as a medium of exchange. Moreover, persistent propagation of monetary shocks can arise in search-theoretic monetary models through the interaction of search-frictions in the goods and labor markets, and inventory holdings. Here, a search-theoretic monetary DSGE model with capital and inventory investment is estimated, and its implications on output and inflation dynamics are contrasted with those of standard flexible price monetary models: a cash-in-advance and a portfolio adjustment cost model. Model estimation and comparison is conducted in a Bayesian way in order to account for possible model misspecification. The search model can track inflation and output data better, as well as it dominates the other models in the ability to predict the autocorrelations of inflation and the persistent disinflation process after a technology shock. It generates a hump-shaped but not strong enough output response to a monetary shock. Current and near current correlations between output growth inflation are predicted well.
E19|External Shocks and the Indian Economy: Analyzing through a Small, Structural Quarterly Macroeconometric Model|Though a large number of structural macroeconometric models have been estimated for India, the fact that all these are based on annual data limit their usefulness for short-term policy analysis, particularly in volatile periods of the type seen during last few quarters. Therefore the present paper builds up a short-term macroeconometric model for India using quarterly data. The model has reasonably good in-sample performance. One important feature of the model is use of quadratic relation between government expenditure and credit to private sector, which shows presence of both crowding in and crowding out effects, the latter dominating the former when expenditure is high enough. Some simulations are also carried out to analyse the impact of recent external shocks such as rise in global food and fuel prices and the global financial meltdown, on the Indian economy. The results show that the current slowdown in India’s growth predates the global price shock and the global financial crisis, and is more of a regular cyclical downturn. The global developments only further deepen the slowdown and prolong the recovery.
E19|Are There Goodwin Employment-Distribution Cycles? Theoretical and Empirical Evidence|Goodwin's predator prey model predicts cycles in the employment distribution space. After the Cambridge capital controversies this particular model can not be seen as theoretically consistent. However, evidence is provided in favour of non-linear dynamic behaviour for a sample of 67 countries, some of which have cycles similar to those predicted by the model.
E19|"Monnaie et reproduction du capital : un modèle pour aider un ""génie supérieur"" ricardien"|"The way in which Ricardo deals with the gravitation of market prices around natural prices involves some difficulties which, from our point of view, invalidate his reasoning. However, some propositions which can be found in his monetary writings can help to avoid those difficulties. We present a model dealing with the working of an economy in which the commodities which are produced can only be bought with money. We prove that the dynamical evolution of such a society depends on the distribution of money between capitalists and on their prices expectations. Thus, if a ""superior genius had the arrangement of the capital of the country under his control"", as he alludes to in a letter to his friend Malthus, the consequences of such an intervention would be different from those assumed by Ricardo."
E19|Kydland ile Prescott’un makro ekonomik analize kantitatif teorik yaklaşımı|Bu makalede kantitatif makroiktisat alanında yirmibeş yıl önce ortaya çıkan ve son yıllarda oldukça popüler hale gelen bir yöntem tartışılmaktadır. Bu yöntem R. Frisch’in düşüncesinden esinlenmiştir. R. Frisch, 1930’lu yıllarda “kantitatif ekonomik teori” gereksinimini ortaya koymuş ve “ekonometri” adını verdiği bu teorinin işinin çeşitli sorulara teorinin kantitatif yanıtlarının bulunması olduğunu belirtmiştir. Ancak, izleyen yarım asırlık dönemde ekonometri başlığı altında ortaya çıkan gelişmeler Frisch’in tasarladığı kantitatif ekonomik teori düşüncesinden uzaktır. Kydland ile Prescott (1982)’un geliştirdiği hesaplamalı deney yöntemi sayesinde sonunda Frisch’in kantitatif ekonomik teori düşüncesi gerçekleşmiştir. Bu makalede belirtilen gelişmeler gözden geçirilmekte; Kydland ile Prescott’un kantitatif ekonomik teoriye bakışı, geliştirdikleri yöntem ve araçlar sunulmakta; ve bunların Frisch’in kantitatif ekonomik teori vizyonunun gerçekleştirilmesine katkıları değerlendirilmektedir. Literatür taramasına dayanan çalışmada, kantitatif ekonomik teori fikrinin çok güçlü olmasına karşın hesaplamalı deney yönteminin bazı sınırlamaları ve zayıflıkları bulunduğu sonucuna varılmaktadır. Ancak, belirtilmeli ki Kydland ile Prescott iktisat bilimine makroekonomik konuların araştırılmasında kullanışlı yeni bir metodoloji kazandırmış ve yeni gelişmeleri tetiklemiştir
E19|Values and Norms Matter – On the Basic Determinants of Long-Run Economic Development|Over the last couple of decades, it has become a commonplace to claim that “institutions matter” for economic development. Yet, institutions are not exogenous but the result of hu-man action. It is argued here that the values and norms held by substantial parts of society’s members are an important determinant of its institutions. It is further argued that values and norms have both a direct and an indirect effect on economic development: the direct effect materializes because the values and norms also contain the work ethic which, if transformed into behavior, should have direct consequences on economic development. The indirect effect is conjectured to work via the relevant institutions: if institutions are important for economic development and institutions are influenced by the values and norms, then this is a more indi-rect channel through which values and norms can display their impact.
E19|Macrodynamics of Stabilization under Dual Exchange Rate: an Effective Demand Model|The paper examines effects of selected measures of stabilization in a financially repressed economy under two-tier exchange rate. Since financial repression is a generic category, it requires context-specific (model-specific) representation. In this paper financial repression is represented in terms of a very rudimentary asset structure. The models of the dual exchange rate in the existing literature are by and large full-employment models. Consequently the targets of stabilization are inflation and current account balance. This paper attempts to make an intervention in the literature by introducing the problem of effective demand and unemployment. Hence, we get wider range of targets of stabilization namely unemployment, current account balance and inflation. We will utilize the asset approach of the Calvo-Rodriguez model in an otherwise aggregative Dornbusch type model under the assumption that commodity price is sticky and output is demand determined.
E19|Can Integrity Replace Institutions? Theory and Evidence|Institutions are important for proper economic performance, but can be somewhat replaced by trust or other social norms. This study shows that institutions and trust can be replaced by integrity of the individual agents in the economy, regardless of any social arrangement. We construct a model of a transactions-based economy in which transactions are preceded by contracts, and show that any one of (1) institutions, (2) trust, or (3) integrity, can foster economic growth, while the absence of all three will lead to economic decay. The model also predicts that in the absence of institution and trust, dishonest agents may gain higher payoffs than honest agents. We construct data of economic performance of different social groups in Lebanon, measure integrity and other values of these groups, and support the latter conclusion with this data.
E19|Inflación: La visión estructural|La inflación ha ocupado, casi desde mediados del siglo pasado, un lugar cada vez más importante en la teoría y discursos económicos. Desde luego se le ha visto por parte de la escuela de pensamiento dominante como el peor de los males y generada por excesiva ingerencia de los gobiernos en la economía y la inconsistencia temporal de las políticas emprendidas por este. Aunque explicaciones alternativas tienen cada vez menos acogida, este artículo pretende revisar el tratamiento dado a la inflación desde una mirada estructural al sistema económico. Se considera un marco alternativo para descifrar los determinantes del alza consistente de los precios como un fenómeno que no es monetario estrictamente basándose para esto en la clásica división sectorial de la economía que caracteriza la escuela escandinava.
E19|Az új keynesi elvek alkalmazása a Fed, az IMF és az Európai Központi Bank modellezési gyakorlatában<BR>[Application of new Keynesian principles in the modelling practice of the Fed, the IMF and the European Central Bank]|A dolgozat áttekintés nyújt a dinamikus, sztochasztikus, általános egyensúlyi mo dellek (DSGE) alapját biztosító elvekről, s azokról a tényezőkről, melyek az alapmo dellt kiegészítve a rendszert gyakorlati használatra alkalmassá teszik. Néhány pél dán keresztül bemutatja továbbá, hogy három intézmény: az amerikai központi bank (Fed), a Nemzetközi Valutaalap (IMF), valamint az Európai Központi Bank (ECB) a DSGE modellek mely változatát használja, mely kérdések megválaszolását tartja le hetségesnek az általa kiépített rendszerben, s melyek a működtetéssel kapcsolatos eddigi tapasztalatai. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: E19, E32, E37.
E19|Macroeconomia e Autorganizzazione: un nuovo contributo. Nota di discussione a: MASANAO AOKI - HIROSHI YOKISHAWA, Reconstructing Macroeconomics – A Perspective from Statistical Mechanics and Combinatorial Stochastic Processes|This discussion paper critically reviews a new book by Aoki and Yokishawa and presents some of the techniques adopted by the authors as a new approach to the foundations of macroeconomics. The paper discusses some of the main techniques of statistical mechanics relevant in this context, namely the Master Equation and the Polya Urn. The former is a key instrument for deriving some Keynesian results throughout the book, in particular the role of effective demand in stimulating the economy; additionally, it is used to assess the role and significance of uncertainty and to re-examine so-called «policy ineffectiveness», showing instead the positive contribution of an active economic policy. The Polya Urn is used to show demand saturation as a growth limiting factor and demand for new products as a growth-enhancing one, with the clear objective of linking the Keynesian principle of effective demand (short term) with a long-term growth theory.
E19|Say's Law and the Business Cycles|The relationship between Say's Law and the business cycle has been vigorously debated but no generally accepted agreement has yet been reached. Although this is a disputed topic, revisiting it anew could further develop economic theory, and enhance the further growth of the global economy. By scrutinising Say¡¯s Law, and its implicit business cycle theories, this paper claims that general gluts are possible, and that the essence of the business cycle is in innovation scarcity. Thus in order to reduce the effects of the business cycle and spur economic growth, a thorough revision of patent laws is necessary.
E19|Repercusiones de la definición de tamaño empresarial en los resultados empíricos sobre eficiencia y financiación<BR>[Repercussions of firm size definition on empirical results for firm efficiency and financing research]|A huge number of quantitative and qualitative criteria perform the research practice and legal issuing on firm size and firm-size-related measures. Inside each of those criteria, quantitative boundaries between two firm categories have also been diverse, even arbitrary. This approach to firm size concept finds out a convergence among variables —assets, market share, labour cost— with activity segment remarks (where both a traditional division and a original proposal have been used). It is demonstrated that previous founding on industry-size relations —as well as profitability or financial structure measurements— clearly depend on firm size and industry (explicative variables) definitions and also on depending variables definitions (mainly profitability).
E19|Borrowing Constraints, Parental Altruism and Human Capital Accumulation| This paper investigates the impact of borrowing constraints on human capital accumulation and welfare. In a standard overlapping-generations model where parental altruism results in transfers that children allocate to consumption and education, the average level of welfare is higher when children cannot borrow against future income. The imposition of borrowing constraints increases parental transfers and raises childrenâ€™s welfare. Additionally, the ability to borrow helps children fund higher levels of education therefore increasing the aggregate level of human capital while borrowing constraints raise aggregate savings and, hence, physical capital. The latter effect dominates and, when prices are flexible, it augments the positive welfare impact of the credit constraint
E19|A Search-Theoretic Monetary Business Cycle Model with Capital Formation|Search-theory has become the main paradigm for the micro-foundation of money. But no comprehensive business cycle analysis has been undertaken yet with a search-based monetary model. This paper extends the model with divisible goods and divisible money of Shi (JET, 1998) to allow for capital formation, analyses the monetary propagation mechanism and contrasts the model's implications with US business cycle stylized facts. The propagation mechanism based on a feedback between increased search intensity and depleted inventories only survives in the presence of non-negligible capital adjustment costs. With intermediate adjustment costs the model is able to replicate fairly well the volatility and cross-correlation with output of key US time series, including sales and inventory investment.
E19|Developing a euro area accounting matrix: issues and applications|Abstract: An important part of external or policy shocks is transmitted throughout the economy via various channels of transactions. To analyse such channels and to predict the impact of shocks, it is expedient to know who recently exchanged what with whom and for what purpose. The most appropriate format for presenting intersectoral linkages at the national level is in a National Accounting Matrix (NAM). A NAM is defined as the presentation of a sequence of integrated accounts and balancing items in a matrix that elaborates the linkages between a supply and use table and institutional sector accounts. This paper compiles the first pilot Euro Area Accounting Matrix (EAAM) and considers its usefulness for the euro area’s economic analysis. It also reports on the solution of a number of aggregation and consolidation issues that arise when constructing a multi-country accounting matrix. JEL Classification: E00, E19
E19|Voting and the Macroeconomy|published in The Oxford Handbook of Political Economy Barry R. Weingast and Donald Wittman, eds. Oxford University Press, 2006
E19|Who is Post-Walrasian Man?|"This paper, written for a conference volume on ""post-Walrasian macro-economics,"" reviews what we have learned, and perhaps not learned, about the character of economic man over the last few decades, and discusses some of the macroeconomic implications of this research."
E19|Discrete Choice with Social Interactions and Endogenous Memberships|This paper tackles the issue of self-selection in social interactions models. I develop a theory of sorting and behavior, when the latter is subject to social influences, extending the model developed by Brock and Durlauf (2001a, 2003) to allow for equilibrium group formation. Individuals choose a group, and a behavior subject to an endogenous social effect. The latter turns out to be a segregating force, and stable equilibria are stratified. The sorting process may induce, inefficiently, multiple behavioral equilibria. Such a theory serves as a means to solve identification and selection problems that may undermine the empirical detection of social effects on individual behavior. I exploit the theoretical model to build a nonlinear (in the social effect) selection correction term. Such a term allows identification, and solves the selection problem that arises when individuals can choose the group whose effect the researcher is trying to disentangle. The resulting econometric model, although relying on strict parametric assumptions, indicates a viable alternative when reliable instrumental variables are not available, or randomized experiments not possible.
E19|Human Capital Accumulation, Lifetime Duration and the Process of Economic Development| This paper presents a microfounded theory of long-term development. We model the interplay between economic variables, namely the process of human capital formation and technological progress, and the biological constraint of finite lifetime expectancy. All these processes affect each other and are endogenously determined. The model is analytically solved and simulated for illustrative purposes. The resulting dynamics reproduce a long period of stagnant growth as well as an endogenous and rapid transition to a situation characterized by permanent growth. This transition can be interpreted as industrial revolution. Historical and empirical evidence is discussed and shown to be in line with the predictions of the model.
E19|A japán gazdasági válság - likviditási csapda az új évezredben?<BR>[The Japanese economic crisis - a liquidity trap in the new millennium?]|Az elmúlt évtizedekben a piacgazdaságok kormányzati politikája nem kis részben az inflációellenes harc jegyében fogant. Ami viszont a japán gazdaságban az elmúlt másfél évtizedben történt fontos tanulság arra nézve, hogy a deflációtól kísért gazdasági pangás sem teljesen kizárható azon veszélyek közül, amelyek a gazdasági fejlettség magas szintjére jutott gazdaságokra leselkednek. Először ismertetjük a Japán gazdaság jelenlegi válságának lényeges konkrétumait, tömör összefoglalót adva a már több mint egy évtizede tartó stagnálás legfontosabb vonásairól és az idevezető út főbb állomásairól. A japán válság egyik különlegessége, hogy a monetáris politika alkalmatlanná vált az aggregált kereslet befolyásolására, azaz a Keynes által a harmincas években leírt likviditási csapda - először egy modern gazdaság történetében - mint létező jelenség tanulmányozható. Írásunk második részében ezt elméleti oldalról közelítjük meg, és bizonyítjuk, hogy a makroökonómia mégoly egyszerű modelljei is hasznos gondolati keretül szolgálnak az esetenként igen bonyolult gazdasági helyzet leírására. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: E19, E31, E52, E58.
E19|Economía Institucional Original y Nueva Economía Institucional: semejanzas y diferencias|The purpose of this paper is to present the main differences between New Institutional Economics, NIE, and Original Institutional Economics, OIE, and to question some of the proposals that call for the gap between the two approaches to be bridge. This does not preclude the possibilities of a dialogue. Without ignoring some important theoretical developments in North’s work, the author claims that NIE is a school that operates in the periphery of the neoclassical economics paradigm, and shares its ontological and methodological foundations; however these are very different from the evolutionary (Darwinian) economics of Thorstein Veblen. Though the task of integrating the OIE and NIE seems impossible following the road of eclecticism, a dialogue between them could open new perspectives and enrich institutional economics.
E19|R&D expenditures and the role of government around the world|The goal of this paper is to conduct an empirical investigation on the macroeconomic determinants of research and development (R&D) expenditures and to assess the role of government in the light of recent developments brought about by the endogenous growth theory. The sample comprises 88 countries over the 1980s and 1990s. Our results are broadly consistent with the theoretical predictions, although some striking results are uncovered, namely: (i) trade openness has a negative effect on R&D, but this effect is mitigated as per capita GDP and the trade with OECD countries increase; (ii) investment in R&D is negatively associated to investment in physical capital; (iii) governments fund a higher share of R&D in countries suffering more severe market failures, but they do not compensate for variations in private R&D.
E19|Model of German hyperinflation with rational expectations|The model of German hyperinflation is presented in this paper, which struck Germany after the first world's war. The simple monetary model, which goes from Cagan's demand function for money and describes equilibrium on money market, is used. The purpose of the paper is analysis and estimation of inflationary expectations behind presupposition of their rationality. Rational expectations are consider in their general form, it is in the form, when the condition of their convergence doesn't have to be satisfied. The magnitudes of inflationary expectations are identified as an unobserved state from the theory of dynamic systems.
E19|Structural stability and robustness to bounded rationality|The introduction of a small amount of bounded rationality into a model sometimes has little effect, and sometimes has a dramatic impact on predicted behavior. We call a model robust to bounded rationality if small deviations from rationality result only in small changes in the equilibrium set. We also say that a model is structurally stable if the equilibrium set (given fully rational agents) varies continuously with the parameter values of the model. Our notions of a model and of rationality are quite broad, allowing us to cover cases in which bounded rationality refers to imperfect optimization, non-rational expectations, or arbitrary behavior by a subset of agents. We show that a model is robust to bounded rationality if and only if it is structurally stable. Thus, we can characterize which models will be robust to bounded rationality and which ones will not, independently of the exact form that bounded rationality takes. In addition, from our characterization it follows that introducing a small amount of bounded rationality will have large effects on predicted outcomes if and only if parameters are near a critical point where the equilibrium set changes in a discontinuous way JEL classification: C69, C79, D51, E19
E19|La politique à l'ère de la mondialisation et de la finance : le point sur quelques recherches régulationnistes|"L'article analyse l'évolution macroéconomique des années quatre-vingt-dix à la lumière des avancées récentes de la théorie de la régulation. Elles concernent d'abord la prise en compte des interdépendances entre sphères politique et économique, les notions de complémentarité et hiérarchie institutionnelle, l'endogénéité du passage de la croissance à la crise et la place de l'Etat-Nation face à une plus grande interdépendance internationale. Ainsi, la ""globalisation"" porte surtout sur la finance et constitue plus l'expression d'un projet politique que d'un déterminisme économique. L'extension des ajustements de marché est loin d'avoir conduit au redressement de l'efficacité dynamique. La viabilité des diverses formes de capitalisme dépend beaucoup de la configuration internationale et des stratégies politiques des divers gouvernements. Enfin, la viabilité d'un régime de croissance financiarisé ou encore patrimonial s'avère problématique tant d'un point de vue théorique qu'empirique."
E19|EMU, Macroeconomics and Children|How can EMU be expected to affect the children of Europe? Macroeconomics in OECD countries has tended to become a remote and abstract subject, discussed in aggregate terms which seem far removed from the everyday experience of families. Much of this paper is concerned with making the link between macroeconomic analysis and family welfare, a link which is important for all age groups, but particularly so for children. Childhood is a vulnerable stage of the life-cycle, and children may be especially sensitive to macroeconomic shocks yet the public debate about EMU has been largely divorced from the concerns of families and children. Several proposals emerge from the analysis for improvements in our monitoring of economic performance to make them more family orientated.
E19|Who Gains (relatively) from Monetary Union? An Estimate of Relative Net Benefits For EU 15 Member States|The paper adresses the issue of the distrbution by country of the costs and benefits associated to the introduction of a single currency in Europe, by estimating the relative costs and benefits of the 15 member state through the use of exploratory multivariate statistical techniques. Our results indicate an uneven distribution of the potential relative costs and benefits across the EU member states. Moreover, we find that not all the characteristics identified as relevant by the optimum currency area literature are equally important in shaping the net outcome of the move to the single currency.
E19|The Litigious Plaintiff Hypothesis: Case Selection and Resolution|A central feature of the litigation process that affects case outcomes is the selection of cases for litigation. In this study, we present a theoretical framework for understanding the operation of this suit selection process and its relationship to the underlying distribution of potential claims and claimants. We implement the model empirically by assuming that individuals vary more in their litigiousness (inverse costs of litigation) than do corporations. This assumption, coupled with the case selection process we present, yields clear predictions on trial rates as a function of whether the plaintiff and defendant were individuals or corporations. The model also yields a prediction on the plaintiff's win rate in lawsuits as a function of the plaintiff's identity. Our empirical analysis, using data on over 200,000 federal civil litigations, yields results that are generally consistent with the theory. Lawsuits where the plaintiff is an individual are found to have higher trial rates and lower plaintiff win rates.
E19|An attempt to quantify the economic system motion under the investment process incidence|In this paper we proposed a model deriving from physics laws, which are associated to the investments impact upon the economic system potential. Defining several physics fundamental dimensions and starting from a series of assumptions, we tried to find their possible economic meaning and interpretation. The economic growth reflected in the system potential rise under the incidence of investments, could occur on three paths (extensive, structural and intensive), depending on main factors changes: the mass of fixed capital, the resources efficiency ratio and the velocity of GDP creation. Based on the proposed model, the optimum volume and structure of investments, according both to disposable resources and targeted economic development stage, could be assessed.
E19|Macroeconomic Stability with a Positively Sloped IS Curve: A Further Examination|The Modigliani stability condition states that the slope of the LM curve must be algebraically greater than that of the IS curve for economic stability to occur. This paper mathematically demonstrates that this theorem's validity does not necessarily guarantee stability for the macroeconomic system if the aggregate price level is a variable. Thus, the Modigliani stability condition may not be generalized beyond the scope of a crude IS-LM model having only income and the interest rate as endogenous.
E19|Equilibrium Selection in Games with Macroeconomic Complementarities|We apply the stochastic evolutionary approach of equilibrium selection tomacroeconomic models in which a complementarity at the macro level ispresent. These models often exhibit multiple Pareto-ranked Nash equilibria,and the best response-correspondence of an individual increases with ameasure of the aggregate state of the economy. Our main theoretical resultshows how the equilibrium that is singled out by the evolutionary dynamicsis directly related to the underlying externality that creates themultiplicity problem in the underlying macroeconomic stage game. We alsoprovide clarifying examples from the macroeconomic literature.
