E22|Salarios y crecimiento económico durante el desarrollismo franquista|En este trabajo se analiza el crecimiento económico de la economía española durante el período 1957-1975, que cubre el segundo franquismo o etapa tecnocrática. El principal objetivo es contribuir a una explicación del crecimiento de la demanda interna que se produjo durante el período y que, a pesar de la gran atención que ha despertado el período, no cuenta con estudios hasta la fecha. Siguiendo los modelos de Bhaduri y Marglin, la tesis principal sostiene que el incremento en la retribución salarial, resultado de la movilización obrera, tuvo un efecto positivo en el crecimiento, la productividad y la inversión, i.e., un modelo guiado por los salarios (wage-led) así como los efectos de feedback que conlleva. El contraste de hipótesis se realiza siguiendo una metodología de ecuaciones simultáneas, concretamente mediante un modelo de Vectores Autorregresivos VAR, obteniendo que efectivamente se produce una situación de liderazgo de los salarios.
E22|Demand and Supply-side Drivers of Labour Productivity Growth: an empirical assessment for G7 countries|The recent slowdown in labour productivity growth experienced in advanced economies is generally considered one of the main causes of the current phase of economic stagnation. This has led scholars to carry out a number of theoretical and empirical studies to identify the long-run determinants of productivity growth. The present work aims to fall within this debate, with a peculiar focus on the relevance of the Kaldor-Verdoorn law. To this purpose, we empirically investigate on the determinants of labour productivity growth both for the total economy and for the manufacturing sector, comparing the role played by demand- and supply-side factors. A Structural Vector Autoregressive (SVAR) model is estimated for G7 countries from 1970 to 2017. Although the analyses confirm the positive role of supply-side factors in fostering productivity growth, our findings generally validate also the relevance of demand-side factors. Additionally, the positive effect generated by demand factors on labour productivity growth suggests that supply-side measures would be not sufficient to enhance productivity. Our findings suggest that demand-side policies are likely to foster productivity by also stimulating supply-side factors, particularly in the manufacturing sector of the economy.
E22|Lending Standards, Productivity and Credit Crunches|We propose a macroeconomic model in which adverse selection in investment drives the amplification of macroeconomic fluctuations, in line with prominent roles played by the credit crunch and collapse of the asset-backed security market in the financial crisis. Endogenous lending standards emerge due to an informational asymmetry between borrowers and lenders about the riskiness of borrowers. By using loan approval probability as a screening device, banks ration credit following financial disturbances, generating large endogenous movements in total factor productivity, explaining why productivity often falls during crises. Furthermore, the mechanism implies that financial instability is heightened when interest rates are low.
E22|Can Capital Deepening Explain the Global Decline in Labor's Share?|We estimate an aggregate elasticity of substitution between capital and labor near or below one, which implies that capital deepening cannot explain the global decline in labor's share. Our methodology derives from transition paths in the neo-classical growth model. The elasticity of substitution is identified from the cross-country correlation between trends in the labor share and a theoretically derived proxy for the rental rate of capital. Trends in labor's share and the rental rate are weakly correlated across countries, and inversely related in most samples. Previous cross-country estimates of this elasticity were substantially greater than one, which we show was largely due to omitted variable bias: earlier studies used investment prices alone to proxy for the rental rate, whereas the growth model relates rental rates to investment prices and consumption growth. (Copyright: Elsevier)
E22|Frictional Capital Reallocation I: Ex Ante Heterogeneity|This paper studies dynamic general equilibrium models where firms trade capital in frictional markets. Gains from trade arise due to ex ante heterogeneity: some firms are better at investment, so they build capital in the primary market; others acquire it in the secondary market. Cases are considered with random search and bargaining, or directed search and posting. For each, we provide results on existence, uniqueness, efficiency and comparative statics. Monetary and fiscal policy are discussed at length. We also discuss how productivity dispersion can be countercyclical while capital reallocation and its price are procyclical.
E22|Potential Output in Canada: 2019 Reassessment|Potential output is expected to grow on average at 1.8 per cent over 2019–21 and at 1.9 per cent in 2022. While the contribution of trend labour input to potential output growth is expected to decrease between 2019 and 2022, the contribution of trend labour productivity is projected to increase. Relative to the April 2018 reassessment, the profile for potential output growth rates is similar, albeit revised slightly down in 2020 and 2021. Underlying this new profile are negative revisions to the business investment outlook relative to April 2018 that are mostly offset by stronger projections for population growth. Based on various alternative scenarios, the range for potential output growth estimates widens from 1.5 to 2.1 per cent in 2019 to 1.3 to 2.5 per cent in 2022.
E22|Production potentielle au Canada : réévaluation de 2019|La production potentielle devrait afficher une croissance moyenne de 1,8 % de 2019 à 2021 et de 1,9 % en 2022. Même si l’apport du facteur travail tendanciel à la croissance de la production potentielle devrait diminuer entre 2019 et 2022, celui de la productivité tendancielle du travail devrait augmenter. Le profil des taux de croissance de la production potentielle est similaire à celui établi lors de la réévaluation d’avril 2018, malgré une légère révision à la baisse pour 2020 et 2021. Ce nouveau profil tient compte d’un assombrissement des perspectives d’investissement des entreprises, en grande partie contrebalancé par des projections à la hausse pour ce qui est de la croissance démographique. Selon les divers scénarios étudiés, la fourchette des estimations de croissance de la production potentielle s’élargit, allant de 1,5 à 2,1 % en 2019 et de 1,3 à 2,5 % en 2022.
E22|Monetary Policy, Corporate Finance and Investment|We provide new evidence on how monetary policy affects investment and firm finance in the United States and the United Kingdom. Younger firms paying no dividends exhibit the largest and most significant change in capital expenditure - even after conditioning on size, asset growth, Tobin's Q, leverage or liquidity - and drive the response of aggregate investment. Older companies, in contrast, hardly react at all. After a monetary policy tightening, net worth falls considerably for all firms but borrowing declines only for younger non-dividend payers, as their external finance is mostly exposed to asset value fluctuations. Conversely, cash flows change less markedly and more homogeneously across groups. Our findings highlight the role of firm finance and financial frictions in amplifying the effects of monetary policy on investment.
E22|Quality of enforcement and investment decisions. Firm-level evidence from Spain|Investment decisions are generally irreversible and could be affected by holdup problems and opportunism. Thus, investment may need sound enforcement institutions. This paper analyzes firm level data to identify the impact of judicial system efficacy, as representative of the institutional quality, in business investment decisions. More specifically, this research measures the effects of congestion in the Spanish civil (private) jurisdiction at the local level, both when solving ordinary trials and executions (when a judge forces the debtor to pay or to fulfill an obligation) and finds a negative and significant relationship between judicial inefficacy and the gross investment ratio. The effect holds after running several robustness checks. This paper also analyzes the efficacy of the administrative jurisdiction, inspired by the hypothesis of Acemoglu and Johnson (2005), but it does not have a significant impact on investment in our sample.
E22|Fear of taxes|This paper documents that Mexican households anticipated the fiscal reform of 2014 several months before enacted. This change in expectations is documented using a novel source of information available in Google Trends, among other sources. It then analyzes the economic consequences of this change using a general equilibrium growth model with taxes and uncertainty. The model also considers the presence of generic distortions in the form of wedges in the first order conditions to isolate the effect of taxation. The paper provides an explanation for the unusual trajectories of investment and GDP of the Mexican economy around 2013.
E22|What Drives Inventory Accumulation? News on Rates of Return and Marginal Costs|We study the effects of news shocks on inventory accumulation in a structural VAR framework. We establish that inventories react strongly and positively to news about future increases in total factor productivity. Theory suggests that the transmission channel of news shocks to inventories works through movements in marginal costs, through movements in sales, or through interest rates. We provide evidence that changes in external and internal rates of return are central to the transmission for such news shocks. We do not find evidence of a strong substitution effect that shifts production from the present into the future.
E22|When creativity strikes: news shocks and business cycle fluctuations|We use monthly US utility patent applications to construct an external instrument for identification of technology news shocks in a rich-information VAR. Technology diffuses slowly, and affects total factor productivity in an S-shaped pattern. Responsible for about a tenth of economic fluctuations at business cycle frequencies, the shock elicits a slow, but large and positive response of quantities, and a sluggish contraction in prices, followed by an endogenous easing in the monetary stance. The ensuing economic expansion substantially anticipates any material increase in TFP. Technology news are strongly priced-in in the stock market on impact, but measures of consumers’ expectations take sensibly longer to adjust, consistent with a New-Keynesian framework with nominal rigidities, and featuring informationally constrained agents.
E22|Revisiting the global decline of the (non-housing) labor share|We show that cross-country comparisons of corporate labor shares are affected by differences in the delineation of corporate sectors. While the US excludes all self-employed and most dwellings from the corporate sector, other countries include large amounts of both — biasing labor shares downwards. We propose two methods to control for these differences and obtain ‘harmonized’ non-housing labor share series. Contrary to common wisdom, the harmonized series remain stable across all major economies except the US, where the labor share still declines, primarily due to manufacturing. These new facts cast doubts on most technological explanations for the labor share decline.
E22|Financing economic growth in Greece: lessons from the crisis|We examine the existence of a feedback loop between the resilience of the financial sector and Greek economic activity. A sequence of structural VARs is employed using data for bank credit, liquidity, capital, asset quality and private demand in 2001-2018 in two data sets. One in monthly frequency with which we examine the determinants of credit provision by Greek banks, and another in quarterly frequency with which we examine the finance-growth nexus for the Greek economy. We find that (a) the deterioration in the quality of Greek banks’ balance sheets affected negatively the provision of credit to the economy, (b) central bank liquidity and recapitalizations of Greek banks provided only a partial remedy and (c) the decline in credit significantly weakened economic activity. Also, we find that there is a role for market financing of the economy but this cannot substitute for the predominantly bank-based financing. Therefore, as the Greek economy starts bouncing back Greek banks have an important role to play, first by solving the high NPLs problem and providing the necessary credit and second by improving the efficiency of capital allocation towards a sustainable growth model.
E22|Inflation Dynamics in the Age of Robots: Evidence and Some Theory|Over the past decade, one of the central questions in macroeconomics has been the missing link observed between inflation and fluctuations in economic activity. We approach this issue with a particular focus on advances in robots, or what are essentially autonomous machines. The contributions of the paper are twofold. First, using a country level balanced panel dataset, we provide significant evidence to show that advances in robots are one factor behind the missing link. Second, we ask a standard New-Keynesian model to rationalize this fact. The distinguishing feature is the introduction of capital which is substituted for human labor, and can therefore be interpreted as the use of robots. Due to this feature and developments in robot, firms can adjust their production by using robots, whose efficiency is getting higher, instead of employing human labor. Hence, the responsiveness of marginal costs to changes in economic activity becomes weakened, and thus, our model supports the empirical fact that advances in robots are one factor behind the missing link.
E22|Firm-Level Political Risk: Measurement and Effects|We adapt simple tools from computational linguistics to construct a new measure of political risk faced by individual US firms: the share of their quarterly earnings conference calls that they devote to political risks. We validate our measure by showing it correctly identifies calls containing extensive conversations on risks that are political in nature, that it varies intuitively over time and across sectors, and that it correlates with the firm’s actions and stock market volatility in a manner that is highly indicative of political risk. Firms exposed to political risk retrench hiring and investment and actively lobby and donate to politicians. These results continue to hold after controlling for news about the mean (as opposed to the variance) of political shocks. Interestingly, the vast majority of the variation in our measure is at the firm level rather than at the aggregate or sector level, in the sense that it is neither captured by the interaction of sector and time fixed effects, nor by heterogeneous exposure of individual firms to aggregate political risk. The dispersion of this firm-level political risk increases significantly at times with high aggregate political risk. Decomposing our measure of political risk by topic, we find that firms that devote more time to discussing risks associated with a given political topic tend to increase lobbying on that topic, but not on other topics, in the following quarter.
E22|Consumer Confidence and Household Investment|Household investment displays a robust leading indicator property over the US business cycle. It has been challenging to account for this stylized fact. In this paper, we develop the hypothesis that consumer confidence drives household investment. Using a survey based consumer confidence measure for 1960Q1–2017Q4 we find that it leads household investment by two quarters and housing starts by one quarter, lending support to the hypothesis. We then use VAR analysis to identify a confidence shock. Household investment increases and follows a persistent hump-shaped response after a positive confidence shock. The responses of total hours-worked and output also show a persistent increase and so do real house prices. Confidence shocks account for a substantial share of variation in household investment, total hours-worked and output. We show that household investment plays a quantitatively important role in the transmission of confidence shocks in the economy. Moreover, confidence shocks do not appear to be related to movements in future fundamentals, total factor productivity and the relative price of investment, representing supply side developments. Our findings, therefore, suggest that demand side forces originating in consumers’ social and psychological factors may be a fruitful direction for studying household investment dynamics and their relationship with the business cycle.
E22|Returns to Scale in U.S. Production, Redux|We estimate constant returns or slightly decreasing returns at the industry level in the private U.S. economy over the past 30 years, using two separate industry datasets. An intuitive identity linking returns to scale, the markup, and the profit rate, gives an implied markup of approximately 12 percent, smaller than the estimates in the recent literature ranging from 15–40 percent. Put differently, given our estimated profit rate, large markups imply strongly increasing returns, which are not evident in the aggregate data.These findings suggest that approximately constant returns to scale in the U.S. economy are consistent with a relatively small aggregate markup in the post-1990 period.
E22|Federal Investment, 1962 to 2018|The federal government pays for a wide range of goods and services that are expected to be useful some years in the future. Those purchases, called investment, fall into three categories: physical capital, education and training, and research and development. In 2018, the federal government spent $492 billion on investment, which represented 12 percent of federal spending and 2 percent of GDP.
E22|Crowdsourcing financial information to change spending behavior|We document five effects of providing individuals with crowdsourced spending information about their peers (individuals with similar characteristics) through a FinTech app. First, users who spend more than their peers reduce their spending significantly, whereas users who spend less keep constant or increase their spending. Second, users’ distance from their peers’ spend-ing affects the reaction monotonically in both directions. Third, users’ reaction is asymmetric - spending cuts are three times as large as increases. Fourth, lower-income users react more than others. Fifth, discretionary spending drives the reaction in both directions and especially cash withdrawals, which are commonly used for incidental expenses and anonymous transactions. We argue Bayesian updating, peer pressure, or the fact that bad news looms more than (equally-sized) good news cannot alone explain all these facts.
E22|Double-counting of investment|The double-counting issue implies overstatement of levels of gross domestic product and national income.Ã‚Â A proposed alternative measure of product and income involves a form of full expensing for gross investment.
E22|China’s overinvestment and international trade conflict|For a long time, China’s impressive growth performance has been driven by investment and high productivity gains. Based on the recent discussion on possible overcapacities and overinvestment in China, the paper investigates the sustainability of China’s investment- and export-driven growth model. It is shown that since the turn of the millennium buoyant capital inflows and low interest rates have been at the roots of overinvestment and misallocation of capital, which necessitated export subsidies to clear markets. The overinvestment boom is argued to have ended around 2014. Since then, the overcapacities have weakened China’s bargaining position in the US-Chinese trade conflict and have tempted the Chinese authorities to postpone a restructuring of the Chinese economy by low-interest credit provision. The resulting gradual reemergence of quasi soft budget constraints is seen to undermine China’s long-term growth potential.
E22|International Capital Allocations and the Lucas Paradox Redux|This paper studies the marginal product of private capital (MPK) with new data and a new framework to obtain a better understanding of international capital allocations and the Lucas Paradox (LP). Our point of departure is three influential studies of MPK’s and, based on the most recently available data, the LP is either sustained, inverted, or rejected. We then introduce three improvements in measuring spot MPK’s, and the LP clearly reemerges. While these results are provocative, they may be misleading because they do not recognize the dynamics of the capital accumulation process toward steady-states. We develop and estimate a model that allows us to map spot MPK’s into steady-state MPK’s. The LP remains; the steady-state MPK’s for poor countries is 48% to 77% higher than for rich countries. Four policy implications follow from these estimates. First, there is a great deal of misallocated capital globally: 14% to 21% of the global capital stock. Second, this misallocation is primary due to the difference between country-specific steady-state MPK’s and the global MPK that would maximize world output. Third, the benefits of optimally reallocating capital and eliminating the LP are modest: 1.0% to 1.5% of global output or $873 to $1,309 billions of 2019 US dollars. Fourth, the estimates for both misallocation and reallocation depend crucially on the elasticity of substitution between capital and labor. Our empirical work uncovered three new puzzles that have emerged beginning in 1990, 1) the MPK’s for both poor and rich countries have been rising sharply, 2) the gap has been widening, and 3) the steady-state MPK’s exceed the average spot-MPK’s. The later result is inconsistent with the Dynamic Inefficiency, Saving Glut, or Secular Stagnation hypotheses.
E22|Ten Facts on Declining Business Dynamism and Lessons from Endogenous Growth Theory|In this paper, we review the literature on declining business dynamism and its implications in the United States and propose a unifying theory to analyze the symptoms and the potential causes of this decline. We first highlight 10 pronounced stylized facts related to declining business dynamism documented in the literature and discuss some of the existing attempts to explain them. We then describe a theoretical framework of endogenous markups, innovation, and competition that can potentially speak to all of these facts jointly. We next explore some theoretical predictions of this framework, which are shaped by two interacting forces: a composition effect that determines the market concentration and an incentive effect that determines how firms respond to a given concentration in the economy. The results highlight that a decline in knowledge diffusion between frontier and laggard firms could be a significant driver of empirical trends observed in the data. This study emphasizes the potential of growth theory for the analysis of factors behind declining business dynamism and the need for further investigation in this direction.
E22|What Happened to U.S. Business Dynamism?|In the past several decades, the U.S. economy has witnessed a number of striking trends that indicate a rising market concentration and a slowdown in business dynamism. In this paper, we make an attempt to understand potential common forces behind these empirical regularities through the lens of a micro-founded general equilibrium model of endogenous firm dynamics. Importantly, the theoretical model captures the strategic behavior between competing firms, its effect on their innovation decisions, and the resulting “best versus the rest” dynamics. We focus on multiple potential mechanisms that can potentially drive the observed changes and use the calibrated model to assess the relative importance of these channels with particular attention to the implied transitional dynamics. Our results highlight the dominant role of a decline in the intensity of knowledge diffusion from the frontier firms to the laggard ones in explaining the observed shifts. We conclude by presenting new evidence that corroborates a declining knowledge diffusion in the economy. We document a higher concentration of patenting in the hands of firms with the largest stock and a changing nature of patents, especially in the post-2000 period, which suggests a heavy use of intellectual property protection by market leaders to limit the diffusion of knowledge. These findings present a potential avenue for future research on the drivers of declining knowledge diffusion.
E22|Revisiting the Global Decline of the (Non-Housing) Labor Share|We show that cross-country comparisons of corporate labor shares are affected by differences in the delineation of corporate sectors. While the US excludes all self-employed and most dwellings from the corporate sector, other countries include large amounts of both - biasing labor shares downwards. We propose two methods to control for these differences and obtain 'harmonized' nonhousing labor share series. Contrary to common wisdom, the harmonized series remain stable across all major economies except the US, where the labor share still declines, primarily due to manufacturing. These new facts cast doubts on most technological explanations for the labor share decline.
E22|Colombian Economic Growth, Investment and Saving: From 1954 to 2019 and Beyond|No abstract is available for this item.
E22|Determinantes del ahorro interno en Colombia: un acercamiento desde las Cuentas Nacionales Trimestrales para el período 1994-2017|Resumen: El presente trabajo es un intento, en primer lugar, para convalidar con información del Sistema de Cuentas Nacionales Trimestrales, algunos de los hallazgos de estudios nacionales e internacionales sobre los determinantes de la tasa de ahorro domestico o del componente cíclico de la tasa de ahorro doméstico que usan fundamentalmente información procedente del Sistema de Cuentas Nacionales Anuales (de agregados macroeconómicos y por agentes). Un problema crucial en el uso de las cuentas nacionales anuales consiste en que ellas no miden el ahorro consistentemente con definiciones teóricas; los investigadores del ahorro han tenido que realizar cálculos propios, tomando las cuentas nacionales anuales como materia prima y ajustándola con información suministrada por otras instituciones públicas y privadas, para tratar de obtener medidas más próximas a las nociones conceptuales. En ésta investigación no se realiza ninguna transformación de la información trimestral, pero si se usa la evidencia hallada en los estudios anuales. En segundo lugar, se trata de obtener evidencia sobre otro grupo de posibles determinantes del componente transitorio de la tasa de ahorro en el caso de la economía colombiana. Para los propósitos anteriores, se estimó una ecuación reducida por mínimos cuadrados para el componente cíclico de la tasa ahorro interno y como variables independientes a los componentes transitorios de: el crecimiento del PIB real, la profundización financiara (medida por el agregado monetario M2), de los impuestos, de la tasa de dependencia (aproximada por la proporción entre la tasa de ocupación y la tasa de desempleo), la tasa de inflación; las variables anteriores son comunes, aunque cuantitativamente medidas de forma diferente, en los estudios sobre el ahorro; las variables que adicionalmente se incluyen en la estimación son los componentes cíclicos de la tasa de interés de política monetaria, del precio internacional del petróleo, de la tasa de interés externa y de la tasa de cambio nominal. Los resultados son favorables para todas las variables (aunque los coeficientes para el precio internacional del petróleo y la tasa de cambio nominal son pequeños) y son robustos con R2 tendiendo a 1; no hay autocorrelación ni correlación serial, la especificación lineal del modelo es correcta según el test de Ramsey, los test cusum y cusum cuadrado indican estabilidad de los coeficientes, ausencia de multicolinealidad o ésta es moderada (ICJ=3.6), el test de Haussman (la versión de Davidson and MacKinnon (1989,1993) para la endogeneidad indica que ésta no existe o es débil. Igualmente, se destaca el rechazo a la hipótesis del ingreso permanente. / Abstract : The present work is an attempt to, firstly, to validate with information from the system of quarterly national accounts, some of the findings of national and international studies on the determinants of the rate of domestic savings or component cyclic rate of domestic savings, mainly using information from the system of annual national accounts (of macroeconomic aggregates and agents). A crucial problem in the use of annual national accounts is that they do not measure saving consistently with theoretical definitions; saving researchers have had to own calculations, taking the national accounts as raw and adjusting it with information provided by other public and private institutions, to try to obtain measurements closer to the conceptual notions. In this research there is no transformation of the quarterly information, but if used the evidence found in annual studies. Secondly, it is to obtain evidence about another group of possible determinants of the transitory component of the rate of savings in the case of the Colombian economy. For the above purposes, a reduced by least squares equation was estimated for the cyclical component of the rate saving internal and as independent variables to transient components of: the growth of real GDP, the deepening financial) as measured by the monetary aggregate M2), taxes, the dependency ratio (approximated by the ratio between the rate of occupation and the unemployment rate), the rate of inflation; the previous variables are common, although quantitatively measured differently, in studies on saving; the variables that are additionally included in the estimate are the cyclical components of interest rate in monetary policy, the international price of oil, the foreign interest rate and the nominal exchange rate. The results are favorable for all variables (although the coefficients for the international price of oil and the nominal exchange rate are small) and are robust with R2 tending to 1; There is no autocorrelation or serial correlation, the linear specification of the model is correct according to the Ramsey test, the test cusum and Cusum square indicate stability of the coefficients, absence of multicolinearity or this is moderate (ICJ = 3.6), the test of Haussman (the version of Davidson and MacKinnon (1989.1993) for endogeneity indicates that it does not exist or is weak. The rejection of the permanent income hypothesis is also highlighted.
E22|Ten Facts on Declining Business Dynamism and Lessons from Endogenous Growth Theory|"In this paper, we review the literature on declining business dynamism and its implications in the United States and propose a unifying theory to analyze the symptoms and the potential causes of this decline. We first highlight 10 pronounced stylized facts related to declining business dynamism documented in the literature and discuss some of the existing attempts to explain them. We then describe a theoretical framework of endogenous markups, innovation, and competition that can potentially speak to all of these facts jointly. We next explore some theoretical predictions of this framework, which are shaped by two interacting forces: a ""composition effect"" that determines the market concentration and an ""incentive effect"" that determines how firms respond to a given concentration in the economy. The results highlight that a decline in ""knowledge diffusion"" between frontier and laggard firms could be a significant driver of empirical trends observed in the data. This study emphasizes the potential of growth theory for the analysis of factors behind declining business dynamism and the need for further investigation in this direction."
E22|What Happened to U.S. Business Dynamism?|In the past several decades, the U.S. economy has witnessed a number of striking trends that indicate a rising market concentration and a slowdown in business dynamism. In this paper, we make an attempt to understand potential common forces behind these empirical regularities through the lens of a micro-founded general equilibrium model of endogenous firm dynamics. Importantly, the theoretical model captures the strategic behavior between competing firms, its effect on their innovation decisions, and the resulting “best versus the rest” dynamics. We focus on multiple potential mechanisms that can potentially drive the observed changes and use the calibrated model to assess the relative importance of these channels with particular attention to the implied transitional dynamics. Our results highlight the dominant role of a decline in the intensity of knowledge diffusion from the frontier firms to the laggard ones in explaining the observed shifts. We conclude by presenting new evidence that corroborates a declining knowledge diffusion in the economy. We document a higher concentration of patenting in the hands of firms with the largest stock and a changing nature of patents, especially in the post-2000 period, which suggests a heavy use of intellectual property protection by market leaders to limit the diffusion of knowledge. These findings present a potential avenue for future research on the drivers of declining knowledge diffusion.
E22|A Risk-centric Model of Demand Recessions and Speculation|We theoretically analyze the interactions between asset prices, financial speculation, and macroeconomic outcomes when output is determined by aggregate demand. If the interest rate is constrained, a decline in risky asset valuations generates a demand recession. This reduces earnings and generates a negative feedback loop between asset prices and aggregate demand. In the recession phase, beliefs matter not only because they affect asset valuations but also because they determine the strength of the amplification mechanism. In the ex-ante boom phase, belief disagreements (or heterogeneous asset valuations) matter because they induce investors to speculate. This speculation exacerbates the crash by reducing high-valuation investors' wealth when the economy transitions to recession. Macroprudential policy that restricts speculation in the boom can Pareto improve welfare by increasing asset prices and aggregate demand in the recession.
E22|Prudential Monetary Policy|Should monetary policy have a prudential dimension? That is, should policymakers raise interest rates to rein in financial excesses during a boom? We theoretically investigate this issue using an aggregate demand model with asset price booms and financial speculation. In our model, monetary policy affects financial stability through its impact on asset prices. Our main result shows that, when macroprudential policy is imperfect, small doses of prudential monetary policy (PMP) can provide financial stability benefits that are equivalent to tightening leverage limits. PMP reduces asset prices during the boom, which softens the asset price crash when the economy transitions into a recession. This mitigates the recession because higher asset prices support leveraged, high-valuation investors' balance sheets. An alternative intuition is that PMP raises the interest rate to create room for monetary policy to react to negative asset price shocks. The policy is most effective when there is extensive speculation and leverage limits are neither too tight nor too slack.
E22|Productivity Growth, Capital Reallocation and the Financial Crisis: Evidence from Europe and the US|How has capital reallocation affected productivity growth since the financial cri- sis? For example, have low interest rates disrupted the reallocation process? This paper calculates the effect on productivity growth of capital reallocation between industries. It uses an accounting framework, due to Jorgenson and his co-authors, that computes the contribution of capital services to productivity growth relative to one where rates of return are equalised between sectors: if capital persists in the low return sectors, the reallocation measure falls. Using data from 11 countries (the major EU economies plus the US), in 1997-2013, we nd: (a) the contribution of capital reallocation to productivity growth is lower in most economies after than before the financial crisis, notably in Mediterranean countries; (b) more capital real- location is correlated with lower real interest rates, contrary to the hypothesis that low real interest rates have hurt capital reallocation; (c) controlling for shocks, lower capital reallocation is associated with lower optimism, and weaker financial systems.
E22|Redistributive Growth|We study long term effects of the technological shift to intangible capital, whose creation relies on the commitment of skilled human capital in firm production. Humancapital cannot be owned, so firms need less financing. Human capital cannot be credibly committed so firms need to reward it by deferred compensation, diluting future profits. As human capital income is not tradeable, total investable assets fall. The general equilibrium effect is a gradual fall in interest rates and a re-allocation of excess savings into rising valuations of existing assets such as real estate. The concomitant rise in house prices and wage inequality leads to higher household leverage.
E22|Facts on Business Dynamism in Turkey|In this paper, we investigate various trends on competition and business dynamism in the Turkish manufacturing sector. More specifically, using micro level administrative data sets of firm balance sheets, credit registry and social security records, we focus on moments such as firm entry, exit, profitability, worker reallocation, labor share, labor productivity and credit distributions, among several others. Our results indicate that business dynamism in the Turkish manufacturing sector was relatively stable and even improving until 2012 but has been declining since then. We find that market concentration and exit rates have started to rise, yet new business creation, labor share of output and economic activities of young firms have declined. Using a model with endogenous market competition, we show that a adverse shock to cost of R&D investment can explain these empirical trends. We identify increases in financing costs after 2012 of followers as a potential mechanism for our findings in Turkey. We next perform a policy analysis with our model which suggests that providing support (e.g., R&D subsidy) to immediate followers can undo the adverse effects of the negative shock to financing costs and therefore foster competition and faster growth.
E22|The effect of observables, functional specifications, model features and shocks on identification in linearized DSGE models|Both the investment adjustment costs parameters in Kim (2003) and the monetary policy rule parameters in An & Schorfheide (2007) are locally not identifiable. We show means to dissolve this theoretical lack of identification by looking at (1) the set of observed variables, (2) functional specifications (level vs. growth costs, output-gap definition), (3) model features (capital utilization, partial inflation indexation), and (4) additional shocks (investment-specific technology, preference). Moreover, we discuss the effect of these changes on the strength of parameter identification from a Bayesian point of view. Our results indicate that researchers should treat parameter identification as a model property, i.e. from a model building perspective.
E22|Capital Stock and Depreciation: Theory and an Empirical Application|There are many puzzles and unresolved problems in empirical economics that depend on the reliability of the productive capital series. Some macroeconomic topics and questions cannot be addressed correctly or answered with the available standard statistical measures of capital stock. We make an innovative contribution to the theory of capital together with an exercise that quantifies the depreciation rate and the capital stock for the U.S. economy. An intertemporal optimization model with adjustment and maintenance costs, gives us the algorithm and the corresponding economic estimation of capital deterioration and obsolescence. Our measures are based on profitability and the Tobin’s q ratio.
E22|Synergizing Ventures|Venture capital (VC) and growth are examined both empirically and theoretically. Empirically, VC-backed startups have higher early growth rates and initial patent quality than non-VC-backed ones. VC backing increases a startup's likelihood of reaching the right tails of the firm size and innovation distributions. Furthermore, outcomes are better for startups matched with more experienced venture capitalists. An endogenous growth model, where venture capitalists provide both expertise and financing for business startups, is constructed to match these facts. The presence of venture capital, the degree of assortative matching between startups and financiers, and the taxation of VC-backed startups matter significantly for growth.
E22|Firm Entry and Exit and Aggregate Growth|Using plant-level data from Chile and Korea, we find that, during episodes of rapid growth, most of the aggregate productivity growth is due to the entry and exit of firms while, during episodes of slower growth, it is mostly due to growth within and across existing firms. Studies for other countries suggest that this is an empirical regularity. We develop a dynamic general equilibrium model based on Hopenhayn (1992) which incorporates the theory of economic growth proposed by Parente and Prescott (1994) and Kehoe and Prescott (2002). In this model, new firms enter every period with productivities drawn from a distribution whose mean grows over time. After entering, a firmâ€™s productivity grows, but not as rapidly as new firmsâ€™ productivity distribution. In a version of the model calibrated to U.S. plant-level data, we simulate two sets of reforms: a decrease in new firmsâ€™ costs of entry and a reduction in the barriers to technology adoption for new firms. The model reproduces the regularity that we observe in the data, and confirm that entry and exit of firms is crucial for reforms to generate rapid growth.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E22|What Does Financial Crisis Tell Us About Exporter Behavior and Credit Reallocation?|Using Japanese firm data covering the Japanese financial crisis in the early 1990s, we find that exporters' domestic sales declined more significantly than their foreign sales, which in turn declined more significantly than non-exporters' sales. This stylized fact provides a new litmus test for different theories proposed in the literature to explain a trade collapse associated with a financial crisis. In this paper we embed the Melitz's (2003) model into a tractable DSGE framework with incomplete financial markets and endogenous credit allocation to explain both the Japanese firm-level data and the well-documented aggregate trade collapse during a financial crisis in world economic history. The model highlights the role of credit reallocation between non-exporters and exporters as the main mechanism in explaining exporters' behaviors and trade collapse following a financial crisis.
E22|Data Appendix: What Do Survey Data Tell Us about U.S. Businesses?|"In this appendix, we provide details on the data sources and construction of variables for our analysis in ""What Do Survey Data Tell Us about U.S. Businesses?"" We also include the auxiliary tables and figures omitted from the main text."
E22|The Firm Size and Leverage Relationship and Its Implications for Entry and Concentration in a Low Interest Rate World|Larger firms (by sales or employment) have higher leverage. This pattern is explained using a model in which firms produce multiple varieties and borrow with the option to default against their future cash ow. A variety can die with a constant probability, implying that bigger firms (those with more varieties) have lower coefficient of variation of sales and higher leverage. A lower risk-free rate benefits bigger firms more as they are able to lever more and existing firms buy more of the new varieties arriving into the economy. This leads to lower startup rates and greater concentration of sales.
E22|Fixed investment in Russia in 2018|Macroeconomic situation in 2017–2018 was marked by the outstripping growth rates of fixed investments relative to GDP performance and final consumption of households. In 2018, amid fixed investments increase by 4.3 percent, GDP growth constituted 2.3 percent relative to the corresponding period of the previous year. However, despite the upward trend of fixed investments seen in 2017–2018, the economy has retained the impact from the acute investment crisis of 2014–2016. Vis-a-vis pre-crisis 2012 fixed investments registered in 2018 came to merely 97.3 percent and the construction work volume to 95.7 percent.
E22|Has French budgetary policy since the 1970s been truly Keynesian?|The article shows that budgetary policy in France since the 1970s cannot be characterized as Keynesian. To prove this, two rules of behaviour compatible with Keynesian teaching are proposed and then compared with changes in budgetary balances and with a battery of stylized facts. The article calls for a fiscal stimulus allowing production capacities to be fully used for the first rule, or the return to full employment for the second. The article also points to potential ways of showing that the objective of full employment is not incompatible with the ecological transition and can be more easily reachable with a reduction in work hours.
E22|Employment Protection Legislation Impacts on Capital and Skills Composition|[eng] The article investigates the effects of Employment Protection Legislation (EPL) on capital and skills according to the intensity of international competition. Grounded on a panel data sample for 14 OECD countries and 18 industries from 1988 to 2007, and a difference-in-difference approach, we find that strengthening EPL: (i) leads to a capital-labour substitution in favour of non ICT non R&D capital to the detriment of employment, this effect being mitigated in industries highly exposed to international competition; (ii) lowers ICT capital and, even more severely, R&D capital relatively to other capital components; and (iii) works at the relative disadvantage of low-skilled workers. Strengthening EPL can therefore be an impediment to organizational and so technological change and risk taking on globalized markets. An illustrative simulation suggests that structural reforms weakening EPL could have a significant favorable impact on firms’ ICT and R&D investment and on hiring low-skilled workers.
E22|International credit markets and global business cycles|This paper stresses a new channel through which global financial linkages contribute to the co‐movement in economic activity across countries. We show in a two‐country setting with borrowing constraints that international credit markets are subject to self‐fulfilling variations in the world real interest rate. Those expectation‐driven changes in the borrowing cost in turn act as global shocks that induce strong cross‐country co‐movements in both financial and real variables (such as asset prices, gross domestic product, consumption, investment, and employment). When firms around the world benefit from unexpectedly low debt repayments, they borrow and invest more, which leads to excessive supply of collateral and of loanable funds at a low interest rate, thus fueling a boom both at home and abroad. As a consequence, business cycles are synchronized internationally. Such a stylized model thus offers one way to rationalize both the existence of a world business‐cycle component, documented by recent empirical studies through dynamic factor analysis, and the factor's intimate link to global financial markets.
E22|Measuring ‘indirect’ investments in ICT in OECD countries| ICT components, such as microprocessors, may be embodied in other capital goods not recorded as ICT in National Accounts. We name ‘indirect ICT investment’ the value of embodied ICT components in non-ICT investment. The paper provides estimates of ‘indirect ICT investment’ based on detailed and unpublished Supply-Use tables (SUT) in 12 OECD countries: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Japan, Israel, Mexico, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and the United States.Our main finding is that ICT investment appears significantly higher when considering its indirect component, the average increase being about 35%. The inclusion of indirect ICT investment, excluding software (for which firms’ expenditures are difficult to measure), changes significantly the relative position of countries with respect to the ICT intensity of their investments. The inclusion of software further increases indirect ICT investment but the increase is smaller (in percentage) than without this inclusion. A final result, but concerning only three countries, it that the diagnosis of a stabilisation, or even a decrease, of ICT investment in percentage of GDP or of total investment, observed from the beginning of the century, is not modified if we take into account the indirect ICT investment.
E22|Rent Creation And Rent Sharing: New Measures And Impacts On Total Factor Productivity|This analysis proposes new measures of rent creation and rent sharing and assesses their impact on productivity on cross‐country‐industry panel data. We find first that: (1) anticompetitive product market regulations positively affect rent creation and (2) employment protection legislation boosts hourly wages, particularly for low‐skill workers. However, we find no significant impact of this employment legislation on rent sharing, as the hourly wage increases are offset by a negative impact on hours worked. Second, using regulation indicators as instruments, we find that rent creation and rent sharing both have a substantial negative impact on total factor productivity. (JEL E22, E24, O30, L50, O43, O47, C23)
E22|Market Imperfection: Credit Rationing and Excess Liquidity|This article seeks to understand how the monetary policy facilitates credit channels such as credit growth, credit creation and investment spreads. A major task is tackling asymmetric information in credit markets. A decline in wealth transfer from the lender to the borrower which raises the adverse selection problem, thus leads to decreased lending and finance investment spending. The simulation with two representative countries provides us with detailed evidence on savings and investment expressing supply and demand of loanable funds at the economic level; but this is largely ignored in the conventional macroeconomic analysis: e.g. in the Arrow-Debreu model, firms can fund all projects on a pay-as-you-go basis. Further investigation will be conducted for the lender as the principal how to face a low interest rate environment. JEL classification: E22, E32, E52
E22|Financial effects in historic consumption and investment functions|The global financial crisis has highlighted the importance of financial factors on economic performance. Most of the existing research analyses the post-World War 2 experience, and especially the 1980s onwards. This paper investigates the effects of stock prices, real estate prices and debt on consumption and investment expenditures by estimating consumption and investment equations for long historic datasets with about 100 years of data for Britain, France, Norway and Sweden. We find positive debt effects on consumption in three of four countries, but no consistent effects of share prices and house prices. We find positive effects of share prices on investment in all four countries. Effects are stronger in more market-based Britain than in more state-oriented France. For France, Sweden and Norway we find some evidence that effects of financial variables were weaker in the postwar period 1945-80. These findings suggest that the institutional context matters for how financial variables affect economic activity.
E22|What determines unemployment in the long run? Band spectrum regression on ten countries|This paper presents an empirical analysis of the relation between unemployment and macroeconomic performance. A strong correlation has been pointed out before, but a crucial question is over what time-horizon this holds. To the best of our knowledge, no previous cross-country study has shown that there is a long-run relationship between unemployment and macroeconomic performance over a time-period that stretches before the 1960s. To address this issue, we use wavelet analysis to decompose the time series into short, medium and long-run variations, and band spectrum regressions on the relation between unemployment, GDP, investment, long-term interest rate and TFP, covering ten countries 1913-2016. This methodology has several advantages compared to standard econometrical methods and other tools for decomposition. Our results show that unemployment correlates negatively with the long-run components of investment. This suggests that aggregate demand and capital formation inuence long-term labor market outcomes. According to our estimates ca 17-percent of overall variations in unemployment and 29 percent of the long-run variations may be explained by long-run variations in capital formation.
E22|The Effects of Access to Credit on Productivity: Separating Technological Changes from Changes in Technical Efficiency|Improving productivity among microenterprises is important, especially in low-income countries where market imperfections are pervasive, and resources are scarce. Relaxing credit constraints can increase the productivity of microenterprises. Using a field experiment involving agricultural microenterprises in Bangladesh, we estimated the impact of access to credit on the overall productivity of rice farmers and disentangled the total effect into technological change (frontier shift) and technical efficiency changes. We found that relative to the baseline rice output per decimal, access to credit resulted in, on average, approximately a 14 percent increase in yield, holding all other inputs constant. After decomposing the total effect into the frontier shift and efficiency improvement, we found that, on average, around 11 percent of the increase in output came from changes in technology, or frontier shift, while the remaining 3 percent was attributed to improvements in technical efficiency. The efficiency gain was higher for modern hybrid rice varieties, and almost zero for traditional rice varieties. Within the treatment group, the effect was greater among pure tenant and mixed-tenant microenterprise households compared with microenterprises that only cultivated their own land.
E22|Labour market institutions, shocks and the employment rate|The average employment rate for the OECD countries was close to 63 percent in the period 2000-2015 but there is considerable variation within and between countries. We find that a dynamic model for employment, derived from a multiple equation macro model with institutional and population variables, can explain much of the development. The estimated models capture the dynamics well and they imply interpretable estimates of the normal employment rate level, conditional on the state of the institutional variables in 2015. The estimated normal employment rate is 2 percentage points higher when shocks are included in the model, implying that shocks have persistent effects. Regulations of the labour market are important for the effect of shocks. Regulated labour markets amplify positive shocks while negative shocks are dampened compared to less regulated labour markets. In the estimation of the models, we use standard panel data estimators, as well as a version of the within-group estimator which is robust to structural breaks in the means. Empirically we find that some of the estimated coefficients of the institutional variables are robust with respect to the breaks, while others are not. We find that the interaction effect between benefit replacement ratio and benefit duration is robust, and that is can significantly affect the employment rate. This result implies that changes in replacement ratios (or duration) may be expected to have larger impacts in countries where duration (or replacement ratio) is long compared to countries characterized by short duration (or replacement ratio).
E22|Facts on Business Dynamism in Turkey|In this paper, we investigate various trends on competition and business dynamism in the Turkish manufacturing sector. More speci?cally, using micro level administrative data sets of ?rm balance sheets, credit registry and social security records, we focus on moments such as ?rm entry, exit, pro?tability, worker reallocation, labor share, labor productivity and credit distributions, among several others. Our results indicate that business dynamism in the Turkish manufacturing sector was relatively stable and even improving until 2012 but has been declining since then. We ?nd that market concentration and exit rates have started to rise, yet new business creation, labor share of output and economic activities of young ?rms have declined. Using a model with endogenous market competition, we show that an adverse shock to cost of R&D investment can explain these empirical trends. We identify increases in ?nancing costs after 2012 of followers as a potential mechanism for our ?ndings in Turkey. We next perform a policy analysis with our model which suggests that providing support (e.g., R&D subsidy) to immediate followers can undo the adverse effects of the negative shock to ?nancing costs and therefore foster competition and faster growth.
E22|Money, Asset Markets and Efficiency of Capital Formation|Holdings of money and illiquid assets are likely to be determined jointly. Therefore, frictions that give rise to a need for money may affect capital formation, resulting in either too much or too little investment. Existing models of money and capital however tend to overlook that both types of investment inefficiencies can be equilibrium outcomes. Building upon insights from the New-Monetarist literature, we construct a model in which preference heterogeneity between agents implies that both over- and under-investment can arise. We use our framework to study whether monetary policy can effectively resolve both types of investment inefficiencies, and find that increasing inflation could resolve under-investment inefficiencies while reducing inflation could curb over-investment inefficiencies.
E22|Use It or Lose It: Efficiency Gains from Wealth Taxation|How does wealth taxation differ from capital income taxation? When the return on investment is equal across individuals, a well-known result is that the two tax systems are equivalent. Motivated by recent empirical evidence documenting persistent heterogeneity in rates of return across individuals, we revisit this question. With such heterogeneity, the two tax systems have opposite implications for both efficiency and inequality. Under capital income taxation, entrepreneurs who are more productive, and therefore generate more income, pay higher taxes. Under wealth taxation, entrepreneurs who have similar wealth levels pay similar taxes regardless of their productivity, which expands the tax base, shifts the tax burden toward unproductive entrepreneurs, and raises the savings rate of productive ones. This reallocation increases aggregate productivity and output. In the simulated model parameterized to match the US data, replacing the capital income tax with a wealth tax in a revenue-neutral fashion delivers a significantly higher average lifetime utility to a newborn (about 7.5% in consumption-equivalent terms). Turning to optimal taxation, the optimal wealth tax (OWT) in a stationary equilibrium is positive and yields even larger welfare gains. In contrast, the optimal capital income tax (OCIT) is negativeâ€”a subsidyâ€”and large, and it delivers lower welfare gains than the wealth tax. Furthermore, the subsidy policy increases consumption inequality, whereas the wealth tax reduces it slightly. We also consider an extension that models the transition path and find that individuals who are alive at the time of the policy change, on average, would incur large welfare losses if the new policy is OCIT but would experience large welfare gains if the new policy is an OWT. We conclude that wealth taxation has the potential to raise productivity while simultaneously reducing consumption inequality.
E22|Une analyse de la nature de l’investissement immatériel par le rapport capital / travail|Cet article propose de revisiter le concept d’investissement immatériel en posant la question de la nature de celui-ci. Ce travail d’inspiration marxienne analysera la transformation de la nature de l’investissement immatériel en partant des transformations du rapport capital / travail. À partir des modifications de ce rapport identifiées grâce à la notion de subsomption du travail au capital, nous chercherons à appréhender la nature de l’investissement immatériel au travers du rapport actifs / ressources immatérielles. L’identification de ces ressources potentielles poussera nos investigations hors de la sphère de la production. Les notions « d’exploitation de second degré » et de « mobilisation totale » seront alors mobilisées pour comprendre ce qui caractérise aujourd’hui l’investissement immatériel et notamment le fait que les entreprises n’investissent plus seulement dans du capital fixe, mais aussi, et surtout dans les capacités créatives et d’innovations des individus et du corps collectif, plus encore dans le développement d’une nouvelle subjectivité capitaliste. Nous développons donc l’hypothèse que pour analyser le capitalisme contemporain il est nécessaire d’enrichir le concept d’investissement grâce à une redéfinition de l’investissement immatériel et cela en partant des transformations précédemment identifiées.
E22|Identifying Sri Lanka’s Sources of Growth: The Application of Primal and Dual Total Factor Productivity Growth Accounting Approaches|This study aims to identify how much of economic growth is driven by improvement in Total Factor Productivity (TFP) in Sri Lanka, a small open economy, in comparison to other Asian economies. To examine this, aggregate TFP growth was calculated for Sri Lanka by using both primal and dual growth accounting frameworks. The study covers the period 1980-2016 and eight sub-periods, classified according to distinctive socio-economic-politico changes. For the whole period, TFP growth accounts for 45 percent of the total output growth. The annual average TFP growth rates under the primal and dual approaches are 2.3 percent and 3.6 percent, respectively. Though the growth accounting framework has limitations, the results were robust enough to draw comparative conclusions with those of other Asian countries. Sri Lanka’s TFP growth under both methods has been positive and higher than some Asian countries, except for China. Further, though Indonesia and Sri Lanka have similar per capita GDP levels, Sri Lanka’s TFP growth has been higher than that of Indonesia. Additionally, we show that the two growth drivers in Sri Lanka have been capital accumulation and productivity growth.
E22|Optimal investment with vintage capital: equilibrium distributions|The paper concerns the study of equilibrium points, or steady states, of economic systems arising in modelling optimal investment with vintage capital, namely, systems where all key variables (capitals, investments, prices) are indexed not only by time τ but also by age s. Capital accumulation is hence described as a partial differential equation (briefly, PDE), and equilibrium points are in fact equilibrium distributions in the variable s of ages. Investments in frontier as well as non-frontier vintages are possible. Firstly a general method is developed to compute and study equilibrium points of a wide range of infinite dimensional, infinite horizon boundary control problems for linear PDEs with convex criterion, possibly applying to a wide variety of economic problems. Sufficient and necessary conditions for existence of equilibrium points are derived in this general context. In particular, for optimal investment with vintage capital, existence and uniqueness of a long run equilibrium distribution is proved for general concave revenues and convex investment costs, and analytic formulas are obtained for optimal controls and trajectories in the long run, definitely showing how effective the theoretical machinery of optimal control in infinite dimension is in computing explicitly equilibrium distributions, and suggesting that the same method can be applied in examples yielding the same abstract structure. To this extent, the results of this work constitutes a first crucial step towards a thorough understanding of the behaviour of optimal controls and trajectories in the long run.
E22|Endogenous credit constraints: the role of informational non-uniqueness|We point out that the equilibrium deinition applied by Miao and Wang [8] in their model of stock price bubbles involves an implicit assumption about the for-mulation of an endogenous credit constraint. By dropping this assumption, one can construct ininitely many additional equilibria for the Miao-Wang economy, all of which exhibit stock price bubbles. The underlying reason for this result is informational non-uniqueness, a phenomenon known from the literature on dynamic games. Neither the original equilibria discussed by Miao and Wang [8] nor the additional ones which exist due to informational non-uniqueness are Markov-perfect. For this reason we propose a recursive equilibrium deinition for the Miao-Wang economy and show how it can be used to construct Markov-perfect equilibria with stock price bubbles.
E22|Firmenersparnisse und der Arbeitsanteil am Einkommen|In den vergangenen Jahrzehnten ist in vielen entwickelten Volkswirtschaften der Anteil des nationalen Einkommens, der auf den Faktor Arbeit entfällt, zurückgegangen. Gleichzeitig wird heutzutage ein grösserer Anteil der Kapitaleinkommen von den Unternehmen als einbehaltene Gewinne in den Unternehmen belassen. Stehen diese höheren Firmenersparnisse im Zusammenhang mit dem Rückgang des Arbeitsanteils am Einkommen oder sind sie auf andere Faktoren zurückzuführen? Dieses Papier untersucht empirisch mittels Panelregressionen mögliche Bestimmungsfaktoren für den Anstieg der Firmenersparnisse. Der analysierte Datensatz umfasst 46 Länder zwischen 1980 und 2016. Die Resultate unserer Analysen deuten darauf hin, dass der Anstieg der Firmenersparnisse in einem Zusammenhang steht mit einen niedrigeren Arbeitsanteil.
E22|"The ""Armey Curve"" in Bulgaria (2000-18): Theoretical Considerations and Empirical Results"|"In this paper we provide a theoretical basis for the so-called ""Armey curve,"" the inverted U-shape relationship between the level of government purchases and GDP growth, named after Armey (1995). We use an otherwise standard Keynesian model, augmented with a quadratic relationship between investment and lagged government expenditure, which was documented empirically. This modelling approach is a useful shortcut that aims to capture the common link shared by both variables, namely their dependence on the real interest rate, as suggested also by the extended static IS-LM model. This resulting dynamic relationship is a newly-documented stylized fact, at least in Bulgarian data for the period 2000-2018, and the source in the extended Keynesian model that generates an Armey curve for Bulgaria."
E22|The Evolution of Factor Shares: Evidence from Switzerland|While the labor share of income has decreased in most advanced economies since the 1980s, it has remained relatively stable in Switzerland. However, this does not imply that the capital share of income has also remained stable. Our results suggest that the share of imputed capital rental payments to income has decreased. Similar to other countries, Switzerland has seen an increase in the so-called factorless income share that cannot be readily attributed to capital and labor. The increase in factorless income may reflect a rise in economic rents, higher compensation for business risks, or increased compensation for unmeasured input factors, especially intangible capital. We find that the stable labor share in Switzerland cannot be traced back to high wage growth, but rather to subdued investment growth and a high growth rate of the labor force.
E22|Interest rate hysteresis in macroeconomic investment under uncertainty|"The interest rate is generally considered as a monetary policy tool and, at the same time, via Tobin's q, as an important driver of macroeconomic investment. As an innovation, this paper derives the exact shape of the ""hysteretic"" impact of changes in the interest rate on macroeconomic investment under the scenarios of certainty and uncertainty. We capture the direct interest rate-hysteresis effects on investment and the capital stock and, explicitly, stochastic changes of the interest rate-investment hysteresis relationship. Starting with hysteresis effects on a microeconomic level of a single firm, we apply an explicit aggregation procedure to derive the interest rate-hysteresis effects on a macroeconomic level. Based on our simple model we are quite skeptical regarding the efficacy of the central bank in providing incentives for macroeconomic investment in times of low or even zero interest rates and high uncertainty. Only if the central bank implements monetary policy strategies such as ""forward guidance"" and is able to credibly commit to low interest rates also for the foreseeable future, our quite strong verdict may be of less relevance."
E22|The European economic crisis from 2007 onwards in the context of a global crisis of over-production of capital - a Marxian monetary theory of value interpretation|This paper attempts to clarify how the European economic crisis from 2007 onwards can be understood from the perspective of a Marxian monetary theory of value that emphasizes in-trinsic, structural flaws regarding capitalist reproduction. Chapter two provides an empirical description of the European economic crisis, which to some extent already reflects the struc-tural theoretical framework presented in chapter three. Regarding the theoretical framework Michael Heinrich's interpretation of 'the' Marxian monetary theory of value will be presented. Heinrich identifies connections between production and realization, between profit and inter-est rate as well as between industrial and fictitious capital, which represent contradictory tendencies for which capitalism does not have simple balancing processes. In the context of a discussion of 'structural logical aspects' of Marx's Critique of the Political Economy, explana-tory deficits of Heinrich's approach are analyzed. In the following, it is argued that Fred Mose-ley's view of these 'structural logical aspects' allows empirical 'applications' of Marxian mon-etary theories of value. It is concluded that a Marxian monetary theory of value, with the characteristics of expansive capital accumulation and its limitations, facilitates a structural analysis of the European economic crisis from 2007 onwards. In this line of argument, expan-sive production patterns are expressed, among other things, in global restructuring processes, while consumption limitations are mitigated by expansive financial markets and shifts in ex-port destinations.
E22|Interest Rate Hysteresis in Macroeconomic Investment under Uncertainty|The interest rate is generally considered as an important driver of macroeconomic investment. As an innovation, this paper derives the exact shape of the “hysteretic” impact of changes in the interest rate on macroeconomic investment under the scenarios of both certainty and uncertainty. We capture the direct interest rate-hysteresis on the investments and the capital stock and, explicitly, of stochastic changes on the interest rate-investment hysteresis. Starting with hysteresis effects on a microeconomic level of a single firm, we apply an explicit aggregation procedure to derive the interest rate hysteresis effects on a macroeconomic level. Based on our simple model we are able to obtain some conclusions about the efficacy of a central bank’s interest rate policy, e.g. in times of low or even zero interest rates and high uncertainty, in terms of stimulating macroeconomic investment.
E22|Entrepreneurial finance, home equity, and monetary policy|We model entrepreneurial finance using a combination of fiat money, traditional bank loans, and home equity loans. The banking sector is over-the- counter, where bargaining determines the pass-through from the nominal interest rate to the bank lending rate, characterizing the transmission channel of monetary policy. The results show that the strength of this channel depends on the combination of nominal and real assets used to finance investments, and thus declines in the extent to which housing is accepted as collateral. A calibration to the U.S. economy supports the theoretical results and provides novel insights on entrepreneurial finance between 2000 and 2016.
E22|Tax Incentives for Investment: Evidence from Japan's High-Growth Era|Tax devices have occasionally been adopted as policy tools to promote economic growth in major industrialized countries after the Second World War. In Japan, various accelerated depreciation schemes under the name 'special depreciation' were employed as major devices to stimulate investments. In this paper, we manually collect firm-level data series in the heyday of the device from the mid-1950s to the early 1970s. The findings from firm-level data are as follows: the aggregated special depreciation hit two peaks when the schemes were expanded, applying special depreciation tax incentives prevailed among listed companies, and the actual amounts varied across firms with strong upward biases. A detailed examination of each firm's financial statements indicates that each firm retained its discretion when applying the scheme and sometimes chose not to enjoy the full benefits. An empirical analysis reveals that firms with relatively less capital to labor tended to use larger special depreciation, hinting at the probability of intended effects of policy devices. Increases in the number of designated machines for the scheme- once considered to represent its inefficiency-actually activated the usage of schemes by firms.
E22|A Decline in Labor's Share with Capital Accumulation and Complementary Factor Inputs: An Application of the Morishima Elasticity of Substitution|The role of capital accumulation as a driver of the labor income share requires capital and labor to be substitutes, which appears paradoxical in a world predominantly characterized by complementarity between capital and labor. This paper argues that the composition of skills in the labor force and an identification of the elasticity parameters between capital and different skills of labor can reconcile the opposing views. Using a framework with capital-skill complementarity and variable substitution elasticities, the Morishima elasticity of substitution is applied to identify the elasticity parameters at different skill levels and derive the necessary condition for capital accumulation to coexist with a declining labor income share when capital and labor are complements. Empirical evidence supports this proposition.
E22|Labor Income Share Dynamics with Variable Elasticity of Substitution|The accumulation principle suggests that complementarity between capital and labor forces the labor income share to rise in the presence of capital accumulation. The CES model estimates using data from 20 Japanese industries between 1970 and 2012 explain the same outcome but with substitutable factor inputs. To resolve this puzzle, this paper proposes a variable elasticity of substitution (VES-W) framework that embodies a variable elasticity of substitution and a share parameter as a non-linear function of the Weibull distribution of capital-labor ratio. Empirical findings support the choice of a variable elasticity of substitution. While the estimated structural parameters calibrate the actual output level and the movements in factor income shares reasonably well in both the CES and VES-W models, the VES-W model outcomes support the accumulation principle by achieving the same result but with complementary factor inputs.
E22|The Effects of Access to Credit on Productivity: Separating Technological Changes from Changes in Technical Efficiency|Improving productivity among microenterprises is important, especially in low-income countries where market imperfections are pervasive, and resources are scarce. Relaxing credit constraints can increase the productivity of microenterprises. Using a field experiment involving agricultural microenterprises in Bangladesh, we estimated the impact of access to credit on the overall productivity of rice farmers and disentangled the total effect into technological change (frontier shift) and technical efficiency changes. We found that relative to the baseline rice output per decimal, access to credit resulted in, on average, approximately a 14 percent increase in yield, holding all other inputs constant. After decomposing the total effect into the frontier shift and efficiency improvement, we found that, on average, around 11 percent of the increase in output came from changes in technology, or frontier shift, while the remaining 3 percent was attributed to improvements in technical efficiency. The efficiency gain was higher for modern hybrid rice varieties, and almost zero for traditional rice varieties. Within the treatment group, the effect was greater among pure tenant and mixed-tenant microenterprise households compared with microenterprises that only cultivated their own land.
E22|Induced Shifting Involvements and Cycles of Growth and Distribution|The paper builds on the concept of (shifting) involvements, originally proposed by Albert Hirschman (2002 [1982]). However, unlike Hirschman, the concept is framed in class terms. A model is presented where income distribution is determined by the involvement of the two classes, capitalists and workers. Higher involvement by capitalists and lower involvement by workers tends to increase the profit share and vice versa. In turn, shifts in involvements are induced by the potential effect of a change in distribution on economic activity and past levels of distribution. On the other hand, as the profit share increases, the economy tends to become more wage led. The dynamics of the resulting model are interesting. The more the two classes prioritize the increase of their income share over economic activity, the more possible it is that the economy is unstable. Under the stable configuration, the most likely outcome is Polanyian predator-prey cycles, which can explain some interesting historical episodes during the 20th century. Finally, the paper discusses the possibility of conflict and cooperation within each of the distribution-led regimes.
E22|Sharing Economy in Macroeconomics: Collaborative Consumption and Durable Goods|This paper studies the implications of the sharing or collaborative economy on the rest of the economy. During the last decade, the so-called collaborative economy has experienced an intensive process of expansion, mainly in certain tourism and transport services, by renting household durables stock excess capacity. Technological progress and the development of Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) have removed barriers to market access and information constraints, which provides households with a marketplace to rent goods and services produced by using household capital. In this paper we propose a general equilibrium theoretical framework within which to study the collaborative economy sector, together with both the market production and household production sectors. Our model considers that production within the collaborative economy falls between market production and domestic production, and combines some features of both environments, but di¤ers in others. We found that a positive neutral technological shock to market production has a positive impact on the accumulation of durable goods, consistent with the data. By contrast, a positive productivity shock to the sharing economy sector reduces durables investment and increases business capital investment. Finally, an investment-speci?c technological shock to durables has a positive e¤ect on household capital but a negative one on business capital.
E22|Debt Overhang, Rollover Risk, and Corporate Investment: Evidence from the European Crisis|We quantify the role of financial factors behind the sluggish post-crisis performance of European firms. We use a firm-bank-sovereign matched database to identify separate roles for firm and bank balance sheet weaknesses arising from changes in sovereign risk and aggregate demand conditions. We find that firms with higher debt levels and a higher share of short-term debt reduce their investment more after the crisis. This negative effect is stronger for firms linked to weak banks with exposures to sovereign risk, signifying increased rollover risk. These financial channels explain about 60% of the decline in aggregate corporate investment.
E22|Low Interest Rates, Market Power, and Productivity Growth|This study provides a new theoretical result that low interest rates encourage market concentration by raising industry leaders’ incentive to gain a strategic advantage over followers, and this effect strengthens as the interest rate approaches zero. The model provides a unified explanation for why the fall in long-term interest rates has been associated with rising market concentration, reduced business dynamism, a widening productivity-gap between industry leaders and followers, and slower productivity growth. Support for the model’s key mechanism is established by showing that a decline in the ten year Treasury yield generates positive excess returns for industry leaders, and the magnitude of the excess returns rises as the Treasury yield approaches zero.
E22|Fading Stars|We study the evolution of super star firms in the U.S. economy over the past 60 years. Contrary to common wisdom, super stars firms have not become larger, have not become more productive, and the contribution of star firms to aggregate U.S. productivity growth has fallen by more than one third since 2000.
E22|Productivity Measurement: Racing to Keep Up|This paper provides a non-technical review of the literature and issues related to the measurement of aggregate productivity. I begin with a discussion of productivity measures, their performance in recent decades, and key measurement puzzles that emerge from the data. The remainder of the review focuses on two important questions. First, how do we make more accurate the measures of prices used to deflate nominal output so as to win (or at least not lose) the race for economic measurement to keep up with a changing economy? This section frames the issues and points to the most important and promising areas for further research. Second, what does or should GDP measure? I defend GDP as a valuable measure of production and offer suggestions for improving it. At the same time, I emphasize the importance of measuring economic welfare (well being) and highlight the value of supplementing GDP with a satellite account that measures economic welfare.
E22|Household Innovation, R&D, and New Measures of Intangible Capital|Household R&D (or household innovation) is an important source of innovation that has to date been largely overlooked in research related to national accounts. Indeed, it is not currently counted as investment in the literatures on household production and human capital. This paper develops time series estimates of nominal investment, real investment, and real capital stocks for household R&D for product innovations in the United States. (We focus on product innovations because survey data on services innovations in the household sector are not yet available.) In the U.S., we find that household product R&D is significant. Our estimate of real investment in 2017 is $41 billion (2012 dollars). This is about half of what producers spend in R&D to develop new products for consumers – a sizable fraction. Our estimate of the real capital stock of household product R&D in 2017 is $233 billion. We conclude that household R&D is an important feature of household activity and, more generally, of the overall landscape of innovation.
E22|Entry Costs and the Macroeconomy|We propose a model to identify the causes of rising profits and concentration, and declining entry and investment in the US economy. Our approach combines a rich structural DSGE model with cross-sectional identification from firm and industry data. Using asset prices, our model estimates the realized and anticipated shocks that drive the endogeneity of entry and concentration and recovers shocks to entry costs. We validate our approach by showing that the model-implied entry shocks correlate with independently constructed measures of entry regulation and M&A activities. We conclude that entry costs have risen and that the ensuing decline in competition has depressed consumption by five to ten percent.
E22|Ten Facts on Declining Business Dynamism and Lessons from Endogenous Growth Theory|"In this paper, we review the literature on declining business dynamism and its implications in the United States and propose a unifying theory to analyze the symptoms and the potential causes of this decline. We first highlight 10 pronounced stylized facts related to declining business dynamism documented in the literature and discuss some of the existing attempts to explain them. We then describe a theoretical framework of endogenous markups, innovation, and competition that can potentially speak to all of these facts jointly. We next explore some theoretical predictions of this framework, which are shaped by two interacting forces: a ""composition effect"" that determines the market concentration and an ""incentive effect"" that determines how firms respond to a given concentration in the economy. The results highlight that a decline in ""knowledge diffusion"" between frontier and laggard firms could be a significant driver of empirical trends observed in the data. This study emphasizes the potential of growth theory for the analysis of factors behind declining business dynamism and the need for further investigation in this direction."
E22|What Happened to U.S. Business Dynamism?|In the past several decades, the U.S. economy has witnessed a number of striking trends that indicate a rising market concentration and a slowdown in business dynamism. In this paper, we make an attempt to understand potential common forces behind these empirical regularities through the lens of a micro-founded general equilibrium model of endogenous firm dynamics. Importantly, the theoretical model captures the strategic behavior between competing firms, its effect on their innovation decisions, and the resulting ``best versus the rest'' dynamics. We focus on multiple potential mechanisms that can potentially drive the observed changes and use the calibrated model to assess the relative importance of these channels with particular attention to the implied transitional dynamics. Our results highlight the dominant role of a decline in the intensity of knowledge diffusion from the frontier firms to the laggard ones in explaining the observed shifts. We conclude by presenting new evidence that corroborates a declining knowledge diffusion in the economy. We document a higher concentration of patenting in the hands of firms with the largest stock and a changing nature of patents, especially in the post-2000 period, which suggests a heavy use of intellectual property protection by market leaders to limit the diffusion of knowledge. These findings present a potential avenue for future research on the drivers of declining knowledge diffusion.
E22|Double-counting of investment|The national income and product accounts double-count investment, which enters once when it occurs and again in present value when the cumulated capital leads to more rental income. From the perspective of resources available intertemporally for consumption, the double-counting issue implies over-statement of levels of GDP and national income. There is also exaggeration of capital-income shares. A proposed alternative measure of product and income involves a form of full expensing for gross investment. In the steady state, revised product and income correspond to consumption. Outside of the steady state, the measure deviates from consumption because full expensing relates to the long-run flow of gross investment, not the current flow. At a practical level, the new concept requires only an extension from the standard depreciation rate to an effective rate that adds in the economy’s expected long-run rate of economic growth.
E22|Understanding Weak Capital Investment: the Role of Market Concentration and Intangibles|We document that the rise of factors such as software, intellectual property, brand, and innovative business processes, collectively known as “intangible capital” can explain much of the weakness in physical capital investment since 2000. Moreover, intangibles have distinct economic features compared to physical capital. For example, they are scalable (e.g., software) though some also have legal protections (e.g., patents or copyrights). These characteristics may have enabled the rise in industry concentration over the last two decades. Indeed, we show that the rise in intangibles is driven by industry leaders and coincides with increases in their market share and hence, rising industry concentration. Moreover, intangibles are associated with at least two drivers of rising concentration: market power and productivity gains. Productivity gains derived from intangibles are strongest in the Consumer sector, while market power derived from intangibles is strongest in the Healthcare sector. These shifts have important policy implications, since intangible capital is less interest-sensitive and less collateralizable than physical capital, potentially weakening traditional transmission mechanisms. However, these shifts also create opportunities for policy innovation around new market mechanisms for intangible capital.
E22|Prudential Monetary Policy|Should monetary policy have a prudential dimension? That is, should policymakers raise interest rates to rein in financial excesses during a boom? We theoretically investigate this issue using an aggregate demand model with asset price booms and financial speculation. In our model, monetary policy affects financial stability through its impact on asset prices. Our main result shows that, when macroprudential policy is imperfect, small doses of prudential monetary policy (PMP) can provide financial stability benefits that are equivalent to tightening leverage limits. PMP reduces asset prices during the boom, which softens the asset price crash when the economy transitions into a recession. This mitigates the recession because higher asset prices support leveraged, high-valuation investors' balance sheets. An alternative intuition is that PMP raises the interest rate to create room for monetary policy to react to negative asset price shocks. The policy is most effective when there is extensive speculation and leverage limits are neither too tight nor too slack. When shadow banks are present, PMP can still replicate the benefits of macroprudential policy, but PMP is less effective (like macroprudential policy) because shadow banks respond by increasing their leverage.
E22|The Failure of Free Entry|We study the entry and exit of firms across U.S. industries over the past 40 years. The elasticity of entry with respect to Tobin’s Q was positive and significant until the late 1990s but declined to zero afterwards. Standard macroeconomic models suggest two potential explanations: rising entry costs or rising returns to scale. We find that neither returns to scale nor technological costs can explain the decline in the Q- elasticity of entry, but lobbying and regulations can. We reconcile conflicting results in the literature and show that regulations drive down the entry and growth of small firms relative to large ones, particularly in industries with high lobbying expenditures. We conclude that lobbying and regulations have caused free entry to fail.
E22|Accounting for Innovations in Consumer Digital Services: IT Still Matters|"This paper develops a framework for measuring digital services in the face of ongoing innovations in the delivery of content to consumers. We capture what Brynjolfsson and Saunders (2009) call ""free goods"" as the capital services generated by connected consumers' stocks of IT digital goods, a service flow that augments the existing measure of personal consumption in GDP. Its value is determined by the intensity with which households use their IT capital to consume content delivered over networks, and its volume depends on the quality of the IT capital. Consumers pay for delivery services, however, and the complementarity between device use and network use enables us to develop a quality-adjusted price measure for the access services already included in GDP. Our new estimates imply that accounting for innovations in consumer content delivery matters: The innovations boost consumer surplus by nearly $1,800 (2017 dollars) per connected user per year for the full period of this study (1987 to 2017) and contribute more than 1/2 percentage point to US real GDP growth during the last ten. All told, our more complete accounting of innovations is (conservatively) estimated to have moderated the post-2007 GDP growth slowdown by nearly .3 percentage points per year.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
E22|What Do Survey Data Tell Us about U.S. Businesses?|This paper examines the reliability of survey data for research on pass-through businesses activities. Passthrough businesses account for over half of all net income to businesses in the United States and most of the rise in top income shares. We examine all surveys that ask questions about these businesses and compare outcomes across surveys and with aggregated administrative data. We document large inconsistencies in business incomes, receipts, and number of returns. We highlight problems due to non-representative samples and measurement errors. Non-representativeness is reflected in undersampling of businesses, especially in categories of owners with low total incomes. Measurement errors arise because respondents do not refer to relevant documents when answering survey questions and also because some questions are framed in a manner that is confusing to respondents. Finally, we discuss measurement issues for statistics of interest, such as returns and valuations of ongoing private businesses, that are inherently latent and cannot be recovered using either survey or administrative data.
E22|Decomposing Firm Value|What are the economic determinants of a firm's market value? We answer this question through the lens of a generalized neoclassical model of investment with physical capital, quasi-fixed labor, and two types of intangible capital, knowledge and brand capital as inputs. We estimate the structural model using firm-level data on U.S. publicly traded firms and use the estimated parameter values to infer the contribution of each input for explaining firm's market value in the last four decades. The model performs well in explaining both cross-sectional and time-series variation in firms' market values across industries, with a time-series R 2 of up to 61%, and a cross-sectional R 2 of up to 95%. The relative importance of each input for firm value varies across industries and over time. On average, physical capital accounts for 30% to 40% of firm's market value, installed labor force accounts for 14% to 22%, knowledge capital accounts for 20% to 43%, and brand capital accounts for 6% to 25%. The importance of physical capital for firm value decreased in the last decades, while the importance of knowledge capital increased, especially in high-tech industries. Overall, our analysis provides direct empirical evidence supporting models with multiple capital inputs as main sources of firm value, and shows the importance of the non-physical capital inputs for firm value.
E22|Use It or Lose It: Efficiency Gains from Wealth Taxation|This paper studies the quantitative implications of wealth taxation (as opposed to capital income taxation) in an incomplete markets model with return rate heterogeneity across individuals. The rate of return heterogeneity arises from the fact that some individuals have better entrepreneurial skills than others, allowing them to obtain a higher return on their wealth. With such heterogeneity, capital income and wealth taxes have different efficiency and distributional implications. Under capital income taxation, entrepreneurs who are more productive and, as a result, generate more income pay higher taxes. Under wealth taxation, on the other hand, entrepreneurs who have similar wealth levels pay similar taxes regardless of their productivity. Thus, in this environment, the tax burden shifts from productive entrepreneurs to unproductive ones if the capital income tax were replaced with a wealth tax. This reallocation increases aggregate productivity. Second, and at the same time, it increases wealth inequality in the population. To provide a quantitative assessment of these different effects, we build and simulate an overlapping generations model with individual-specific returns on capital income and with idiosyncratic shocks to labor income. Our results indicate that switching from a capital income tax to a wealth tax increases welfare by almost 8% through better allocation of capital. We also study optimal taxation in this environment and find that, relative to the benchmark, the optimal wealth tax increases welfare by 9.6% while the optimal capital income tax increases it by 6.3%.
E22|Financial Market Risk Perceptions and the Macroeconomy|We propose a novel measure of risk perceptions: the price of volatile stocks (PVS t ), defined as the book-to-market ratio of low-volatility stocks minus the book-to-market ratio of high-volatility stocks. PVS t is high when perceived risk directly measured from surveys and option prices is low. When perceived risk is high according to our measure, safe asset prices are high, risky asset prices are low, the cost of capital for risky firms is high, and real investment is forecast to decline. Perceived risk as measured by PVS t falls after positive macroeconomic news. These declines are predictably followed by upward revisions in investor risk perceptions. Our results suggest that risk perceptions embedded in stock prices are an important driver of the business cycle and are not fully rational.
E22|The treatment of Intellectual Property in the National Accounts|The paper identifies flaws in the treatment of Intellectual Property as an intangible asset in the current national accounts international standards. It is proposed that the treatment should revert to that of the 1968 System of National Accounts (SNA), where payments for access to Intellectual Property were classified as property income (income transfers) and not as payment for services as in SNA 2008 and the European System of Accounts (ESA) 2010. This dramatic change in treatment has had unfortunate results, most visibly in the case of the revision to GDP estimates for Ireland. In 2016, the estimate for Ireland’s 2015 annual GDP growth was revised upwards from 7.8% to 26.3%. This was caused mainly by a relocation of a large multinational’s registration of Intellectual Property from mainland Europe. The associated access payments were treated as a set of new exports of services, with the subsequent large increase in the GDP level and growth measures of the Irish economy. This paper sets out how the current standards lead to this widely criticised change and proposes a model which is consistent with the 1968 SNA treatment.
E22|Tracking finance flows towards assessing their consistency with climate objectives|Achieving a low-greenhouse gas (GHG) development requires making finance flows consistent with this objective. In order to measure progress to date as well as inform future public action in this area, this paper calls for further efforts to track gross primary investments flows in new infrastructure and equipment and the refurbishment of such assets, as well underlying sources of finance. The proposed scope focuses on tangible fixed assets with a direct and significant impact on GHG emissions.
E22|Firm beliefs and long-run demand effects in a labor-constrained model of growth and distribution|One of the most debated questions in alternative macroeconomics regards whether demand policies have permanent or merely transitory effects. While Kaleckian ecoomists have argued that demand matters even in the long run, both economists operating within other Keynesian traditions (e.g. Skott, 1989) as well as Classical economists argue that in the long-run output growth is constrained by the so-called natural rate. This paper attempts to bridge the gap by analyzing the role of firm beliefs about the state of the economy in a labor-constrained growth and distribution model based on Kaldor (1956) and Goodwin (1967) but featuring an explicitly dynamic choice of capacity utilization. We show that: (i) the relevance of such beliefs generates an inefficiently low utilization rate and labor share in equilibrium; but (ii) the efficient utilization rate can be implemented through fiscal policy. Under exogenous technical change, (iii) the inefficiency does not affect equilibrium employment and growth, but expansionary fiscal policy has positive level effects on both GDP and the labor share. Conversely, (iv) with an endogenous bias of technical change, fiscal policy will have not just level effects but also long-run effects on labor productivity growth and the employment rate. Finally, (v) the fact that the choice of utilization responds to income shares has a stabilizing effect on growth cycles, even under exogenous technical change, that is analogous to factor substitution.
E22|Debt-driven business cycles in historical perspective: The cases of the USA (1889-2015) and UK (1882-2010)|Minsky (1975) proposed a theory of endogenous cycles that results from the interaction of real and financial variables. Minsky’s work has inspired a growing body of literature on theoretical business cycle models, but relatively little work has been done in the empirical field. In particular, while interest in financial cycles has risen significantly after the 2007-8 financial crash, and recent empirical studies have explored the impact of debt on aggregate demand or its effect on the probability of financial crises, the literature does not test for endogenous cycle mechanisms. In contrast, the present paper investigates econometrically whether or not business cycles are driven by corporate debt and/or by mortgage debt. We estimate simple vector autoregressive moving average (VARMA) models, using historical macroeconomic data for the USA (1889-2015) and the UK (1882-2010). We find robust evidence of endogenous corporate debt-driven cycles for the USA, weak evidence of mortgage debt-driven cycles in the USA and no evidence of corporate or mortgage debt-driven cycles for the UK.
E22|The Evolution of Factor Shares: Evidence from Switzerland|While the labor share of income has decreased in most advanced economies since the 1980s, it has remained relatively stable in Switzerland. However, this does not imply that the capital share of income has also remained stable. Our results suggest that the share of imputed capital rental payments to income has decreased. Similar to other countries, Switzerland has seen an increase in the so-called factorless income share that cannot be readily attributed to capital and labor. The increase in factorless income may re ect a rise in economic rents, higher compensation for business risks, or increased compensation for unmeasured input factors, especially intangible capital. We find that the stable labor share in Switzerland cannot be traced back to high wage growth, but rather to subdued investment growth and a high growth rate of the labor force.
E22|Simplified mathematical model of long-term investment values|Presented here are simplified mathematical models to evaluate the long-term investment values. A framework of the single product economy is used, which clarifies conceptual explanation. The short-term effects are mostly discarded and focus is done on the long-term economic trends. Two models are examined. The first model estimates an equity value for the stable earnings. The second model assesses an equity value for the unstable earnings with instability caused by the capital investments.
E22|Potential output, capital input and U.S. economic growth|The objective in this paper is to highlight the complex linkages of capital input to potential output in the U.S. nonfarm private business sector. For this purpose the analytical framework used by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) is adapted and re-estimated using data from the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) and the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) over the period 1949-2016. By focusing on the changes in the composition of the capital stock in terms of structures, equipment and intangibles, average service lives, and the relative prices of producer’s to consumer’s goods, the paper allows for their influence on the capital input and traces the latter’s effects on the potential output. It is found that: (a) when the capital input is adjusted to reflect all aforementioned changes, the potential output decelerated in recent decades even faster than suggested by CBO’s estimates; (b) in the post-2007 period the shortfall in the estimated potential output widened relative to that computed by CBO, and (c) the faster deceleration of the potential output emanated from the declining share of structures in the capital stock and the spectacular decline in the prices of equipment relative to structures. Drawing on these findings it is concluded that, although the real economy may have overshoot its potential in the last few years, the forces that slow down potential output through changes in the capital input remain intact and, unless some remedial policies are instituted, they will continue to function as significant headwinds to U.S. economic growth, along with all others that are well known.
E22|Demand adjusted capital input and potential output in the context of U.S. economic growth|Two alternative measures of demand adjusted capital input for the U.S. non-farm private business sector are derived and their differential impacts on the potential supply of output are compared to those obtained using the unadjusted index of capital input published by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). The results show that, allowing for the demand pressure on the fixed assets of firms, leads to three effects. It raises the level of estimated potential output well above CBO’s estimates; with the exception of the 1990s, the estimated growth rates turn out to be higher than those computed by CBO; and, lastly, the long term trend of the growth rates with and without the demand adjustment to the capital input is sloping downwards. The latter finding was not unexpected since aggregate demand, as reflected in the utilization rate of fixed assets by firms, has been trending downwards throughout the postwar period. Drawing on these findings it is concluded that the path to secular stagnation that the U.S. economy is following in the postwar period is not due solely to headwinds on the supply side. To some degree, perhaps significant, the deceleration in the expansion of productive capacity as well as in the intensity of its utilization is due to the declining long term aggregate demand.
E22|Stock Market Volatility Analysis using GARCH Family Models: Evidence from Zimbabwe Stock Exchange|Understanding the pattern of stock market volatility is important to investors as well as for investment policy. Volatility is directly associated with risks and returns, higher the volatility the more financial market is unstable. The volatility of the Zimbabwean stock market is modeled using monthly return series consisting of 109 observations from January 2010 to January 2019. ARCH effects test confirmed the use of GARCH family models. Symmetric and asymmetric models were used namely: GARCH(1,1), GARCH-M(1,1), IGARCH(1,1) and EGARCH(1,1). Post-estimation test for further ARCH effects were done for each model to confirm its efficiency for policy. EGARCH(1,1) turned to be the best model using both the AIC and SIC criterions; with the presence of asymmetry found to be significant. The study concludes that positive and negative shocks have different effects on the stock market returns series. Bad and good news will increase volatility of stock market returns in different magnitude. This simply imply that investors on the Zimbabwean stock exchange react differently to information depending be it positive or negative in making investment decisions.
E22|The Impact of Trade Openness, Foreign Direct Investment and Domestic Investment on Economic Growth: New Evidence from Asian Developing Countries|The objective of this paper is to examine the impact of openness, foreign investment inflows, and domestic investment on economic growth for the case of 24 Asian economies over the time span 2002-2017 through the use of the fixed and random effect models. Our empirical results pointed out that domestic investment positively influences economic growth. However, we found that foreign direct investment and exports are negatively affecting the growth path. Also, the population, imports, and final consumption expenditure have no real impact on economic growth. Due to the importance of the positive externalities linked to the trade openness and foreign direct investments inflow, in terms of technology transfer bias, financial capacities, human expertise, large markets size, and spillover effect added to the domestic capacities and the national investment, the pace of the phenomenal economic performance of the Asian economies is very well justified.
E22|The Global Rise of Asset Prices and the Decline of the Labor Share|The labor income share has been decreasing across countries since the early 1980s, sparking a growing literature about the causes of this trend (Karabarbounis and Neiman, 2014; Piketty and Zucman, 2014; among many others). At the same time, there has been a steady increase in asset prices. We build a simple model to argue that the increase in the value of financial assets crowds out capital formation. The negative impact of asset prices on the capital-output ratio declines the labor share if capital and labor are aggregate complements. Based on a common factor model, we find that the global increase of Tobin's Q can account for up to 57% of the labor share decline. We highlight three potential factors that operate through the same theoretical channel: capital income taxes, capitalized market power rents and corporate governance frictions.
E22|Measuring Macroeconomic Uncertainty in Zimbabwe|What matters to economic decision-making is whether the economy has become more or less predictable. People and businesses use information around them to form judgements about what might happen in the future. The rise in uncertainty might be associated with increased concern about extreme events, skewed towards worries about bad or disastrous events. The study seeks to measure macroeconomic uncertainty in Zimbabwe, using stock market indices - industrial index and mining index - for the period 2010M1 to 2019M3. Prevalence of macroeconomic uncertainty has been traced from the stock market index trend and stock market returns volatility. The squared residuals of the GARCH(1,1) regression model proxied macroeconomic uncertainty levels. The prevalence of significant macroeconomic uncertainty has been observed, with some periods highly uncertain. The study linked periods of uncertainty to some known political, social and economic events to derive meaning. The study found that some political, social and economic events have a contributing effect on the level of macroeconomic uncertainty. Good events and policies are accompanied by low levels of uncertainty while bad events and controversial policies match with high levels of uncertainty. The study recommends that to create a good economic climate, to attract investment and boost confidence in the economy, policymakers should dwell on reducing macroeconomic uncertainty. Reducing macroeconomic uncertainty require policy consistency, policy consultations, less frequent policy changes, avoiding numerous policies, avoiding policy reversals, among other measures. The observed macroeconomic uncertainty affects proper economic decision-making and is not conducive for high levels of investment for local and international investors; companies may struggle to hire labor, and employees and corporates may delay spending and saving pattern distorted.
E22|The Impacts of Domestic and Foreign Direct Investments on Economic Growth: Fresh Evidence from Tunisia|This paper aims to analyze the impact of domestic investment and Foreign Direct Investment on economic growth in Tunisia during the period 1976–2017. This study is based on the Auto-Regressive Distributive Lags (ARDL) approach that is proposed by Pesaran et al (2001). Bound testing approaches to the analysis of level relationships. According to the results of the analysis, domestic investment and foreign direct investment have a negative effect on economic growth in the long run. However, in the short run, only domestic investment causes economic growth. The findings are important for Tunisian economic policy makers to undertake the effective policies that can promote and lead domestic and foreign investments to boost economic growth.
E22|Impact of quantitative easing on the long-term investment values|Presented here are simplified mathematical models for evaluation of the long-term investment values. Three scenarios were considered in a framework of the single product economy. The first scenario assesses an impact of capital investments (accrued on the product market with a constant acceleration) on an equity price on the equity market. The second scenario assesses impact of both capital investments (accrued on the product market with a constant acceleration) and quantitative easing (accrued on the equity market with a constant acceleration) on an equity price on the equity market. The third scenario assesses impact of both capital investments (accrued on the product market with a constant acceleration) and quantitative tightening (accrued on the equity market with a constant acceleration) on an equity price on the equity market.
E22|Domestic Investment, Export, Import and Economic Growth in Brazil: An Application of Vector Error Correction Model|This paper aims to investigate the nexus between domestic investment, exports, imports, and economic growth for the Brazilian economy during the period 1970-2017, using the VECM methodology. In the short-run, our empirical results pointed out that import, exports, and domestic investment cause economic growth. Also, economic growth causes exports. Exports, imports, and economic growth cause domestic investment. However, in the long-run, our results revealed that domestic investment and exports have a positive effect on economic growth. Also, imports have a negative effect on economic growth. The results recorded a positive impact of economic growth and imports on domestic investment. Exports have a negative effect on domestic investment. Finally, we record the absence of significant impact of economic growth, exports and domestic investment on imports, and economic growth, domestic investment, and imports on exports. Due to the importance of these aspects to the economic performance of Brazil, the policymakers are invited to orient these issues towards the sustainability facets to guarantee a sustained growth path.
E22|Does Domestic Investment Contribute to Economic Growth in Uruguay? What did the Empirical Facts Say?|The fundamental role of domestic investment to provide economic prosperity is very well recognized by the economic theory since the Mercantilist theory. Hence, we investigate the impact of domestic investment on economic growth for the case of the Uruguayan economy over the period 1960-2017. For this aim, we employ the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM). Our highlights reveal the absence of a significant impact of domestic investment on growth in the short- and long-run. Due to the marginal role of domestic investment played in the Uruguayan economy, the weak saving rate couldn’t significantly help the economy and creating wealth. Therefore, a strong saving policy is required to encourage domestic investors and reevaluate their crucial role in the economic process of Uruguay.
E22|Domestic Investment, Export, Import and Economic Growth in Brazil: An Application of Vector Error Correction Model|This paper aims to investigate the nexus between domestic investment, exports, imports, and economic growth for the Brazilian economy during the period 1970-2017, using the VECM methodology. In the short-run, our empirical results pointed out that import, exports, and domestic investment cause economic growth. Also, economic growth causes exports. Exports, imports, and economic growth cause domestic investment. However, in the long-run, our results revealed that domestic investment and exports have a positive effect on economic growth. Also, imports have a negative effect on economic growth. The results recorded a positive impact of economic growth and imports on domestic investment. Exports have a negative effect on domestic investment. Finally, we record the absence of significant impact of economic growth, exports and domestic investment on imports, and economic growth, domestic investment, and imports on exports. Due to the importance of these aspects to the economic performance of Brazil, the policymakers are invited to orient these issues towards the sustainability facets to guarantee a sustained growth path.
E22|Does Domestic Investment Contribute to Economic Growth in Uruguay? What did the Empirical Facts Say?|The fundamental role of domestic investment to provide economic prosperity is very well recognized by the economic theory since the Mercantilist theory. Hence, we investigate the impact of domestic investment on economic growth for the case of the Uruguayan economy over the period 1960-2017. For this aim, we employ the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM). Our highlights reveal the absence of a significant impact of domestic investment on growth in the short- and long-run. Due to the marginal role of domestic investment played in the Uruguayan economy, the weak saving rate couldn’t significantly help the economy and creating wealth. Therefore, a strong saving policy is required to encourage domestic investors and reevaluate their crucial role in the economic process of Uruguay.
E22|Cumulative analysis of dependence government tax behaviour on economy’s efficiency factors for totality the world countries|The article deals with an investigation of principles, factors, and conditions of the government tax behaviour by changing the tax rate. The research base is all countries in the world for which statistics are available. We define a set of potential indicators of the economic efficiency, based on GDP and FDI, nominal and per capita, as well as the ratio of FDI to GDP. By using the statistical analysis techniques we found a correlation between government behaviour and each of the selected indicators. In order to reduce the randomness of the results, we carry out cumulative testing of the hypothesis of independence of government tax behaviour from the efficiency of the economy for all possible partitions of the countries' totality with different interrelations of the countries’ sets behaviour with different economic efficiency levels. Based on the research, it can be argued that government tax behaviour, in general, is not maximizer behaviour. We argue that the factors GDP, FDI, and GDP per capita have the biggest impact on the government tax decisions. The obtained results allow to understand the principles of governments’ decision-making, and, therefore, to forecast in some way their behaviour in certain economic conditions. In particular, partitions accumulations can help identify behavioural trends. The present paper differs from previous studies both by the topic, studying the relations between government’s tax behavior and efficiency of countries' economies and by the approach to define this dependence, since the latest can be observed only when each variant of government’s tax reaction is analyzed separately.
E22|Pension savings: A key question about returns|The two key financial decisions that nearly all households have to make are related to a place to live (especially if this involves a mortgage), and the savings needed to have an acceptable income during retirement: pension savings. In a previous paper: “After the Great Recession: the Laws of Unintended Consequences” the writer sets outs the impact on U.S. mortgage holders as a result of the U.S. financial crisis of 2007-2008. This paper will explore the situation in the Eurozone countries (which share one base rate for the Euro, but have fundamentally different inflation rates and government bond yields) after first examining the links between the U.S. financial crisis and the pensions crisis in Europe. Pension savings, by their very nature, represent postponed expenditure. This raises a number of issues: what are the returns going to be? Should such savings be made in collective vehicles - like pension funds, either company or industry wide ones - or in individual accounts? Setting aside savings for future pension payments automatically affects an individual’s current spending levels. The reward for postponing current spending depends mainly on Central Banks’ and Governments’ economic policies. As will be explained in this paper, the main problem is that government bond yields no longer compensate for inflation levels in some countries. Pension savings are very much a national issue, rather than a Eurozone area one. Therefore national solutions need to be found, rather than pan-Eurozone ones. One option that will be explored is to compensate pension savers on their government bond holdings to a level equivalent of CPI levels plus 0.25%. The economic implications of this for both a central bank and a government will be set out in this paper. The Netherlands –as the country that in the Eurozone has the highest accumulated collective pension savings compared to its GDP- has been selected to show how this may work. As the current levels of interest rates are a consequence of the 2007-2008 financial crisis that started in the U.S., attention will first be paid to what was, and what was not, done to solve that crisis.
E22|Aggregate Consequences of Credit Subsidy Policies: Firm Dynamics and Misallocation|Government policies that attempt to alleviate credit constraints faced by small and young firms are widely adopted across countries. We study the aggregate impact of such targeted credit subsidies in a heterogeneous firm model with collateral constraints and endogenous entry and exit. A defining feature of our model is a non-Gaussian process of firm-level productivity, which allows us to capture the skewed firm size distribution seen in the Business Dynamics Statistics (BDS). We compare the welfare and aggregate productivity implications of our non-Gaussian process to those of a standard AR(1) process. While credit subsidies resolve misallocation of resources and enhance aggregate productivity, increased factor prices, in equilibrium, reduce the number of firms in production, which in turn depresses aggregate productivity. We show that the latter indirect general equilibrium effects dominate the former direct productivity gains in a model with the standard AR(1) process, as compared to our non-Gaussian process, under which both welfare and aggregate productivity increase by subsidy policies. (Copyright: Elsevier)
E22|Investment under Rational Inattention: Evidence from US Sectoral Data|I document the effects of macroeconomic and sector-specific shocks on investment in disaggregate sectoral capital expenditure data. The response of sectoral investment to macroeconomics shocks is protracted and hump-shaped, just as in aggregate data. By contrast, the effects of sector-specific innovations are short-lived and monotonically decreasing. I build a model of investment with rational inattention to explain these facts. The model predicts protracted effects of aggregate shocks and short-lived effects of sector-specific shocks on sectoral investment.
E22|Mission-Oriented Innovation Policies: A Theoretical And Empirical Assessment For The Us Economy|The paper investigates the determinants of economic growth from both a theoretical and an empirical perspective. The paper combines the Sraffian supermultiplier model of growth with the Neo-Schumpeterian framework that emphasizes the entrepreneurial role of the state. We aim to detect the macroeconomic effect generated by alternative fiscal policies: generic ones and “mission-oriented” ones. Using a SVAR model for the US economy for the 1947–2018 period, we show that mission-oriented policies produce a larger positive effect on GDP (fiscal multiplier) and on private investment in R&D (crowd-in effect) than the effect produced by generic public expenditures.
E22|Macroeconomic indicators of determination on tax behaviour of OECD countries|The article deals with investigation of principles, factors and conditions of the government’s tax behavior, notably by means of changing the tax burden. We define a set of potential indicators of the economic efficiency, based on GDP and FDI, nominal and per capita, as well as the ratio of FDI to GDP. By using the statistical analysis techniques we found the statistical dependence between government’s behavior and each of the selected indicators. We argued that the factor GDP per capita has the biggest impact on the government’s tax decisions. Also it showed that the governments mostly act as satisfiers. The obtained results allow to understand the principles of governments’ decision-making, and, therefore, to forecast in some way their behavior in certain economic conditions. Moreover, it could help to understand the reasons why the “race to the bottom” situation appears. The present paper differs from previous studies both by the topic, studying the relations between government’s tax behavior and efficiency of countries economies and by the approach to define this dependence, since the latest can be observed only when each variant of government’s tax reaction is analyzed separately.
E22|Why Are Inflation and Real Interest Rates So Low? A Mechanism of Low and Floating Real Interest and Inflation Rates|Real interest and inflation rates have been very low in many industrialized countries since the Great Recession. In this paper, a mechanism of low and floating real interest and inflation rates is examined based on the concept a “Nash equilibrium of a Pareto inefficient path” and the law of motion for trend inflation. I show that, because the link between the marginal product of capital and the real interest rate is severed on this path, the real interest rate loses its anchor and therefore floats. In addition, the inflation rate floats together with the real interest rate. There are, however, upper and lower bounds of the floating rates. It is also likely that the real interest rate floats below the marginal product of capital on this path and the inflation rate floats below the target rate of inflation.
E22|The economic evidence in the relationship between corporate tax and private investment in Ghana|Understanding and appreciating the crucial role privates’ investment plays in developing economies towards it sustainable growth, it became an imperative assignment to investigate the effect of corporate taxes and it impacts on privates’ Investment in developing countries, but focused the study on Ghana for the hypothetical test. For this very reason, the study sort to derive a cogent argument between corporate tax and it impacts on private investment including controllable variables like real GDP, Inflation estimated under consumer price index, exchange rate measured nominally, government expenditure and finally domestic credits as a vector indicators using Johansen approach to co-integration.
E22|Investment attraction, competition and growth; theoretical perspective in the context of Africa|Examination in both theoretical and empirical perspective deduce that, the major indicators of modern economy growth, depends on the extent of economic financialization, commonly defined as capital stock, industrialization and Technological Advancement. The focus of this paper is to theorize investment attraction mechanism for a national economy in a global competitive arena taking a posteriori perspective of Africa politico-economic climate.
E22|Impact of Foreign Direct Investment on Growth in Pakistan: The ARDL Approach|Investment is vital ingredients of growth in an economy. Saving contributes to investment which contributes to physical and human capital formation both of which promote growth of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of a country. This study aims at determining the role of the three types of investment i.e., public, private and foreign direct investment (FDI) in the growth of Pakistan economy with a special focus on the contribution of FDI in GDP growth of the Pakistan. Cointegration analysis of time series data was used to analyze model. Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) approach has been used to analyze the long run relationship between GDP growth, investment and government expenditure for Pakistan using data (1970-2015). The results indicate that while public and private investment and lending rate have a positive impact on growth, public consumption and FDI decelerate GDP growth. Also the investor confidence should be bolstered by improving the law and order and security situation of the country and introducing investment friendly policies to further harness the positive impact of investment on growth.
E22|Does social capital explain the Solow residual? A DSGE approach|Abstract Social capital has been credited with playing a role in many desirable economic outcomes. We analyze how these potentially beneficial effects translate into the macro-performance of economies by developing a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) model featuring the role of social capital in the explanation of the Solow residual. We then simulate and estimate the model with Bayesian techniques using Italian data. Our framework fits actual data better than a standard DSGE model, suggesting that social capital may improve the economic performance via its impact on total factor productivity.
E22|What determines private investment in Burundi?|The economy of Burundi is currently under life support and private investment is still in its embryonic stage, after a series of civil wars that have characterised Burundi’s post – independence era. The political woes that Burundi continues to experience are one of the fundamental hindrances to private investment growth and development. Probably, this is the reason why most researchers, academicians and observers analyze the situation of Burundi only with political glasses; thereby undermining the role played by the economic structure. The perspective adopted in this study is quite different: the idea is to present a picture of Burundi from an economic point of view, partially leaving politics in the background and yet based on empirical evidence. This kind of approach does not imply that politics is unimportant! Our humble view is that politics is often constrained or even controlled, by economics! Private investment is the backbone of every economy and Burundi cannot be an exception. The study, while restricted to non – political determinants of private investment; seeks to uncover those factors that really matter to private investment, other than politics. Results indicate that population growth; exports and private sector credit are the most powerful factors that affect private investment in Burundi. The results provide a concrete justification for the policy recommendations suggested.
E22|The Six Linkages Between Foreign Direct Investment, Domestic Investment, Exports, Imports, Labor Force And Economic Growth: New Empirical And Policy Analysis From Nigeria|The contribution of this study is to investigate the linkages between Foreign Direct Investment, Domestic Investment, Exports, Imports, Labor Force and Economic Growth in Nigeria by using the vector error correction model, for the period 1981 – 2015. The empirical results indicate that there is no relationship between the six variables in the long run. In the short run, imports cause economic growth and domestic investment; exports and FDI cause labor; and labor causes FDI. These findings present the critical situation of Nigeria, which requires an entry of urgent economic reforms.
E22|Financial Deepening in a Two-Sector Endogenous Growth Model with Productivity Heterogeneity|We develop a tractable two-sector endogenous growth model in which heterogeneous entrepreneurs face borrowing constraints and the government collects tax to fund public eduction. This model is isomorphic to a Uzawa-Lucas model and there exists a balanced-growth path equilibrium in which the growth rate depends on the financial deepening level. We show that the policy tax rate exerts inverted U-shaped effects on the growth rate. Additionally, at the optimal policy tax rates the model's predictions are consistent with correlational regularities documented from 35 OECD countries with regards to financial deepening, factor accumulation and working hours.
E22|Assessing the Impact of Ease of Doing Business and Corruption on Economic Growth for Africa Free Trade Zone (AFTZ) Member States|A positive economic growth is one crucial macroeconomic objective of every nation. Many countries have formed regional as well as international trading blocs in an attempt to enhance economic growth and maximise welfare of each member state, the AFTZ member states are not an exception. This paper seeks to investigate the impact of ease of doing business and corruption on economic growth of AFTZ member states. The study employed a panel data analysis for the period 2010-2016, using Stata Statistical Software. The study findings for the bloc, indicated that corruption, trading across borders, getting credit, registration of property, dealing with construction permits, and starting business have a significant impact on the bloc’s economic growth; with insolvency resolving and investor protection of concern as well. Paying attention to country effects test, with the quest for efficient results, the study further divided the AFTZ bloc into 3 groups using average GDP as the determining variable. The usual 3 panel models were run for each group, with efficiency noted from the reported adjusted R-squared and overall R-squared. The study recommends each member state to pay particular attention to the identified affecting variables for improved economic growth. The onus to improve economic wellbeing of each state does not lie on the bloc only but on individual efforts as well, since individual differences prevail. All this will enable the broader efficacy and vision of AFTZ to be realised.
E22|Optimal Growth Policies in a Two-Sector Model with Financial Market Imperfections|This paper studies the pro-growth policies in an endogenous growth model where heterogeneous entrepreneurs face collateral constraints, skilled workers accumulate human capital, and the government intervenes to promote human and physical capital formation. It shows that the model has a balanced-growth path whose rate depends on government policy and financial development level. The theoretical analysis also shows that when the distribution of idiosyncratic productivity is heavy-tailed, the government must subsidize productive entrepreneurs to achieve optimal pro-growth policies.
E22|Intangible Capital and the Rise in Wage and Hours Volatility|In a standard real business cycle model extended to include intangible capital (IC) I show that a rise in the income share of IC in the production function, in line with data can account for a significant share of the increase in real wage volatility (both absolute and relative to income) and labor input volatility (relative to income) observed in the U.S. since the mid 1980's even as volatility of output declined. Intangible capital accumulates stochastically and similar to final goods requires physical capital, intangible capital and labor to produce. Under these conditions an increase in the share of IC in production increases the propagation of the IC-specific shock which raises (absolute and relative) wage and labor input volatility. The higher propagation of the IC shock also accounts for the large decline in the pro-cyclicality of labor productivity (relative to both output and labor) observed during this period.
E22|Econometric modelling of the link between investment and electricity consumption in Ghana|The study examines the long run effect of investment (proxied by gross fixed capital formation) on electricity consumption for Ghana, for the period 1971-2011, by employing annual time series secondary data from World Bank database (World development indicator). The Augmented Dickey Fuller (ADF) and Kwiatkowski-Philips-Schmidt-Shin (KPSS) tests were used to analyse the stationarity features of the data used in levels and in their first differences. The empirical verification was done using the Autoregressive Distributed Lag model (ARDL). The findings of the study indicate the data used are non-stationary in levels, however, stationary in their first difference. Investment and electricity consumption are cointegrated according to the cointegration test performed. There are both stable short run and long run relationship between investment and electricity consumption. Investment is an appropriate policy tool for electricity consumption management in both short run and long run. Further studies in the area of stationarity with structural breaks, cointegration with structural breaks, causality analysis, and multivariate modelling of investment-electricity consumption link is worth doing since the current study did not consider these issues.
E22|L’impact De L’investissement Des Revenus Pétroliers Sur La Croissance, L’inflation Et Le Chômage : Cas D’Algérie (2000-2015)<BR>[The Impact of Oil Revenue Investment on Growth, Inflation and Unemployment: The Case of Algeria (2000-2015)]|This paper investigates the short-run and long-run relationships between four main Algerian macroeconomic variables, the investment of oil revenues, economic growth, unemployment rate, inflation rate, using the Johansen multivariate cointegration techniques as well as VAR model for the period 2000-2015. The results indicate that there is not a long relationship between these four macroeconomic variables. The impulse functions and the variance decomposition from the stationary VAR show that the investment of oil revenues is very important to short run dynamics of the Algerian economy, when there is a shock in investment of oil revenues, GDP responds positively (13%) while the unemployment rate responds negatively (11%), in the long term. This is in line with the Algerian government's investment strategy, increasing GDP and reducing the unemployment rate.
E22|Does Stock Market impact on the Growth of Nigerian Economy using 3SLS Analysis?|The paper investigated the impact of stock market on economic growth in Nigeria from 1981 to 2016 using a three-equation simultaneous-equations model in a Three Stage Least Square (3SLS) estimation technique. The paper found that stock market positively spurs economic growth in Nigeria indicating that increase in stock market participations would enhance growth in Nigerian economy. The paper therefore concluded that there is positive and significant effect between stock market and economic growth. The paper recommended that policy makers should encourage more participation in the stock market by making it easier for business owners and foreign investors have easy access business registration and float on the stock market.
E22|Evoluția capitalului în România în secolul 1918-2018 de la Marea Unire la tranziția la economia de piață<BR>[Romania’s capital developments during 1918-2018 century from the Great Union to the market economy transition]|The paper focuses on the evolution of the capital in Romania, in three extremely different periods during the last century, under the changes of internal / international context and political regimes, with special emphasis on the relationship with the country economic development. In the years 1918-1945, the share of foreign capital in the capital of joint-stock companies was higher compared to domestic capital, which is explained by the interest of foreign investors to seek relatively cheap resources and production factors in Romania. A certain role of foreign investments in this period to the development of several industrial sectors is broadly recognized in the special literature. In the socialist period, 1948-1989, characterized by the insignificant size of foreign capital in Romania (excepting some few failed joint venture companies), the accelerated accumulation of capital and the fast increase of fixed assets led to an excessive development of production overcapacities, with relatively low efficiency, energy-intensive and polluting, what created severe economic and financial imbalances, ended with the collapse of the system. During the transition period to the market economy, 1990-2018, marked, in the first decade, by a certain degradation of the domestic capital due to the bankruptcy and/or unsuccesful privatization of state-owned companies, after the year 2000, at the same time with the gradual integration in the euro-atlantic structures, the foreign investors have increased significantly their presence in Romania, entering in a competitive relationship with the domestic capital and production.
E22|Fear the walking dead: zombie firms, spillovers and exit barriers|"Productivity growth is slowing down among OECD countries, coupled with increased misallocation of resources. A recent strand of literature focuses on the role of non-viable firms (""zombie firms"") to explain these developments. Using a rich firm-level dataset for one of the OECD countries with the largest drop in barriers to firm exit and restructure, we assess the role of zombies on firm dynamics, both in the extensive and intensive margins. We confirm the results on the high prevalence of zombie firms, significantly less productive than their healthy counterparts and thus dragging aggregate productivity down. Moreover, while we find evidence of positive selection within zombies, with the most productive restructuring and the least productive exiting, we also show that the zombies' productivity threshold for exit is much lower than that of non-zombies, allowing them to stay in the market, distorting competition and sinking resources. Zombie prevalence curbs the growth of viable firms, in particular the most productive, harming the intra-sectoral resource reallocation. We show that a reduction in exit and restructuring barriers promotes a more effective exit channel and fosters the restructuring of the most productive, highlight the role of public policy in addressing zombies' prevalence, fostering a more efficient resource allocation and enabling productivity growth."
E22|Economic impacts of Political Uncertainty in Thailand|This paper aims to analyze political uncertainty in Thailand by looking at various dimensions of political uncertainty and quantifying the economic impacts. Based on keyword search in Thai-language newspapers, the paper proposes five measures related to different aspects of political uncertainty. These are: (1) political protest (2) official measures in dealing with political violence (3) coup d'tat (4) parliament dissolution or election and (5) political structural reform, including the aggregate index of political uncertainty. We find that the overall political uncertainty in Thailand has been in the rising trend during the past 20 years. In particular, during the past 10 years, the main source of Thai political uncertainty comes from uncertainty related to political structural reform. Based on various econometric specifications, rising political uncertainty is found to have significant negative impacts on the Thai economy both in the short run ? particularly, private investment ? and economic growth in the long run. Nevertheless, we find that the degree of the economic impact and statistical significance on different components of macroeconomy is quite varied, reflecting complicated interaction between political factors and economic outcome.
E22|Labor share decline and intellectual property products capital|We study the behavior of the US labor share over the past 65 years. We find that intellectual property products (IPP) capital entirely accounts for the observed decline of the US labor share, which otherwise is secularly constant for structures and equipment capital. The decline of the labor share reflects that the US is undergoing a transition to a more IPP capital-intensive economy. This result has essential implications for the US macroeconomic model.
E22|Do Interest Rates Affect Business Investment? Evidence from Australian Company-level Data|We examine the distribution of borrowing rates paid by companies, and the relationship between corporate borrowing rates and fixed capital investment, using a unique hand-collected dataset. We find a high degree of heterogeneity in companies' cost of debt. Also, since the global financial crisis, the spread between the rates paid by companies at the top and bottom of the distribution has widened. Borrowing rates for a large portion of companies, including smaller and riskier ones, have remained high in recent years, despite falls in aggregate indicators of interest rates. This heterogeneity in borrowing rates enables us to find a significant inverse relationship between the cost of debt and corporate investment, which is generally not evident in aggregate data. We argue that this relationship may be due to credit supply effects, as a relaxation of lending standards leads to lower credit spreads and encourages more investment. These findings shed new light on the link between monetary policy and business investment in Australia.
E22|Financing Ventures|The relationship between venture capital and growth is examined using an endogenous growth model incorporating dynamic contracts between entrepreneurs and venture capitalists. At each stage of financing, venture capitalists evaluate the viability of startups. If viable, venture capitalists provide funding for the next stage. The success of a project depends on the amount of funding. The model is confronted with stylized facts about venture capital; viz., statistics by funding round concerning the success rates, failure rates, investment rates, equity shares, and IPO values. Raising capital gains taxation reduces growth and welfare.
E22|Trade Adjustment Dynamics and the Welfare Gains from Trade|We study how the transitions following a trade reform are shaped by the time it takes for new exporters to grow in the export market. We introduce time and risk into the xed-variable cost tradeo central to general equilibrium heterogeneous rm trade models: Investing in exporting gradually and stochastically lowers the costs of exporting. The model captures the tendency of new exporters to export on a small scale, to have low survival rates, and to take time to grow into large exporters. In the model, aggregate trade dynamics arise from producer-level decisions to invest in lowering their future variable export costs, and tari reforms generate time-varying trade elasticities. We show that the gains from reducing taris arise from substituting away from rm creation and towards export capacity. This is in stark contrast to the static models that dominate the literature. The strength of this substitution is determined largely by the size of new exporters and their ability to grow into successful exporters. We calibrate the model and estimate the welfare gains from reducing taris, which dier substantially from the long-run changes in consumption or trade. We show that the welfare gain cannot be recovered from a static trade model or from formulas based on those models. Because aggregate trade grows slowly, the long-run eects are strongly discounted and, thus, are not the key determinants of the welfare gains from a change in trade policy. We also nd that policy prescriptions based on static models can predict a loss from trade reform when our dynamic model predicts a gain.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E22|The Rise of Services and Balanced Growth in Theory and Data|When measured using NIPA conventions, a two-sector model of balanced growth and structural transformation can account for the mildly declining GDP growth rate, increasing share of services, and increasing real investment/GDP ratio observed in the post-war U.S. economy. These changes induce a decline of 36% in the marginal product of capital and of 5.4% in the real interest rate. By retaining the U.S. calibration, the process of structural transformation can also account, per-se, for cross-country differences in real investment/GDP ratios, which are comparable to those displayed by the U.S. along its growth path.
E22|Implementing the Modified Golden Rule? Optimal Ramsey Capital Taxation with Incomplete Markets Revisited|What is the prescription of Ramsey capital taxation in the long run? Aiyagari (1995) addressed the question in a heterogeneous-agent incomplete-market (HAIM) economy, showing that a positive capital tax should be imposed to implement the so-called modified golden rule (MGR). This famous capital taxation result is built on a critical assumption that a Ramsey steady state (featuring the non-binding of the government’s natural debt limit)exists. This paper revisits and checks the validity of this critical assumption. We first show that an optimal Ramsey allocation may feature no steady state if the government’s natural debt limit never binds. Hence, the Ramsey steady state described and assumed by Aiyagari (1995) turns out to be incorrect. We further show that any steady state of the HAIM economy can be welfare-improved by issuing more government bonds to front-load consumption. The key to both results is embedded in the hallmark of the HAIM economy that the steady-state risk-free rate is lower than the time discount rate in competitive equilibrium. On the basis of our findings, we argue that the most likely long-run Ramsey outcome should feature the co-existence of a Ramsey steady state with (i) the binding of the government’s debt limit and (ii) the failure of the MGR.
E22|The Intertemporal Keynesian Cross|We derive a microfounded, dynamic version of the traditional Keynesian cross, which we call the intertemporal Keynesian cross. It characterizes the mapping from all partial equilibrium demand shocks to their general equilibrium outcomes. The aggregate demand feedbacks between periods can be interpreted as a network, and the linkages in the network can be generalized to reflect both the feedback from consumption and other dynamic forces, such as fiscal and monetary policy responses. We explore the general equilibrium amplification and propagation of impulses, and show how they vary with features of the economy. General equilibrium amplification is especially strong when agents are constrained, face uncertainty, or are unequally exposed to aggregate fluctuations, and it plays a crucial role in the transmission of monetary policy.
E22|Capital Skill Substitutability and the Labor Income Share: Identification Using the Morishima Elasticity of Subtitution|The relationship between a declining labor income share and a falling relative price of capital requires capital and labor to be gross substitutes at the aggregate level. It argues that this restriction can be relaxed if it distinguishs labor by skills and identify differential capital-labor substitutability across skill groups. Using the Morishima elasticity of substitution in a three-factor nested-CES production function, It analytically estimate the elasticity of substitution parameters between capital and skilled labor (??) and between capital and unskilled labor (??). I then derive the necessary conditions for a decline in the labor income share based on ?? and ??, which does not require ???????? to be greater than unity.
E22|A(nother) Note on the Inconsistency of Neo-Kaleckian Growth Models|As a matter of common knowledge, the canonical Neo-Kaleckian growth model is not able to reconcile the actual and normal rates of utilization in equilibrium. Dávila-Fernández et al. (2017) revive an old proposal for solving this problem – making the rate of normal utilization an endogenous variable that converges to the actual utilization rate – justifying it with new premises, based on a recent contribution to production theory (Nikiforos 2013). In this note, we argue that their proposed adjustment mechanism is based on restrictive assumptions, some of which have little economic justification. Moreover, we show that also if one puts aside for the sake of argument the perplexities regarding the ‘endogenization’ of the normal rate of utilization, the existence of autonomous components of demand is sufficient to invalidate their results.
E22|A Juxtaposition Of Tax Expenditures And Direct Expenditures: Case Study Of The Manufacturing Sector Of Pakistan|Augmentation of investment is a primary goal for any government. To attain that objective it can resort to either tax or direct expenditures. In order to analyze which is a more efficient method in the case of Pakistan, the current study uses data from the country?s Manufacturing Sector. The time series data set since 1972 to 2013 is used. Bounds testing approach to cointegration used in the structure of Autoregressive Distributed Lag is employed for understanding the behavior of the different variables, applying Neo-Classical Investment theory. The results show the importance of tax expenditure policy, in the short run, through the cost of capital, as a determinant to boost private investment in the economy, under circumstances of low inflation. On the other hand, in high inflation periods, the direct expenditure is found to be more potent. The empirical evidence shows a strong role of direct expenditure in influencing both the short-run and the long-run behavior of investment in the economy.
E22|The role of energy in a real-business-cycle model with an endogenous capital utilization rate and a government sector: lessons from Bulgaria (1999-2016)|We introduce a pro-cyclical endogenous utilization rate of physical capita1 stock into a real-business-cycle model augmented with a detailed government sector. We calibrate the model to Bulgarian data for the period following the introduction of the currency board arrangement (1999-2016). We investigate the quantitative importance of the endogenous depreciation rate, and the capital utilization mechanism working through the use of energy for cyclical fluctuations in Bulgaria. In particular, a positive shock to energy prices in the model works like a negative technological shock. Allowing for variations in factor utilization and the presence of energy as a factor of production improves the model performance against data, and in addition this extended setup dominates the standard RBC model framework with constant depreciation and a fixed utilization rate of physical capital, e.g., Vasilev (2009)
E22|The Role of Energy in a Real Business Cycle Model with an Endogenous Capital Utilization Rate in a Government Sector: Lessons from Bulgaria (1999–2016)|We introduce a pro-cyclical endogenous utilization rate of physical capital stock into a real business cycle model augmented with a government sector in detail. We calibrate the model to Bulgarian data for the period following the introduction of the currency board arrangement (1999–2016). We investigate the quantitative importance of the endogenous depreciation rate and the capital utilization mechanism working through the use of energy for cyclical fluctuations in Bulgaria. In particular, a positive shock to energy prices in the model works like a negative technological shock. Allowing for variations in factor utilization and the presence of energy as a factor of production improves the model performance against data, and in addition this extended setup dominates the standard RBC model framework with constant depreciation and a fixed utilization rate of physical capital (e.g., Vasilev (2009)).
E22|Are habits important for the propagation of business cycle fluctuations in Bulgaria?|We introduce internal consumption habits into a real-business-cycle setup augmented with a detailed government sector. We calibrate the model to Bulgarian data for the period following the introduction of the currency board arrangement (1999-2016). We investigate the quantitative importance of the presence of internal consumption habits motive for the propagation cyclical fluctuations in Bulgaria. Allowing for habits in consumption improves the model performance against data, and in addition this extended setup dominates the standard RBC model framework without habits, e.g., Vasilev (2009).
E22|Offshoring and the polarisation of the demand for capital|While there is a consensus in the literature that offshoring has a polarising effect on the skill structure of labour demand, little is known about its impact on the capital side. In this paper, we analyse the effect of offshoring on the demand for capital by asset class using a rich country-sector panel dataset. Estimating a system of factor demand equations, we document that offshoring reduces the relative demand for non-ICT capital, thereby also polarising the demand for capital. Our results are robust against a wide range of specifications and methodological choices including an IV approach to address endogeneity concerns.
E22|Credit Crunches from Occasionally Binding Bank Borrowing Constraints|We present a model in which banks and other financial intermediaries face both occasionally binding borrowing constraints and costs of equity issuance. Near the steady state, these intermediaries can raise equity finance at no cost through retained earnings. However, even moderately large shocks cause their borrowing constraints to bind, leading to contractions in credit offered to firms, and requiring the intermediaries to raise further funds by paying the cost to issue equity. This leads to the occasional sharp increases in interest spreads and the countercyclical, positively skewed equity issuance that are characteristic of the credit crunches observed in the data.
E22|What finance for what investment? Survey-based evidence for European companies|We examine the link between corporate financing and investment decisions of European firms by using a novel firm-level survey of the European Investment Bank (EIBIS). The survey provides rich quantitative information of a wide range of financing sources and tangible and intangible investment types for a representative sample of EU28 firms in 2016. We provide new evidence and contribute to previous research in the following ways: first we consider the heterogeneous effect of internal and external finance on different tangible and intangible investment types. Second, our analysis focuses on a broad spectrum of nonfinancial corporations across size classes from different countries. By using a multinomial fractional response model to estimate the finance-investment link, we find that SMEs and large enterprises show a different financing behaviour for their investment activity. The results suggest that SMEs' tangible asset investment is positively related to the use of bank finance, whereas internal finance is preferred for intangible asset investments.
E22|Investment of financially distressed firms: The role of trade credit|We study the relationship between net trade credit and firms' investment levels, focusing on financially distressed firms. First, we introduce a theoretical model to predict the role played by net trade credit as a coordination device differentiating firms by their degree of financial distress. Then, we test these predictions by using a large panel of more than 10 million firms in 23 EU countries over the period 2004-2014. Our main result is that, whereby net trade credit has an overall negative impact on capital formation due to liquidity effects, the effect is less pronounced for firms that are in financial difficulties. The main explanation is that through capital expenditures distressed companies try to maintain vital business relations with their customers in order to participate in the final profits via trade credit repayments.
E22|Debt Overhang and Investment Efficiency|Using a pan-European dataset of 8.5 million firms, we find that firms with high debt overhang invest relatively more than otherwise similar firms if they are operating in sectors facing good global growth opportunities. This effect is robust to controlling for firm fixed effects and for country-sector-time fixed effects. At the same time, the positive impact of a marginal increase in debt on investment efficiency disappears if firm debt is excessive, if it is dominated by short maturities, and during systemic banking crises. Our results are consistent with theories highlighting the disciplining role of debt over equity.
E22|Financial realities for farms in the European Union: Relationships between farming and governmental interactions within the Triple Helix concept|The objective of this study is to analyse the financial realities for the farming sector in European Union countries and their relationships with agricultural investment and public structural subsidies, from a perspective of farming- and governmental relationships as part of the Triple Helix approach. Firstly, the statistical information available within the Farm Accountancy Data Network for the former twenty seven European Union countries, related with the main items of the accounting balance sheet was investigated. Secondly, various financial indicators were calculated to analyse the principal financial constraints in these farms and finally, these findings with the levels of investment and structural support were reported. As a main conclusion, more adjusted structural policies in the European Union will be needed, taking these microeconomic contexts into account.
E22|The role of energy in a real-business-cycle model with an endogenous capital utilization rate and a government sector: the case of Bulgaria (1999-2016)|We introduce a pro-cyclical endogenous utilization rate of physical capital stock into a real-business-cycle model augmented with a detailed government sector. We calibrate the model to Bulgarian data for the period following the introduction of the currency board arrangement (1999-2016). We investigate the quantitative importance of the endogenous depreciation rate, and the capital utilitization mechanism working through the use of energy for cyclical fluctuations in Bulgaria. In particular, a positive shock to energy prices in the model works like a negative technological shock. Allowing for variations in factor utilization and the presence of energy as a factor of production improves the model performance against data, and in addition this extended setup dominates the standard RBC model framework with constant depreciation and a fixed utilization rate of physical capital, e.g., Vasilev (2009).
E22|An RBC model with Epstein-Zin (non-expected-utility) recursive preferences: lessons from Bulgaria (1999-2016)|"We introduce Epstein-Zin (1989, 1991) preferences into a real-business-cycle setup augmented with a detailed government sector. We calibrate the model to Bulgarian data for the period following the introduction of the currency board arrangement (1999-2016). We investigate the quantitative importance of the presence of ""early resolution of uncertainty"" motive for the propagation of cyclical fluctuations in Bulgaria. Allowing for Epstein-Zin preferences improves the model performance against data, and in addition this extended setup dominates the standard RBC model framework, e.g., Vasilev (2009)."
E22|Post-crisis business investment in the euro area and the role of monetary policy| Business investment in the euro area strongly declined during the Global Financial Crisis and the Sovereign Debt Crisis. It has not yet rebounded to its pre-crisis trend despite the very expansionary monetary policy measures of the ECB. We analyse the sluggish recovery in business investment in the euro area and the role of monetary policy in three steps. We investigate the main factors that have impeded business investment since the Global Financial Crisis. We empirically analyse how business investment has developed compared to typical patterns during other financial crises. Based on these results, we then discuss how effective monetary policy has been in stimulating business investment since the Global Financial Crisis. We conclude that business investment in the euro area has developed broadly in line with typical post-crisis patterns. Monetary policy significantly contributed to stabilize business investment at the beginning of the crises. In the aftermath of the crises, however, there seems to be little scope for monetary policy to further stimulate investment.
E22|Inequality and growth: Marxian and post-Keynesian/Kaleckian perspectives on distribution and growth regimes before and after the Great Recession|The re-distribution of income from labour to capital, from workers to top-managers, and from low income households to the rich has been an important feature of financedominated capitalism since the early 1980s. After the Great Financial Crisis and the Great Recession in 2007-9, the recovery has been sluggish so far, and this has given rise to a renewed discussion about stagnation tendencies in capitalist economies. In orthodox approaches income distribution only has a restricted role to play, if at all, but the interaction between distribution and growth is at the centre of Marxian and post-Keynesian/Kaleckian approaches when it comes to explaining medium- to long-run trends of economic growth - and stagnation. In this contribution we will thus provide Marxian and Kaleckian assessments of the distribution and growth regimes under finance-dominated capitalism, both before and after the recent crisis. Finally, we also sketch an interpretation of stagnation tendencies in a demand-led endogenous growth model with Kaleckian, Kaldorian and Marxian features.
E22|Are green bonds a viable way to finance environmental goals? An analysis of chances and risks of green bonds|The European Union is currently making significant strides to lead on green finance and align its financial system with its climate, sustainability and clean energy ambitions. The Paris Climate Agreement, the G20 Green Finance Study Group and the G19 Hamburg Climate and Energy Action Plan have provided ongoing momentum for policy moves towards a green financial system. Including financial markets into a climate strategy is a logical step forward, because public funds are insufficient to finance the needed investments in green technology and because the financial sector shows interest in financing green technology. Given the long-term nature of green investments and the financial market's short-termism, the establishment of a liquid market for green bonds is the market solution to this maturity mismatch. However, for such a market to thrive, investors need a definition of green technology as well as a definition of what a green bond is. In addition to that, green disclosure rules are needed, so that investors can easily access information on how the proceedings of green bonds are invested. The EU's main efforts in establishing a market for green bonds are the legislation of a common taxonomy for green bonds and the stimulation of the demand for green bonds by a green supporting factor in bank capital regulation. While we agree that a common taxonomy will help investors to screen green projects, we are very sceptical about the green supporting factor, which causes lower equity capital requirements for green investments. We see the risk that this may give rise to an undercapitalisation of banks with respect to the default risks of green projects and an overinvestment of banks into these projects. Since the green bond market is a political project, there is the danger of privileging green bonds in financial regulation for achieving political goals. The emergence of a green bond bubble and the bursting of that bubble would be harmful to the financial sector and it would hinder reaching the climate goals, since investors will abstain from investments in which they have lost money before. We derive the risk of political interventions to stimulate the demand for green bonds from our estimates, which indicate that annual green bond emissions have to grow by the factor 45 in order to finance the potentially needed overall annual investments of up to USD 7 trillion making a higher indebtedness or significant portfolio shifts necessary. Looking only at incremental investments needs to reach the climate goal green bond issuance would also have to increase up to the factor 4.5 and to reach the Sustainable Development goals by the factor 15. Instead of pushing for a fast growth of the green bond market, the EU should strive for its organic growth. Therefore, it should rely on market intelligence, i.e. the market participant's risk assessments for the green projects' default risks together with the market participants evalua-tion of the greenness of green investment projects. To this end, the proposed harmonisation of the taxonomy within the EU is a necessary step, because different national taxonomies would hinder the emergence of cross-border markets for green bonds. The EU cared about the con-sistency of the green bond proposal with other regulations for financial institutions, but it would be necessary to guarantee consistency also in the future. Otherwise, unintended side effects could distort the investment decisions of financial companies.
E22|Reasons for the declining real interest rates|The low nominal interest rate environment is a hotly debated phenomenon among politicians, financial market participants and households. Savers fear the erosion of their retirement savings, while financial supervisors warn of the stability risks caused by declining bank profitability and by the declining profitability of life insurers. Moreover, financial supervisors fear an increase in household debt triggered by a high demand for cheap loans. Most people are interested in whether inflation-adjusted interest rates will rise in the distant future, and, if this is the case, when and by how much they will increase. However, the possibility of increasing real interest rates depends on whether the evolution of real interest rates is due to a rebound of a long cycle or whether it is due to a longer-lasting trend. Whether the evolution of real interest rates is based on a trend or a cycle cannot be judged by data visualisation. Instead, it needs a more rigorous statistical analysis. Therefore, we first identify the drivers of real interest rates and use a panel data regression model to test whether these drivers are predictive of the evolution of real interest rates. We then use forecasts of the drivers of real interest rates, mostly demographic variables, to identify whether there is a future trend or a mean-reverting behaviour in real interest rates. The regression model for the real interest rate can be used to calculate the real interest rate that is determined by economic fundamentals. This model-implied interest rate can then be compared to the data in order to detect misalignments that could be caused by accommodative monetary policies or by risk premia. The detection of misalignments is important for our fore-casting exercise, because the correction of the misalignment back to a possible trend could be confused with an interest rate cycle. The analysis indicates that the current low interest rate levels are not solely caused by the accommodative monetary policies of central banks, but are also the outcome of a longer-term downward trend. Although interest rates are currently lower than indicated by macroeconomic factors and, thus, are likely to increase when central banks start to toughen their monetary policies, in the long-run real interest rates will decline predominantly because of demographic factors. This trend will be persistent, because demographic factors seem to be persistent. For Germany, for example, we find a rebound from currently -0.4 percent to 1.3 percent by 2025 due to the elimination of the misalignment when the ECB starts to normalise its monetary policy. After the normalisation of this interest rate cycle, the negative trend in the real interest rates leads to a decline to a real interest rate of 0.5 percent in 2035 and a real interest rate of 0.0 percent in 2050. The result of persistently low interest rates has important implications for the long-term invest-ment decisions of savers, life insurers and pension funds.
E22|Bank response to higher capital requirements: Evidence from a quasi-natural experiment|We study the impact of higher capital requirements on banks' balance sheets and its transmission to the real economy. The 2011 EBA capital exercise provides an almost ideal quasi-natural experiment, which allows us to identify the effect of higher capital requirements using a difference-in-differences matching estimator. We find that treated banks increase their capital ratios not by raising their levels of equity, but by reducing their credit supply. We also show that this reduction in credit supply results in lower firm-, investment-, and sales growth for firms which obtain a larger share of their bank credit from the treated banks.
E22|Recent trade dynamics in Asia: Examples from specific industries|"This paper looks at the extent to which the shift in the lower value added production to countries in the following development ""tier"" is actually becoming a reality. Several countries in East Asia have been upgrading production patterns and moving up the value chain, this paper looks at how this helps and offers new opportunities to less advanced countries to integrate in world trade. The paper uses a combination of techniques, from an analysis of disaggregated trade flows by country and sectors, to the calculation of trade intensity indices by country and sector, and value-added trade by sector. It finds combined evidence of forward and backward trade increasing between several neighbouring Asian economies and China, in the most labour-intensive industries in particular. Econometric analysis shows that relative unit labour costs are an explanatory factor of increased trade links. In cases, the intensification of trade links on the export side can relate to a strongly expanding local market (for example India for electronic products such as smartphones), but mostly the intensification of trade links takes place both on the import and export sides with markets which are much smaller than China (Vietnam, Bangladesh, etc.), and which experienced increased outward-processing activities as a result of China's production upgrade."
E22|Crowding-out or crowding-in? Public and private investment in India|This paper contributes to the debate on the relationship between public and private investment in India along the following dimensions. First, acknowledging major structural changes that the Indian economy has undergone in the past three decades, we study whether public investment in recent years has become more or less complementary to private investment in comparison to the period before 1980. Second, we construct a novel data-set of quarterly aggregate public and private investment in India over the period 1996–2015 using investment-project data from the CapEx-CMIE database. Third, embedding a theory-driven long-run relationship on the model, we estimate a range of Structural Vector Error Correction Models (SVECMs) to re-examine the public and private investment relationship in India. Identification is achieved by decomposing shocks into those with transitory and permanent effects. Our results suggest that while public investment crowds out private investment in India over the period 1950–2012, the opposite is true when we restrict the sample to post 1980 or conduct a quarterly analysis since 1996. This change can likely be attributed to the policy reforms which started during the early 1980s and gained momentum after the 1991 crisis.
E22|Capital Skill Substitutability and the Labor Income Share: Identification Using the Morishima Elasticity of Substitution|The relationship between a declining labor income share and a falling relative price of capital requires capital and labor to be gross substitutes at the aggregate level (i.e., σ_Agg>1). We argue that this restriction can be relaxed if we distinguish labor by skills and identify differential capital-labor substitutability across skill groups. Using the Morishima elasticity of substitution in a three-factor nested-CES production function, we analytically estimate the elasticity of substitution parameters between capital and skilled labor (ρ) and between capital and unskilled labor (σ). We then derive the necessary conditions for a decline in the labor income share based on ρ and σ, which does not require σ_Agg to be greater than unity.
E22|Alleviating the Barriers to Domestic Investment in Addis Ababa: Underlying Causes and Proposed Solutions|While Addis Ababa is rapidly urbanizing, productive job creation remains to be a key challenge. The root cause of this has been the lack of structural transformation towards industries with higher potential for growth and job creation. In response, the government of Ethiopia and the Addis Ababa city government in particular through their Growth and Transformation Plan (GTP2) target the industrial sector to enhance structural transformation and create more productive jobs in Ethiopia’s cities. Despite the priority and importance accorded to the industrial sector and efforts to improve the investment environment, quite a few domestic investors go beyond the licensing stage to start production. A recent World Bank report on the investment climate in Addis Ababa shows that only about 5% of domestic firms that receive investment licenses are able to convert from the pre-operational to the operational phase of investment to establish their businesses. This is also consistent with government reports. By any standard, this is one of the lowest investment conversion rates, and hence is quite concerning. So, the key question is: why 95% of investors were not able to move beyond the licensing stage to start operating? We tried to tackle this using qualitative/semi-structured firm level research among the firms who received an investment license but are stuck or discouraged.
E22|Debunking the granular origins of aggregate fluctuations: from real business cycles back to Keynes|Abstract In this work we study the granular origins of business cycles and their possible underlying drivers. As shown by Gabaix (Econometrica 79:733–772, 2011), the skewed nature of firm size distributions implies that idiosyncratic (and independent) firm-level shocks may account for a significant portion of aggregate volatility. Yet, we question the original view grounded on “supply granularity”, as proxied by productivity growth shocks – in line with the Real Business Cycle framework–, and we provide empirical evidence of a “demand granularity”, based on investment growth shocks instead. The role of demand in explaining aggregate fluctuations is further corroborated by means of a macroeconomic Agent-Based Model of the “Schumpeter meeting Keynes” family Dosi et al. (J Econ Dyn Control 52:166–189, 2015). Indeed, the investigation of the possible microfoundation of RBC has led us to the identification of a sort of microfounded Keynesian multiplier.
E22|An agent-based model of intra-day financial markets dynamics|We propose a parsimonious agent-based model of a financial market at the intra-day time scale that is able to jointly reproduce many of the empirically validated stylised facts. These include properties related to returns (leptokurtosis, absence of linear autocorrelation, volatility clustering), trading volumes (volume clustering, correlation between volume and volatility), and timing of trades (number of price changes, autocorrelation of durations between subsequent trades, heavy tail in their distribution, order-side clustering). With respect to previous constributions we introduce a strict event scheduling borrowed from the Euronext exchange, and an endogenous rule for traders' participation. We find that the latter proves crucial for matching our target stylised facts.
E22|Organizational Equilibrium with Capital|This paper proposes a new equilibrium concept – organizational equilibrium – for models with state variables that have a time-inconsistency problem. The key elements of this equilibrium concept are: (1) agents are allowed to ignore the history and restart the equilibrium; (2) agents can wait for future agents to start the equilibrium. We apply this equilibrium concept to a quasi-geometric discounting growth model and to a problem of optimal dynamic fiscal policy. We find that the allocation gradually transits from that implied by its Markov perfect equilibrium towards that implied by the solution under commitment, but stopping short of the Ramsey outcome. The feature that the time inconsistency problem is resolved slowly over time rationalizes the notion that good will is valuable but has to be built gradually.
E22|A Search-Based Neoclassical Model of Capital Reallocation|As a form of investment, the importance of capital reallocation between firms has been increasing over time, with the purchase of used capital accounting for 25% to 40% of firms total investment nowadays. Cross- firm reallocation of used capital also exhibits intriguing business-cycle properties, such as (i) the illiquidity of used capital is countercyclical (or the quantity of used capital reallocation across rms is procyclical), (ii) the prices of used capital are procyclical and more so than those of new capital goods, and (iii) the dispersion of firms' TFP or MPK (or the bene t of capital reallocation) is countercyclical. We build a search-based neoclassical model to qualitatively and quantitatively explain these stylized facts. We show that search frictions in the capital market are essential for our empirical success but not sufficient---fi nancial frictions and endogenous movements in the distribution of rm-level TFP (or MPK) and interactions between used-capital investment and new investment are also required to simultaneously explain these stylized facts, especially that prices of used capital are more volatile than that of new investment and the dispersion of firm TFP is countercyclical.
E22|Capital Gains Taxation and Investment Dynamics|This paper quantiﬁes the long-run eﬀects of reducing capital gains taxes on aggregate investment. We develop a dynamic general equilibrium model with heterogeneous ﬁrms, which face discrete capital gains tax rates based on their ﬁrm size. We calibrate our model by targeting important micro moments as well as the diﬀerence-in-diﬀerences estimate of the capital elasticity based on our institutional setting in Korea. We ﬁnd that the ﬁrm-size reform that reduced the capital gains tax rates from 24 percent to 10 percent for the aﬀected ﬁrms increased aggregate investment by 1.22 percent in the steady state, with the short-run eﬀects overstating the eﬀects by 1.18 percentage points. Additionally, a counterfactual analysis where we set the uniformly low tax rate of 10 percent reveals that aggregate investment rose by 7 percent in the long-run. We also ﬁnd that general equilibrium eﬀects through prices are substantial in our simulation. Taken together, our ﬁndings suggest that reducing capital gains tax rates would substantially increase investment in the short-term, and accounting for dynamic and general equilibrium responses is important for understanding the aggregate eﬀects of capital gains taxes.
E22|Accounting for Factorless Income|Comparing US gross domestic product to the sum of measured payments to labor and imputed rental payments to capital results in a large and volatile residual or “factorless” income. We analyze three common strategies of allocating and interpreting factorless income, specifically that it arises from economic profits (case Π), unmeasured capital (case K), or deviations of the rental rate of capital from standard measures based on bond returns (case R). We are skeptical of case Π because it reveals a tight negative relationship between real interest rates and economic profits, leads to large fluctuations in inferred factor-augmenting technologies, and results in profits that have risen since the early 1980s but that remain lower today than in the 1960s and 1970s. Case K shows how unmeasured capital plausibly accounts for all factorless income in recent decades, but its value in the 1960s would have to be more than half of the capital stock, which we find less plausible. We view case R as most promising as it leads to more stable factor shares and technology growth than the other cases, though we acknowledge that it requires an explanation for the pattern of deviations from common measures of the rental rate. Using a model with multiple sectors and types of capital, we show that our assessment of the drivers of changes in output, factor shares, and functional inequality depends critically on the interpretation of factorless income.
E22|Accounting for Factorless Income|Comparing US gross domestic product to the sum of measured payments to labor and imputed rental payments to capital results in a large and volatile residual or “factorless” income. We analyze three common strategies of allocating and interpreting factorless income, specifically that it arises from economic profits (case Π), unmeasured capital (case K), or deviations of the rental rate of capital from standard measures based on bond returns (case R). We are skeptical of case Π because it reveals a tight negative relationship between real interest rates and economic profits, leads to large fluctuations in inferred factor-augmenting technologies, and results in profits that have risen since the early 1980s but that remain lower today than in the 1960s and 1970s. Case K shows how unmeasured capital plausibly accounts for all factorless income in recent decades, but its value in the 1960s would have to be more than half of the capital stock, which we find less plausible. We view case R as most promising as it leads to more stable factor shares and technology growth than the other cases, though we acknowledge that it requires an explanation for the pattern of deviations from common measures of the rental rate. Using a model with multiple sectors and types of capital, we show that our assessment of the drivers of changes in output, factor shares, and functional inequality depends critically on the interpretation of factorless income.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E22|Fixed investment in Russia in 2017|The macroeconomic aspect of the investment model is determined by dynamics and structure of major indexes of the real sector and by monetary and financial markets as well as by characteristics of reproduction and usage of principal factors of production economy wide by types of economic activity. This allows not only to assess the investment potential of the economy from the point of view of mobilization of internal development reserves but also to reveal constraints and possibilities for raising the investment attractiveness for the Russian and foreign capital. Institutional environment, norms and rules of regulation the investment activity, development of financial and credit system, risks of changes in social and political, economic, infrastructure and organization and managerial factors represent another feature of the investment model. The investment model being a complex system includes a third aspect – mechanism of interaction of different subjects of the investment process (state sector, corporate sector, households, foreign investors) and investment decision making by economic entities. One should also take into consideration specific features of the investment model depending on time-frame. In short-term perspective, economic growth can be determined by a system of non-capital intensive development factors, in particular, decline in inflation, reduction of costs, and shutdown of inefficient products. In medium- and long-term perspective, the role of investments notably increases due to the need to resolve deep structural issues of modernization of production and raising competitiveness of the economy.
E22|Bubble on real estate: The role of altruism and fiscal policy|In this paper, we are interested in the interplay between real estate bubble, aggregate capital accumulation and taxation in an overlapping generations economy with altruistic households. We consider a three-period overlapping generations model with three key elements: altruism, portfolio choice, and financial market imperfections. Households realise different investment decisions in terms of asset at different periods of life, face a binding borrowing constraint and leave bequests to their children. We show that altruism plays a key role on the existence of a productive real estate bubble, i.e. a bubble in real estate raising physical capital stock and aggregate output. The key mechanism relies on the fact that a real estate bubble raises income of retired households. Because of higher bequests, there children are able to invest more in productive capital. Introducing fiscal policy, we show that raising real estate taxation dampens capital accumulation.
E22|Does Public Debt Crowd Out Corporate Investment? International Evidence|Using data for advanced and emerging economies, we show that there is a negative correlation between public debt and corporate investment. Industry-level regressions show that high levels of government debt are particularly damaging for industries that need more external financial resources. Firm-level regressions show that government debt increases the sensitivity of corporate investment to cash flow. These results indicate that the relationship between public debt and investment is likely to be causal and that public debt crowds out corporate investment by tightening credit constraints.
E22|Firm-level productivity dispersion and convergence|On a French firm dataset, productivity at the technological frontier has not decelerated and convergence of firms’ productivity has not slowed down. Yet, the dispersion of productivity has increased, which suggests growing difficulties in reallocating production factors between firms.
E22|Labour Market Regulations and Capital Intensity|On the basis of a country*industry unbalanced panel data sample for 14 OECD countries and 18 industries covering the years 1988 to 2007, this study proposes an econometric investigation of the effects of the OECD Employment Protection Legislation (EPL) indicator on capital intensity for four capital components, and on the share of employment for two skill components. Our results relying on a difference-in-difference approach are the following: i) positive and significant effects for non-ICT physical capital intensity and the share of high-skilled employment; ii) non-significant effects for ICT capital intensity; and (iii) negative and significant effects for R&D capital intensity and the share of low-skilled employment. These results suggest that firms consider that the strengthening of Employment Protection Legislation is equivalent to a rise in the cost of labor, resulting in capital-to-labor substitution in favor of non-ICT capital and working at the disadvantage of low-skill relatively to high-skill workers. They indicate to the contrary that structural reforms for more labor flexibility weakening this legislation could have a favorable impact on firms’ R&D investment and their hiring of low-skill workers.
E22|Markups and markdowns|This paper studies the high yet undocumented incidence of firms displaying markups lower than unity, i.e., prices lower than marginal costs, for protracted periods of time. Using a large sample of French manufacturing firms for the period 1990–2007, the paper estimates markups at the firm level and documents in a robust way the extent to which firms exhibit negative price-cost margins. The paper also investigates the relationship between the incidence and persistence of negative price-cost margins and candidate explanations, such as subsidies, strategic behaviour, uncertainty and irreversibility.
E22|Deep Dynamics|Combining micro and macro data, we construct demand-side shocks, which we take to be exogenous for individual firms. We estimate a reduced-form model to describe how firms adjust their production, employment, capital stock, and inventories in response to such shocks. Then, we chose the structural parameters of a theoretical model so that the theoretical model can match the impulse-response functions from the estimated reduced-form model. Firms’ reactions to demand-side shocks are well explained by a model where firms have modest market power, face convex adjustment costs and where they can vary utilization flexibly. The stock-out motive helps to explain inventory dynamics.
E22|The Effect of Bank Recapitalization Policy on Corporate Investment: Evidence from a Banking Crisis in Japan|This article examines the effect of government capital injections into financially troubled banks on corporate investment during the Japanese banking crisis of the late 1990s. By helping banks meet the capital requirements imposed by Japanese banking regulation, recapitalization enables banks to respond to loan demands, which could help firms increase their investment. To test this mechanism empirically, we combine the balance sheet data of Japanese manufacturing firms with bank balance sheet data and estimate a linear investment model where the investment rate is a function of not only firm productivity and size but also bank regulatory capital ratios. We find that the coefficient of the interaction between a firm's total factor productivity measure and a bank's capital ratio is positive and significant, implying that the bank's capital ratio affects more productive firms. Counterfactual policy experiments suggest that capital injections made in March 1998 and 1999 had a negligible impact on the average investment rate, although there was a reallocation effect, shifting investments from low- to high-productivity firms.
E22|Bubble on Real Estate: The Role of Altruism and Fiscal Policy|In this paper, we are interested in the interplay between real estate bubble, aggregate capital accumulation and taxation in an overlapping generations economy with altruistic households. We consider a three-period overlapping generations model with three key elements: altruism, portfolio choice, and financial market imperfections. Households realise different investment decisions in terms of asset at different periods of life, face a binding borrowing constraint and leave bequests to their children. We show that altruism plays a key role on the existence of a productive real estate bubble, i.e. a bubble in real estate raising physical capital stock and aggregate output. The key mechanism relies on the fact that a real estate bubble raises income of retired households. Because of higher bequests, there children are able to invest more in productive capital. Introducing fiscal policy, we show that raising real estate taxation dampens capital accumulation.
E22|Markups and Productivity under Heterogeneous Financial Frictions|We incorporate heterogeneous financial frictions in a setting of monopolistically competitive firms with endogenous markups. Before producing, firms must pledge collateral to obtain a bank loan, needed to cover part of production costs. Firms differ both in productivity and in their cost of raising collateral. Firm-specic financial frictions, together with productivity, therefore figure in the equilibrium expressions of prices and markups. We validate our theoretical results on a representative sample of European manufacturing firms surveyed during the financial crisis. Guided by our model we retrieve from balance-sheet data firm-specic measures of access to finance, total factor productivity and markups, and then use these variables to estimate our equilibrium equations structurally. Consistent with our model, we show how heterogeneity in access to finance explains part of the dispersion of prices and markups, even after controlling for firms' productivity and size. In the aggregate industry equilibrium, the amount of collateral required by banks significantly affects the cost pass-through to prices.
E22|Investment, Current Account, and the Long Swings of Unemployment|We estimate the relationship between investment and unemployment over the time period 1960-2015 in 20 OECD countries. While neoclassical growth theory typically assumes full employment – with no effect of investment on unemployment – we find that over our sample period covering more than five decades, a statistically significant negative relationship does exist: when investment fell, unemployment increased. When the time period is broken down into two sub-periods to take account of the Great Recession, we find that the estimated coefficient of investment is slightly smaller when the period 2001-2015 is added to the 1960-2000 period. We also find a positive effect of the current account surplus on unemployment that very likely works through investment. A non-monetary model shows how an increase in policy uncertainty that sharply contracts investment and raises unemployment can lead to an increase in current account surplus.
E22|The Role of Corporate Saving over the Business Cycle: Shock Absorber or Amplifier?|We document countercyclical corporate saving behavior with the degree of countercyclicality varying nonmonotonically with firm size. We then develop a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model with heterogeneous firms to explain the pattern and study its implications for business cycles. In the presence of financial frictions and fixed operating costs, a persistent negative productivity shock signals low future income and prompts firms to hold more cash in order to preserve financial flexibility and maintain normal operations. This countercyclicality exhibits a hump-shaped relation to firm size. Compared with mediumsized firms, small firms have a higher marginal product of capital and thus better investment opportunities, which compete for resources with cash, while large firms have more pledgeable assets and demand less cash. We find that, on average, firms accumulate cash by cutting investment and employment in recessions, which reduces aggregate output and increases economic fluctuations. Corporate saving, therefore, amplifies aggregate shocks.
E22|Potential Output in Canada: 2018 Reassessment|This note summarizes the reassessment of potential output, conducted by the Bank of Canada for the April 2018 Monetary Policy Report. Overall, the profile for potential output growth is expected to remain flat at 1.8 per cent between 2018 and 2020 and 1.9 per cent in 2021. While population aging will continue to be a drag on potential output growth, this drag is expected to be offset by a pickup in trend labour productivity. This year’s profile represents a substantial revision relative to the April 2017 reassessment. This is mostly a result of the historical revisions to the levels of business investment and capital stock released in November 2017 by Statistics Canada, strong employment gains in 2017 and a slightly more optimistic outlook for investment over the projection horizon. An analysis of alternative scenarios suggests a range for potential output growth from ±0.3 percentage points in 2018 to ±0.6 percentage points in 2021.
E22|Characterizing Canada’s Export Sector by Industry: A Supply-Side Perspective|This note examines supply-side trends in Canadian non-energy industries and their implications for export performance. Between 2002 and 2016, capital stocks and total labour input declined in many industries that export non-energy goods. These soft trends in the factors of production have likely contributed to the decline in non-energy exports in about half of the goods industries analyzed in this note. On the other hand, Canada’s service sector has consistently increased its capital stock, workforce and productivity, which has helped it maintain solid production and export growth. Nevertheless, following the 2007–09 global financial crisis, supply-side trends in several goods-exporting sectors have improved, and this has led to partial rebounds in production and exports. Should these recent supply-side trends extend into the future, non-energy exports might struggle to grow in line with foreign activity without further improvements in the rates of capital formation, hiring or productivity.
E22|Disaggregating Household Sensitivity to Monetary Policy by Expenditure Category|Because the Bank of Canada has started withdrawing monetary stimulus, monitoring the transmission of these changes to monetary policy will be important. Subcomponents of consumption and housing will likely respond differently to a monetary policy tightening, both in terms of the aggregate effect and timing. These differences may be informative for monitoring household responsiveness to, and tracking the transmission of, changes to monetary policy. The authors therefore estimate an empirical model to measure the effects of monetary policy shocks on household expenditures. We find that monetary policy shocks will have a greater, and generally quicker, effect on residential investment than they do on consumption. On average across interest-rate-sensitive subcomponents of real household expenditure, most of the impact is felt on the level after about seven quarters. For residential investment, new construction and ownership transfer costs are affected the most. For consumption, durables and items thought to be highly discretionary (e.g., food and beverages away from home and accommodation services), appear most sensitive to monetary policy shocks.
E22|Corporate cost and profit shares in the euro area and the US: the same story?|This paper presents evidence of how the shares of labour and capital costs and profits in the gross value added of corporate sectors of France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the US varied between 1995 and 2016, and seeks to explain the differences between countries and how they have developed over time. The descriptive evidence does not support the hypothesis of a convergence in the composition of the countries’ corporate gross value added in the period, either within the euro area or between Europe and the US, nor is there evidence of a generalised downward trend in the share of labour costs over time. The parallel upward trend in the corporate profit share of the US and Germany between 2000 and 2016 stands out, with German corporate profit share consistently above that of the US. The evidence presented here supports the claim made by other studies that increasing corporate market power is the main driver of changes in the composition of gross value added over time in the case of the US. In the euro area countries, labour and capital shares are also sensitive to changes in the relative input prices of labour and capital (consistent with an inferred elasticity of substitution between labour and capital in production that is less than one, compared with the inferred value of one for the US). Finally, to explain the high and increasing German corporate profit share, it is necessary to account for the sustained comparative production cost advantage of German corporations.
E22|Policy uncertainty and investment in Spain|The aim of this paper is to investigate the effect of policy uncertainty on firms’ investment decisions. We focus on Spain for the period 1998-2014. To measure policy-related uncertainty, we use a new macroeconomic indicator constructed for this country. We find strong evidence that policy uncertainty reduces corporate investment. Furthermore, the heterogeneous results suggest that the adverse effect of policy uncertainty is particularly relevant for highly vulnerable firms. In particular, non-exporting firms, small and medium enterprises, as well as firms in poorer financial condition are shown to decrease investment significantly more than their counterparts. Overall, these results are consistent with the hypotheses that policy-related uncertainty reduces corporate investment through increases in precautionary savings or to worsening of credit conditions.
E22|The macro determinants of firms' and households' investment: Evidence from Italy|Using under-exploited institutional sector account data, we assess the main drivers of both firms' and households' investment in Italy over the past two decades. We thus test the validity of the flexible neoclassical model of investment for both sectors, in particular by exploring the significance of additional drivers to output and to the real user cost of capital and by assessing both feedback effects and short- and long-run linkages across all variables in a vector error correction framework. Our findings support the neoclassical model in the long run. However, in the short run, both firms' and households' capital accumulation is found to have been dampened by a rise in uncertainty, a deterioration in confidence, as well as by higher indebtedness and by tighter financing constraints. Moreover, we find that disregarding the role of these short-run variables hinders the understanding of investment dynamics in Italy, especially in the most recent recessionary years.
E22|Firms’ investments during two crises|We study the drivers of investment in Italy during the global financial crisis and the sovereign debt crisis. We focus on the effect of leverage while controlling for the role of other drivers: expected demand, profitability, access to credit and uncertainty. As firm-level leverage may be correlated with its unobservable characteristics, we employ instrumental variables estimation, using the median leverage of firms in the same industry and size decile as an instrument. We find that an increase in leverage equal to the interquartile range (about 30 percentage points) is associated with a lower investment rate of 1.9 and 1.4 percentage points (36 and 41 per cent of its mean) during each crisis. We also find that expected demand growth has a strong positive association with investments, whereas this relation holds for profitability only during the sovereign debt crisis. In contrast, credit rationing and uncertainty have a negative, although more limited, effect. Overall, ex-ante high firm indebtedness has been an important driver of the lower investment rate over the last decade.
E22|Is ECB monetary policy more powerful during expansions?|This paper tests whether the effects of ECB monetary policy vary over different phases of the business cycle. It uses local projections to estimate the state-dependent impulse responses of economic activity and prices to monetary policy shocks. These are identified through high-frequency financial market responses after Governing Council meetings. While the impact of monetary policy on economic activity is roughly similar during recessions and expansions, prices respond more strongly during booms. The result holds when the state of the economy is based on measures of resource utilization, rather than on GDP growth rates. Nominal wages also respond more strongly to monetary policy during expansions and when there is no slack in the economy. The empirical findings are consistent with the presence of downward rigidity on nominal wages.
E22|Firms’ inflation expectations and investment plans|In past years there have been suggestions for monetary policy to engineer higher inflation expectations to stimulate spending. We examine the relationship between the inflation expectations of firms and their investment plans using Italian business survey data over the period 2012-2016. We show that higher expected inflation is positively correlated with firms’ willingness to invest. In our baseline specification, a one percentage point rise in expected inflation is associated with a higher probability of reporting higher investment plans by 4.0 percentage points. This expansionary effect operates through the standard interest rate channel and its magnitude is positively correlated with firms’ liquidity and debt position.
E22|Rent Creation and Sharing: New Measures and Impactson TFP|This analysis proposes new measures of rent creation or (notional) mark-up and workers’ share of rents on cross-country-industry panel data. While the usual measures of mark-up rate implicitly assume perfect labor markets, our approach relaxes this assumption, and takes into account that part of firms’ rent created in an industry is shared with workers to an extent which can vary with their skills. Our results are based on a cross-country-industry panel covering 14 OECD countries and 19 industries over the 1985-2005 period. In a first part of our analysis we draw on OECD indicators of product and labor market (anticompetitive) regulations to test how they are related to our new measures of mark-up and rent-sharing. We find that anti-competitive Non-Manufacturing Regulations (NMR) affect mark-up rates positively, and hence firms’ rent creation and workers’ share of rent, whereas Employment Protection Legislation (EPL) has no impact on rent creation, but boosts workers’ wages per hour. However, we observe that these wage increases are offset by a negative impact from EPL on hours worked per output unit, leading to a non-significant impact of EPL on workers’ share of rents. The effects of EPL for low-skilled workers appear to be more pronounced than those for medium-skilled workers, both being much greater than for highly-skilled workers. In the second part of our analysis, we estimate the impacts of our new measures on Total Factor Productivity (TFP) in the framework of a straightforward regression model. We use the OECD regulations indicators as relevant instrument to take care of endogeneity and to make sure that the resulting estimates assess the proper regulation impacts of rent creation and sharing without being biased by other confounding effects. We find that less competition in the product and labor markets as assessed by our measures of mark-up and workers’ share of rents have both substantial negative impacts on TFP.
E22|Does FDI crowd out domestic investment in transition countries?|The aim of this paper is to empirically investigate the relationship between foreign direct investment (FDI) and domestic investment in a sample of 10 Central and Eastern European countries over the period 1995–2015. We find FDI to lead to a creative destruction phenomenon, with a short‐term crowding out effect on domestic investment, followed by a long‐term crowding in. Greenfield FDI develops stronger long‐run complementarities with domestic investment, while mergers and acquisitions do not show a significant effect on domestic investment. Financial development seems to mitigate crowding out pressures and even foster a crowding in for mergers and acquisitions.
E22|Money and Capital in a Persistent Liquidity Trap|In this paper we analyze the implications of a persistent liquidity trap in a monetary model with asset scarcity and price exibility. We show that a liquidity trap leads to an increase in cash holdings and may be associated with a long-term output decline. This long-term impact is a supply-side effect that may arise when agents are heterogeneous. It occurs in particular with a persistent deleveraging shock, leading investors to hold cash yielding a low return. Policy implications differ from shorter-run analyses. Quantitative easing leads to a deeper liquidity trap. Exiting the trap by increasing expected inflation or applying negative interest rates does not solve the asset scarcity problem.
E22|Growth Facts with Intellectual Property Products: An Exploration of 31 OECD New National Accounts|We document a rise of intellectual property products (IPP) captured by up-to-date national accounts in 31 OECD countries. These countries gradually adopt the new system of national accounts (SNA08) that capitalizes IPP -which was previously treated as an intermediate expense in the pre-SNA93 accounting framework. We examine how the capitalization of IPP affects stylzed growth facts and the big ratios (Kaldor, 1957, Jones, 2016). We find that the capitalization of IPP generates (a) a decline of the accounting labor share, (b) an increase in the capital-to-output ratio across time, and (c) an increase in the rate of return to capital across time. The key accounting assumption behind the IPP capitalization implemented by national accounts is that the share of IPP rents that are attributed to capital, ?, is equal to one. That is, national accounts assume that IPP rents are entirely owed to capital. We question this accounting assumption and apply an alternative split of IPP rents between capital and labor based on the cost structure of R&D as in Koh et al. (2018). We find that this alternative split generates a secularly trendless labor share, a constant capital-to-output ratio, and a constant rate of return across time. We discuss the implications of these new measures of IPP capital -conditional on ?- for cross-country income per capita differences using standard development and growth accounting exercises. Please see the abstract on the paper to see
E22|Capital Misallocation and Secular Stagnation|The widespread emergence of intangible technologies in recent decades may have significantly hurt output growth--even when these technologies replaced considerably less productive tangible technologies--because of structurally low interest rates caused by demographic forces. This insight is obtained in a model in which intangible capital cannot attract external finance, firms are credit constrained, and there is substantial dispersion in productivity. In a tangibles-intense economy with highly leveraged firms, low rates enable more borrowing and faster debt repayment, reduce misallocation, and increase aggregate output. An increase in the share of intangible capital in production reduces the borrowing capacity and increases the cash holdings of the corporate sector, which switches from being a net borrower to a net saver. In this intangibles-intense economy, the ability of firms to purchase intangible capital using retained earnings is impaired by low interest rates, because low rates increase the price of capital and slow down the accumulation of corporate savings.
E22|Residential investment and economic activity: evidence from the past five decades|We analyse the evolution and main drivers of residential investment, using a panel with quarterly data for 15 advanced economies since the 1970s. Residential investment is a notably volatile component of real GDP in all countries in the sample. We find real house price growth, net migration inflows and the size of the existing housing stock to be significant drivers of residential investment across various model specifications. We also detect important asymmetries: interest rate increases affect residential investment more than interest rate cuts, and interest rate changes have larger effects on residential investment when its share in overall GDP is rising. Finally, we show that adding information on residential investment significantly improves the performance of standard recession prediction models.
E22|A risk-centric model of demand recessions and macroprudential policy|When investors are unwilling to hold the economy's risk, a decline in the interest rate increases the Sharpe ratio of the market and equilibrates the risk markets. If the interest rate is constrained from below, risk markets are instead equilibrated via a decline in asset prices. However, the latter drags down aggregate demand, which further drags prices down, and so on. If investors are pessimistic about the recovery, the economy becomes highly susceptible to downward spirals due to dynamic feedbacks between asset prices, aggregate demand, and potential growth. In this context, belief disagreements generate highly destabilizing speculation that motivates macroprudential policy.
E22|Technology and the Two Margins of Labor Adjustment: A New Keynesian Perspective|Canova et al. (2010 and 2012) estimate the dynamic response of labor market variables to technological shocks. They show that investment-specifi?c shocks imply almost exclusively an adjustment along the intensive margin (i.e., hours worked), whereas for neutral shocks the largest share of the adjustment takes place along the extensive margin (i.e., employment). In this paper we develop a New Keynesian model featuring capital accumulation, two margins of labor adjustment and a hiring cost. The model is used to analyze a novel economic mechanism to explain that evidence.
E22|Growing pension deficits and the expenditure decisions of UK companies|Large deficits have opened up on defined benefit pension schemes in the UK since 2007, and at the same time investment expenditure has been subdued; this is a common phenomenon in other countries too. We use privileged access to a unique new dataset from The Pensions Regulator and two identification schemes to investigate the effects of deficits and deficit recovery plans on UK companies’ dividends, investment, wages and cash holdings. Identification is based on the close relationship between low long-term interest rates and pension deficits; and the external regulation of pension schemes by The Pensions Regulator. We show that firms with larger pension deficits voluntarily pay lower dividends, but they do not invest less. However, firms that are required to make deficit recovery contributions by the regulator have lower dividend and investment expenditure compared to other firms, and more so if they are financially constrained. These effects are large for some individual companies, but macro-economically small compared to the stimulus offered by the Bank of England’s quantitative easing policy.
E22|Business investment, cost of capital and uncertainty in the United Kingdom — evidence from firm-level analysis|We use new firm-level estimates of the cost of capital and uncertainty to study the drivers of UK business investment in a neoclassical investment model. We construct firm-specific measures of the cost of capital and uncertainty and use new UK survey data to estimate firm-specific investment hurdle rates. There is substantial variation in the cost of capital and uncertainty faced by firms and we find both matter for investment. Firm heterogeneity might help explain the difference in firms’ investment paths shortly after the Great Recession. This suggests that, while common shocks, that is, aggregate uncertainty matters, it is also important to capture firm-specific uncertainty to better explain investment dynamics. Overall, between 2000 and 2015 investment responded relatively sluggishly to the cost of capital and more sharply to uncertainty, especially after the financial crisis. There are implications for monetary and macroeconomic policy. The relative importance of measures that alleviate uncertainty compared to changes in monetary policy rates could be larger than generally recognised.
E22|Business investment, cash holding and uncertainty since the Great Financial Crisis|The Lehman Brothers event in 2008 created a large uncertainty shock that triggered an economic slowdown lasting a decade. The macroeconomic effects are well documented, but the effect on business decisions much less so. In this paper, we explore corporate data to investigate how economic uncertainty affected investment, dividend payouts and cash holdings, based on over 10,000 UK firm-year observations. We offer new insights into the relationship between business decisions and uncertainty, by exploiting two surveys of macroeconomic uncertainty from professional forecasters and CFOs collected by the Bank of England. These data demonstrate that heightened economic uncertainty lowered investment even after controlling for investment opportunities, sales growth, and the firm’s own stock volatility. Economic uncertainty also explains the rise in cash holdings and the fall in payouts. Hence, our results help explain why UK firms invested so little and held so much cash at a time of historically low interest rates, and also why they paid out smaller dividends. These results may help explain recent sluggish productivity in the UK economy, and they also are important, because they provide a benchmark for future studies of Brexit-related uncertainty.
