E24|In Search of a Job: Forecasting Employment Growth in the US using Google Trends|We show that Google search activity on relevant terms is a strong out-of-sample predictor of future employment growth in the US and that it greatly outperforms benchmark predictive models based on macroeconomic, financial, and sentiment variables. Using a subset of ten keywords, we construct a panel with 211 variables using Google’s own algorithms to find related search queries. We use Elastic Net variable selection in combination with Partial Least Squares to extract the most important information from a large set of search terms. Our forecasting model, which can be constructed in real time and is free from revisions, delivers an out-of-sample R^2 statistic of 65% to 88% for horizons between one month and one year ahead over the period 2008-2017, which compares to between roughly 30% and 60% for the benchmark models.
E24|In search of a job: Forecasting employment growth using Google Trends|We show that Google search activity on relevant terms is a strong out-of-sample predictor for future employment growth in the US over the period 2004-2018 at both short and long horizons. Using a subset of ten keywords associated with “jobs”, we construct a large panel of 173 variables using Google’s own algorithms to find related search queries. We find that the best Google Trends model achieves an out-of-sample R2 between 26% and 59% at horizons spanning from one month to a year ahead, strongly outperforming benchmarks based on a large set of macroeconomic and financial predictors. This strong predictability extends to US state-level employment growth, using state-level specific Google search activity. Encompassing tests indicate that when the Google Trends panel is exploited using a non-linear model it fully encompasses the macroeconomic forecasts and provides significant information in excess of those.
E24|Patterns and Determinants of Intergenerational Educational Mobility: Evidence Across Countries| This study measures the intergenerational persistence of education attainment, using internationally comparable data for parents’ and children’s education levels by age cohort for 30 countries, and identifies its determinants. The estimated intergenerational regression coefficients show that educational mobility worsened over generations in most countries, but its degrees varies considerably across countries and over time. The country-cohort panel regressions show that intergenerational educational mobility decreases with educational expansion, income inequality and credit constraints, and increases with per-capita GDP. The results also highlight the importance of progressive public expenditure on education for improving intergenerational educational mobility.
E24|Phillips' averaging procedure as a 'crude' version of the Haar wavelet filter|The aim of this study is to investigate the exact nature of Phillips' (1958) findings. We show that the application of the simplest type of wavelet basis function developed by Haar in 1910 allows to replicate the output of Phillips' data transformation procedure, i.e. the six mean coordinates. Specifically, the resemblance between the coarsest scale level coefficients from the Haar wavelet filter and the six crosses suggests the long-term nature of Phillips' (wage-unemployment) relationship. The application of the Haar wavelet filter allows us to examine the effects of two main features of Phillips' 'unorthodox' averaging procedure: the arbitrarily choice of variable-width intervals and the choice of sorting observations in ascending order of unemployment rate values. Our results show that the arbitrary selection of intervals affects only the smoothness (regularity) of the nonlinear pattern of the wage-unemployment relationship, but not its shape which is determined by sorting and grouping unemployment rate values in ascending order. Indeed, when observations are ordered according to a chronological sequence a simple linear relationship is evident. These findings are robust to different samples, 1861-1913 and 1861-1958.
E24|Employment Protection, Employment and Unemployment Rates in European Union Countries During the Great Recession|For mainstream economics, rigidities in the labour market are the primary determinants of high and persistent long-term unemployment rates, leading to the need to reform labour market institutions and make them more flexible. Flexible labour markets would not only help to smooth normal business cycle fluctuations (implying a small impact of these fluctuations on employment and unemployment) but also to reduce the negative impacts on labour market of structural shocks. If we focus on the labour market performances in the European Union during the Great Recession, we can easily detect the existence of significant differences in the impact of this common structural shock on the domestic labour markets. For mainstream economics, the countries with the best results in terms of unemployment and employment would have been those that had a more flexible labour market at the beginning of the crisis and/or those having implemented reforms to increase this flexibility. The aim of this paper is to determine the validity of this argument, that is, whether labour reforms making the labour market more flexible effectively ensure macroeconomic stability by reducing the impact on the labour market of economic shocks. Using panel data techniques, we investigate whether, as mainstream studies argue, the evolution of employment and unemployment in the EU labour markets is explained, and to what extent, by the levels and changes registered in the indicators of employment protection legislation. Conversely, we examine whether, as heterodox and post-Keynesian studies suggest, this evolution is explained by the changes registered in economic activity (i.e., GDP growth).
E24|The Danger of a “Geyser Disease” Effect: Structural Fragility of the Tourism-Led Recovery in Iceland|The fall of the Icelandic economy in 2008 highlighted the destructive effects of unbridled markets. Yet, the small Nordic country has experienced an impressive recovery, so much so that in recent years its annual growth rates have been significantly higher than those of the overwhelming majority of advanced capitalist countries. Several commentators have attributed this extraordinary accomplishment to the interventionist state policies adopted by successive Icelandic governments. The aim of this article is to debunk this myth by delving into the fragile foundations that the current Icelandic economic boom rests on. We argue that the substantial growth of the real exchange rate has made the rapid absorption of unemployment compatible with price stability during the recovery period. At the same time, the boom in tourism services made the impressive appreciation of the Icelandic króna compatible with the country’s external balance. However, the laissez-faire approach shown by the Icelandic authorities towards the krona appreciation hasseverely penalized most of the tradable sector, in which the bulk of skilled labor is usually concentrated. Arguably, the heavy specialization in the tourism sector, by restricting sources of productivity growth and international competitiveness, will render the current level of unemployment and real wages inconsistent with internal and external equilibrium in Iceland in the long run.
E24|The Effect of Brexit on the UK Economy (so far)|The political turmoil in the UK following the referendum on future membership of the European Union in 2016 provides a natural experiment for studying the effects of political uncertainty (in the Knightian sense) on the economy. We find that the subsequent confusion and infighting in British politics has not affected the real economy much – employment is at a historical high and output growth is positive – but there are some signs of slowing investment and house price increases. The stock market has also not been much affected although it did fall after the referendum of 2016. The main effect of the Brexit vote and the subsequent political developments is found in the currency market where news that make a hard Brexit more likely cause the currency to depreciate. We conclude that leaving the European Union without an agreement is likely to make the currency depreciate and the stock market fall while output declines. In contrast, leaving with an agreement that gives continued access to the Single Market would likely make the currency appreciate, the stock market rise and employment and output increase further
E24|The Trend Unemployment Rate in Canada: Searching for the Unobservable|In this paper, we assess several methods that have been used to measure the Canadian trend unemployment rate (TUR). We also considerimprovements and extensions to some existing methods. The assessment is based on four criteria: (i) the extent to which methods provide explanations for changes in trend unemployment; (ii) whether revisions to unemployment gap (UGAP, the difference between the actual unemployment rate and TUR) estimates are well behaved; (iii) if UGAPs provide information about future inflation; and (iv) if UGAPs help explain historical data about wages and consumer price inflation. In our assessment of conformity to the second and third criteria, we use real-time data, i.e., the data available to policymakers at the time of making decisions. We find that while all methods we consider have both strengths and weaknesses, those based on variables thought to determine TUR provide better interpretation and tend to do at least as well as others against the other criteria. These are most promising for future work. Nevertheless, there is considerable uncertainty about the value of TUR, which suggests it would be prudent to use a range of models in research or policy work. While estimates of TUR have declined since the mid-1990s, it is assessed to range between 5.6 and 6.7 per cent in 2018Q4.
E24|The Intergenerational Correlation of Employment: Is There a Role for Work Culture?|We document a substantial positive correlation of employment status between mothers and their children in the United States, linking data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth 1979 (NLSY79) and the NLSY79 Children and Young Adults. After controlling for ability, education and wealth, a one-year increase in a mother’s employment is associated with six weeks more employment of her child on average. The intergenerational transmission of maternal employment is stronger to daughters than to sons, and it is higher for low-educated and low-income mothers. Potential mechanisms we were able to rule out included networks, occupation-specific human capital and conditions within the local labor market. By contrast, we provide suggestive evidence for a role-model channel through which labor force participation is transmitted.
E24|Potential Output in Canada: 2019 Reassessment|Potential output is expected to grow on average at 1.8 per cent over 2019–21 and at 1.9 per cent in 2022. While the contribution of trend labour input to potential output growth is expected to decrease between 2019 and 2022, the contribution of trend labour productivity is projected to increase. Relative to the April 2018 reassessment, the profile for potential output growth rates is similar, albeit revised slightly down in 2020 and 2021. Underlying this new profile are negative revisions to the business investment outlook relative to April 2018 that are mostly offset by stronger projections for population growth. Based on various alternative scenarios, the range for potential output growth estimates widens from 1.5 to 2.1 per cent in 2019 to 1.3 to 2.5 per cent in 2022.
E24|Production potentielle au Canada : réévaluation de 2019|La production potentielle devrait afficher une croissance moyenne de 1,8 % de 2019 à 2021 et de 1,9 % en 2022. Même si l’apport du facteur travail tendanciel à la croissance de la production potentielle devrait diminuer entre 2019 et 2022, celui de la productivité tendancielle du travail devrait augmenter. Le profil des taux de croissance de la production potentielle est similaire à celui établi lors de la réévaluation d’avril 2018, malgré une légère révision à la baisse pour 2020 et 2021. Ce nouveau profil tient compte d’un assombrissement des perspectives d’investissement des entreprises, en grande partie contrebalancé par des projections à la hausse pour ce qui est de la croissance démographique. Selon les divers scénarios étudiés, la fourchette des estimations de croissance de la production potentielle s’élargit, allant de 1,5 à 2,1 % en 2019 et de 1,3 à 2,5 % en 2022.
E24|Online Job Seekers in Canada: What Can We Learn from Bing Job Queries?|Labour markets in Canada and around the world are evolving rapidly with the digital economy. Traditional data are adapting gradually but are not yet able to provide timely information on this evolution.
E24|The State of Labour Market Churn in Canada|The literature highlights that labour market churn, including job-to-job transitions, is a key element of wage growth. Using microdata from the Labour Force Survey, we compute measures of labour market churn and compare these with pre-crisis averages to assess implications for wage growth. Overall, while it has improved in Canada, labour market churn broadly remains below pre-crisis averages. This relatively subdued level of churn is consistent with modest slack remaining in the Canadian labour market and thus helps explain the modest wage growth over the past few years.
E24|The Size and Characteristics of Informal (“Gig”) Work in Canada|Underlying wage growth has fallen short of what would be consistent with an economy operating with little or no slack. While many factors could explain this weakness, the availability of additional labour resources from informal (“gig”) work—not fully captured in standard measures of employment and hours worked—may play a role. We investigate this possibility through the Bank of Canada’s Canadian Survey of Consumer Expectations (CSCE) by documenting the characteristics and size of such working arrangements. We find that just under one-third of Canadians participate in this type of work, and this participation is often consistent with labour market slack. Just over one-third of respondents who take part in informal work do so as a result of weak economic conditions, and over half would switch their hours worked for hours in formal employment with no increase in pay. Part-time workers, youth and people in provinces with historically high unemployment rates were most likely to participate in informal employment. A portion of these workers would not be considered part of the labour force by standard labour market measures due in part to the irregularity of their work schedules. Accounting for these workers could boost participation rates by 2–3 percentage points. Moreover, the magnitude of labour supply from such work that could become available to the formal sector is sizable. It amounts to roughly 700,000 full-time equivalent jobs or 3.5 per cent of the labour force on average over the third and fourth quarters of 2018. This additional margin of labour market supply may be contributing to reducing wage pressures.
E24|Jobs multipliers: evidence from a large fiscal stimulus in Spain|We estimate the employment effect of a large fiscal stimulus in Spain (PlanE), in which the national government transferred funds to municipalities to carry out local investment projects. Using a difference-in-difference approach by exploiting variation in the timing of the execution of projects across municipalities, we find that 100,000 euros of stimulus reduced unemployment by 0.62 jobs per year. We allow for possible spatial effects, i.e. the propagation of the stimulus to neighboring municipalities, and find that these are sizable, representing 8.4% of the “local” effect. We also present evidence on the transmission mechanism, finding that the effect was: (i) initially concentrated in the construction and industrial sectors, but later spilled over to the broader economy, (ii) larger for males than females, (iii) larger when the shock represented a higher share of the budget, and (iv) not larger for municipalities headed by more educated mayors. Our estimate of the multiplier falls in the lower range of previous work.
E24|Sources and implications of resource misallocation: new evidence from firm-level marginal products and user costs|Using micro-data on firm-specific borrowing costs and wages, we demonstrate that distortions in firms’ policies can be empirically measured using firm-level gaps between marginal revenue products and user costs (MRP-cost gaps). We estimate MRP-cost gaps for 4.7 million firm-year observations in Italy between 1997 and 2013: their variation is closely related to the extent of credit and labor market frictions. Using the MRP-cost gaps, we assess the scope of input misallocation in Italy, and its impact on aggregate output and total factor productivity (TFP). The Italian corporate sector could produce 6% to 8% more output by reallocating resources toward higher-value users. Output losses from misallocation are larger (i) during episodes of financial instability, (ii) in non-manufacturing industries, (iii) in areas with less developed institutions and (iv) among high-risk firms. We highlight an important gain/risk tradeoff: gains from reallocation might come at the expense of increasing aggregate financial fragility, because maximizing reallocation gains requires a transfer of resource from large, old, and low-risk firms toward small, young, and high-risk firms.
E24|Forecasting the Colombian Unemployment Rate Using Labour Force Flows|Accurate predictions of future magnitudes of the unemployment rate are crucial for monetary policy. This paper investigates whether the use of disaggregated household survey data improves the forecasts of the Colombian 13 cities unemployment rate. We conduct an outof-sample forecast exercise to compare the performance of a model that incorporates flows of workers across different states of the labour market to that of various macroeconomic non-structural models. The paper follows the approach proposed by Barnichon & Nekarda (2013). Our results indicate that the two-state-flow model provides substantially better forecasts of the unemployment rate over longer horizons (more than five months ahead). Additionally, when forecasts are combined, significant gains in every forecasting horizon occurs. This combined forecast shows a 23% reduction in overall RMSE. **** ABSTRACT: En este documento se evalúan los pronósticos de la tasa de desempleo urbana en Colombia utilizando varias metodologías. La primera se basa en las propiedades estadísticas de la serie de tiempo de la tasa de desempleo. La segunda considera la relación entre el crecimiento del producto y los cambios en el desempleo, conocida como la Ley de Okun. Finalmente, con base en los microdatos de las encuestas de hogares se calculan los flujos de trabajadores del mercado laboral para pronosticar la tasa de desempleo de acuerdo con Barnichon y Nekarda (2013). La evaluación de los pronósticos fuera de muestra indica que el modelo de dos estados (ocupado-desocupado) es el mejor en horizontes superiores a cinco meses. Por su parte, los modelos ARIMA y la Ley de Okun compiten en precisión en horizontes de corto plazo. Cabe destacar que la combinación de los modelos de pronóstico genera ganancias significativas en todos los horizontes, alcanzando una reducción global de 23% en la raíz del error cuadrático medio. Classification-JEL: C53, E24, E27, E3, J64
E24|Do Minimum Wages Make Wages More Rigid? Evidence from French Micro Data|How do minimum wages (MW) shape the aggregate wage dynamics when wage adjustment is lumpy? In this paper, we document new empirical findings on the effect of MW on wage rigidity using quarterly micro wage data matched with sectoral bargained MW. We estimate a micro empirical model of wage rigidity taking into account minimum wage dynamics and we use a simulation method to investigate implications of lumpy micro wage adjustment for the aggregate wage dynamics. Our main findings are the following. Both national and sectoral MW have a large effect on the timing and on the size of wage adjustments. At the aggregate level, MW contribute to amplify, by a factor of 1.7, the response of wages to past inflation. Ignoring MW leads to underestimate the speed of aggregate wage adjustment by about a year. The elasticities of wages with respect to past inflation, the national MW and industry-level MW are respectively 0.42, 0.17 and 0.16. Finally, there are significant spillover effects of the NMW on higher wages transiting through industry-level MW.
E24|Mismatch Cycles|Using a recently developed worker-occupation mismatch measure for the US labor market, we document that mismatch is procyclical. However, there is substantial heterogeneity by previous employment status: mismatch is procyclical for workers in ongoing job relationships, consistent with the cleansing effect of recessions; but it is countercyclical for the flow of new hires from unemployment, consistent with the sullying effect of recessions. Our empirical findings show that the cleansing effect dominates. We also provide evidence that, conditional on mismatch, business cycle conditions at the start of the match are important in explaining variation in job duration. We explain these empirical patterns through a learning model à la Jovanovic (1979) augmented with adjustment costs and a learning technology that varies over the business cycle.
E24|International trade, non-trading firms and their impact on labour productivity|In this paper we examine the impact of non-trading firms on labour productivity and its persistence in response to macroeconomic shocks, through their entry and exit into the domestic market, in a model with monopolistic competition and heterogeneous firms. We quantify the effects of various macroeconomic shocks on labour productivity and we demonstrate that non-trading domestic firms’ entry and exit into the domestic market explains the persistence of labour productivity in response to transitory shocks. We also show that the model successfully replicates the sluggish recovery of labour productivity in the United Kingdom since the Great Recession.
E24|Stagnant wages, sectoral misallocation and slowing productivity growth|I propose a two-sector endogenous growth model with heterogeneous sectoral productivity and sector-specific, nonlinear hiring costs to analyse the link between sectoral resource allocation, low productivity growth and stagnant real wages. My results suggest that an upward shift in the labor supply, triggered for instance by a labor market reform, as among others implemented in Germany in 2003-2005, is beneficial in the long-run as it raises growth of technology, labor productivity and real wages. I show, however, that in the immediate phase following the labor supply shock, labor productivity and real wages stagnate as employment gains are initially disproportionally allocated to low-productivity sectors, limiting the capacity for technology growth and depressing real wages and productivity. I demonstrate that due to the learning-by-doing growth externality in the high-productivity sector the competitive equilibrium is ineffcient as firms fail to internalize the effect of their labor allocation on aggregate growth. Subsidies to high-productivity sector production can alleviate welfare losses along the transition path.
E24|The Phillips Curve at 60: time for time and frequency|We estimate the U.S. New Keynesian Phillips Curve in the time-frequency domain with continuous wavelet tools, to provide an integrated answer to the three most controversial issues on the Phillips Curve. (1) Has the short-run tradeoff been stable? (2) What has been the role of expectations? (3)Is there a long-run tradeoff? First, we find that the short-run tradeoff is limited to some specific episodes and short cycles and that there is no evidence of nonlinearities or structural breaks. Second, households' expectations captured trend inflation and were anchored until the Great Recession, but not since 2008. Then, inflation over-reacted to expectations at short cycles. Finally, there is no significant long-run tradeoff. In the long-run, inflation is explained by expectations.
E24|Endogenous TFP, business cycle persistence and the productivity slowdown|This paper analyses the procyclicality of euro area total factor productivity and its role in business cycle amplification by estimating a medium-scale DSGE model with endogenous productivity mechanism on euro area data. Total factor productivity evolves endogenously as a consequence of costly investment in R&D and adoption of new technologies. We find that the endogeneity of TFP induces a high degree of persistence in the euro area business cycle via a feedback mechanism between overall economic conditions and investment in productivity-enhancing technologies. As to the sources of the euro area productivity slowdown, we conclude that a decrease in the efficiency of R&D investment is among the key factors generating the pre-crisis productivity slowdown, while starting from the Great Recession an increase in liquidity demand is identified as the most important driving force. The endogenous technology mechanism further exerts a dampening effect on the inflation response over the business cycle which helps rationalizing both the negligible fall in inflation during the Great Recession and the sluggish increase of inflation in the subsequent recovery.
E24|Are flexible working hours helpful in stabilizing unemployment?|In this paper we challenge the conventional view that increasing working time exibility limits the amplitude of unemployment fluctuations. We start by showing that hours per worker in European countries are much less procyclical than in the US, and in some economies even co-move negatively with output. This is confirmed by the results from a structural VAR model for the euro area, in which working hours increase after a contractionary monetary shock, exacerbating the upward pressure on unemployment. To understand these counterintuitive results, we develop a structural search and matching macroeconomic model with endogenous job separation. We show that this feature is key to generate countercyclical adjustments in working hours. When we augment the model with frictions in working hours adjustment and estimate it using euro area time series, we find that increasing flexibility of working time amplifies cyclical movements in unemployment.
E24|Overhead Labour and Skill-Biased Technological Change: The Role of Product Diversification|This paper tries to explain why a certain type of technology is skill-biased. In contrast with existing literature, this paper regards skilled workers as overhead labour, and presents a model wherein skilled workers constitute a fixed input, required to produce a new product. The demand for skill increases with product variety, and information technology is skill-biased because it raises product variety by lowering the fixed cost of product creation. However, skill-biased change does not necessarily raise measured productivity because product diversification reallocates resources into fixed inputs, which is consistent with the historical fact that skill-biased change did not always accompany productivity growth.
E24|Is Household Heterogeneity Important for Business Cycles?|This paper explores how the interaction between household heterogeneity and progressive government transfers shapes aggregate labor market â€¡uctuations. Using a static model of the extensive margin labor supply, we analytically show that greater progressivity in the transfer system leads to greater volatility of low wage workersâ€™ employment and less procyclical average labor productivity. We then build a dynamic general equilibrium model with both idiosyncratic and aggregate productivity shocks and show that household heterogeneity substantially shapes the dynamics of macroeconomic aggregates when interacted with progressive transfers. Specifically, a notable feature of the performance of our heterogeneous-agent model is its ability to reproduce moderately procyclical average labor productivity while retaining the success of the representative-agent indivisible labor model in generating a large cyclical volatility of aggregate hours relative to output. Finally, we document that among low-wage workers, (i) the individuallevel probability of adjusting labor supply along the extensive margin is signiâ€¦cantly higher, and (ii) the fall in employment rate is considerably steeper during the last six recessions, both of which support the key mechanism of our model.
E24|Firm-Level Political Risk: Measurement and Effects|We adapt simple tools from computational linguistics to construct a new measure of political risk faced by individual US firms: the share of their quarterly earnings conference calls that they devote to political risks. We validate our measure by showing it correctly identifies calls containing extensive conversations on risks that are political in nature, that it varies intuitively over time and across sectors, and that it correlates with the firm’s actions and stock market volatility in a manner that is highly indicative of political risk. Firms exposed to political risk retrench hiring and investment and actively lobby and donate to politicians. These results continue to hold after controlling for news about the mean (as opposed to the variance) of political shocks. Interestingly, the vast majority of the variation in our measure is at the firm level rather than at the aggregate or sector level, in the sense that it is neither captured by the interaction of sector and time fixed effects, nor by heterogeneous exposure of individual firms to aggregate political risk. The dispersion of this firm-level political risk increases significantly at times with high aggregate political risk. Decomposing our measure of political risk by topic, we find that firms that devote more time to discussing risks associated with a given political topic tend to increase lobbying on that topic, but not on other topics, in the following quarter.
E24|Does Schooling Cause Structural Transformation?|We study how the global schooling increase during the 20th century affected structural transformation by changing the supply of agricultural labor. We develop an analytical model of frictional labor reallocation out of agriculture to infer changes in birth-cohort characteristics from observed data on agricultural employment. Bringing the model to microdata from 52 countries, we find that the increase in schooling was accompanied by a large shift of the labor force’s comparative advantage away from agriculture. We bring empirical evidence to suggest this relationship was causal. With fixed prices, the resulting decrease in the supply of agricultural workers can account for almost half of the observed reallocation out of agriculture. However, in general equilibrium, the net effect is ambiguous.
E24|The Role of Headhunters in Wage Inequality: It's All about Matching|This study relates the increase in the U.S. top wages to the increasing prominence of headhunters. Headhunters improve the matching between firms and employees via two channels: screening of candidates and passive on-the-job search. I incorporate headhunters in the labor market framework of random search with two-sided heterogeneity. The calibrated model shows that headhunters can account for 35% of the increase in the top 1% wage share and 69% of the increase in the top 10% wage share in the U.S. from 1970 to 2010. I provide supporting cross-country evidence on headhunter hires/fees and top income growth, as well as micro evidence for CEO compensation.
E24|The Real Interest Rate Channel is Structural in Contemporary New-Keynesian Models|The monetary transmission mechanism in a New-Keynesian model with contemporary features is put to scrutiny. In contrast to Rupert and Sustek (2019), we find that the real interest rate channel is structural when the model contains empirically realistic frictions on the flow of investment. A monetary contraction (expansion) is always followed by an increase (decrease) in the real interest rate. The monetary transmission mechanism indeed operates through the real interest rate channel in this class of models.
E24|Employment of People Ages 55 to 79|In 1995, 33 percent of people ages 55 to 79 worked. By 2018, that share rose to 44 percent. That growth was the result of continued increases in employment for women and a reversal of previously declining employment for men. The changes in employment of people ages 55 to 79â€”the period during which many people stop workingâ€”were related to changes in their demographic characteristics and the jobs they held, as well as to changes in Social Security.
E24|Not Evidence for Baumol’s Cost Disease|In his 2008 Journal of Health Economics paper, Jochen Hartwig claimed that Baumol’s Cost Disease (BCD) theory could explain observed increases in health care expenditures in OECD countries. This paper replicates Hartwig’s results and demonstrates that he tested the wrong hypothesis. When one tests the correct hypothesis, Hartwig’s conclusions are not supported. Rather than providing evidence in favor of BCD, Hartwig’s estimation procedures, when applied correctly, strongly reject BCD as an explanation for health expenditure increases for the OECD data he examined.
E24|Downward Nominal Wage Rigidity in the United States: New Evidence from Worker-Firm Linked Data|This paper examines the extent and consequences of Downward Nominal Wage Rigidity (DNWR) using administrative worker-firm linked data from the Longitudinal Employer Household Dynamics (LEHD) program for a large representative U.S. state. Prior to the Great Recession, only 7-8% of job stayers are paid the same nominal hourly wage rate as one year earlier - substantially less than previously found in survey-based data - and about 20% of job stayers experience a wage cut. During the Great Recession, the incidence of wage cuts increases to 30%, followed by a large rise in the proportion of wage freezes to 16% as the economy recovers. Total earnings of job stayers exhibit even fewer zero changes and a larger incidence of reductions than hourly wage rates, due to systematic variations in hours worked. The results are consistent with concurrent findings in the literature that reductions in base pay are exceedingly rare but that firms use different forms of non-base pay and variations in hours worked to flexibilize labor cost. We then exploit the worker-firm link of the LEHD and find that during the Great Recession, firms with indicators of DNWR reduced employment by about 1.2% more per year. This negative effect is driven by significantly lower hiring rates and persists into the recovery. Our results suggest that despite the relatively large incidence of wage cuts in the aggregate, DNWR has sizable allocative consequences.
E24|Demographic origins of the startup deficit|We propose a simple explanation for the long-run decline in the startup rate. It was caused by a slowdown in labor supply growth since the late 1970s, largely pre-determined by demographics. This channel explains roughly two-thirds of the decline and why incumbent firm survival and average growth over the lifecycle have been little changed. We show these results in a standard model of firm dynamics and test the mechanism using shocks to labor supply growth across states. Finally, we show a longer startup rate series, imputed using historical establishment tabulations, that rises over the 1960-70s period of accelerating labor force growth.
E24|Pay, Employment, and Dynamics of Young Firms|Why do young firms pay less? Using confidential microdata from the US Census Bureau, we find lower earnings among workers at young firms. However, we argue that such measurement is likely subject to worker and firm selection. Exploiting the two-sided panel nature of the data to control for relevant dimensions of worker and firm heterogeneity, we uncover a positive and significant young-firm pay premium. Furthermore, we show that worker selection at firm birth is related to future firm dynamics, including survival and growth. We tie our empirical findings to a simple model of pay, employment, and dynamics of young firms.
E24|Parents, Schools and Human Capital Differences across Countries|Results from international standardized tests show large cross-country differences in students' performances. Where do these gaps in human capital achievement come from? This paper argues that differences in cultural environments and parental inputs may be of great importance. We compare the school performance of second generation immigrants from different nationalities but educated in the same school, and find that those coming from high-scoring countries in the PISA test do better than their peers. The gap is larger among students whose parents have recently immigrated and have little education, suggesting that the importance of country-specific cultural traits declines as parents integrate in their host countries. We quantify the overall contribution of various parental inputs to the observed cross-country differences in the PISA test performance, and show that they account for about 40% of the gap between East Asia and other regions. This pattern questions whether PISA scores and other measures of human capital achievement should be interpreted only as quality proxies for a country's educational system. They actually reflect an important intergenerational and cultural component.
E24|Worker Heterogeneity and the Asymmetric Effects of Minimum Wages|This paper explores the notion that minimum wages affect different lowskilled workers asymmetrically due to productivity differences. In a search model with worker heterogeneity, a rising minimum wage lowers the employment and labor force participation of the least productive workers by pricing them out of the market, while having the opposite effect on other low-skilled workers that remain hirable. CPS data supports these predictions; a rise in the minimum reduces the employment and labor force participation of teenagers with less than high school education, but has the opposite effect on prime-age workers with high school attainment. The calibrated model requires small firm surpluses to match these observations. If firm surplus is small due to high nonmarket activity values, a moderate rise in the minimum improves aggregate welfare even when the worker's bargaining weight is high.
E24|Decomposition of Labor Earnings Growth: Recovering Gaussianity?|Recent works have concluded to non-Gaussian features of labor earnings growth. We argue in this paper that it is mainly due to working hours'volatility. Using the non-parametric approach developed by Guvenen et al. (2016), we find on French data that labor earnings changes exhibit strong asymmetry as well as high peakedness. However, after decomposing labor earnings growth into wage and working time growth, the log-normality of hourly wages remains a quite plausible assumption since deviations from Gaussianity stem mainly from working time changes. The joint dynamics of hourly wages and working time help explain those deviations which relate most likely to labor supply decisions at the extensive margin.
E24|Climate Change, Inequality, and Human Migration|This paper investigates the long-term implications of climate change on local, interregional, and international migration of workers. For nearly all of the world's countries, our micro-founded model jointly endogenizes the effects of changing temperature and sea level on income distribution and individual decisions about fertility, education, and mobility. Climate change intensifies poverty and income inequality creating favorable conditions for urbanization and migration from low- to highlatitude countries. Encompassing slow- and fast-onset mechanisms, our projections suggest that climate change will induce the voluntary and forced displacement of 100 to 160 million workers (200 to 300 million climate migrants of all ages) over the course of the 21st century. However, under current migration laws and policies, forcibly displaced people predominantly relocate within their country and merely 20 % of climate migrants opt for long-haul migration to OECD countries. If climate change induces generalized and persistent conflicts over resources in regions at risk, we project significantly larger cross-border flows in the future.
E24|Wages, Experience and Training of Women|We investigate the role of training in reducing the gender wage gap using the UK- BHPS which contains detailed records of training. Using policy changes over an 18 year period we identify the impact of training and work experience on wages, earnings and employment. Based on a lifecycle model and using reforms as a source of exogenous variation we evaluate the role of formal training and experience in defining the evolution of wages and employment careers, conditional on education. Training is potentially important in compensating for the effects of children, especially for women who left education after completing high school.
E24|Makroökonomie: Blind Spot Gender: Erweiterung makroökonomischer Indikatoren durch eine Gender-Komponente am Beispiel der empirischen Phillips-Kurve|Dieser Beitrag möchte einen Impuls zur stärkeren Berücksichtigung von Genderaspekten in makroökonomischen Modellen geben. Am Beispiel der Philipps-Kurve geht es um die Frage, ob sich das Erwerbsverhalten von Frauen und Männern so stark voneinander unterscheidet, dass sich dies im Verlauf des Zusammenhangs von Inflation und Arbeitslosigkeit niederschlägt. Erste Hinweise dafür werden in deskriptiven Analysen für die Beobachtungszeiträume 1971 bis 1990 und 1991 bis 2017 gefunden. Die Studie bezieht sich auf die klassische Phillips-Kurve, die den empirischen Zusammenhang zwischen Inflation und Arbeitslosigkeit untersucht. Von einer Modellierung nach neukeynesianschem Vorbild wird zunächst abgesehen. Die Phillips-Kurve büßte in dieser Zeit erheblich an Erklärungskraft ein. Aus dem teilweise gegensätzlichen Verlauf der Philipps-Kurve unter Verwendung geschlechterspezifischer Erwerbslosenquoten wird abgeleitet, dass sich diese Entwicklung im Zuge der stark gestiegenen Erwerbsbeteiligung von Frauen noch beschleunigt hat. Die geschlechterspezifischen Unterschiede im Verlauf der Philipps-Kurve werden besonders deutlich unter Verwendung der von konjunkturellen Schwankungen weitgehend befreiten Erwerbslosenquote. Dies wird als Indiz für strukturelle Unterschiede im Erwerbsverhalten von Frauen und Männern gewertet. Das Ergebnis stärkt damit die Argumentation nach einer stärkeren Berücksichtigung von Genderaspekten in makroökonomischen Modellen. Weitere Forschungsarbeiten sind notwendig, um Aussagen über kausale Zusammenhänge treffen zu können.
E24|Ecuaciones Salariales de Parejas bajo Selección Muestral Bivariada. Una Aplicación al Caso Argentino|This working paper explores the effect of joint labor decisions on the study of wage regression models. The estimation of Mincer equations suffers from numerous sources of bias, including the sample selection problem generated by the fact that the agent decision to work is not independent of the wage. Most of the papers corrects this bias using a model of individual labor participation. However, recent trends in the labor market show greater participation of women in the labor force and seem to indicate that the joint decision of the spouses is increasingly relevant in determining the selection mechanism. A bivariate version of Heckman's method appears as an interesting alternative to solve this problem. Although the estimates are in line with the previous literature, the results indicate that the joint decision of the couple is a relevant factor in the selection bias. Este documento de trabajo explora el efecto de las decisiones laborales conjuntas sobre el estudio de los determinantes del salario laboral. La estimación de ecuaciones de Mincer sufre de numerosas fuentes de sesgos, entre ellas el problema de selección muestral generado por el hecho de que la decisión de trabajar no es independiente del salario individual. La mayoría de los trabajos corrigen dicho sesgo consideran un modelo de participación laboral individual. Sin embargo, las tendencias recientes del mercado laboral muestran una mayor participación de las mujeres en la fuerza de trabajo y parecieran indicar que la decisión conjunta de los cónyuges es cada vez más relevante en la determinación del mecanismo de selección. Una versión bivariada del método de Heckman permite incorporar una solución cuantitativa a este problema. Si bien las estimaciones realizadas están en línea con la literatura previa, los resultados indican que la decisión conjunta de la pareja es un factor relevante en el sesgo por selección muestral.
E24|Understanding low wage growth in the euro area and European countries|Despite notable improvements in the labour market since 2013, wage growth in the euro area was subdued and substantially overpredicted in 2013-17. This paper summarises the findings of an ESCB expert group on the reasons for low wage growth and provides comparable analyses on wage developments in the euro area as a whole and in individual EU countries. The paper finds that cyclical drivers, as captured by a standard Phillips curve, seem to explain much of the weakness in wage growth during this period, but not all of it. Going beyond the drivers included in standard Phillips curves, other factors are also found to have played a role, such as compositional effects, the possible non-linear reaction of wage growth to cyclical improvements, and structural and institutional factors. In order to increase the robustness of wage forecasts, the paper also proposes ready-to-use tools for cross-checking euro area wage growth forecasts based on wage Phillips curves. These are derived based on a comprehensive real-time forecast evaluation exercise JEL Classification: J30, E24, E31, E32
E24|Do public wages in the euro area explain private wage developments? An empirical investigation|This paper investigates the relationship between public and private wages in the five largest euro area countries for the period 1997-2017. The analysis shows that there exists a positive and significant response of private wages to a public wage shock. This effect is found to be temporary and to differ across countries (positive and significant in France, Spain, Italy and non-significant in Germany and the Netherlands). Interestingly, the response of private wages is found to be asymmetric: a positive and statistically significant response is found in case of a positive shock to public wages, while no statistically significant effects are detected in case of a cut to public wages. As the public wage containment policies adopted during the sovereign debt crisis are expected to be gradually lifted in several euro area countries, the findings of this paper suggest that knock-on effects on private sector wages cannot be excluded in the years to come. JEL Classification: E24, E62, J30, C33, C11
E24|The link between labor cost and price inflation in the euro area|This paper documents, for the first time in a systematic manner, the link between labor cost and price inflation in the euro area. Using country and sector quarterly data over the period 1985Q1-2018Q1 we find a strong link between labor cost and price inflation in the four major economies of the euro area and across the three main sectors. The dynamic interaction between prices and wages is time-varying and depends on the state of the economy and on the shocks hitting the economy. Our results show that it is more likely that labor costs are passed on to price inflation with demand shocks than with supply shocks. However, the pass-through is systematically lower in periods of low inflation as compared to periods of high inflation. These results confirm that, under circumstances of predominantly demand shocks, labor cost increases will be passed on to prices. Coming from a period of low inflation, however, this pass-through could be moderate at least until inflation stably reaches a sustained path. JEL Classification: C32, E24, E31
E24|Labor share and growth in the long run|This paper establishes some stylized facts of the long run relationship between growth and labor shares using historical data for the United States (1898-2010), the United Kingdom (1856-2010), and France (1896-2010). Performing individual country time-frequency analysis, we demonstrate the existence of long-term cycles in labor share of thirty to fifty years explaining a major part of the variance in the data. Further, the impact of labor share on growth changes sign with the frequency considered from negative at high frequencies to positive at low frequencies. Finally, the positive coefficient associated with the labor share at low frequencies increases over time. JEL Classification: E24, E25, N1
E24|State Dependence in Labor Market Fluctuations: Evidence, Theory, and Policy Implications|This paper documents state dependence in labor market ï¬‚uctuations. Using a Threshold Vector-Autoregression model, we establish that the unemployment rate, the job separation rate and the job ï¬ nding rate exhibit a larger response to productivity shocks during periods with low aggregate productivity. A Diamond-Mortensen-Pissarides model with endogenous job separation and on-the-job search replicates these empirical regularities well. The transition rates into and out of employment embed state dependence through the interaction of reservation productivity levels and the distribution of match-speciï¬ c idiosyncratic productivity. State dependence implies that the eï¬€ect of labor market reforms is diï¬€erent across phases of the business cycle. A permanent removal of layoï¬€ taxes is welfare enhancing in the long run, but it involves distinct short-run costs depending on the initial state of the economy. The welfare gain of a tax removal implemented in a low-productivity state is 4.9 percent larger than the same reform enacted in a state with high aggregate productivity.
E24|Reconsidering the natural rate hypothesis|The natural rate hypothesis states that there exists an unemployment rate at which inflation is stable, and that this unemployment rate is independent of aggregate demand shocks. The hysteresis hypothesis, in contrast, states that the long run unemployment rate can be affected by aggregate demand shocks. While policy makers have warned of the risk of hysteresis since the 2008 financial crash, hysteresis effects are not incorporated into the macroeconometric models used by policy making institutions. This paper presents Bayesian estimates of hysteresis effects using unobserved components models of the type used by the European Commission and OECD. We demonstrate that the posterior probability of the natural rate hypothesis holding in Germany, France, and the UK is very low, lending empirical support to the hysteresis hypothesis. We suggest that the models used by the European Commission and OECD should be amended to reflect policy makers' views on hysteresis.
E24|Short-Term macroeconomic evaluation of the German minimum wage with a VAR/VECM|The German minimum wage was introduced in January 2015. This paper investigates the short-term macroeconomic impacts of its introduction. Therefore, an estimated VAR/VECM is used to perform forecasts that are interpreted as counterfactual to the introduction of the minimum wage and compared to actual developments of six key macroeconomic variables. The deviations are interpreted as minimum wage effects. Robustness checks as well as a comparison with descriptive empirical results are performed to assess the validity of the results. Overall, small positive price effects, significant positive wage effects, and positive employment effects although not robustly estimated in their magnitude are found.
E24|The long term evolution of inequality of opportunity|This paper uses a parametric approach to measure inequality of opportunities. It builds a simple theoretical model offering predictions on the changes of inequality of opportunity. It is expected to decline with the decline in intergenerational persistence in education, in the labour market return to education and in the networking activity associated to parental background; these predictions are then taken to the data. The empirical analysis studies the evolving distribution in personal disposable incomes in five European countries (Italy, Germany, France, Great Britain and Switzerland) over a long time span. Thanks to extended samples, time trends show that the role of circumstances (parental background, gender age and place of birth) in shaping income distribution has declined over the last two decades in all countries considered. Depending on the inequality index, the inequality of opportunity (IOp) account between one third (MLD) and half (standard deviation of logs) of total inequality in personal disposable incomes. Inequality trends are then decomposed into age profiles and birth cohort changes. Inequality of opportunity exhibits an inverted U-shaped pattern over the life cycle. Moreover, the most recent age cohorts have experienced a lower IOp, thus appearing as the main beneficiaries of the overall decline in inequality. When interpreting thee observed dynamics, two parameters (intergenerational persistence in educational attainment and return of education) exhibit a declining trend, whereas the third one (networking activity of parents) is rising in most countries. The combined effect of the three movements yields a declining trend whenever the former twos dominate the latter.
E24|Inequality and growth: The cholesterol hypothesis|A fundamental unsolved question in economics is whether inequality is good or bad for growth. We argue here that this lack of consensus is due to the cholesterol hypothesis. This hypothesis states that the part of inequality generated by factors beyond the individuals’ control, referred to as inequality of opportunity (IO), is growth-deterring, while the type of inequality generated by the difference in the willingness to exert effort, referred to as inequality of pure effort (IE), is growth-enhancing. We first build an overlapping generation model with human capital to derive a reduced-form growth equation consistent with this hypothesis, and the existing interaction between poverty and inequality. Then, given the inherent difficulty to decompose total inequality into IO and IE, we develop a strategy to test the cholesterol hypothesis: by extending the standard inequality-growth equation with a proxy of IO, the estimated coefficient of inequality must increase, while the coefficient of the IO proxy must be negative. Next, we use the best available data at worldwide level and, given the limitations of the existing IO indices, we construct an alternative proxy of IO by considering that the quality of institutions and ethnic and religious tensions are relevant macroeconomic drivers of IO. Using an instrumental variable approach and different samples and IO measures, our results do not reject the cholesterol hypothesis at worldwide level.
E24|Sraffa, saggio di interesse, sistema fiscale|This paper covers three closely interrelated stages. The first regards Sraffa’s theory. It is argued in particular that: a) Sraffa’s 1925 and 1926 articles are closely linked to Production of Commodities by means of Commodities, inasmuch they state the minimal cost, which informs indirectly the 1960 book; b) minimum costs are linear and parallel to the x axis in competition, so they are independent of the quantity produced; c) any deviation from this situation entails rents; d) rents can derive from decreasing returns (agriculture, mines) or from increasing returns (oligopoly, monopoly). Sraffa’s system solutions are discussed in depth. Particular attention is attached to the determination of the rate of interest. This leads to interconnections with the Keynesian system, which are developed in the second stage. Here the necessity emerges of rendering structural what it now conjunctural, pushing the rate of interest towards zero. This target can be reached by a fiscal instrument, i.e. by levying a tax on gross interest, close to 100%. Thus public debt ceases to be a risk, and the public deficit may increase, as happens in the majority of countries worldwide. The third stage regards the fiscal system. To obtain a similar treatment of interest, and also to try to hit oligopolies effectively, we need to render the fiscal system global. The problem arises with the remaining fiscal structure, now dominated by the principle of a worldwide basis. It is shown that this circumstance has to cease, and that internal revenue must be collected on bases which are exclusively internal. Therefore primarily the direct taxation, and then the indirect, must be reshaped. It is most interesting that a consonance is found with the taxation in vigour up the Seventies, and with De Viti theory of fiscal systems, which is national and based on the benefit principle.
E24|Into the heterogeneities in the Portuguese labour market: an empirical assessment|"This paper provides a comprehensive study of the heterogeneity in the Portuguese labour market. We use Labour Force Survey microdata covering a complete business cycle, from 1998:1 to 2018:1, to evaluate the labour market attachment of several labour states and assess the most suitable allocation of individuals across statuses. We also evaluate the adequacy of the conventional unemployment criteria. Following the relevant strand of literature on this topic, we apply an evidence-based categorisation of labour market status by exploiting the information on the results of the behaviour of non-employed. To that end, we use multinomial and binary logit models of the determinants of transitions of workers across labour market states to test for the equivalence between non-employed groups. We conclude that heterogeneity is an evident feature of the Portuguese labour market, both between and within the conventional non-employment states. In particular, we find that the status comprising those inactive workers which want work constitutes a distinct state in the labour market and displays a transition behaviour closer to unemployment than to the group of inactive workers which do not want work. Moreover, the classification as inactive workers of individuals which report ""waiting"" as a reason for not having searched for a job, those individuals who have searched for a job but are still considered to be out-of-the-labour-force, as well as those individuals which are due to start work in more than three months might not be reasonable, since they show considerable attachment to the labour market and we reject the pooling of such states with their counterparts."
E24|Racing With or Against the Machine? Evidence from Europe|A fast-growing literature shows that technological change is replacing labor in routine tasks, raising concerns that labor is racing against the machine. This paper is the first to estimate the labor demand effects of routine-replacing technological change (RRTC) for Europe as a whole and at the level of 238 European regions. We develop and estimate a task framework of regional labor demand in tradable and non-tradable industries, building on Autor & Dorn (2013a) and Goos, Manning and Salomons (2014), and distinguish the main channels through which technological change affects labor demand. These channels include the direct substitution of capital for labor in task production, but also the compensating effects operating through product demand and local demand spillovers. Our results show that RRTC has on net led to positive labor demand effects across 27 European countries over 1999-2010, indicating that labor is racing with the machine. This is not due to limited scope for human-machine substitution, but rather because sizable substitution effects have been overcompensated by product demand and its associated spillovers. However, the size of the product demand spillover -- and therefore also RRTC's total labor demand effect-- depends critically on where the gains from the increased productivity of technological capital accrue.
E24|How Prevalent Is Downward Rigidity in Nominal Wages? Evidence from Payroll Records in Washington State|For more than 80 years, many macroeconomic analyses have been premised on the assumption that workers’ nominal wage rates cannot be cut. The U.S. evidence on this assumption has been inconclusive because of distortions from reporting error in household surveys. Following a British literature, we reconsider the issue with more accurate wage data from the payroll records of most employers in the State of Washington over the period 2005-2015. For every one of the 40 four-quarters-apart periods for which we observe year-to-year wage changes, we find that at least 20 percent of job stayers experience nominal wage reductions.
E24|How Prevalent Is Downward Rigidity in Nominal Wages? International Evidence from Payroll Records and Pay Slips|For more than 80 years, many macroeconomic analyses have been premised on the assumption that workers' nominal wage rates cannot be cut. Contrary evidence from household surveys reasonably has been discounted on the grounds that the measurement of frequent wage cuts might be an artifact of reporting error. This article summarizes a more recent wave of studies based on more accurate wage data from payroll records and pay slips. By and large, these studies indicate that, except in extreme circumstances (when nominal wage cuts are either legally prohibited or rendered beside the point by very high inflation), nominal wage cuts from one year to the next appear quite common, typically affecting 15–25 percent of job stayers in periods of low inflation.
E24|Hartz IV and the decline of German unemployment: A macroeconomic evaluation|This paper proposes a new approach to evaluate the macroeconomic effects of the Hartz IV reform in Germany, which reduced the generosity of long-term unemployment benefits. We use a model with different unemployment durations, where the reform initiates both a partial effect and an equilibrium effect. The relative importance of these two effects and the size of the partial effect are estimated based on the IAB Job Vacancy Survey. Our novel methodology provides a solution for the existing disagreement in the macroeconomic literature on the unemployment effects of Hartz IV. We find that Hartz IV was a major driver for the decline of Germany's unemployment and that partial and equilibrium effect where of equal importance. We thereby contribute to the literature on partial and equilibrium effects of unemployment benefit changes. In addition, we are the first to provide direct empirical evidence on labour selection, which can be interpreted as one dimension of recruiting intensity.
E24|Search and Multiple Jobholding|A search-theoretic model of the labor market with idiosyncratic fluctuations in hours worked, search both off- and on-the-job, and multiple jobholding is developed. Taking on a second job entails a commitment to hold onto the primary employer, enabling the worker to use the primary job as her outside option to bargain with the secondary employer. The model performs well at explaining multiple jobholding inflows and outflows, and it is informative for understanding the secular decline in multiple jobholding. While some worry that this decline heralds a less-flexible labor market, the model reveals that it has contributed to reducing search frictions.
E24|Do Unemployment Benefit Extensions Explain the Emergence of Jobless Recoveries?|Countercyclical unemployment benefit extensions in the United States act as a propagation mechanism, contributing to both the high persistence of unemployment and its weak correlation with productivity. We show this by modifying an otherwise standard frictional model of the labor market to incorporate a stochastic and state-dependent process for unemployment insurance estimated on US data. Accounting for movements in both productivity and unemployment insurance, our calibrated model is consistent with unemployment dynamics of the past 50 years. In particular, it explains the emergence of jobless recoveries in the 1990's as well as their absence in previous recessions, the low correlation between unemployment and labor productivity, and the apparent shifts in the Beveridge curve following recessions. Next, we embed this mechanism into a medium-scale DSGE model, which we estimate using standard Bayesian methods. Both shocks to unemployment benefits and their systematic component are shown to be important for the sluggish recovery of employment following recessions, in particular the Great Recession, despite the fact that shocks to unemployment benefits account for little of the overall variance decomposition. If we also incorporate other social safety nets, such as food stamps (SNAP), the estimated model assigns an even bigger role to policy in explaining sluggish labor market recovery. We also find that unemployment benefit extensions prevented deflation in the last three recessions, thus acting similarly to a wage markup shock.
E24|Sufficient Statistics for Frictional Wage Dispersion and Growth|This paper develops a sufficient statistics approach for estimating the role of search frictions in wage dispersion and lifecycle wage growth. We show how the wage dynamics of displaced workers are directly informative of both for a large class of search models. Specifically, the correlation between pre- and post-displacement wages is informative of frictional wage dispersion. Furthermore, the fraction of displaced workers who suffer a wage loss is informative of frictional wage growth, independent of the job-offer distribution. Applying our methodology to US data, we find that search frictions account for less than 20 percent of wage dispersion. In addition, we estimate an employed job-offer to job-destruction ratio less than one, implying little frictional wage growth. We finish by estimating two versions of a random search model to show how at least two different mechanisms — involuntary job transitions or compensating differentials — can reconcile our results with the job-to-job mobility seen in the data. Regardless of the mechanism, the estimated models show that frictional wage growth accounts for about 15% of lifecycle wage growth.
E24|Revisiting the Hypothesis of High Discounts and High Unemployment|We revisit the hypothesis that labor market ?uctuations are driven by shocks to the discount rate. Using a model in which the UE and the EU rates are endogenous, we show that an increase in the discount rate leads to a decline in both the UE and the EU rates. In the data, though, the UE and EU rates move against each other at business cycle frequency. Using a lifecycle model with human capital accumulation on the job, we show that an increase in the discount rate does indeed lead to a decline in the aggregate UE rate and to an increase in the aggregate EU rate. However, the decline in the UE rate is larger for younger workers than for older workers and the EU rate increases only for younger workers. In the data, ?uctuations in the UE and EU rates at the business cycle frequency are nearly identical across age groups.
E24|Which Ladder to Climb? Decomposing Life Cycle Wage Dynamics|Wages grow and become more unequal as workers age. Economic theory focuses on worker investment in human capital, search for employers, and residual wage shocks to account for these life cycle wage dynamics. We highlight the importance of jobs: collections of tasks and duties defined by employers within the production process. We provide empirical evidence that climbing the career ladder toward jobs characterized by more responsibility, complexity, and autonomy accounts for the largest part of life cycle wage dynamics. It accounts for 50% of average wage growth, 50% of rising differences between gender, and virtually all of rising dispersion within gender over the life cycle.
E24|Government Deficit Shocks and Okun's Coefficient Volatility: New Insights on the Austerity versus Growth Debate|This paper connects two salient economic features: (i) Fiscal shocks have asymmetric effects across business cycle phases (Gechert et al., 2019); (ii) Okun's coefficient is time varying and may be unstable. The intertwined dynamic behavior of fiscal shocks and unemployment-output trade-offs are studied in this paper using state-of-the-art TVP-VAR modelling techniques applied to the analysis of six selected economies: France, Japan, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom (UK), and the Unites States of America (USA). We confirm the heterogeneity of Okun's coefficient across country, and its time-varying nature across time, showing in addition its fluctuation around a reference long-run value. We document a significant short-run impact of fiscal shocks on Okun's trade-off which, based on the experience of the Global Financial Crisis, becomes larger in periods of economic turmoil. Okun's coefficient is most volatile in Spain and most stable in Sweden and Japan, with France, UK and USA in between. Policy wise, we claim that austerity policies may have unexpected adverse effects on job creation if implemented during slumps, precisely when the labor market sensitivity with respect to the performance of the product market is likely to be more acute.
E24|Does Unemployment Worsen Babies' Health? A Tale of Siblings, Maternal Behaviour and Selection|We study the effect of unemployment on birth outcomes by exploiting geographical variation in the unemployment rate across local areas in England, and comparing siblings born to the same mother via family fixed effects. Using rich individual data from hospital administrative records between 2003 and 2012, babies' health is found to be strongly pro-cyclical. A one-percentage point increase in the unemployment rate leads to an increase in low birth weight and preterm babies of respectively 1.3 and 1.4%, and a 0.1% decrease in foetal growth. We find heterogenous responses: unemployment has an effect on babies' health which varies from strongly adverse in the most deprived areas, to mildly favourable in the most prosperous areas. We provide evidence of three channels that can explain the overall negative effect of unemployment on new-born health: maternal stress; unhealthy behaviours - namely excessive alcohol consumption and smoking; and delays in the take-up of prenatal services. While the heterogenous effects of unemployment by area of deprivation seem to be explained by maternal behaviour. Most importantly, we also show for the first time that selection into fertility is the main driver for the previously observed, opposite counter-cyclical results, e.g., Dehejia and Lleras-Muney (2004). Our results are robust to internal migration, different geographical aggregation of the unemployment rate, the use of gender-specific unemployment rates, and potential endogeneity of the unemployment rate which we control for by using a shift-share instrumental variable approach.
E24|Labour Market Flows: Accounting for the Public Sector|For the period between 2003 and 2018, we document a number of facts about worker gross flows in France, the United Kingdom, Spain and the United States, focussing on the role of the public sector. Using the French, Spanish and UK Labour Force Survey and the US Current Population Survey data, we examine the size and cyclicality of the flows and transition probabilities between private and public employment, unemployment and inactivity. We examine the stocks and flows by gender, age and education. We decompose contributions of private and public job-finding and job-separation rates to fluctuations in the unemployment rate. Public-sector employment contributes 20 percent to fluctuations in the unemployment rate in the UK, 15 percent in France and 10 percent in Spain and the US. Private-sector workers would forgo 0.5 to 2.9 percent of their wage to have the same job security as public-sector workers.
E24|The Intergenerational Correlation of Employment: Is There a Role for Work Culture?|We document a substantial positive correlation of employment status between mothers and their children in the United States, linking data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth 1979 (NLSY79) and the NLSY79 Children and Young Adults. After controlling for ability, education, and wealth, a one-year increase in a mother's employment is associated with six weeks more employment of her child on average. The intergenerational transmission of maternal employment is stronger to daughters than to sons, and it is higher for low-educated and low-income mothers. Potential mechanisms we were able to rule out include networks, occupation-specific human capital and conditions within the local labor market. By contrast, we provide suggestive evidence for a role-model channel through which labor force participation is transmitted.
E24|Short-Term and Long-Term Determinants of Moderate Wage Growth in the EU|This paper analyses the factors explaining moderate wage growth in the EU in the post-crisis period. It investigates whether the historical relationship between wages and unemployment has weakened and whether composition effects moderated wage growth. The results suggest a negative answer to both questions. Wages in the EU have not stopped reacting to unemployment developments after the 2008 crisis. Wage growth was moderate because of low inflation, low trend productivity growth, and high unemployment. There are only a few Member States with a significant 'shortfall' in wage growth, including both low and high-unemployment countries. Migration, ageing and collective bargaining institutions appear to have mostly transitory effects on wage growth. During the last decade, changes in the composition of the workforce had a small but positive impact on wage growth in most of the EU, especially due to increasing average age and education level. In some Member States such as Germany, Italy, Luxembourg and Portugal, composition effects were a main driver of wage growth.
E24|An Inquiry into the Same Movement Pattern in Two Cases of Labor Supply|Let us consider movement patterns in an economy based on a Ramsey type model, as do many papers in the R.B.C. school. We focus on how labor supply is determined and on how this determination affects the movement patterns. We discuss two kinds of labor supply, namely, an intensive arrangement and an extensive one. We conclude that the labor supply in both arrangements is similar from the viewpoint of a macro economy. This leads us to conjecture that the two forms of labor supply do not affect the movement pattern.
E24|Automation and Occupational Wage Trends: What Role for Unions and Collective Bargaining?|Routine-biased technological change has emerged as a leading explanation for the differential wage growth of routine occupations, such as manufacturers or office clerks, relative to less routine occupations. Less clear, however, is how the effects of technological advancement on occupational wage trends vary across political-institutional context. This paper investigates the extent to which collective bargaining agreements and union coverage shape the relative wage growth of occupations at higher risk of automation. Using data from the Luxembourg Income Study and the U.S. Current Population Survey, I measure the ‘routine task intensity’ of occupations across 15 OECD Member States and the 50 United States from the 1980s onward. Findings suggest that bargaining coverage is more consequential for the wage growth of high routine occupations relative to less routine occupations, and that high routine occupations lose coverage at a faster rate when bargaining coverage at the national level declines. As a result, declines in bargaining coverage within a country are associated with declining relative wage growth for occupations at higher risk of automation. Estimates suggest that had union coverage in the U.S. not declined from 1984 levels, the earnings of high routine occupations might have grown at the same rate as low pay occupations between 1984 and 2015, rather than experiencing a relative wage decline. However, the findings also suggest that gains in the relative wage growth may increasingly come at the cost of reduced employment shares of high routine occupations.
E24|Labour and capital remuneration in the OECD countries|Functional distribution is an important driver of inequality. When market remuneration of labour and capital are very uneven, as they have been in recent decades, personal distribution tends to polarise, jeopardising social cohesion. This fact explains a renewed interest in functional distribution. Nevertheless, in the estimates on functional distribution the role of self-employed income has been undervalued. National accounts provide estimates of the compensation of employees and the operating surplus, but do not refer to self-employed workers as a specific productive factor and implicitly include their income in the ‘mixed income’ and in some minor items. Most analysts estimate self-employed income by attributing the same average unit compensation of the corresponding employees to each worker, that in fact is not necessarily consistent with the GDP estimates.Other estimates take a fixed share of the ‘mixed income’, usually the same for every country. When national accounts are very detailed, as in the case of Italy, it is possible to estimate self-employment income from non-financial accounts by sectors with some accuracy, under some weak assumptions. In this paper we analyse four workable estimates, since only the total amount of ‘mixed income’ received by households is available for most countries. We analyse the data of the OECD countries focusing mainly on eight large countries: the US, Japan, the UK, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Spain and Italy. The results are somehow unexpected. First of all, evaluating the income of the self employed properly, the overall labour share is declining much faster than reported by the official data in some countries, and more countries showed a decrease in the 2000s. Indeed, the real unit compensation of the self employed reduced significantly in most of the eight countries (and in some of the others) after the mid or the end of the nineties, since self-employment has been used extensively to reduce the overall labour cost. Unit labour cost (ULC) also increased much slower (or even declined more) after 2000 in most countries, shedding new light on the pattern of international competitiveness and the drivers of inflation. The share of operative surplus of non-financial and financial corporations, properly recalculated, has had different dynamics, whereas the component related to imputed rentals of owner occupied houses played an unexpectedly important role. Finally, the mark-up on variable production costs has been higher than expected and its dynamic has been faster in most countries, showing a minor sensitivity to the business cycle. Indeed, statistical data on self-employment income is not fully satisfactory in many countries, thus our estimation of self-employment income represents only a first step towards a deeper comprehension of the dynamic of primary distribution. Indirect evidence of the reliability of our estimates is in their capacity to explain some key variables more accurately, strictly related to labour share, mark-up and ULC, which are income inequality, inflation and export performance.
E24|South African unemployment in the post-financial crisis era: What are the determinants?|High unemployment rates is one of the greatest economic challenges facing post-apartheid South African government over the past two decades and this problem has become more worrisome in the post-global financial crisis period. Our study examines the determinants of unemployment for the South African economy in the post-crisis period over a quarterly frequency period of 2009:Q1 to 2018:Q4. The determinants are examined for 4 classes of unemployment rates (total, male, female and youth) and we further partition possible unemployment determinants into fiscal, monetary and macroeconomic variables. The estimation results from the employed autoregressive distributive lag (ARDL) models find income tax, repo rates, economic growth, trade, investment, household debt and savings to be significant determinants of unemployment in the post-crisis South African economy and yet we note discrepancies of the significance of these determinants amongst different unemployment categories. Relevant policy implications are matched against our obtained empirical findings.
E24|Unemployment, entrepreneurship and firm outcomes|Are there differences between firms created by unemployed individuals relative to otherwise identical employed individuals? The answer is crucial for understanding the impact of policies that promote entrepreneurship among the unemployed. I develop an equilibrium model of entrepreneurship. Different outside options imply the unemployed are more likely to start firms, but these are smaller and fail more often. I verify these implications using a new administrative Canadian matched owner-employer-employee dataset. I use firm closures to identify random assignments of individuals to unemployment. I find that subsidies for firms started by the unemployed induce a reallocation of resources to low-productivity firms. The mechanism is further tested empirically by verifying that wage workers are more responsive to wages than the unemployed in their decision to start a firm.
E24|Spouses and entrepreneurship|Does having a spouse influence an individual’s decision to start a firm and what firms they create? The answer to this question is crucial for our understanding of how recent changes to family composition influence firm creation. We develop a model of endogenous entrepreneurship with spousal labour supply decisions and endogenous marriage. Married individuals have three channels, that go in opposite directions, which influence their choice to start a firm relative to the unmarried. Firstly, spouses work less when the business is more profitable partially offsetting the benefit of higher profits (spousal substitution effect). Secondly, if the business fails, the spouse works more hours (spousal insurance effect). Finally, a married individual shares their income with their spouse which decreases their income as a worker, their cost to entrepreneurship (spousal opportunity cost effect). We proceed to test empirically the relative strength of these channels. The model is informative of the components of the error term and the conditions for validity of our instrumental variable strategy. Using city level variation in the past composition of immigrants we show higher marriage rates are associated to more entry and lower average size of startups.
E24|Entrepreneurship, outside options and constrained|The literature on search frictions has often adopted the assumption of free entry. In this paper we forgo of this restriction by proposing a more realistic framework in which individuals are constantly making the decision whether or not to open a firm. Namely, firms are created through endogenous choices and business-owners and workers are drawn from the same pool. We show that in this framework, the Nash bargaining parameter is crucial for internal dynamics. In particular, workers and business owners share the same outside-options. As a result, the wage is no longer unambiguously positively related to the value of unemployment. The constrained efficient solution to this model takes the same form as the standard search model implying the same form for the Hosios condition. However, at this efficient solution changes in the rate of unemployment are either exacerbated or muted conditional on the value of the match elasticity parameter.
E24|Actual and perceived uncertainty as drivers of household saving|No abstract is available for this item.
E24|Can loss aversion shed light on the deflation puzzle?|This paper argues that the application of loss aversion to wage determination can explain the deflation puzzle: the failure of persistently high unemployment to exert a persistent downward impact on the rate of inflation in money wages. This is an improvement on other theories of the deflation puzzle which simply assume downward wage rigidity; which are the hysteresis theory, the lubrication theory and the efficiency wage theory. The paper presents estimates that support the loss aversion explanation of the deflation puzzle for both the US and Australia. Furthermore, our estimation approach gives a more precise estimate of the potential rate of unemployment than does the natural rate approach and reveals a potential rate of unemployment for the US and Australia at the current time (end of 2017) of about 4% and 3.3% respectively.
E24|A short review on the economics of artificial intelligence|The rapid development of artificial intelligence (AI) is not only a scientific breakthrough but also impacts on human society and economy as well as the development of economics. Research on AI economics is new and growing fast, with a current focus on the productivity and employment effects of AI. This paper reviews recent literature in order to answer three key questions. First, what approaches are being used to represent AI in economic models? Second, will AI technology have a different impact on the economy than previous new technologies? Third, in which aspects will AI have an impact and what is the empirical evidence of these effects of AI? Our review reveals that most empirical studies cannot deny the existence of the Solow Paradox for AI technology, but some studies find that AI would have a different and broader impact than previous technologies such as information technology, although it would follow a similar adoption path. Secondly, the key to incorporating AI into economic models raises fundamental questions including what the human being is and what the role of the human being in economic models is. This also poses the question of whether AI can be an economic agent in such models. Thirdly, studies on the labor market seem to have reached consensus on the stylized fact that AI would increase unemployment within sectors but may create employment gains at the aggregate level. AI also increases the income gap between low- and medium-skilled workers and high-skilled workers. AI’s impacts on international trade and education have been largely neglected in the current literature and are worth further research in the future.
E24|The Human Capital Stock: A Generalized Approach: Comment|Jones (2014) examines development accounting with imperfect substitutability between different types of skills in the production of output. He finds that human capital variation can account for the totality of the variation in income across countries. We show that this finding is entirely due to an assumption that the relative wage of skilled workers is solely determined by attributes of workers (once the supply of skilled workers is accounted for). If skill premia are predominantly determined by technology, institutions, and other features of the economic environment, human capital differences explain none of the variation in income per worker.
E24|Do low-skilled workers gain from high-tech employment growth? High-technology multipliers, employment and wages in Britain|Do low-skilled workers benefit from the growth of high-technology industries in their local economy? Policymakers invest considerable resources in attracting and developing innovative, high-tech industries, but there is relatively little evidence on the distribution of the benefits. This paper investigates the labour market impact of high-tech growth on low and mid-skilled workers, using data on UK local labour markets from 2009-2015. It shows that high-tech industries – either STEM-intensive ‘high-tech’ or digital economy – have a positive jobs multiplier, with each 10 new high-tech jobs creating around 7 local non-tradeable service jobs, around 6 of which go to low-skilled workers. Employment rates for mid-skilled workers do not increase, but they benefit from higher wages. Yet while low-skilled workers gain from higher employment rates, the jobs are often poorly paid service work, so average wages fall, particularly when increased housing costs are considered.
E24|Unemployment Dynamics and Endogenous Unemployment Insurance Extensions|This paper investigates the impact of endogenous unemployment insurance (UI) extensions on the dynamics of unemployment and its duration structure in the US. Using a search and matching model with worker heterogeneity, I allow for the maximum UI duration to depend on unemployment and for UI benefits to depend on worker characteristics. UI extensions have a large effect on long-term unemployment during the Great Recession via job search responses and a moderate effect on total unemployment via job separations. Disregarding rational expectations about the timing of UI extensions implies an overestimation of the unemployment rate by over 2 percentage points.
E24|Consumer Spending During Unemployment: Positive and Normative Implications|Using de-identified bank account data, we show that spending drops sharply at the large and predictable decrease in income arising from the exhaustion of unemployment insurance (UI) benefits. We use the high-frequency response to a predictable income decline as a new test to distinguish between alternative consumption models. The sensitivity of spending to income we document is inconsistent with rational models of liquidity-constrained households, but is consistent with behavioral models with present-biased or myopic households. Depressed spending after exhaustion also implies that the consumption-smoothing gains from extending UI benefits are four times larger than from raising UI benefit levels.
E24|Learning from Coworkers|We investigate learning at the workplace. We are interested in understanding how individuals learn from coworkers with different levels of knowledge and the implications of this form of learning for individual and aggregate outcomes. To do so, we start by analyzing the empirical relationship between the wage growth of an individual and the wages of her coworkers. To discipline the key features of this relationship we use German administrative data that contain the employment biographies of the entire workforce of the establishments in the sample. We use a variety of empirical specifications that allow us to understand which features of the distribution of wages are related to an individual's wage growth. Our findings indicate that more highly paid coworkers substantially increase future wage growth. Furthermore, the transmission depends on particular features of the wage distribution. The data suggest little congestion from less well paid workers and a roughly symmetric positive spillovers from those higher up in the wage distribution. We also show that the effects we find are present across the wage distribution. Although suggestive of significant learning from coworkers, these findings could in principle also be consistent with other features of wage setting mechanisms in the labor market. To address these possibilities we offer a battery of checks which suggest that these findings do not purely reflect mean reversion, backloading, or other firm-specific factors by separately analyzing switchers and stayers, plant closings, using information about worker tenure, and studying the nonlinearities in the empirical relationship between wage growth and the distribution of coworkers. Guided by this evidence we develop a simple competitive model of the labor market in which coworkers learn from each other. The model has the key feature that a worker's pay reflects both her knowledge and a compensating differential for the opportunity to learn from her coworkers. In contrast, the labor market compensates those who provide their coworkers with learning opportunities. Our model yields a mapping between the reduced-form evidence on wages and the underlying knowledge and learning of individuals. Hence, we structurally estimate a parametric version of our model using a simple learning function that can account for the most important reduced form patterns we document. We offer a way to estimate the parameters of this function using the matched employer-employee information for the German labor market. The result is a structurally estimated `learning function' that maps an agent's learning to the knowledge distribution of her coworkers. Our estimated model can be used to study a variety of phenomena that might affect team composition and therefore individual learning. We plan to study how changes in the organization of work brought about by technological change affect earnings inequality, life cycle wage profiles, and the aggregate rate of growth.
E24|How Prevalent Is Downward Rigidity in Nominal Wages? Evidence from Payroll Records in Washington State|For more than 80 years, many macroeconomic analyses have been premised on the assumption that workers' nominal wage rates cannot be cut. The U.S. evidence on this assumption has been inconclusive because of distortions from reporting error in household surveys. Following a British literature, we reconsider the issue with more accurate wage data from the payroll records of most employers in the State of Washington over the period 2005-2015. For every one of the 40 four-quarters-apart periods for which we observe year-to-year wage changes, we find that at least 20 percent of job stayers experience nominal wage reductions.
E24|Has the U.S. Wage Phillips Curve Flattened? A Semi-Structural Exploration|Unconditional reduced form estimates of a conventional wage Phillips curve for the U.S. economy point to a decline in its slope coefficient in recent years, as well as a shrinking role of lagged price inflation in the determination of wage inflation. We provide estimates of a conditional wage Phillips curve, based on a structural decomposition of wage, price and unemployment data generated by a VAR with time varying coefficients, identified by a combination of long-run and sign restrictions. Our estimates show that the key qualitative findings from the unconditional reduced form regressions also emerge in the conditional evidence, suggesting that they are not entirely driven by endogeneity problems or possible changes over time in the importance of of wage markup shocks. The conditional evidence, however, suggests that actual changes in the slope of the wage Phillips curve may not have been as large as implied by the unconditional estimates.
E24|Marginal jobs and job surplus: a test of the efficiency of separations|"We present a sharp test for the efficiency of job separations. First, we document a dramatic increase in the separation rate – 11.2ppt (28%) over five years – in response to a quasi-experimental extension of UI benefit duration for older workers. Second, after the abolition of the policy, the ""job survivors"" in the formerly treated group exhibit exactly the same separation behavior as the control group. Juxtaposed, these facts reject the ""Coasean"" prediction of efficient separations, whereby the UI extensions should have extracted marginal (low-surplus) jobs and thereby rendered the remaining (high-surplus) jobs more resilient after its abolition. Third, we show that a formal model of predicted efficient separations implies a piece-wise linear function of the actual control group separations beyond the missing mass of marginal matches. A structural estimation reveals point estimates of the share of efficient separations below 4%, with confidence intervals rejecting shares above 13%. Fourth, to characterize the marginal jobs in the data, we extend complier analysis to difference-in-difference settings such as ours. The UI-indiced separators stemmed from declining firms, blue-collar jobs, with a high share of sick older workers, and firms more likely to have works councils – while their wages were similar to program survivors. The evidence is consistent with a ""non-Coasean"" framework building on wage frictions preventing efficient bargaining, and with formal or informal institutional constraints on selective separations."
E24|Is Inflation Just Around the Corner? The Phillips Curve and Global Inflationary Pressures|Tightening labor markets in the United States and other advanced economies suggest inflation should be on the rise, yet it remains subdued. Is the Phillips curve broken? We bring together surveys of household or firm expectations for 18 countries to estimate an expectations-augmented Phillips curve. We find strong evidence of a Phillips curve relationship: the Phillips curve is alive and well. The fact that inflation remains well below inflation expectations, both in the United States and abroad, suggests that there remains significant slack in labor markets.
E24|Fading Stars|We study the evolution of super star firms in the U.S. economy over the past 60 years. Contrary to common wisdom, super stars firms have not become larger, have not become more productive, and the contribution of star firms to aggregate U.S. productivity growth has fallen by more than one third since 2000.
E24|Productivity Measurement: Racing to Keep Up|This paper provides a non-technical review of the literature and issues related to the measurement of aggregate productivity. I begin with a discussion of productivity measures, their performance in recent decades, and key measurement puzzles that emerge from the data. The remainder of the review focuses on two important questions. First, how do we make more accurate the measures of prices used to deflate nominal output so as to win (or at least not lose) the race for economic measurement to keep up with a changing economy? This section frames the issues and points to the most important and promising areas for further research. Second, what does or should GDP measure? I defend GDP as a valuable measure of production and offer suggestions for improving it. At the same time, I emphasize the importance of measuring economic welfare (well being) and highlight the value of supplementing GDP with a satellite account that measures economic welfare.
E24|The Declining Labor Market Prospects of Less-Educated Men|Over the last half century, U.S. wage growth stagnated, wage inequality rose, and the labor-force participation rate of prime-age men steadily declined. In this article, we examine these labor market trends, focusing on outcomes for males without a college education. Though wages and participation have fallen in tandem for this population, we argue that the canonical neo-classical framework, which postulates a labor demand curve shifting inward across a stable labor supply curve, does not reasonably explain the data. Alternatives we discuss include adjustment frictions associated with labor demand shocks and effects of the changing marriage market—that is, the fact that fewer less-educated men are forming their own stable families—on male labor supply incentives. Our observations lead us to be skeptical of attempts to attribute the secular decline in male labor-force participation to a series of separately-acting causal factors. We argue that the correct interpretation probably involves complicated feedback between falling labor demand and other factors which have disproportionately affected men without a college education.
E24|Household Innovation, R&D, and New Measures of Intangible Capital|Household R&D (or household innovation) is an important source of innovation that has to date been largely overlooked in research related to national accounts. Indeed, it is not currently counted as investment in the literatures on household production and human capital. This paper develops time series estimates of nominal investment, real investment, and real capital stocks for household R&D for product innovations in the United States. (We focus on product innovations because survey data on services innovations in the household sector are not yet available.) In the U.S., we find that household product R&D is significant. Our estimate of real investment in 2017 is $41 billion (2012 dollars). This is about half of what producers spend in R&D to develop new products for consumers – a sizable fraction. Our estimate of the real capital stock of household product R&D in 2017 is $233 billion. We conclude that household R&D is an important feature of household activity and, more generally, of the overall landscape of innovation.
E24|Job-Finding and Job-Losing: A Comprehensive Model of Heterogeneous Individual Labor-Market Dynamics|We track the path that a worker follows after losing a job. Initially, the typical job-loser spends some time out of the labor force and in job search. Only a month or two later, in normal times, the worker lands a job. But the job is frequently brief. Over the next few months, the worker finds a good match that becomes a long-term job. Short-term jobs tend to precede long-term ones. Short-term employment shares some of the characteristics of unemployment and some of the characteristics of employment. We show that this pattern of moving among working, searching for a job, and being out of the labor force is concentrated in a segment of the working-age population. In other segments, individuals are insulated from disturbances to their activities in the labor market. Some work continuously while others are always out of the labor market. We develop a model that incorporates heterogeneity across and within these segments.
E24|Aggregate Nominal Wage Adjustments: New Evidence from Administrative Payroll Data|Using administrative payroll data from the largest U.S. payroll processing company, we document a series of new facts about nominal wage adjustments in the United States. The data allow us to define a worker's per-period base contract wage separately from other forms of compensation such as bonuses. We provide evidence that the extent to which base wages adjust is likely the appropriate concept of wage stickiness in many macro models. Nominal base wage declines are much rarer than previously thought with only 2% of job-stayers receiving a nominal base wage cut during a given year. However, accounting for shifts in nominal base wages of job-changers implies that aggregate nominal wages are more flexible than the nominal wages of job-stayers. In addition, we provide evidence that the flexibility of new hire base wages is similar to that of existing workers. Finally, nominal base wage adjustments are state-dependent: downward aggregate nominal wage adjustments were much more common during the Great Recession than in the subsequent recovery period. Throughout, we highlight differences in the adjustment patterns of base wages and of broader wage measures that include bonuses. Collectively, our results can be used to discipline models of nominal wage rigidity.
E24|The Industry Anatomy of the Transatlantic Productivity Growth Slowdown|By merging KLEMS data sets and aggregating over the ten largest Western European nations (EU-10), we are able to compare and contrast productivity growth up through 2015 starting from 1950 in the U.S. and from 1972 in the EU-10. Data are provided at the aggregate level, as well as for 16 industry groups within the total economy and 11 manufacturing sub-industries. The analysis focuses on outcomes over four time intervals: 1950-72, 1972-95, 1995-2005, and 2005-15. We interpret the EU-10 performance as catching up to the U.S. in stages, with its rapid growth of 1950-72 representing a delayed adoption of the inventions that propelled U.S. productivity growth in the first half of the 20th century, and the next EU-10 stage for 1972-95 as imitating the U.S. outcome for 1950-72. We show that both the pace of aggregate productivity growth during 1972-95 for the EU-10 as well as its industrial composition matched very closely the growth record of the U.S. in the previous 1950-72 time interval. A striking finding is that for the total economy the “early-to-late” productivity growth slowdown from 1972-95 to 2005-15 in the EU-10 (-1.68 percentage points) was almost identical to the U.S. slowdown from 1950-72 to 2005-15 (-1.67 percentage points). There is a very high EU-U.S. correlation in the magnitude of the early-to-late slowdown across industries. This supports our overall theme that the productivity growth slowdown from the early postwar years to the most recent decade was due to a retardation in technical change that affected the same industries by roughly the same magnitudes on both sides of the Atlantic.
E24|Implications of Labor Market Frictions for Risk Aversion and Risk Premia|A flexible labor margin allows households to absorb shocks to asset values with changes in hours worked as well as changes in consumption. This ability to absorb shocks along both margins can greatly alter the household's attitudes toward risk, as shown by Swanson (2012a). The present paper analyzes how those results are affected by labor market frictions and shows that: 1) risk aversion is higher in recessions, 2) risk aversion is higher in more frictional labor markets, and 3) risk aversion is higher for households that are less employable. Quantitatively, labor market flow rates in the U.S. and other OECD countries are large relative to the discount rate, implying that the cost of labor market frictions is small because frictions only delay adjustment. Thus, the frictionless formulas in Swanson (2012a,b) appear to be very good approximations in frictional labor markets as well.
E24|Assets and Job Choice: Student Debt, Wages and Amenities|If consumption and non-wage amenities of work enter utility, holding few assets may induce a trade-off between wages and amenities when searching for a job. We establish this in a model of search with asset accumulation, extended to accommodate amenities. We then provide empirical evidence of this trade-off in the context of student debt, finding that higher debt causes graduates to accept jobs with higher wages and lower job satisfaction. In a representative sample of college graduates, we infer causality by exploiting within-college, across cohort changes in financial aid. A quantitative extension of our theoretical framework that explicitly models student debt accounts well for our empirical results. Identifying the utility value of amenities through observed search behavior, we find that high satisfaction jobs are valued at 6 percent of lifetime consumption relative to low satisfaction jobs. This trade-off is economically significant; a policy maker using only wage data to assess the welfare effects of with an income-based repayment policy would mistakenly conclude that graduates prefer a fixed repayment policy.
E24|Transforming Naturally Occurring Text Data into Economic Statistics: The Case of Online Job Vacancy Postings|Using a dataset of 15 million UK job adverts from a recruitment website, we construct new economic statistics measuring labour market demand. These data are ‘naturally occurring’, having originally been posted online by firms. They offer information on two dimensions of vacancies—region and occupation—that firm-based surveys do not usually, and cannot easily, collect. These data do not come with official classification labels so we develop an algorithm which maps the free form text of job descriptions into standard occupational classification codes. The created vacancy statistics give a plausible, granular picture of UK labour demand and permit the analysis of Beveridge curves and mismatch unemployment at the occupational level.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E24|Scabs: The Social Suppression of Labor Supply|Social norms have the potential to alter the functioning of economic markets. We test whether norms shape the aggregate labor supply curve by preventing workers from supplying labor at wage cuts—leading decentralized individuals to implicitly behave as a cartel to maintain wage floors in their local labor markets. We partner with 183 existing employers, who offer jobs to 502 workers in informal spot labor markets in India. Unemployed workers are privately willing to accept jobs below the prevailing wage, but rarely do so when this choice is observable to other workers. In contrast, social observability does not affect labor supply at the prevailing wage. Workers give up 49% of average weekly earnings to avoid being seen as breaking the social norm. In addition, workers pay to punish anonymous laborers who have accepted wage cuts—indicating that cartel behavior is reinforced through the threat of social sanctions. Punishment occurs for workers in one’s own labor market and for those in distant regions, suggesting the internalization of norms in moral terms. Finally, consistent with the idea that norms could have aggregate implications, measures of social cohesion correlate with downward wage rigidity and business cycle volatility across India.
E24|A unified approach to measuring u|This paper bridges the gap between two popular approaches to estimating the natural rate of unemployment, u*. The first approach uses detailed labor market indicators, such as labor market flows, cross-sectional data on unemployment and vacancies, or various measures of demographic changes. The second approach, which employs reduced-form models and DSGE models, relies on aggregate price and wage Phillips curve relationships. We combine the key features of these two approaches to estimate the natural rate of unemployment in the United States using both data on labor market flows and a forward-looking Phillips curve that links inflation to current and expected deviations of unemployment from its unobserved natural rate. We estimate that the natural rate of unemployment was around 4.0 percent toward the end of 2018 and that the unemployment gap was roughly closed. Identification of a secular downward trend in the unemployment rate, driven solely by the inflow rate, facilitates the estimation of u*. We identify the increase in labor force attachment of women, decline in job destruction and reallocation intensity, and dual aging of workers and firms as the main drivers of the secular downward trend in the inflow rate.
E24|The Industrial Revolution in Services|The rise in national industry concentration in the US between 1977 and 2013 is driven by a new industrial revolution in three broad non-traded sectors: services, retail, and wholesale. Sectors where national concentration is rising have increased their share of employment, and the expansion is entirely driven by the number of local markets served by firms. Firm employment per market has either increased slightly at the MSA level, or decreased substantially at the county or establishment levels. In industries with increasing concentration, the expansion into more markets is more pronounced for the top 10\% firms, but is present for the bottom 90\% as well. These trends have not been accompanied by economy-wide concentration. Top U.S. firms are increasingly specialized in sectors with rising industry concentration, but their aggregate employment share has remained roughly stable. We argue that these facts are consistent with the availability of a new set of fixed-cost technologies that enable adopters to produce at lower marginal costs in all markets. We present a simple model of firm size and market entry to describe the menu of new technologies and trace its implications.
E24|Declining Worker Turnover: the Role of Short Duration Employment Spells|Using the Quarterly Workforce Indicators, we document that a significant amount of the decline in labor market turnover during the last two decades is accounted for by the decline in employment spells that last less than a quarter. Using a search and matching model that incorporates noisy signals about the quality of a worker-firm match, we show that improved candidate screening by firms can account for the decline in short-lived employment spells. Quantitative exercises show that this explanation can account for the observed changes in various labor market outcomes, whereas alternative potential explanations, such as increased hiring costs, cannot.
E24|Jobs and Environmental Regulation|Political debates around environmental regulation often center around the effect of policy on jobs. Opponents decry the “job-killing” EPA and proponents point to “green jobs” as a positive policy outcome. And beyond the political debates, Congress requires the EPA to evaluate “potential losses or shifts of employment” that regulations under the Clean Air Act may cause. Yet there is a sharp disconnect between the political importance of the jobs question and the limited research on job effects of policy and general skepticism in the academic literature about the importance of those job effects for the costs and benefits of environmental regulation. In this paper, we discuss how the existing research on jobs and environmental regulations often falls short in evaluating these questions and consider recent new work that has attempted to address these problems. We provide an intuitive discussion of key questions for how job effects should enter into economic analysis of regulations. And, using an economic model from Hafstead, Williams, and Chen (2018), we evaluate a range of environmental regulations in both the short and long-run to develop a set of key stylized facts related to jobs and environmental regulations and to identify the key questions that current models can’t yet answer well.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E24|Decomposing Firm Value|What are the economic determinants of a firm's market value? We answer this question through the lens of a generalized neoclassical model of investment with physical capital, quasi-fixed labor, and two types of intangible capital, knowledge and brand capital as inputs. We estimate the structural model using firm-level data on U.S. publicly traded firms and use the estimated parameter values to infer the contribution of each input for explaining firm's market value in the last four decades. The model performs well in explaining both cross-sectional and time-series variation in firms' market values across industries, with a time-series R 2 of up to 61%, and a cross-sectional R 2 of up to 95%. The relative importance of each input for firm value varies across industries and over time. On average, physical capital accounts for 30% to 40% of firm's market value, installed labor force accounts for 14% to 22%, knowledge capital accounts for 20% to 43%, and brand capital accounts for 6% to 25%. The importance of physical capital for firm value decreased in the last decades, while the importance of knowledge capital increased, especially in high-tech industries. Overall, our analysis provides direct empirical evidence supporting models with multiple capital inputs as main sources of firm value, and shows the importance of the non-physical capital inputs for firm value.
E24|Dissecting Saving Dynamics; Measuring Wealth, Precautionary, and Credit Effects|We argue that the U.S. personal saving rate’s long stability (from the 1960s through the early 1980s), subsequent steady decline (1980s - 2007), and recent substantial increase (2008 - 2011) can all be interpreted using a parsimonious ‘buffer stock’ model of optimal consumption in the presence of labor income uncertainty and credit constraints. Saving in the model is affected by the gap between ‘target’ and actual wealth, with the target wealth determined by credit conditions and uncertainty. An estimated structural version of the model suggests that increased credit availability accounts for most of the saving rate’s long-term decline, while fluctuations in net wealth and uncertainty capture the bulk of the business-cycle variation.
E24|The End of the American Dream? Inequality and Segregation in US Cities|Since the '80s the US has experienced not only a steady increase in income inequality, but also a contemporaneous increase in residential segregation by income. Using US Census data, we first document a positive correlation between inequality and segregation at the MSA level between 1980 and 2010. We then develop a general equilibrium overlapping generations model where parents choose the neighborhood where to raise their children and invest in their children's education. In the model, segregation and inequality amplify each other because of a local spillover that affects the returns to education. We calibrate the model using 1980 US data and the micro estimates of the effect of neighborhood exposure in Chetty and Hendren (2018). We then assume that in 1980 an unexpected permanent skill premium shock hits the economy and show that segregation contributes to 28% of the subsequent increase in inequality.
E24|Macro Recruiting Intensity from Micro Data|We merge QCEW and JOLTS microdata to study the recruiting intensity of firms in the cross-section and over time. Vast establishment-level heterogeneity in vacancy filling rates is entirely explained by differences in gross hiring rates. Through the lens of standard theory, we aggregate firm-level decisions into an measure of aggregate recruiting intensity (ARI). Procyclicality of ARI is primarily due to cutting recruiting effort in slack labor markets. Given this we provide an ARI index easily computable from publicly available macroeconomic data. Declining ARI in the Great Recession accounted for much of the increase in unemployment, but little of its persistence.
E24|Cognitive Hubs and Spatial Redistribution|In the U.S., cognitive non-routine (CNR) occupations associated with higher wages are disproportionately represented in larger cities. To study the allocation of workers across cities, we propose and quantify a spatial equilibrium model with multiple industries that employ CNR and alternative (non-CNR) occupations. Productivity is city-industry-occupation specific and partly determined by externalities across local workers. We estimate that the productivity of CNR workers in a city depends significantly on both its share of CNR workers and total employment. Together with heterogeneous preferences for locations, these externalities imply equilibrium allocations that are not efficient. An optimal policy that benefits workers equally across occupations incentivizes the formation of cognitive hubs, leading to larger fractions of CNR workers in some of today's largest cities. At the same time, these cities become smaller to mitigate congestion effects while cities that are initially small increase in size. Large and small cities end up expanding industries in which they already concentrate, while medium-size cities tend to diversify across industries. The optimal allocation thus features transfers to non-CNR workers who move from large to small cities consistent with the implied change in the industrial composition landscape. Finally, we show that the optimal policy reinforces equilibrium trends observed since 1980. However, these trends were in part driven by low growth in real-estate productivity in CNR-abundant cities that reduced welfare.
E24|Use It or Lose It: Efficiency Gains from Wealth Taxation|This paper studies the quantitative implications of wealth taxation (as opposed to capital income taxation) in an incomplete markets model with return rate heterogeneity across individuals. The rate of return heterogeneity arises from the fact that some individuals have better entrepreneurial skills than others, allowing them to obtain a higher return on their wealth. With such heterogeneity, capital income and wealth taxes have different efficiency and distributional implications. Under capital income taxation, entrepreneurs who are more productive and, as a result, generate more income pay higher taxes. Under wealth taxation, on the other hand, entrepreneurs who have similar wealth levels pay similar taxes regardless of their productivity. Thus, in this environment, the tax burden shifts from productive entrepreneurs to unproductive ones if the capital income tax were replaced with a wealth tax. This reallocation increases aggregate productivity. Second, and at the same time, it increases wealth inequality in the population. To provide a quantitative assessment of these different effects, we build and simulate an overlapping generations model with individual-specific returns on capital income and with idiosyncratic shocks to labor income. Our results indicate that switching from a capital income tax to a wealth tax increases welfare by almost 8% through better allocation of capital. We also study optimal taxation in this environment and find that, relative to the benchmark, the optimal wealth tax increases welfare by 9.6% while the optimal capital income tax increases it by 6.3%.
E24|Benefitting from globalisation and technological change in Australia|Australia has seen large rises in living standards over the last decades across the whole of the income distribution. Technological change and international trade have contributed to this success, but have also brought structural change. Some industries have declined, while others flourished. Furthermore, new technologies and structural change create new skills and new tasks, boosting demand for some jobs, while making others disappear.Although technology and globalisation have not decreased overall employment, certain people, groups, and communities have undergone disruptive change and experienced falling living standards. Some groups face a higher risk of poverty and laid-off workers can have difficulty finding a new job. Well-informed and well-targeted policy is therefore needed to ensure that the benefits of technology and globalisation are widely shared.This paper focuses on policies to ensure that everyone in Australia has the opportunity to benefit from technological change and globalisation. The paper assesses policies relating to three issues: i) labour markets and active labour market policies; ii) education and skills; to ensure adequate skills for accessing good quality jobs; and iii) urban environments, ensuring that Australia's highly urbanised population can adapt to change.
E24|Income, wealth and earnings inequality in Australia: Evidence from the HILDA survey|This paper analyses income, wealth and earnings inequality in Australia, using the Household, Income and Labour Dynamics in Australia (HILDA) Survey as the primary source of data. Income inequality in Australia has risen in the last two decades, but most of the rise occurred prior to the global financial crisis. HILDA data nevertheless show evidence of slower income growth in the middle of the income distribution compared with the top and the bottom. While Australia has experienced a rising inequality in wages – mostly through rapid earnings increases among top earners - this has been offset by increased participation and longer hours worked at the bottom of the distribution. According to HILDA data, relative pay across different levels of education groups has not recorded large shifts over the last 15 years. At the same time, we find evidence for job polarisation; notably, the share of high skilled jobs versus middle skilled jobs has increased. With respect to concerns about the casualisation of the labour force and less stable nature of jobs amid technological change and globalisation, the incidence of casual employment – where workers receive no paid sick leave or holiday leave - in Australia has been reported to have risen since the 1980s, especially for females. According to HILDA data however, the incidence of casual employment has fallen since early 2000s. Furthermore, we find no evidence that contract duration has shortened over time.
E24|Adapting business framework conditions to deal with disruptive technologies in Denmark|Danish firms are close to the technological frontier compared to other OECD countries,making the introduction of new – potentially disruptive – technologies key to boostproductivity growth. Despite a high level of digitalisation and good framework conditions,aggregate productivity growth in Denmark has been only average compared to otheradvanced OECD countries and lags behind in less knowledge-intensive service industries.Policy needs to embrace innovative technologies by leaning against attempts to discourageor exclude them and by tackling unintended or outmoded obstacles in legislation andregulation. Analysis based on Danish firm-level data suggests that digital adoption throughinvestment in ICT capital increases firm productivity and contributes to business dynamicsand firm growth. Improving economic incentives for such investment as well as facilitatingadoption of new business models require a shift of taxation away from capital and labourincome. Ensuring supply of the right skills and maintaining effective upskilling will helpworkers cope with disruptive changes and ensure that economic growth benefits all.
E24|Reducing regional disparities for inclusive growth in Spain|Spain is a highly decentralised country, making the effective implementation of national reforms dependent on regional policies. Some regional disparities are high and need to be reduced. High regional dispersion in education and job outcomes, compounded by low inter-regional mobility, emerge as key drivers of regional inequalities in income and wellbeing. Lifelong learning programmes that take into account regional specific needs would help foster regional skills and attract firms to lagging regions. Ensuring full portability of social and housing benefits across regions, by providing temporary assistance either by the region of origin or the central government, would improve inter-regional mobility. At the same time, barriers to achieving a truly single market limit productivity growth of regions, including the most advanced. Reducing regulatory barriers and better innovation policies would boost productivity. Effective intergovernmental coordination bodies and a well designed interregional fiscal equalisation system will be key to ensuring that regions have the incentives to implement policies for inclusive growth.
E24|Fiscal challenges and inclusive growth in ageing societies|This paper was prepared in support of Japan’s G20 Presidency. It takes stock of ongoing and projected population ageing across G20 economies and its far-reaching implications for economic growth, productivity, inequality within and between generations and the sustainability of public finances. Rising old-age dependency ratios will put the financing of adequate pensions, health and long-term care under high pressure. The paper provides recommendations on policy responses to address ageing-related challenges and highlights good practices. A comprehensive approach is needed, tailored to each country’s institutional and policy settings and social preferences, and may span many areas of public policy: improving the design of public pensions, incentivising private savings, enhancing the efficiency of health care provision, expanding the coverage of social security systems, promoting employability and skills of older workers, and striving for a better labour market inclusion of women, youth and migrants.
E24|Automation and occupational wage trends|Routine-biased technological change has emerged as a leading explanation for the differential wage growth of routine occupations, such as manufacturers or office clerks, relative to less routine occupations. Less clear, however, is how the effects of technological advancement on occupational wage trends vary across political-institutional context. This paper investigates the extent to which collective bargaining agreements and union coverage shape the relative wage growth of automatable occupations. Using data from the Luxembourg Income Study and the United States Current Population Survey, I measure the ‘routine task intensity’ of occupations across 15 OECD Member States and the 50 United States from the 1980s onward. Findings suggest that bargaining coverage is more consequential for the wage growth of high routine occupations relative to less routine occupations, and that high routine occupations lose coverage at a faster rate when bargaining coverage at the national level declines. As a result, declines in bargaining coverage within a country are associated with declining relative wage growth for automatable occupations. Estimates suggest that had union coverage in the United States not declined from 1984 levels, the earnings of high routine occupations might have grown at the same rate as low pay occupations between 1984 and 2015, rather than experiencing a relative wage decline. However, the findings also suggest that gains in the relative wage growth may increasingly come at the cost of reduced employment shares of automatable occupations.
E24|Revisiting the Hypothesis of High Discounts and High Unemployment|We revisit the hypothesis that labor market fluctuations are driven by shocks to the discount rate. Using a model in which the UE and the EU rates are endogenous, we show that an increase in the discount rate leads to a decline in both the UE and the EU rates. In the data, though, the UE and EU rates move against each other at business cycle frequency. Using a lifecycle model with human capital accumulation on the job, we show that an increase in the discount rate does indeed lead to a decline in the aggregate UE rate and to an increase in the aggregate EU rate. However, the decline in the UE rate is larger for younger workers than for older workers and the EU rate increases only for younger workers. In the data, fluctuations in the UE and EU rates at the business cycle frequency are nearly identical across age groups.
E24|Explaining the labor share: automation vs labor market institutions|In this paper, we build a theoretical model to study the effects of automation and labor market institutions on the labor share. In our model, firms choose between two technologies: an automated technology and a manual technology. In this context, the labor share reflects both the average wage level (versus output) and the distribution of firms between the two technologies. Our model offers three main insights. First, automation-augmenting shocks reduce the labor share but increase employment and wages. Second, labor market institutions (relative to automation) play an almost insignificant role in explaining the labor share. Third, our model suggests that the US labor share only (clearly) falls after the late 1980’s because of a contemporaneous acceleration of automation’s productivity.
E24|The Phillips Curve at 60: time for time and frequency|We estimate the U.S. New Keynesian Phillips Curve in the time-frequency domain with continuous wavelet tools, to provide an integrated answer to the three most controversial issues on the Phillips Curve. (1) Has the short-run tradeoff been stable? (2) What has been the role of expectations? (3)Is there a long-run tradeoff? First, we fi nd that the short-run tradeoff is limited to some speci c episodes and short cycles and that there is no evidence of nonlinearities or structural breaks. Second, households expectations captured trend inflation and were anchored until the Great Recession, but not since 2008. Then, inflation over-reacted to expectations at short cycles. Finally, there is no signi cant long-run tradeoff. In the long-run, inflation is explained by expectations.
E24|Sorting On-line and On-time|Using proprietary data from a Chilean online job board, we find strong, positive assortative matching at the worker-position level, both along observed dimensions and on unobserved characteristics (OLS Mincer residual wages). We also find that this positive assortative matching is robustly procyclical. Then, we use the generalized deferredacceptance algorithm to simulate ex post matches to compare our results to the existing empirical literature. Under all considered scenarios of our simulations, positive assortative matching is preserved from the application stage to the realized matches. JEL Codes: E24, E32, J24, J60. Key words: Keywords: Online search, assortative matching, labor markets.
E24|Explaining the labor share: automation vs labor market institutions|We propose a simple model to assess the evolution of the US labor share and how automation affects employment. In our model, heterogeneous firms may choose a manual technology and hire a worker subject to matching frictions. Alternatively, they may choose an automated technology and produce using only machines (robots). Our model offers three main insights. First, automation-augmenting shocks reduce the labor share but increase employment and wages. Second, labor market institutions play an almost insignificant role in explaining the labor share. Third, the US labor share only (clearly) fell after 1987 because of a contemporaneous acceleration of automation's productivity.
E24|Deconstructing job search behavior|In this paper we empirically investigate job search, specifically how a number of theoretically relevant variables impact behavior in an online setting. We take advantage of an unusually rich proprietary dataset from a Chilean job board to document and interpret a number of facts. We focus on how application behavior is influenced by (1) several demographics such as gender, age, and marital status, (2) alignment between applicants wage expectations and job ad wage offers, (3) applicant fit into job ad requirements in terms of education and experience, (4) timing variables, including unemployment duration, job tenure (for on-the-job searchers), and vacancy duration. We relate our results to a variety of theoretical models and discuss how our findings can be used to discipline current (and future) job search models.
E24|Monitoring Intensity and Technology Choice in A Model of Unemployment|The interaction among a firm’s choices of output, technology, and monitoring intensity is studied in a general equilibrium model. Firms engage in oligopolistic competition and unemployment is a result of the existence of efficiency wages. The following results are derived analytically. First, an increase in the cost of exerting effort leads a firm to choose a more advanced technology and a lower level of monitoring intensity. Second, an increase in the discount rate does not change a firm’s choices of technology and monitoring intensity. Third, an increase in the elasticity of substitution among goods leads a firm to choose higher levels of monitoring intensity and technology. In a model in which the level of monitoring is exogenously given, there is a negative relationship between the wage rate and the monitoring intensity. In this model with endogenously chosen monitoring intensity, the wage rate and the monitoring intensity can move either in the same direction or in opposite directions.
E24|Decent work and the effect of job instability on consumption of Colombian households|The aim of this paper is to study empirically the role of decent work on household consumption in Colombia. Using data from the Large Integrated Household Survey (GEIH) and the Colombian Longitudinal Survey (ELCA) we calculate for Colombia several of the decent work indicators proposed by the International Labour Organization and go one step further constructing their homologous at microeconomic level as measures of the job instability borne by the workers. The constructed indicators measure the poor quality of employment the individuals have which implies uncertainty about future labour income. This work addresses the effect this labour uncertainty has on household consumption. Our results show that being in a situation of vulnerability or labour instability, which generates uncertainty about future income, alters household consumption patterns. This is consistent with the evidence of the existence of precautionary saving in Colombian households.
E24|Can a Green Tax Reform Entail Employment Double Dividend in European and non-European Countries? A Survey of the Empirical Evidence|This paper synthesises the simulation studies concerning green tax reform (GTR) and employment double dividend (EDD) in European and non-European countries. The studies included investigate the effect of GTR on employment. We compared the simulation results between European and non-European countries to understand the impact of study region and our findings are fivefold. First, the simulation results suggest that GTR-driven EDD is observed in both European and non-European countries, but the average effect on employment in European countries (0.67%) is significantly greater than in non-European countries (0.18%). Second, optimal tax and tax revenue recycling policies in European and non-European countries for EDD are not identical. Reducing employers’ social security contributions (SSC) has the potential to generate EDD in both countries. However, a reduction in value added tax (VAT) has the highest average effect on employment in European countries (1.62%), which negatively affects employment in non-European countries (-0.02%). Third, a reduction in personal income tax (PIT) as a tax recycling method creates a marginally average employment dividend in non-European countries (0.16%) but is counterproductive in European countries (-0.15%). Fourth, other taxes, which predominantly represent mixed taxes, exhibit the highest EDD potential in both European (1.01%) and non-European (0.46%) countries. Finally, employment dividend diminishes over time, but a weak quadratic pattern has been observed that reveals an accelerating effect on employment in the long term. These reflections should be considered before employing GTR in non-European countries in order to yield EDD.
E24|Corporate Governance Index And Its Determinants In Samsung Company|The aim of this study is to examine the relationship between Corporate Governance Index and with its dependents. This Samsung Company had been chosen as the focus of our studies. Five years of data were collected from Samsung’s annual reports and websites from the year 2014 until the year 2018. The data collected is used to calculate the descriptive analysis which will be shown in the reports. Based on our studies, the dependent variables were the Corporate Governance Index. And for the independent variables, We had chosen Return on Asset (ROA), Return On Equity (ROE), Tobin’s Q, and Altman Z as the Internal factors and for the data like GDP per capita, Unemployment rate, and Exchange rate had been chosen as the external factors. The Stepwise method is used to claiming the results for the Correlations, regression results and etc to observe the most significant with the corporate governance index. Only the unemployment rate shows the most influence on the Corporate Governance Index.
E24|The Long-Run Effects of Neighborhood Change on Incumbent Families|A number of prominent studies examine the long-run effects of neighborhood attributes on children by leveraging variation in neighborhood exposure through household moves. However, much neighborhood change comes in place rather than through moving. Using an urban economic geography model as a basis, this paper estimates the causal effects of changes in neighborhood attributes on long-run outcomes for incumbent children and households. For identification, we make use of quasi-random variation in 1990-2000 and 2000-2005 skill specific labor demand shocks hitting each residential metro area census tract in the U.S. Our results indicate that children in suburban neighborhoods with a one standard deviation greater increase in the share of resident adults with a college degree experienced a 0.4 to 0.7 standard deviation improvement in credit outcomes 12-17 years later. Since parental outcomes are not affected, we interpret these results as operating through neighborhood effects. Finally, we provide evidence that most of the estimated effects operate through public schools.
E24|Cyclical income risk in Great Britain|This paper establishes new evidence on the cyclical behaviour of household income risk in Great Britain and assesses the role of social insurance policy in mitigating against this risk. We address these issues using the British Household Panel Survey (1991-2008) by decomposing stochastic idiosyncratic income into its transitory, persistent and fixed components. We then estimate how income risk, measured by the variance and the skewness of the probability distribution of shocks to the persistent component, varies between expansions and contractions of the aggregate economy. We first find that the volatility and left-skewness of these shocks is a-cyclical and counter-cyclical respectively. The latter implies a higher probability of receiving large negative income shocks in contractions. We also find that while social insurance (tax-benefits) policy reduces the levels of both measures of risk as well as the counter-cyclicality of the asymmetry measure, the mitigation effects work mainly via benefits.
E24|The Beveridge curve and labour market flows - a reinterpretation|According to search-matching theory, the Beveridge curve slopes downward because vacancies are filled more quickly when unemployment is high. Using monthly panel data for local labour markets in Sweden we find no (or only weak) evidence that high unemployment makes it easier to fill vacancies. Instead, there are few vacancies when unemployment is high because there is a low inflow of new vacancies. We construct a simple model with on-the-job search and show that it is broadly consistent with the cyclical behaviour of stocks and flows in the labour market also without search frictions. In periods of high unemployment, fewer employed job seekers find new jobs and this leads to a smaller inflow of new vacancies.
E24|Longevity, Retirement and Intra-Generational Equity|We find that segments of society who have shorter life expectancy can expect a lower retirement income and lifetime utility due to the longevity of other groups participating in the same pension scheme. Linking retirement age to average life expectancy magnifies the negative effect on the lifetime utility of those who suffer low longevity. Furthermore, when the income of those with greater longevity increases, those with shorter life expectancy become even worse off. Conversely, when the income of those with shorter life expectancy increases, they end up paying more into the pension scheme, which benefits those who live longer. The relative sizes of the low and high longevity groups in the population determine the magnitude of these effects. We calibrate the model based on data on differences in life expectancy of men and women and find that males suffer from a 10 percent drop in the amount of pension benefits from being forced to pay into the same scheme as females.
E24|Skills Scarcity and Export Intensity|We describe a model of trade with input based product differentiation and non-proportional trade costs that is capable of predicting a positive correlation between firms’ export intensity, the price of their exports, and the wages they pay to their workers. These correlations arise in the model solely from comparative input scarcity and independently of any productivity differentials: in equilibrium, firms that employ workers with comparatively scarcer skills, other things equal, export a larger proportion of their output, pay higher wages and charge higher prices.
E24|Unemployment dynamics and endogenous unemployment insurance extensions|This paper investigates the impact of endogenous unemployment insurance (UI) extensions on the dynamics of unemployment and its duration structure in the US. Using a search and matching model with worker heterogeneity, I allow for the maximum UI duration to depend on unemployment and for UI benefits to depend on worker characteristics. UI extensions have a large effect on long-term unemployment during the Great Recession via job search responses and a moderate effect on total unemployment via job separations. Disregarding rational expectations about the timing of UI extensions implies an overestimation of the unemployment rate by over 2 percentage points.
E24|Jordan: The Elements of a Growth Strategy|In the decade 1999-2009, Jordan experienced an impressive growth acceleration, tripling its exports and increasing income per capita by 38%. Since then, a number of external shocks that include the Global Financial Crisis (2008-2009), the Arab Spring (2011), the Syrian Civil War (2011), and the emergence of the Islamic State (2014) have affected Jordan in significant ways and thrown its economy out of balance. Jordan’s debt-to-GDP ratio has ballooned from 55% (2009) to 94% (2018). The economy has continued to grow amidst massive fiscal adjustment and balance of payments constraints, but the large increase in population – by 50% between 2008 and 2017 – driven by massive waves of refugees has resulted in a 12% cumulative loss in income per capita (2010-2017). Moving forward, debt sustainability will require not only continued fiscal consolidation but also faster growth and international support to keep interest payments on the debt contained. We have developed an innovative framework to align Jordan’s growth strategy with its changing factor endowments. The framework incorporates service industries into an Economic Complexity analysis, utilizing the Dun and Bradstreet database, together with an evaluation of the evolution of Jordan’s comparative advantages over time. Combining several tools to identify critical constraints faced by sectors with the greatest potential, we have produced a roadmap with key elements of a strategy for Jordan to return to faster, more sustainable and more inclusive growth that is consistent with its emerging comparative advantages.
E24|What works for Active Labor Market Policies?| The past 5 years have witnessed a flurry of RCT evaluations that shed new light on the impact and cost effectiveness of Active Labor Market Policies (ALMPs) aiming to improve workers´ access to new jobs and better wages. We report the first systematic review of 102 RCT interventions comprising a total of 652 estimated impacts. We find that (i) a third of these estimates are positive and statistically significant (PPS) at conventional levels; (ii) programs are more likely to yield positive results when GDP growth is higher and unemployment lower; (iii) programs aimed at building human capital, such as vocational training, independent worker assistance and wage subsidies, show significant positive impact, and (iv) program length, monetary incentives, individualized follow up and activity targeting are all key features in determining the effectiveness of the interventions.
E24|Escenarios de ajuste al sistema pensional colombiano|Este documento expone un diagnóstico de los principales problemas en el diseño del sistema pensional colombiano y presenta una comparación de tres escenarios de ajuste posibles: (1) hacer ajustes paramétricos al sistema actual; (2) adoptar un sistema de pilares, con el primer pilar administrado por Colpensiones; y (3) hacer una reforma que cierre el acceso al régimen de prima media (RPM), vinculando a todos los nuevos afiliados al régimen de ahorro individual con solidaridad y garantía de pensión mínima (RAIS). Nuestras simulaciones al 2075 indican que, en valor presente neto, la reforma de cierre del acceso al RPM para nuevos afiliados es muy superior a las otras dos propuestas de reforma y que esta reforma complementada con incrementos en la edad de jubilación, incremento de dos puntos en la tasa de cotización y logrando una mayor formalización del mercado laboral, disminuye el déficit público de pensiones asociado a Colpensiones de 57,2% del PIB en 2075 a 23,2% del PIB. Adicionalmente, esta simulación permite incrementar el ahorro privado institucional en más de 10 puntos del PIB. Finalmente, dados estos resultados se hace una propuesta del escenario deseable de ajuste al sistema pensional colombiano.
E24|Análisis de experiencias de modelos asociativos como mecanismo para el desarrollo empresarial en la ruralidad|En este trabajo estudiamos algunos de estos modelos, con un enfoque diferente. A saber, analizamos modelos asociativos de características diferentes, identificamos buenas y malas prácticas y hacemos recomendaciones de política. Para ello, recolectamos información cuantitativa y cualitativa –entrevistas, registros e información secundaria– de empresas y productores de nueve modelos asociativos en cuatro sectores: palma, cacao, leche y panela. El trabajo está organizado de la siguiente manera. Después de esta introducción, en el segundo capítulo presentamos el marco conceptual para caracterizar los diferentes modelos asociativos de agricultura por contrato y hacemos explícitos sus principales riesgos. En el tercer capítulo se explica la metodología para la selección de casos, se presentan los modelos a estudiar y se describen los aspectos más importantes de cada uno. En el cuarto capítulo elaboramos un resumen comparativo de los estudios de caso y en el quinto presentamos las conclusiones y recomendaciones en diversos frentes, entre otros respecto a precios remunerativos, productividad y calidad, acceso al crédito y formalización laboral.
E24|Determinantes de la violencia homicida en Bogotá 2002-2017|El presente trabajo tiene como objetivo evaluar los factores que explican la tasa de homicidios en la ciudad de Bogotá. Para ello, se hace una revisión bibliográfica siguiendo el criterio que Briceño establece en su artículo La Comprensión de los Homicidios en América Latina: ¿Pobreza o Institucionalidad? (2002). Este autor separa los trabajos de este tipo en dos vertientes: aquellos que hacen un mayor énfasis en las variables institucionales y aquellos que lo hacen en las socioeconómicas. En el texto se toman estas últimas para evaluar el impacto de estas variables sobre la tasa de homicidios de la ciudad de Bogotá entre los años 2002 y 2017. Este análisis se realiza mediante una regresión econométrica. Los resultados apuntan a una significancia de variables socioeconómicas tales como el índice Gini, la pobreza y el desempleo a la hora de explicar la tasa de homicidios en la ciudad. *** The objective of this paper is to evaluate the factors that explain the homicide rate in the city of Bogotá. To this end, a bibliographic review is carried out following the criteria established by Briceño in his article La comprensión de los homicidios en Amércia Latina: ¿Pobreza o institucionalidad? This author separates this type of work into two aspects: those that place greater emphasis on institutional variables and those that do so in socioeconomic variables. The text takes the latter to evaluate the impact of these variables on the homicide rate of the city of Bogotá between 2002 and 2017. This analysis is executed using econometric regression. The results point a significance of socioeconomic variables such as the Gini index, poverty and unemployment when explaining the homicide rate in the city.
E24|Determinantes del ahorro interno en Colombia: un acercamiento desde las Cuentas Nacionales Trimestrales para el período 1994-2017|Resumen: El presente trabajo es un intento, en primer lugar, para convalidar con información del Sistema de Cuentas Nacionales Trimestrales, algunos de los hallazgos de estudios nacionales e internacionales sobre los determinantes de la tasa de ahorro domestico o del componente cíclico de la tasa de ahorro doméstico que usan fundamentalmente información procedente del Sistema de Cuentas Nacionales Anuales (de agregados macroeconómicos y por agentes). Un problema crucial en el uso de las cuentas nacionales anuales consiste en que ellas no miden el ahorro consistentemente con definiciones teóricas; los investigadores del ahorro han tenido que realizar cálculos propios, tomando las cuentas nacionales anuales como materia prima y ajustándola con información suministrada por otras instituciones públicas y privadas, para tratar de obtener medidas más próximas a las nociones conceptuales. En ésta investigación no se realiza ninguna transformación de la información trimestral, pero si se usa la evidencia hallada en los estudios anuales. En segundo lugar, se trata de obtener evidencia sobre otro grupo de posibles determinantes del componente transitorio de la tasa de ahorro en el caso de la economía colombiana. Para los propósitos anteriores, se estimó una ecuación reducida por mínimos cuadrados para el componente cíclico de la tasa ahorro interno y como variables independientes a los componentes transitorios de: el crecimiento del PIB real, la profundización financiara (medida por el agregado monetario M2), de los impuestos, de la tasa de dependencia (aproximada por la proporción entre la tasa de ocupación y la tasa de desempleo), la tasa de inflación; las variables anteriores son comunes, aunque cuantitativamente medidas de forma diferente, en los estudios sobre el ahorro; las variables que adicionalmente se incluyen en la estimación son los componentes cíclicos de la tasa de interés de política monetaria, del precio internacional del petróleo, de la tasa de interés externa y de la tasa de cambio nominal. Los resultados son favorables para todas las variables (aunque los coeficientes para el precio internacional del petróleo y la tasa de cambio nominal son pequeños) y son robustos con R2 tendiendo a 1; no hay autocorrelación ni correlación serial, la especificación lineal del modelo es correcta según el test de Ramsey, los test cusum y cusum cuadrado indican estabilidad de los coeficientes, ausencia de multicolinealidad o ésta es moderada (ICJ=3.6), el test de Haussman (la versión de Davidson and MacKinnon (1989,1993) para la endogeneidad indica que ésta no existe o es débil. Igualmente, se destaca el rechazo a la hipótesis del ingreso permanente. / Abstract : The present work is an attempt to, firstly, to validate with information from the system of quarterly national accounts, some of the findings of national and international studies on the determinants of the rate of domestic savings or component cyclic rate of domestic savings, mainly using information from the system of annual national accounts (of macroeconomic aggregates and agents). A crucial problem in the use of annual national accounts is that they do not measure saving consistently with theoretical definitions; saving researchers have had to own calculations, taking the national accounts as raw and adjusting it with information provided by other public and private institutions, to try to obtain measurements closer to the conceptual notions. In this research there is no transformation of the quarterly information, but if used the evidence found in annual studies. Secondly, it is to obtain evidence about another group of possible determinants of the transitory component of the rate of savings in the case of the Colombian economy. For the above purposes, a reduced by least squares equation was estimated for the cyclical component of the rate saving internal and as independent variables to transient components of: the growth of real GDP, the deepening financial) as measured by the monetary aggregate M2), taxes, the dependency ratio (approximated by the ratio between the rate of occupation and the unemployment rate), the rate of inflation; the previous variables are common, although quantitatively measured differently, in studies on saving; the variables that are additionally included in the estimate are the cyclical components of interest rate in monetary policy, the international price of oil, the foreign interest rate and the nominal exchange rate. The results are favorable for all variables (although the coefficients for the international price of oil and the nominal exchange rate are small) and are robust with R2 tending to 1; There is no autocorrelation or serial correlation, the linear specification of the model is correct according to the Ramsey test, the test cusum and Cusum square indicate stability of the coefficients, absence of multicolinearity or this is moderate (ICJ = 3.6), the test of Haussman (the version of Davidson and MacKinnon (1989.1993) for endogeneity indicates that it does not exist or is weak. The rejection of the permanent income hypothesis is also highlighted.
E24|Has the U.S. Wage Phillips Curve Flattened? A Semi-Structural Exploration|Unconditional reduced form estimates of a conventional wage Phillips curve for the U.S. economy point to a decline in its slope coefficient in recent years, as well as a shrinking role of lagged price inflation in the determination of wage inflation. We provide estimates of a conditional wage Phillips curve, based on a structural decomposition of wage, price and unemployment data generated by a VAR with time varying coefficients, identified by a combination of long-run and sign restrictions. Our estimates show that the key qualitative findings from the unconditional reduced form regressions also emerge in the conditional evidence, suggesting that they are not entirely driven by endogeneity problems or possible changes over time in the importance of of wage markup shocks. The conditional evidence, however, suggests that actual changes in the slope of the wage Phillips curve may not have been as large as implied by the unconditional estimates.
E24|Credit and Income|Using a unique data set of business loan applications to a single bank from individuals who are majority owners of small firms, we study how bank credit origination or denial affects individuals' income. The bank cutoff rule based on the applicants' credit score creates a sharp discontinuity in the decision to originate loans or not. We show that loan origination increases recipients' income five years onward by more than 10% compared to denied applicants. The effect is more pronounced in rural and low-income areas. Our results suggest an important role for banks` credit decisions on the distribution of income.
E24|Dual Labour Markets Revisited|This paper provides an overview of recent research on dual labour markets. Theoretical and empirical contributions on the labour-market effects of dual employment protection legislation are revisited, as well as factors behind its resilience and policies geared towards correcting its negative economic and social consequences. The topics covered include the stepping-stone or dead-end nature of temporary contracts, their effects on employment, unemployment, churn, training, productivity growth, wages, and labour market inflows and outflows. The paper reviews both theoretical advances and relevant policy discussions on a very relevant topic in many European countries, in particular in several that had a very poor employment performance during the recent global economic and financial crisis.
E24|Unemployment Duration Variance Decomposition a la ABS: Evidence from Spain|In a recent paper, Alvarez, Borovickova, and Shimer (2014) revisit the analysis of the determinants of unemployment duration by proposing a new method (the ABS method hereafter) that directly estimates the importance of each component and implementing it using precise information on unemployment spells from social security administrative data for Austria. In this paper, we apply the ABS method to social security administrative data for Spain with the objective of comparing these two very different labor markets as well as Spain along the business cycle. Administrative data have many advantages compared to Labor Force Survey data, but the incomplete nature of the data needs to be addressed in order to use the data for unemployment analysis (e.g., unemployed workers that runout of unemployment insurance have no labor market status in the data). The degree and nature of such incompleteness are country-specific and are particularly important in Spain. Following Lafuente (2018), we approach the matter of data incompleteness in a systematic way by using information from the Spanish LFS data as well as institutional information. We hope that our approach will provide a useful way to apply the ABS method in other countries. Our findings are as follows: (i) The aggregate component is clearly the most important one, followed by heterogeneity and duration dependence, which are roughly comparable. (ii) The relative importance of each component and, in particular, duration dependence is quite similar in Austria and Spain, especially when minimizing the effect of fixed-term contracts in Spain. Similarly, we do not find big differences in the relative contribution of the different components along the business cycle in Spain. (iii) These comparisons suggest that statistical discrimination due to dynamic sample selection does not seem to be the main driver of duration dependence.
E24|Bad Jobs and Low Inflation|Since 2014 the U.S. economy has been characterized by (i) a tight labor market with a record-low unemployment rate and very high job finding rates, (ii) disappointing labor productivity growth, and (iii) low inflation. We propose a model with the job ladder that can reconcile these three facts. In the model inflation picks up only when most jobs are concentrated at the high rung of the ladder: as firms compete for efficiently allocated employed workers, outside offers are declined and matched, triggering an increase in production costs that is not backed by an increase in productivity. The model is estimated using unemployment and quit rates, which allow the model to precisely identify the distribution of the quality of jobs. After the Great Recession, the observed structural drop in the job-to-job rate has slowed down the pace at which the U.S. labor market turns bad jobs into good jobs. As a result, inflation has not escalated even though the labor market appears to be very tight. Furthermore, the model predicts that labor productivity persistently fell by up to 70 bps in the post-Great Recession recovery owing to this protracted misallocation in the labor market.
E24|The Industry Anatomy of the Transatlantic Productivity Growth Slowdown|"By merging KLEMS data sets and aggregating over the ten largest Western European nations (EU-10), we are able to compare and contrast productivity growth up through 2015 starting from 1950 in the U.S. and from 1972 in the EU-10. Data are provided at the aggregate level, as well as for 16 industry groups within the total economy and 11 manufacturing subindustries. The analysis focuses on outcomes over four time intervals: 1950-72, 1972-95, 1995- 2005, and 2005-15. We interpret the EU-10 performance as catching up to the U.S. in stages, with its rapid growth of 1950-72 representing a delayed adoption of the inventions that propelled U.S. productivity growth in the first half of the 20th century, and the next EU-10 stage for 1972-95 as imitating the U.S. outcome for 1950-72. A striking finding is that for the total economy the ""early-to-late"" productivity growth slowdown from 1972-95 to 2005-15 in the EU-10 (-1.68 percentage points) was almost identical to the U.S. slowdown from 1950-72 to 2005-15 (-1.67 percentage points). There is a very high EU-U.S. correlation in the magnitude of the early-to-late slowdown across industries. This supports our overall theme that the productivity growth slowdown from the early postwar years to the most recent decade was due to a retardation in technical change that affected the same industries by roughly the same magnitudes on both sides of the Atlantic."
E24|Do Unemployment Benefit Extensions Explain the Emergence of Jobless Recoveries?|Countercyclical unemployment benefit extensions in the United States act as a propagation mechanism, contributing to both the high persistence of unemployment and its weak correlation with productivity. We show this by modifying an otherwise standard frictional model of the labor market to incorporate a stochastic and state-dependent process for unemployment insurance estimated on US data. Accounting for movements in both productivity and unemployment insurance, our calibrated model is consistent with unemployment dynamics of the past 50 years. In particular, it explains the emergence of jobless recoveries in the 1990's as well as their absence in previous recessions, the low correlation between unemployment and labor productivity, and the apparent shifts in the Beveridge curve following recessions. Next, we embed this mechanism into a medium-scale DSGE model, which we estimate using standard Bayesian methods. Both shocks to unemployment benefits and their systematic component are shown to be important for the sluggish recovery of employment following recessions, in particular the Great Recession, despite the fact that shocks to unemployment benefits account for little of the overall variance decomposition. If we also incorporate other social safety nets, such as food stamps (SNAP), the estimated model assigns an even bigger role to policy in explaining sluggish labor market recovery. We also find that unemployment benefit extensions prevented deflation in the last three recessions, thus acting similarly to a wage markup shock.
E24|A Rational Inattention Unemployment Trap|We show that introducing rational inattention into a model with uninsurable unemployment risk can generate multiple steady states, when the same model with full information has a unique steady state. The model features heterogeneity and persistence in household labour market expectations, consistent with survey evidence. In a heterogeneous agent New Keynesian model, we find that rational inattention to the future hiring rate generates a high employment steady state with moderate inflation, and an unemployment trap with very low (but positive) inflation and a low job hiring rate.
E24|Job Seekers' Perceptions and Employment Prospects: Heterogeneity, Duration Dependence and Bias|This paper analyses job seekers' perceptions and their relationship to unemployment outcomes to study heterogeneity and duration-dependence in both perceived and actual job finding. Using longitudinal data from two comprehensive surveys, we document (1) that reported beliefs have strong predictive power of actual job finding, (2) that job seekers are over-optimistic in their beliefs, particularly the long-term unemployed, and (3) that job seekers do not revise their beliefs downward when remaining unemployed. We then develop a reduced-form statistical framework where we exploit the joint observation of beliefs and ex-post realizations, to disentangle heterogeneity and duration-dependence in true job finding rates while allowing for elicitation errors and systematic biases in beliefs. We find a substantial amount of heterogeneity in true job finding rates, accounting for almost all of the observed decline in job finding rates over the spell of unemployment. Moreover, job seekers' beliefs are systematically biased and under-respond to these differences in job finding rates. Finally, we show theoretically and quantify in a calibrated model of job search how biased beliefs contribute to the slow exit out of unemployment. The biases can explain more than 10 percent of the incidence of long-term unemployment.
E24|The Industrial Revolution in Services|The rise in national industry concentration in the US between 1977 and 2013 is driven by a new industrial revolution in three broad non-traded sectors: services, retail, and wholesale. Sectors where national concentration is rising have increased their share of employment, and the expansion is entirely driven by the number of local markets served by firms. Firm employment per market has either increased slightly at the MSA level, or decreased substantially at the county or establishment levels. In industries with increasing concentration, the expansion into more markets is more pronounced for the top 10% firms, but is present for the bottom 90% as well. These trends have not been accompanied by economy-wide concentration. Top U.S. firms are increasingly specialized in sectors with rising industry concentration, but their aggregate employment share has remained roughly stable. We argue that these facts are consistent with the availability of a new set of fixed-cost technologies that enable adopters to produce at lower marginal costs in all markets. We present a simple model of firm size and market entry to describe the menu of new technologies and trace its implications.
E24|Gig-Labor: Trading Safety Nets for Steering Wheels|"This paper shows that the introduction of the ""gig-economy"" changes the way employees respond to job loss. Using a comprehensive set of Uber product launch dates and employee-level data on job separations, we show that laid-off employees with access to Uber are less likely to apply for UI benefits, rely less on household debt, and experience fewer delinquencies. Our empirical strategy is based on a triple difference-in-difference empirical model, comparing the difference in outcome variables 1) pre- and post-layoff, 2) before and after Uber enters a market, and 3) between workers with and without the ability to participate on the ride-sharing platform (car-owners inferred from auto credit histories). In support of our identification strategy, we find no apparent pre-existing difference in outcomes in the months leading up to Uber's entry into a market. Moreover, the effects are severely attenuated for workers with an auto lease, for whom the viability of participating on the ride-sharing platform is significantly reduced. Overall, our findings show that the introduction Uber had a profound effect on labor markets."
E24|Climate Change, Inequality, and Human Migration|This paper investigates the long-term implications of climate change on local, interregional, and international migration of workers. For nearly all of the world's countries, our micro-founded model jointly endogenizes the effects of changing temperature and sea level on income distribution and individual decisions about fertility, education, and mobility. Climate change intensifies poverty and income inequality creating favorable conditions for urbanization and migration from low- to high-latitude countries. Encompassing slow- and fast-onset mechanisms, our projections suggest that climate change will induce the voluntary and forced displacement of 100 to 160 million workers (200 to 300 million climate migrants of all ages) over the course of the 21st century. However, under current migration laws and policies, forcibly displaced people predominantly relocate within their country and merely 20% of climate migrants opt for long-haul migration to OECD countries. If climate change induces generalized and persistent conflicts over resources in regions at risk, we project significantly larger cross-border flows in the future.
E24|Cognitive Hubs and Spatial Redistribution|In the U.S., cognitive non-routine (CNR) occupations associated with higher wages are disproportionately represented in larger cities. To study the allocation of workers across cities, we propose and quantify a spatial equilibrium model with multiple industries that employ CNR and alternative (non-CNR) occupations. Productivity is city-industry-occupation specific and partly determined by externalities across local workers. We estimate that the productivity of CNR workers in a city depends significantly on both its share of CNR workers and total employment. Together with heterogeneous preferences for locations, these externalities imply equilibrium allocations that are not efficient. An optimal policy that benefits workers equally across occupations incentivizes the formation of cognitive hubs, leading to larger fractions of CNR workers in some of today's largest cities. At the same time, these cities become smaller to mitigate congestion effects while cities that are initially small increase in size. Large and small cities end up expanding industries in which they already concentrate, while medium-size cities tend to diversify across industries. The optimal allocation thus features transfers to non-CNR workers who move from large to small cities consistent with the implied change in the industrial composition landscape. Finally, we show that the optimal policy reinforces equilibrium trends observed since 1980. However, these trends were in part driven by low growth in real-estate productivity in CNR-abundant cities that reduced welfare.
E24|Some Causal Effects of an Industrial Policy|We exploit changes in the area-specific eligibility criteria for a program to support jobs through investment subsidies. European rules determine whether an area is eligible for subsidies, and we construct instrumental variables for area eligibility based on parameters of these rule changes. Areas eligible for higher subsidies significantly increased jobs and reduced unemployment. A ten-percentage point increase in the maximum investment subsidy stimulates a 10% increase in manufacturing employment. This effect exists solely for small firms: large companies accept subsidies without increasing activity. There are positive effects on investment and employment for incumbent firms but not Total Factor Productivity.
E24|What if We All Worked Gigs in the Cloud? The Economic Relevance of Digital Labour Platforms|This paper explores the increasing diffusion of digital labour platforms, i.e. online software which facilitates the interaction between buyers and sellers of paid labour services through matching algorithms and structured information exchange. Although the phenomenon itself has only recently started to develop, its prevalence is rapidly increasing. We illustrate the various forms digital labour platforms can take, frame the issues they raise in the broader debate on digitalisation and succinctly describe the various angles from which the Commission services have so far approached digital labour platforms in analytical and policy work. The paper also explores the impact the rapid growth of the considered platforms could potentially have on the wider economy and raises three sets of relevant economic policy questions, focusing on: • the contribution of digital labour platforms to overall labour market functioning (including wages) and productivity; • the possible impact of digital labour platforms on macro-economic aggregates such as GDP and total employment at EU and Member State level; • the impact of the growing participation in the labour markets intermediated by online platforms on public finances.
E24|Delayed Collection of Unemployment Insurance in Recessions|Using variations in unemployment insurance policies over time and across U.S. states, this paper provides evidence that allowing unemployed workers to delay the collection of benefits increases their job-finding rate. In a model with discrete job take-up decisions, benefit entitlement, wage-indexed benefits, and heterogeneous job types, I demonstrate that the policy can increase an unemployed worker's willingness to work, even though more benefits in general reduce the relative value of employment. In a calibrated quantitative model, I find that allowing delayed benefit collection increases the overall job finding rates and may lower the unemployment rate both in a steady state stationary economy and over a transition path during 2008–12.
E24|Excess Persistence in Employment of Disadvantaged Workers|We examine persistence in employment-to-population ratios in excess of that implied by persistence in aggregate labor market conditions, among less-educated individuals using state-level data for the United States. Dynamic panel regressions and local projections indicate a moderate degree of excess persistence, which dissipates within three years. We find no significant asymmetry between the excess persistence of high vs. low employment rates. The cumulative effect of excess persistence in the business cycle surrounding the 2001 recession was mildly positive, while the effect in the cycle surrounding the 2008-09 recession was decidedly negative. Simulations suggest that the lasting employment benefits of temporarily running a “high-pressure” economy are small.
E24|Job Heterogeneity and Aggregate Labor Market Fluctuations|This paper disciplines a model with search over match quality using microeconomic evidence on worker mobility patterns and wage dynamics. In addition to capturing these individual data, the model provides an explanation for aggregate labor market patterns. Poor match quality among first jobs implies large fluctuations in unemployment due to a responsive job destruction margin. Endogenous job destruction generates a burst of layoffs at the onset of a recession and, together with on-the-job search, generates a negative comovement between unemployment and vacancies. A significant job ladder, consistent with the empirical wage dispersion, provides ample scope for the propagation of vacancies and unemployment.
E24|Uncertainty and Labor Market Fluctuations|We investigate how a macroeconomic uncertainty shock affects the labor market. We focus on the uncertainty transmission mechanism, for which we employ a set of worker flow indicators in addition to labor stock variables. We incorporate common factors from such indicators into a framework that can simultaneously estimate historical macroeconomic uncertainty and its impacts on the macroeconomy and labor market. We find firms defer hiring as the real option value of waiting increases. Moreover, significantly more workers are laid off while voluntary quits drop, suggesting other mechanisms such as the aggregate demand channel play a crucial role.
E24|Job-Finding and Job-Losing: A Comprehensive Model of Heterogeneous Individual Labor-Market Dynamics|We track the path that a worker follows after losing a job. Initially, the typical job-loser spends some time out of the labor force and in job search. Only a month or two later, in normal times, the worker lands a job. But the job is frequently brief. Over the next few months, the worker finds a good match that becomes a long-term job. Short-term jobs tend to precede long-term ones. Short-term employment shares some of the characteristics of unemployment and some of the characteristics of employment. We show that this pattern of moving among working, searching for a job, and being out of the labor force is concentrated in a segment of the working-age population. In other segments, individuals are insulated from disturbances to their activities in the labor market. Some work continuously while others are always out of the labor market. We develop a model that incorporates heterogeneity across and within these segments.
E24|Do Greasy Wheels Curb Inequality?|I document a disparity in the cyclicality of the allocative wage-the labor costs considered when deciding to form or dissolve an employment relationship-across levels of educational attainment. Specifically, workers with a bachelors degree or more exhibit an allocative wage that is highly pro-cyclical while high school dropouts exhibit no statistically discernible cyclical pattern. I also assess the response to monetary policy shocks of both employment and allocative wages across education groups. The less educated respond to monetary policy shocks on the employment margin while the more educated respond on the wage margin. An important takeaway is that conventional monetary policy easing reduces employment inequality but increases wage inequality. I embed these findings in a New Keynesian framework that includes price and heterogeneous wage rigidity and show that heterogeneity results in welfare losses due to fluctuations that exceed those of the output-gap and p rice-level equivalent representative agent economy. The excess welfare loss is borne by the least educated.
E24|The long-run effects of neighborhood change on incumbent families|A number of prominent studies examine the long-run effects of neighborhood attributes on children by leveraging variation in neighborhood exposure through household moves. How-ever, much neighborhood change comes in place rather than through moving. Using an urban economic geography model as a basis, this paper estimates the causal effects of changes in neighborhood attributes on long-run outcomes for incumbent children and households. For identification, we make use of quasi-random variation in 1990-2000 and 2000-2005 skill-specific labor demand shocks hitting each residential metro area census tract in the U.S. Our results indicate that children in suburban neighborhoods with a one standard deviation greater increase in the share of resident adults with a college degree experienced a 0.4 to 0.7 standard deviation improvement in credit outcomes 12-17 years later. Since parental outcomes are not affected, we interpret these results as operating through neighborhood effects. Finally, we provide evidence that most of the estimated effects operate through public schools.
E24|Occupational Choice and the Dynamics of Human Capital, Inequality and Growth|We develop a tractable dynamic Roy model in which workers choose occupations to maximize their lifetime utility. In our setting, a worker’s human capital is driven by his labor market choices, given idiosyncratic occupation-specific productivity shocks and the costs of switching occupations. We characterize the equilibrium assignment of workers to jobs and show that the resulting evolution of aggregate human capital across occupations ultimately determines the long-run rate of growth of the economy. We then use our model to quantitatively study the impact of labor-saving technical changes on workers’ occupational choices and on the economy’s income inequality, job polarization and long-run growth.
E24|Pay, Employment, and Dynamics of Young Firms|Why do young firms pay less? Using confidential microdata from the US Census Bureau, we find lower earnings among workers at young firms. However, we argue that such measurement is likely subject to worker and firm selection. Exploiting the two-sided panel nature of the data to control for relevant dimensions of worker and firm heterogeneity, we uncover a positive and significant young-firm pay premium. Furthermore, we show that worker selection at firm birth is related to future firm dynamics, including survival and growth. We tie our empirical findings to a simple model of pay, employment, and dynamics of young firms.
E24|Cyclical Labor Income Risk|We investigate cyclicality of variance and skewness of household labor income risk using PSID data. There are five main findings. First, we find that head's labor income exhibits countercyclical variance and procyclical skewness. Second, the cyclicality of hourly wages is mutted, suggesting that head's labor income risk is mainly coming from the volatility of hours. Third, younger households face stronger cyclicality of income volatility than older ones, although the level of volatility is lower for the younger ones. Fourth, while a second earner helps lower the level of skewness, it does not mitigate the volatility of household labor income risk. Meanwhile, government taxes and transfers are found to mitigate the level and cyclicality of labor income risk volatility. Finally, among heads with strong labor market attachment, the cyclicality of labor income volatility becomes weaker, while the cyclicality of skewness remains.
E24|Firm and Worker Dynamics in an Aging Labor Market|I develop an idea flows theory of firm and worker dynamics in order to assess the consequences of population aging. Older people are less likely to attempt entrepreneurship and switch employers because they have found better jobs. Consequently, aging reduces entry and worker mobility through a composition effect. In equilibrium, the lower entry rate implies fewer new, better job opportunities for workers, while the better matched labor market dissuades job creation and entry. Aging accounts for a large share of substantial declines in firm and worker dynamics since the 1980s, primarily due to equilibrium forces. Cross-state evidence supports these predictions.
E24|Demographic Origins of the Startup Deficit|We propose a simple explanation for the long-run decline in the startup rate. It was caused by a slowdown in labor supply growth since the late 1970s, largely pre-determined by demographics. This channel explains roughly two-thirds of the decline and why incumbent firm survival and average growth over the lifecycle have been little changed. We show these results in a standard model of firm dynamics and test the mechanism using shocks to labor supply growth across states. Finally, we show that a longer startup rate series imputed using historical establishment tabulations rises over the 1960-70s period of accelerating labor force growth.
E24|A Unified Approach to Measuring u|This paper bridges the gap between two popular approaches to estimating the natural rate of unemployment, u*. The first approach uses detailed labor market indicators such as labor market flows, cross-sectional data on unemployment and vacancies, or various measures of demographic changes. The second approach which comprises reduced form models and DSGE models relies on aggregate price and wage Phillips curve relationships. We combine the key features of these two approaches to estimate the natural rate of unemployment in the United States using both data on labor market flows and a forward-looking Phillips curve linking inflation to current and expected deviations of unemployment from its unobserved natural rate. We estimate that the natural rate of unemployment is around 4.0% toward the end of 2018 and that the unemployment gap is roughly closed. Identification of a secular downward trend in the unemployment rate, driven solely by the inflow rate, facilitates the estimation of u*. We identify the increase in labor force attachment of women, decline in job destruction and reallocation intensity, and dual aging of workers and firms as the main drivers of the secular downward trend in the inflow rate.
E24|Elasticities of Labor Supply and Labor Force Participation Flows|REVISED MARCH 2019 Using a representative-household search and matching model with endogenous labor force participation, we study the interactions between extensive-margin labor supply elasticities and the cyclicality of labor force participation flows. Our model successfully replicates salient business-cycle features of all transition rates between three labor market states, the unemployment rate, and the labor force participation rate, while using values of elasticities consistent with micro evidence. Our results underscore the importance of the procyclical opportunity cost of employment, together with wage rigidity, in understanding the cyclicality of labor market flows and stocks.
E24|Cyclical Labor Income Risk|In this paper, we systematically analyze several labor income definitions by drawing on PSID data, and estimate how the volatility and skewness of income shocks moves with the aggregate activity. We find that volatility is countercyclical, with individual and joint (head+wife) labor incomes being the most volatile, and with hourly wages and post-government joint labor income being the least ones. This suggests that \textit{(i)} intra-family insurance is limited, \textit{(ii)} taxes and transfers remove a large portion of fluctuations in risk, and that \textit{(iii)} hours, not wages, make individual earnings fluctuate over the cycle. By re-estimating the volatility of earnings shocks on the ``young'' (ages 23-39) and ``old'' (ages 40-60) subsamples separately, we find that nearly all the countercyclicality of shocks comes from the young workers, the old subsample exhibits quantitatively muted fluctuations in risk. We then allow for time-varying skewness, and find that the probability of large negative events increases in recessions by more than the probability of large positive events. Taxes and transfers reduce the probability of tail events by a factor of 2 to 3 as compared to other income definitions considered.
E24|Firm Wages in a Frictional Labor Market|This paper studies a labor market with search frictions and directed search, where firms employ multiple workers and follow a firm-wage policy: a firm pays all its (equally productive) workers the same. The policy introduces a tension into the static firm problem, between setting a high wage to attract more new workers versus a low one to economize on labor costs on existing ones. The policy also introduces a time-inconsistency into the dynamic firm problem that affects equilibrium allocations. A firm with commitment plans on higher wages in the future than in the short run, where the firm takes advantage of its existing workers with a low wage. I study labor market outcomes when firms cannot commit to future wages, and show that one can, despite the time-inconsistency, analyze Markov-perfect equilibria using a standard Euler equation approach. The model generates endogenous real wage rigidity as firms raising wages to increase hiring in an expansion must raise them for all workers instead of only new hires. The commitment problem also gives a motive for firms to adjust wages only infrequently, as observed. An equilibrium where firms adjust wages infrequently can be better for welfare, especially that of workers.
E24|The Persistent Employment E ffects of the 2006-09 U.S. Housing Wealth Collapse|We show that the housing wealth collapse of 2006-09 had a persistent impact on employment across US counties. In particular, localities that had a larger loss in housing net-worth during that period had more depressed employment as late as 2016, without a commensurate population response. Using IV's and controls to identify the causal impact of the wealth shock amplify those results, leading to an estimate that a 10 percent change in housing net-worth between 2006 and 2009 causes a 4.5 percent decline in local employment by 2016, as compared to a 2006 baseline. We do not find long-term causal impact of the shock on wages. Sectoral results indicate, however, that the results are unlikely to be purely a result of persistently low demand, since, contrary to the short-run effects, the effect over the longer horizon is less concentrated in the non-tradables sectors and is instead more prominent in the high-skilled services sector.
E24|Dynamics of Female Labor Force Participation and Welfare with Multiple Social Reference Groups|I develop a model with status concerns to analyze how different economic factors affect female labor participation and welfare, as well as average household incomes and wages. Reductions in the price of domestic goods and increases in female wages have positive effects on female participation. Increases in male wages have different effects on female participation depending on whether they affect female wages or not. Events that lead to increases in female participation are usually associated with decreases in the welfare of stay-at-home wives but are not necessarily associated with increases in welfare of working wives. Allowing for part-time work can lead to an increase in overall female labor force participation, but some women that would have worked full-time end up working part-time. If female wages are endogenous, an increase in male wages leads to an increase in the female participation rate even if it is not associated with a decrease in the gender wage gap. The positive feedback of increased female participation on their wages can lead to hysteresis of dual equilibria of high and low female labor force participation and a discontinuous transition between these equilibria.
E24|Research of inflation rate and its determinants: An analysis of GSK corporation in United States|With the rapid development of technology and the economy, more and more companies realized that the macroeconomic factors are quite important in terms of the big changes of them might carry the systematic risks to the whole system. For example, the subprime crisis happened in the United States in 2007 and eventually caused the financial crisis to the whole world. Therefore, this paper will choose the GSK corporation as the sample and analyze the inflation risk and the determinants of it. During this paper, the author used the inflation rate as dependent variables and ROA, ROE, corporate governance index, Tobin’s Q, Altman-Z score, GDP growth rate and the unemployment rate as the independent variables in order to find the relationship among these variables.
E24|Technology Choice, Financial Sector and Economic Integration under the Presence of Efficiency Wages|Impact of economic integration on unemployment is studied in a general equilibrium model in which unemployment is a result of the existence of efficiency wages. Banks provide capital to manufacturing firms and engage in oligopolistic competition. Manufacturing firms choose technologies and also engage in oligopolistic competition. A country with a more efficient financial sector has a lower unemployment rate and a comparative advantage in producing manufactured goods. Trade integration decreases the unemployment rate and increases the wage rate and the equilibrium level of technology. An additional financial integration will decrease the unemployment rate and increase the wage rate and the level of technology further.
E24|Hysteresis of Unemployment Rates in Africa: New Findings from Fourier ADF test|We investigate unit root in the unemployment rates of 42 African countries. The essence is to clarify if the hypothesis of hysteresis holds or unemployment rate is dubbed as having natural rate, that is, stationarity. Having considered a novel approach that considers the nonlinear Fourier and a structural break in the unit root testing framework, we find the classical unit root test wrongly accepting the hysteresis hypothesis of unemployment rate in selected African countries more than 60% of the cases. Meanwhile, our approach finds fewer cases of hysteresis in the unemployment rate than initially detected by the conventional classical test: the hysteresis hypothesis is found to hold in only 7 countries (Algeria, Botswana, Cabo Verde, Congo DR, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia and Tanzania) out of the 42 African countries. This implies that with the exception of the seven countries mentioned, shocks to unemployment will be transitory and strong policy action will not be required to address unemployment challenges. This suggests that hysteresis effects will be offset in overall since these are concentrated in smaller African economies and portends for a faster recovery to shocks in the broader African context. Robustness check proves the superiority of the Fourier unit root tests with structural break over other lower alternatives.
E24|South African unemployment in the post-financial crisis era: What are the determinants?|High unemployment rates is one of the greatest economic challenges facing post-apartheid South African government over the past two decades and this problem has become more worrisome in the post-global financial crisis period. Our study examines the determinants of unemployment for the South African economy in the post-crisis period over a quarterly frequency period of 2009:Q1 to 2018:Q4. The determinants are examined for 4 classes of unemployment rates (total, male, female and youth) and we further partition possible unemployment determinants into fiscal, monetary and macroeconomic variables. The estimation results from the employed autoregressive distributive lag (ARDL) models find income tax, repo rates, economic growth, trade, investment, household debt and savings to be significant determinants of unemployment in the post-crisis South African economy and yet we note discrepancies of the significance of these determinants amongst different unemployment categories. Relevant policy implications are matched against our obtained empirical findings.
E24|How to disappear completely: non-linearity and endogeneity in the new keynesian wage Phillips curve|We use a three-regime threshold regression model to assess the ability of the New Keynesian Wage Phillips Curve (NKWPC) to describe wage inflation in the U.S. over the 1965-2018 period. Non-linearity is clearly supported by the data and it easily resists an endogeneity correction. However, this correction exposes more clearly the shortcomings of the NKWPC as a successful description of wage dynamics in the extreme phases of the business cycles, when unemployment is either low or high. In both cases it becomes completely flat.
E24|Measuring Macroeconomic Uncertainty in Zimbabwe|What matters to economic decision-making is whether the economy has become more or less predictable. People and businesses use information around them to form judgements about what might happen in the future. The rise in uncertainty might be associated with increased concern about extreme events, skewed towards worries about bad or disastrous events. The study seeks to measure macroeconomic uncertainty in Zimbabwe, using stock market indices - industrial index and mining index - for the period 2010M1 to 2019M3. Prevalence of macroeconomic uncertainty has been traced from the stock market index trend and stock market returns volatility. The squared residuals of the GARCH(1,1) regression model proxied macroeconomic uncertainty levels. The prevalence of significant macroeconomic uncertainty has been observed, with some periods highly uncertain. The study linked periods of uncertainty to some known political, social and economic events to derive meaning. The study found that some political, social and economic events have a contributing effect on the level of macroeconomic uncertainty. Good events and policies are accompanied by low levels of uncertainty while bad events and controversial policies match with high levels of uncertainty. The study recommends that to create a good economic climate, to attract investment and boost confidence in the economy, policymakers should dwell on reducing macroeconomic uncertainty. Reducing macroeconomic uncertainty require policy consistency, policy consultations, less frequent policy changes, avoiding numerous policies, avoiding policy reversals, among other measures. The observed macroeconomic uncertainty affects proper economic decision-making and is not conducive for high levels of investment for local and international investors; companies may struggle to hire labor, and employees and corporates may delay spending and saving pattern distorted.
E24|Dynamic Effects of Minimum Wage on Growth and Innovation in a Schumpeterian Economy|We explore the dynamic effects of minimum wage in a Schumpeterian model with endogenous market structure and obtain the following results. First, raising the minimum wage decreases the employment of low-skill workers and increases the unemployment rate. Second, it decreases the level of output. Third, it decreases the transitional growth rate of output but does not affect the steady-state growth rate. Our quantitative analysis shows that the magnitude of the negative effects of minimum wage is sharply increasing in low-skill labor intensity in production and that employed low-skill workers gain initially but might suffer from slower growth in future wages.
E24|Trade Liberalization and Unemployment in India: A State Level Analysis|The study empirically examines the relationship between trade liberalization and unemployment for the Indian economy using data for Indian states (separately for rural and urban areas). This study provides support to the argument that effects of trade liberalization have been different for the states in India. The results find evidence for the negative relationship unemployment and trade openness. The relationship is significant for rural parts of the states which also drive results for the total state; though for urban part of the states, relationship is not found to be significant. The results also indicate that this effect is higher and stronger for more flexible states. The results hence, confirm to the theory that in developing countries trade openness leads to increase in the employment of labour; but more so of unskilled workers and leads to a movement away from the agriculture and hence rural sector of the economy. This is substantiated by internal migration trends for India which showed an increase in population mobility during post reform period. The data also corroborated the shift from rural agricultural to rural non-agricultural and urban sectors of the economy.
E24|Political Economy of Taxation, Debt Ceilings, and Growth|This study presents an overlapping-generations model with physical and human capital accumulation and considers probabilistic voting over capital and labor taxes and public debt to finance public education expenditure. Our analysis shows that the greater political power of the old induces the government to raise the labor tax on the young and lower the capital tax on the old as well as issue debt. The analysis also shows that the introduction of a debt ceiling rule calls for a rise in the labor tax and thus lowers the welfare of the currently working generation. However, it increases the growth rate, and this growth effect raises the welfare of future generations. These benefits last for a long period even if the rule is imposed only for a limited time.
E24|Is Declining Union Membership Contributing to Low Wages Growth? Discussion|As union membership is declining, it is natural to ask whether this decline results in slower wage growth. The paper by James Bishop and Iris Chan (2019) studies this question in the context of the recent slowdown in wage growth in Australia and argues the answer is a clear “No”. It is a pleasure to discuss this paper, which not only adds to the discussion about the recent slowing in wage growth in Australia but makes some interesting contributions to the academic literature on unions as well.
E24|Effects of Minimum Wage on Automation and Innovation in a Schumpeterian Economy|This study explores the effects of minimum wage on automation and innovation in a Schumpeterian growth model. We find that raising the minimum wage decreases the employment of low-skill workers and has ambiguous effects on innovation and automation. Specifically, if the elasticity of substitution between low-skill workers and high-skill workers in production is less (greater) than unity, then raising the minimum wage leads to an increase (a decrease) in automation and innovation. We also calibrate the model to aggregate data to quantify the effects of minimum wage on the macroeconomy.
E24|Pension savings: A key question about returns|The two key financial decisions that nearly all households have to make are related to a place to live (especially if this involves a mortgage), and the savings needed to have an acceptable income during retirement: pension savings. In a previous paper: “After the Great Recession: the Laws of Unintended Consequences” the writer sets outs the impact on U.S. mortgage holders as a result of the U.S. financial crisis of 2007-2008. This paper will explore the situation in the Eurozone countries (which share one base rate for the Euro, but have fundamentally different inflation rates and government bond yields) after first examining the links between the U.S. financial crisis and the pensions crisis in Europe. Pension savings, by their very nature, represent postponed expenditure. This raises a number of issues: what are the returns going to be? Should such savings be made in collective vehicles - like pension funds, either company or industry wide ones - or in individual accounts? Setting aside savings for future pension payments automatically affects an individual’s current spending levels. The reward for postponing current spending depends mainly on Central Banks’ and Governments’ economic policies. As will be explained in this paper, the main problem is that government bond yields no longer compensate for inflation levels in some countries. Pension savings are very much a national issue, rather than a Eurozone area one. Therefore national solutions need to be found, rather than pan-Eurozone ones. One option that will be explored is to compensate pension savers on their government bond holdings to a level equivalent of CPI levels plus 0.25%. The economic implications of this for both a central bank and a government will be set out in this paper. The Netherlands –as the country that in the Eurozone has the highest accumulated collective pension savings compared to its GDP- has been selected to show how this may work. As the current levels of interest rates are a consequence of the 2007-2008 financial crisis that started in the U.S., attention will first be paid to what was, and what was not, done to solve that crisis.
E24|Unemployment Rate, Population Density and Crime Rate in Punjab (Pakistan): An Empirical Analysis|This article has examined the impact of unemployment, population density and amount of remittances, industrialization on crime rate among the districts of Punjab, Pakistan. The data has been composed from Pakistan Bureau of Statistics, the Multiple Indicator Cluster survey (MICS), Punjab Development Statistics (2018). The Johansen cointegration method has been applied for examining the relationship among variables. The results show that unemployment and population density have a positive impact on crime rate among the districts of Punjab, Pakistan. The outcomes reveal that the amount of remittances, industrialization and social infrastructure have a negative and significant impact on crime rate among the districts of Punjab. This study recommends that for reduction in crimes, the government of Punjab should control unemployment and population density and the same time enhance industrialization, social infrastructure with the amount of remittances. On the basis of previous literature and our findings, it has been concluded that unemployment is the mother of crime.
E24|The dynamics of working hours and wages under implicit contracts|In this paper, we explore the out-of-equilibrium dynamics of working hours and wages in a model economy where workers and firms have agreed upon an implicit contract that smooths long-run consumption. Specifically, we analyse a deterministic and a stochastic framework in which a firm inter-temporally sets its level of labour utilization by considering that workers' earnings tend to adjust in the direction of a fixed level that seeks to stabilize their consumption. Without any uncertainty in labour effectiveness, this theoretical setting may have one, two or no stationary solution. The dynamics of the deterministic economy, however, can be assessed only in the two-solution case and it reveals that wages move counter-cyclically towards the allocation preferred by the firm. Adding uncertainty in labour effectiveness does not overturn the counter-cyclical pattern of wages but is helpful in explaining the wage stickiness observed at the macro level.
E24|Justifying the Impact of Economic Deprivation, Maternal Status and Health infrastructure on Under-Five Child Mortality in Pakistan: An Empirical Analysis|During the 1980’s child survival first time attached with biological and social factors for its determination (Mosley and Chen, 1984). Socioeconomic factors need some proximate factor to impact child survival, at that time policymakers believe that socioeconomic factors indirect impact on child survival. But maternal factors, environmental contamination, nutrient deficiency and injury have direct impact on child survival. This study has tried to justify the fact that economic deprivation, health, infrastructure and maternal status impact under-five child mortality in Pakistan over the period of 1980 to 2017. For checking the stationarity of the data, Augmented Dickey-Fuller (ADF) unit root test is applied. Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model has been used for examining the co-integration among the variables of the model. Granger causality test has been applied to explore the causal relationship among the variables. The estimated results show that there is a long run relationship among the variables of the model. The results of Granger causality test highlight that there is unidirectional causality is running from independent variables to the dependent variable. The findings suggest that for reducing under-five child mortality, the government of Pakistan should improve the maternal status and health infrastructure whereas economic deprivation should be minimized.
E24|Optimal paid job-protected leave policy|Although many countries give workers the right to return to their previous workplace after a temporary leave period ends, little is known about the details of such policies. This study characterizes the optimal paid job-protected leave policy using a model in which a worker has to leave his or her job with a certain probability and chooses whether to return to work after the leave period ends. An optimal policy, consisting of the consumption of a worker, that of a worker on leave, and the length of the leave, maximizes social welfare subject to the resource feasibility constraint and incentive constraint under which a worker on leave voluntarily chooses to return to work after the leave period ends. The present study finds that when the incentive constraint does not bind, the income risk caused by the leave should be perfectly shared among workers and workers on leave and that the leave period balances the marginal welfare gain and loss from a slight increase in the leave period. When the incentive constraint binds, the income risk caused by the leave is not perfectly shared among workers and workers on leave and that workers consume more than workers on leave because the constrained-optimal allocation has to give an incentive to workers on leave to return to work. By lengthening the leave period, another feasible allocation improves social welfare, which implies that the length of the leave period at the constrained-optimal allocation is too short. In addition, the study compares two economies, one that experiences a high discount factor and the other that experiences a low discount factor. In the former economy, the incentive constraint does not bind, whereas it does bind in the latter economy. Comparing the constrained-optimal allocations in these two economies, I find that workers consume more in the latter economy than in the former economy and that {¥it total} consumption during the leave period in the former economy is larger than that in the latter economy. Moreover, as an application of the theory, the study focuses on the paid parental leave policies adopted by most OECD countries. Using a numerical simulation, I conclude that the negative relationship between the replacement rate, namely the ratio of cash benefits during the leave to wages while working, and length of the leave period could result from constrained-optimal allocations.
E24|Looking ahead at the effects of automation in an economy with matching frictions|We study the effects of an automation-augmenting shock in an economy with matching frictions and endogenous job destruction. In the model, tasks can be produced by workers or by machines, but workers have a comparative advantage in producing advanced tasks. Firms choose the input at the time of entry. And according to the evolution of the workers’ comparative advantage, some firms using labor prefer to fire the worker and automate the task. In our model, an automation-augmenting shock reduces the labor share, increases job creation, and increases job destruction. The effects on employment depend on how rapidly workers may lose their comparative advantage: an automation-augmenting shock increases employment in slow-changing environments but catastrophically reduces it in rapid-changing ones.
E24|Specific Capital, Firm Insurance, and the Dynamics of the Postgraduate Wage Premium|Postgraduate degree holders experience lower cyclical wage variation than those with undergraduate degrees. Moreover, postgraduates have more specific human capital than undergraduates. Using an equilibrium search model with long-term contracts and imperfect monitoring of worker effort, this paper attributes the cyclicality of the postgraduate-undergraduate wage gap to the differences in specific capital. Imperfect monitoring creates a moral hazard problem that requires firms to pay efficiency wages. More specific capital leads to lower mobility, thereby alleviating the moral hazard and improving risk-sharing. Estimates reveal that specific capital explains the differences both in labour turnover and in wage cyclicality across education groups.
E24|Threshold Effects of Inequality on Economic Growth in the US States: The Role of Human Capital to Physical Capital Ratio|Theory suggests that the effect of inequality on growth varies with the level of economic development, as captured by the ratio of human capital to physical capital. In particular, the effect is shown to be positive at lower levels of this ratio, and turns negative beyond a threshold in such models. Using a comprehensive panel of annual data for the 48 contiguous US states over the period 1948 to 2014, we find overwhelming evidence in support of this theory, unlike prior work on this topic. Hence, our paper highlights the importance of accurately measuring the process of economic development using data on human capital and physical capital, instead of using proxies that are not theoretically consistent. Understandably, if not done so, policymakers would end up undertaking incorrect decisions.
E24|What is the Impact of Increased Business Competition?|This paper studies the impact of a structural reform that reduces entry costs for firms. We provide novel empirical evidence on the response of firms’ entry, employment, and exit behavior. To do so, we use as a natural experiment a reform in Portugal that significantly reduced entry time and costs. We find that the reform had an expansionary impact: firm entry and employment increased by 25% and 4% per year, respectively. Moreover, around 60% of the increase in employment came from incumbent firms expanding their size, with most of the rise occurring among the firms that were the most productive before the reform. Standard models of entry, exit, and firm dynamics, which assume a constant elasticity of substitution, are inconsistent with our findings about the heterogeneous response of incumbents to the reform. We show that a model with heterogeneous firms and variable markups accounts for our evidence. In this framework, the most productive firms face a lower demand elasticity and increase their employment in response to the entry of new firms.
E24|Into the heterogeneities in the Portuguese labour market: an empirical assessment|"This paper provides a comprehensive study of the heterogeneity in the Portuguese labour market. We use Labour Force Survey microdata covering a complete business cycle, from 1998:1 to 2018:1, to evaluate the labour market attachment of several labour states and assess the most suitable allocation of individuals across statuses. We also evaluate the adequacy of the conventional unemployment criteria. Following the relevant strand of literature on this topic, we apply an evidence-based categorisation of labour market status by exploiting the information on the results of the behaviour of non-employed. To that end, we use multinomial and binary logit models of the determinants of transitions of workers across labour market states to test for the equivalence between non-employed groups. We conclude that heterogeneity is an evident feature of the Portuguese labour market, both between and within the conventional non-employment states. In particular, we find that the status comprising those inactive workers which want work constitutes a distinct state in the labour market and displays a transition behaviour closer to unemployment than to the group of inactive workers which do not want work. Moreover, the classification as inactive workers of individuals which report ""waiting"" as a reason for not having searched for a job, those individuals who have searched for a job but are still considered to be out-of-the-labour-force, as well as those individuals which are due to start work in more than three months might not be reasonable, since they show considerable attachment to the labour market and we reject the pooling of such states with their counterparts."
E24|Is Declining Union Membership Contributing to Low Wages Growth?|The union membership rate has declined steadily in Australia since the 1950s. Some have suggested that this decline has caused a fall in the bargaining power of workers, which in turn has contributed to low wages growth in recent years. We test this hypothesis using a newly available source of micro data, covering all enterprise agreements federally registered between 1991 and 2017. We find that changing unionisation patterns are unlikely to account for much of the recent low wages growth. This conclusion reflects three key results. First, there has been no decline in the share of employees covered by enterprise agreements negotiated with union involvement even as union membership has declined. Second, the 'union wage growth premium' in the private sector has been stable over time. Third, spillover effects from union involvement in enterprise agreement negotiations onto wage outcomes in other enterprise agreements exist, but have not changed materially over time.
E24|Job Creation in Tight and Slack Labor Markets|Do investment programs create more jobs in tight or in slack labor markets? We study this question using data from a large, long-term photovoltaic investment scheme in Germany. Comparing counties with high and low unemployment both over time and across space, we find that photovoltaic installations created at least twice as many jobs in slack than in tight labor markets. Our results suggest that the differences in job-creation are not driven by changes in the composition or prices of investment, capital-labor substitution, or regional migration. This leaves crowding-out as the most plausible mechanism.
E24|Does Experience Shape Subjective Expectations?|This paper documents that individuals\' expectations about macroeconomic outcomes are systematically linked with the experiences of these macroeconomic outcomes they have made during life. Focusing on expectations about national inflation, national unemployment and national business conditions, I measure individual-specific experiences as weighted averages of these variables over the respondents\' lifetime, respectively. I find that experience significantly predicts respondents\' expectations in each of these domains and show that individuals generally put more weight on recent rather than distant years when aggregating past information. The empirical model also allows for heterogeneity with respect to observed socio-economic characteristics. The estimates suggest the existence of a gender effect. Compared to females, males put relatively more weight on distant years when aggregating past information, and the association between expectations and past experiences is generally weaker for men.
E24|Recent Changes in British Wage Inequality: Evidence from Firms and Occupations|Using a dataset covering a large sample of employees and their mostly very large employers, we study the dynamics of British wage inequality over the past two decades. Contrary to other studies, we find little evidence that recent increases in inequality have been driven by differences in the average wages paid by firms. Instead greater dispersion within firms can account for the majority of changes to the wage distribution. After controlling for the changing occupational content of employee wages, the role of average firm residual differences is approximately zero; the modestly increasing trend in between-firm wage inequality is explained by a combination of changes in between-occupation inequality and the occupational specialisation of firms. It is possible that previous studies, which assign some of the importance of changes in the between-firm component to industry, have misrepresented a significant role for occupations. These results are robust across measures of hourly, weekly and annual wages.
E24|On why gender employment equality in Britain has stalled since the early 1990s|Using over four decades of British micro data, this paper asks why progress in closing the gender employment rate gap has stalled since the early 1990s. We find that how partner characteristics affected women’s likelihood of employment explain most of the gap’s shift in trend. Instead, changes to the structure of employment both between and within industry sectors impacted the gap at approximately constant rates throughout the period. There is evidence that continuing improvements in women’s employment when they had children or higher qualifications worked towards narrowing the gap, even after progress overall had stalled.
E24|Cyclical labor costs within jobs|Using UK employer-employee panel data, we present novel facts on how wages and working hours respond to the business cycle within jobs. Firms reacted to the Great Recession with substantial real wage cuts and by recruiting more part-time workers. A one percentage point increase in the unemployment rate led to an average decline in real hourly wages of 2.6 percent for new hires as well as for job stayers. Hiring hours worked were substantially procyclical, while job-stayer hours were acyclical. These results show that real wages are not rigid and that the labor costs of new hires are especially flexible.
E24|Heterogeneous effects of single monetary policy on unemployment rates in the largest EMU economies|This paper studies the effects of monetary policy on the national rates of unemployment in Germany, France, Italy and Spain, the four largest economies of the European Monetary Union (EMU), since the introduction of the euro in 1999 and before and after the Global Financial Crisis (GFC) of 2007-09. Estimating and simulating a version of a canonical medium-scale New Keynesian dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) model with indivisible labor that incorporates unemployment developed by Galí, Smets and Wouters (2012), the paper compares the relative importance of monetary policy shocks, risk premium shocks, wage markup shocks and labor supply shocks and studies their effects on other labor market variables, such as labor force participation and real wages. We find that the same monetary policy of the European Central Bank (ECB) has had heterogeneous effects on unemployment rates and other labor market variables in these four major EMU economies. Moreover, in all of them monetary policy shocks are the second largest source of unemployment rate variability in the short, medium and long run, only preceded by risk premium shocks. Our results also confirm that the post-GFC zero lower bound environment has rendered ECB's interest rate policy much less powerful in affecting EMU unemployment rates. In addition to the heterogeneity documented in the effects of monetary policy along various labor market dimensions across the countries in our sample, we also reveal that the EMU economies are, further, characterized by important differences along these dimensions with respect to the United States (US).
E24|Who Works for Whom? Worker Sorting in a Model of Entrepreneurship with Heterogeneous Labor Markets|Compared to more established firms, young firms tend to hire younger workers and provide them with lower earnings. To understand these facts, a dynamic model of entrepreneurship is constructed, where individuals can become entrepreneurs, or work in either a corporate or an entrepreneurial sector. Sectoral differences in production technology, financial constraints, and labor market frictions lead to sector-specific wages and worker sorting into the entrepreneurial sector by productivity and assets. Individuals with lower assets tend to accept jobs in the entrepreneurial sector, an implication that finds support in the data. The analysis indicates that sector-specific labor market frictions are critical to the model's ability to generate worker sorting and to match the key features of the entrepreneurial sector. (Copyright: Elsevier)
E24|Cyclical Labor Income Risk|We investigate cyclicality of variance and skewness of household labor income risk using PSID data. There are five main findings. First, we find that head’s labor income exhibits countercyclical variance and procyclical skewness. Second, the cyclicality of hourly wages is muted, suggesting that head’s labor income risk is mainly coming from the volatility of hours. Third, younger households face stronger cyclicality of income volatility than older ones, although the level of volatility is lower for the younger ones. Fourth, while a second earner helps lower the level of skewness, it does not mitigate the volatility of household labor income risk. Meanwhile, government taxes and transfers are found to mitigate the level and cyclicality of labor income risk volatility. Finally, among heads with strong labor market attachment, the cyclicality of labor income volatility becomes weaker, while the cyclicality of skewness remains.
E24|Measuring the covariance risk of consumer debt portfolios|The covariance risk of consumer loans is difficult to measure due to high heterogeneity. Using the Chilean Household Finance Survey I simulate the default conditions of heterogeneous households over distinct macro scenarios. I show that consumer loans have a high covariance beta relative to the stock market and bank assets. Banks’ loan portfolios have very different covariance betas, with some banks being prone to high risk during recessions. High income and older households have lower betas and help diversify banks’ portfolios. Households’ covariance risk increases the probability of being rejected for credit and has a negative impact on loan amounts.
E24|The Persistent Employment Effects of the 2006-09 U.S. Housing Wealth Collapse|We show that the housing wealth collapse of 2006-09 had a persistent impact on employment across counties in the U.S. In particular, localities that had a larger loss in housing net worth during that period had more depressed employment as late as 2016, without a commensurate population response. The use of IV's and controls to identify the causal impact of the wealth shock amplifies those results, leading to an estimate that a 10 percent change in housing net worth between 2006 and 2009 causes a 4.5 percent decline in local employment by 2016, as compared with a 2006 baseline. We do not find a long-term causal impact of the shock on wages. Sectoral results indicate, however, that the results are unlikely to be purely a result of persistently low demand, since, contrary to the short-run effects, the effect over the longer horizon is less concentrated in the non-tradables sectors and is instead more prominent in the high-skilled services sector.
