E26|Reducing Informality Using Two-Sided Incentives: Theory and Experiment|We study the impact of two-sided incentives on the reduction of informality. We model those incentives using the notion of network externalities, which link the (formal or informal) merchant’s profits to the type of customers they serve (formal or informal). Our theoretical framework yields two straightforward testable implications: the merchant will find more profitable to become formal (or informal), as long as more of their customers are formal (or informal); and, formal and informal commercial sectors may coexist in equilibrium. We test these hypotheses using data from a field experiment, conducted with micro and small enterprises in Lima, Peru. Our subjects had to choose, in a repeated fashion, among three ‘platforms’, which proxy for being formal, informal, or performing a reservation activity. We then changed the relative size of the network of formal vis-á-vis informal customers, in order to calculate the consumer’s network externality. We find that the network externality is relatively large, a result that opens up the possibility to reduce commercial informality using two-sided incentives. Moreover, the platform choice between the formal and informal sectors is sensitive to risk preferences.
E26|The Size and Characteristics of Informal (“Gig”) Work in Canada|Underlying wage growth has fallen short of what would be consistent with an economy operating with little or no slack. While many factors could explain this weakness, the availability of additional labour resources from informal (“gig”) work—not fully captured in standard measures of employment and hours worked—may play a role. We investigate this possibility through the Bank of Canada’s Canadian Survey of Consumer Expectations (CSCE) by documenting the characteristics and size of such working arrangements. We find that just under one-third of Canadians participate in this type of work, and this participation is often consistent with labour market slack. Just over one-third of respondents who take part in informal work do so as a result of weak economic conditions, and over half would switch their hours worked for hours in formal employment with no increase in pay. Part-time workers, youth and people in provinces with historically high unemployment rates were most likely to participate in informal employment. A portion of these workers would not be considered part of the labour force by standard labour market measures due in part to the irregularity of their work schedules. Accounting for these workers could boost participation rates by 2–3 percentage points. Moreover, the magnitude of labour supply from such work that could become available to the formal sector is sizable. It amounts to roughly 700,000 full-time equivalent jobs or 3.5 per cent of the labour force on average over the third and fourth quarters of 2018. This additional margin of labour market supply may be contributing to reducing wage pressures.
E26|Informal Sector and Mobile Financial Services in Developing Countries: Does Financial Innovation Matter?|This paper investigates the impact of mobile financial services - MFS (mobile money, and mobile credit and savings) on the informal sector. Using both parametric and non-parametric methods on panel data from 101 emerging and developing countries over the period 2000-15, we find that MFS negatively affect the size of the informal sector. According to estimates derived from propensity score matching, MFS adoption decreases the informal sector size in a range of 2.4 – 4.3 percentage points of GDP. These formalization effects may stem from different possible transmission channels: improvement in credit access, increase in the productivity/profitability of informal firms attenuating subsistence constraints typical of entrepreneurship in the informal sector, as well as possible induced growth of firms already in the formal sector. The robustness of these results is supported by the use of an alternative estimation approach (instrumental variables). These findings lay the groundwork for the scarce literature on the macroeconomic impact of mobile financial services, a major dimension of the growing drive towards economic digitalization transiting through industry-level MW.
E26|Does informality facilitate inflation stability?|Informality is an entrenched structural trait in emerging market economies, despite of the progress achieved in macroeconomic management. Informality determines the behavior of labour markets, financial access and the productivity of the overall economy. Therefore it influences the transmission of shocks and also of monetary policy. This paper develops a simple general equilibrium closed economy model with nominal rigidities, labor and financial frictions. Informality is captured by a dual labour market where the share of informal workers is endogenous. Only formal sector firms have access to financing, which is instrumental in their production process. Informality has a buffering effect on the propagation of demand and supply shocks to prices; the financial feature of the model exacerbates the impact of financial shocks in the formal sector while the informal sector is in principle unaffected. As a result informality dampens the impact of demand and financial shocks on wages and inflation but heighten the impact of technology shocks. Informality also increases the sacrifice ratio of monetary policy actions. From a Central Bank perspective, the results imply that the presence of an informal sector mitigates inflation volatility for some type of shocks but makes monetary policy less effective.
E26|Job displacement insurance and (the lack of) consumption-smoothing|The most common forms of government-mandated job displacement insurance are Severance Pay (SP; lump-sum payments at layoff) and Unemployment Insurance (UI; periodic payments contingent on non-employment). While there is a vast literature on UI, SP programs have received much less attention, even though they are prevalent across countries and predominant in developing countries. In particular, little is known about their insurance value, which critically relies on workers’ ability to dissave the lump-sum progressively to smooth consumption after layoff. Using de-identified high-frequency expenditure data and matched employee-employer data from Brazil, we find that displaced workers eligible for both UI and SP increase consumption at layoff by 35% despite experiencing a 17% consumption loss after they stop receiving any benefits. Moreover, this sensitivity of consumer spending to cash-on-hand is present across spending categories and sources of variation in UI benefits and SP amounts. We show that a simple structural model with present-biased workers can rationalize our findings, and we use it to illustrate their implications for the incentive-insurance trade-off between SP and UI. Specifically, the insurance value of SP programs – or of other policies that provide liquidity to workers at layoff – can be severely reduced when consumption is over-sensitive to the timing of benefit disbursement, undermining their advantage in terms of job-search incentives. Our findings highlight the importance of the difference between SP and UI in their disbursement policy, and shed new light on the need for job displacement insurance in a developing country context.
E26|Hot spots policing in a high crime environment: An experimental evaluation in Medellín|Objectives: Test direct, spillover and aggregate effects of hot spots policing on crime in a high crime environment. Methods: We identified 967 hot spot street segments and randomly assigned 384 to a six-months increase in police patrols. To account for the complications resulting from a large experimental sample in a dense network of streets, we use randomization inference for hypothesis testing. We also use non-experimental streets to test for spillovers onto non-hot spots, and examine aggregate effects citywide. Results: Our results show an improvement in short term security perceptions and a reduction in car thefts, but no direct effects on other crimes or satisfaction with policing services. We see larger effects in the least secure places, especially for short term security perceptions, car thefts and assaults. We find no evidence of crime displacement but rather a decrease in car thefts in nearby hot spots and a decrease in assaults in nearby non-hot spots. We estimate that car thefts decreased citywide by about 11 percent. Conclusions: Our study highlights the importance of context when implementing hot spots policing. What seems to work in the U.S. or even in Bogotá is not as responsive in Medellín (and vice versa). Further research—especially outside the U.S.—is needed to understand the role of local crime patterns and police capacity on the effectiveness of hot spots policing.
E26|Income underreporting by the self-employed in Europe: a cross-country comparative study|This study is the first to provide comparative estimates of the extent of income underreporting by the self-employed across countries in Europe. The estimates are derived using the consumption method developed by Pissarides & Weber (1989) and the data from the 2010 wave of the harmonised EU Household Budget Survey. The estimations show that the share of income not reported by the selfemployed is relatively large in many European countries, although with substantial variation across the countries. There is some regional clustering, but the shares of underreporting appear not to be related to the development level of the countries. The results are robust to changes in the model specification, the estimation method, and the choice of instruments, but are somewhat sensitive to sample restrictions and the criterion used to define self-employed households
E26|Informal Work along the Business Cycle: Evidence from Argentina|We shed light on the driving forces behind unemployment fluctuations and short-run changes in the informality rate on the Argentine labor market. Using Argentine survey data, we measure worker flows between formal employment, informal employment, unemployment and non-participation. We propose a methodology to correct for the discontinuity of Argentine survey data and that is able to compute consistent time series of quarterly ins and outs of informal work. Using variance decompositions and counterfactual exercises, we show that the ins and outs of informal employment are key drivers of labor market fluctuations. In particular, outflows from unemployment to informal employment account for 37% of fluctuations in the unemployment rate. In addition, our analysis suggests that informality is: (i) a flexible sector that is used in recessionary periods as a buffer against income losses and (ii) a stepping stone towards formal employment. The observed large changes in the informality rate are well explained by the change in job mobility between the formal and informal sectors as well as variations in hirings from unemployment and non-participation in the informal sector.
E26|How do Regulated and Unregulated Labor Markets Respond to Shocks? Evidence from Immigrants During the Great Recession|We study wage adjustment during the recent crisis in Italy using a unique dataset on immigrant workers that includes those employed in formal and informal sector. We find that before the crisis immigrants’ wages in the formal and informal sectors moved in parallel (with a 15% premium in the formal labor market). During the crisis, however, formal wages did not adjust down while wages in the unregulated informal labor market fell so that by 2013 the gap had grown to 32%. The difference was particularly salient for workers in occupations where the minimum wage is likely to be binding, and in “simple” occupations where there is high substitutability between immigrant and native workers. Calibrating a simple partial equilibrium model of spillovers between formal and informal markets, we find that less than 10% of workers who lost a formal job during the crisis move to the informal sector. We also find that if the formal sector wages were fully flexible, the decline in formal employment would be in the range of 1.5–4.5%—much lower than 16% decline that we observe in the data. (JEL E24, E26, J31, J61)
E26|Informality over the life-cycle|In developing countries, informality is mainly concentrated on younger and older workers. In this paper, we propose a dual labor market theory that highlights how frictions and taxation in the formal sector as well as educational choices interact to shape the informality rate over the life-cycle. We develop a life-cycle model with search frictions, skill heterogeneities, and endogenous educational choices. We carry out a numerical analysis and show that our model reproduces remarkably well the life-cycle patterns of informality, non-employment and formal employment in Argentina. We analyze several public policies and show that an educational grant reduces both informality and non-employment and may be fully financed by the extra tax revenues generated by the increase in formal employment and wages. Lowering taxes may achieve similar results but is detrimental for the government budget, in the case of Argentina, despite increasing the base on which they are levied.
E26|Informal Work along the Business Cycle: Evidence from Argentina|We shed light on the driving forces behind unemployment fluctuations and short-run changes in the informality rate on the Argentine labor market. Using Argentine survey data, we measure worker flows between formal employment, informal employment, unemployment and non-participation. We propose a methodology to correct for the discontinuity of Argentine survey data and that is able to compute consistent time series of quarterly ins and outs of informal work. Using variance decompositions and counterfactual exercises, we show that the ins and outs of informal employment are key drivers of labor market fluctuations. In particular, outflows from unemployment to informal employment account for 37% of fluctuations in the unemployment rate. In addition, our analysis suggests that informality is: (i) a flexible sector that is used in recessionary periods as a buffer against income losses and (ii) a stepping stone towards formal employment. The observed large changes in the informality rate are well explained by the change in job mobility between the formal and informal sectors as well as variations in hirings from unemployment and non-participation in the informal sector.
E26|Nonlinearity between the Shadow Economy and Level of Development|This paper is the first attempt to directly explore the long-run nonlinearity of the shadow economy. Using a dataset of 158 countries over the period from 1996 to 2015, our results reveal a robust U-shaped relationship between the shadow economy size and GDP per capita. Our results imply that the shadow economy tends to increase when economic development surpasses a given threshold or at least does not disappear with economic growth. Our findings suggest that special attention should be given to the country's level of development when designing policies to tackle issues related to the shadow economy.
E26|Seeking Rent in the Informal Sector|Rent seeking within the vast informal segment of the developing world is a relatively underdexplored topic in the interface of labor market policies and public economics. Moreover, how rent seeking and corruption within the informal segment is affected by economic reforms targeted for the formal sector is rarely discussed in the literature. This paper fills the gap. We identify conditions under which economic reform in the formal segment will increase the rate of corruption or rent seeking in the informal sector and raise the pay-off for those involved in rent seeking activities. When formal sector contracts due to reforms, offsetting forces determine the magnitude of rent seeking in the informal sector. Thus, economic reforms may increase corruption instead of reducing it, as claimed previously.
E26|Nonlinearity Between the Shadow Economy and Level of Development|This paper is the first attempt to directly explore the long-run nonlinear relationship between the shadow economy and level of development. Using a dataset of 158 countries over the period from 1996 to 2015, our results reveal a robust U-shaped relationship between the shadow economy size and GDP per capita. Our results imply that the shadow economy tends to increase when economic development surpasses a given threshold or at least does not disappear. Our findings suggest that special attention should be given to the country’s level of development when designing policies to tackle issues related to the shadow economy.
E26|Modeling the drugs and guns trade in a two-country model with endogenous growth|This paper develops a two-country, dynamic general equilibrium model of endogenous growth with illicit drugs and guns trade. With a trade framework that unies both drug-control policies in consuming- and producing-country, as well as explicit modeling of firearm trade, the model is solved and parameterized to study the dynamic trade-off and growth effects of various drug-control policies. A production-consumption growth trade-off not previously documented in the literature is found. Further, under different conditions, and depending on the resulting gain in formal trade expansion, there are economic rationale to either a prohibitive or liberalization drug-control policy.
E26|Real consequences of open market operations: the role of limited commitment|We study how limited commitment in credit markets affects the implementation of open market operations and characterize when they result in real indeterminacies and when they have real effects. To do so, we consider a frictional and incomplete market framework where agents face stochastic trading opportunities and limited commitment in some markets. When limited commitment does not constraint agents’ choices, we find necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of a unique monetary equilibrium. However, real indeterminacies are possible when buyers face a binding no-default constraint. We also show that when the no-default constraint binds and bonds are not priced fundamentally, open market operations generically have real effects. A sale of government bonds can increase or decrease interest rates, depending on the nature of equilibria. The direction of the interest rate effects critically depend on the size of the liquidity premium on government bonds. Finally, government bonds purchases can be used to rule out real indeterminacies, thus finding another rationale for such policy.
E26|Demonetization as a Payments System Shock under Goods and Financial Market Segmentation: A Short Run Analysis|A surprise demonetization, where certain or all denominations of currency notes cease to be legal tender on a short notice, can be understood as a severe payment system shock requiring agents to immediately shift to alternative payment mechanisms. I use a short-term macroeconomic model based on Willamson (2009) featuring goods and financial market segmentation to analyze the effect of such a shock in an economy with substantial informality and cash dependence. The quantitative characterization of the equilibrium dynamics using a deterministic example shows significant level as well as redistributive effects in the very short run. The households with access to formal financial markets experience an increase in consumption and those without such access experience a decline. Most of these effects come from differential access to formal financial markets as a consumption smoothing mechanism.
E26|Who Gained from India’s Demonetization? Insights from Satellites and Surveys|On November 8, 2016, the Indian government abruptly demonetized 86% of its currency in circulation in an attempt to reduce black money, corruption, and counterfeiting. Yet, 99% of the currency was eventually returned to banks. We exploit large regional variations in deposit growth as a result of demonetization to study the medium-term effects of this policy. Using night-light data, we show that districts which experienced higher deposit growth during the demonetization period recorded higher levels of economic activity in the year and a half that followed. We estimate a one standard deviation increase in deposits is associated with a 5% increase in district GDP per capita. Further, districts with larger rural population, agricultural and non-agricultural informal labor shares also recorded an increase in nighttime light activity. The results are also supported by household-level surveys on income and expenditures.
E26|The impact of the EU-MERCOSUR deal on Africa in times of growing protectionism|ABSTRACT & RÉSUMÉ & ZUSAMMENFASSUNG : The EU-Mercosur deal of 2019 was heralded as a milestone of free trade agreements worldwide in times of growing protectionism and nationalism. Critics condemned deficient ecological and sanitary standards as well as persistent non-tariff barriers to trade. The EU farm lobby complained about a sell-out of European interests in advantage of dominating multinationals. However, the fatal repercussions of the deal on Africa have rarely been mentioned. They include increasing cut-throat competition and asymmetrical partnership to the detriment of the African poor. Given the additional destructive impact of the Brexit crisis, African governments should use their increased bargaining power vis à vis the EU27 and the UK, in times of stiffening competition concerning the EU’s Africa trade with new global players such as China and India, to enforce EPAs re-negotiations on a level playing field. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RÉSUMÉ : L'accord de 2019 entre l'UE et le Mercosur a été qualifié de jalon dans les accords de libre-échange dans le monde entier à une époque de protectionnisme et de nationalisme grandissants. Les critiques ont condamné les normes écologiques et sanitaires déficientes, ainsi que les obstacles non-tarifaires persistants au commerce. Le lobby agricole de l'UE s'est plaint de la vente d'intérêts européens au profit de multinationales dominantes. Cependant, les répercussions fatales de l'accord sur l'Afrique ont rarement été mentionnées. Ils incluent une concurrence acharnée et un partenariat asymétrique au détriment des pauvres en Afrique. Compte tenu de l'impact destructeur supplémentaire de la crise du Brexit, les gouvernements africains devraient utiliser leur pouvoir de négociation accru vis-à-vis de l'UE27 et du Royaume-Uni, en période de durcissement de la concurrence concernant le commerce africaine de l'UE avec des nouveaux acteurs mondiaux tels que la Chine et l'Inde, pour imposer des renégociations des APEs sur un pied d’égalité. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ZUSAMMENFASSUNG : Das Abkommen zwischen der EU und dem Mercosur von 2019 wurde als Meilenstein für weltweite Freihandelsabkommen in Zeiten wachsenden Protektionismus und Nationalismus eingeläutet. Kritiker bemängelten unzureichende Umwelt- und Hygienestandards sowie anhaltende nichttarifäre Handelshemmnisse. Die EU-Agrarlobby beschwerte sich außerdem über einen Ausverkauf europäischer Interessen zugunsten dominierender multinationaler Unternehmen. Die fatalen Auswirkungen des Abkommens auf Afrika wurden jedoch selten erwähnt. Dazu gehören ein zunehmender Verdrängungswettbewerb und eine asymmetrische Partnerschaft zum Nachteil der afrikanischen Armen. Angesichts der zusätzlichen destruktiven Auswirkungen der Brexit-Krise sollten die afrikanischen Regierungen, in Zeiten zunehmenden Wettbewerbs im Afrikahandel der EU mit neuen globalen Akteuren wie China und Indien, ihre verstärkte Verhandlungsmacht gegenüber der EU27 und Großbritannien einsetzen, um Neuverhandlungen der Wirtschaftlichen Partnerschaftsabkommen auf Augenhöhe durchzusetzen.
E26|L'impact de l'accord UE-MERCOSUR sur l'Afrique à l’heure de protectionnisme croissant<BR>[The impact of the EU-MERCOSUR deal on Africa in times of growing protectionism]|ABSTRACT & RÉSUMÉ & ZUSAMMENFASSUNG : The EU-Mercosur deal of 2019 was heralded as a milestone of free trade agreements worldwide in times of growing protectionism and nationalism. Critics condemned deficient ecological and sanitary standards as well as persistent non-tariff barriers to trade. The EU farm lobby complained about a sell-out of European interests in advantage of dominating multinationals. However, the fatal repercussions of the deal on Africa have rarely been mentioned. They include increasing cut-throat competition and asymmetrical partnership to the detriment of the African poor. Given the additional destructive impact of the Brexit crisis, African governments should use their increased bargaining power vis à vis the EU27 and the UK, in times of stiffening competition concerning the EU’s Africa trade with new global players such as China and India, to enforce EPAs re-negotiations on a level playing field. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RÉSUMÉ : L'accord de 2019 entre l'UE et le Mercosur a été qualifié de jalon dans les accords de libre-échange dans le monde entier à une époque de protectionnisme et de nationalisme grandissants. Les critiques ont condamné les normes écologiques et sanitaires déficientes, ainsi que les obstacles non-tarifaires persistants au commerce. Le lobby agricole de l'UE s'est plaint de la vente d'intérêts européens au profit de multinationales dominantes. Cependant, les répercussions fatales de l'accord sur l'Afrique ont rarement été mentionnées. Ils incluent une concurrence acharnée et un partenariat asymétrique au détriment des pauvres en Afrique. Compte tenu de l'impact destructeur supplémentaire de la crise du Brexit, les gouvernements africains devraient utiliser leur pouvoir de négociation accru vis-à-vis de l'UE27 et du Royaume-Uni, en période de durcissement de la concurrence concernant le commerce africaine de l'UE avec des nouveaux acteurs mondiaux tels que la Chine et l'Inde, pour imposer des renégociations des APEs sur un pied d’égalité. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ZUSAMMENFASSUNG : Das Abkommen zwischen der EU und dem Mercosur von 2019 wurde als Meilenstein für weltweite Freihandelsabkommen in Zeiten wachsenden Protektionismus und Nationalismus eingeläutet. Kritiker bemängelten unzureichende Umwelt- und Hygienestandards sowie anhaltende nichttarifäre Handelshemmnisse. Die EU-Agrarlobby beschwerte sich außerdem über einen Ausverkauf europäischer Interessen zugunsten dominierender multinationaler Unternehmen. Die fatalen Auswirkungen des Abkommens auf Afrika wurden jedoch selten erwähnt. Dazu gehören ein zunehmender Verdrängungswettbewerb und eine asymmetrische Partnerschaft zum Nachteil der afrikanischen Armen. Angesichts der zusätzlichen destruktiven Auswirkungen der Brexit-Krise sollten die afrikanischen Regierungen, in Zeiten zunehmenden Wettbewerbs im Afrikahandel der EU mit neuen globalen Akteuren wie China und Indien, ihre verstärkte Verhandlungsmacht gegenüber der EU27 und Großbritannien einsetzen, um Neuverhandlungen der Wirtschaftlichen Partnerschaftsabkommen auf Augenhöhe durchzusetzen.
E26|Pareto Superior dimension of Rotating Savings and Credit Associations (ROSCAs) in Ghana: Evidence from Asunafo North Municipality of Ghana|This study investigates characteristics of Rotating savings and credit associations (ROSCAs) participants who join the association due to its Pareto superior allocation in Ghana. Some scholars like Dejene and Van den Brink have hypothesized that people join ROSCAs because of its Pareto superior allocation. The study employed primary data analysis in achieving its main objective. Out of the 400 ROSCA participants sampled for the study from Asunafo North Municipality of Ghana, 71.75% joined the association because of its Pareto superior allocation. A Probit model was used to predict the probability of joining the association due to its superior allocation. The dependent variable took the value of one when respondents join the association due to its superior allocation and zero if otherwise. Married participants, participants with no or low level of education, participants who are unemployed and participants who save more of their income are more likely to join ROSCA due to its Pareto superior allocation. It was recommended that that ROSCA participants who have access (participants living in urban sectors) to formal financial institutions, participants who have accounts at formal financial institutions, participants who are rich and aged participants should be educated on how ROSCA constitutes its Pareto superior allocation
E26|Reducing Informality Using Two-Sided Incentives: Theory and Experiment|We study the impact of two-sided incentives on the reduction of informality. We model those incentives using the notion of network externalities, which link the (formal or informal) merchant’s profits to the type of customers they serve (formal or informal). Our theoretical framework yields two straightforward testable implications: the merchant will find more profitable to become formal (or informal), as long as more of their customers are formal (or informal); and, formal and informal commercial sectors may coexist in equilibrium. We test these hypotheses using data from a field experiment, conducted with micro and small enterprises in Lima, Peru. Our subjects had to choose, in a repeated fashion, among three ‘platforms’, which proxy for being formal, informal, or performing a reservation activity. We then changed the relative size of the network of formal vis-á-vis informal customers, in order to calculate the consumer’s network externality. We find that the network externality is relatively large, a result that opens up the possibility to reduce commercial informality using two-sided incentives. Moreover, the platform choice between the formal and informal sectors is sensitive to risk preferences.
E26|Estimación del Consumo a partir de sus Componentes Principales en la Tabla Insumo-Producto|Una forma de entender el consumo privado es subdividir esta variable macroeconómica agregada en sus componentes y estudiar las partes. En este documento se estima el comportamiento de los componentes más importantes del consumo privado al cual se denomina componentes principales. Tomando como punto de inicio la información de la Tabla Insumo Producto para distintos años, se utiliza un conjunto de variables proxi para cada componente a partir de los cuales se obtiene una distribución del consumo por componente para cada año. Los componentes restantes forman parte de una serie denominada Otros, cuyo rol es de disciplinar los resultados mediante el registro de ciertas regularidades en su conducta. Esta metodología permite proyectar el consumo privado con un bajo error de proyección.
E26|How do organized crime and counterfeit interact in Italian trading firms? An empirical analysis of their effects on trade|The impact of crime and counterfeiting on Italian trading firms has been rather neglected. Nevertheless, they are important drivers of trade in countries like Italy, whose economic activity is characterized by small/medium-sized firms, highly exposed to the risk of infringement of intellectual property rights by criminal activities of counterfeiting, and, at the same time, not averse to production/exchange of counterfeited goods. We employ a newly-built regional panel data set that includes both economic variables and indicators of counterfeiting activities and criminality during the period of deep economic crisis (2008-2013). Using a dynamic panel data model, we study how counterfeiting affects trade indicators of the Italian firms. We find that commercial exchanges increase when regions are hubs of production or transit points for fakes. The benefit on trade should not hide the consequences of counterfeiting in terms of loss of private investorsâ€™ confidence, limits to business innovation and destruction of competitiveness. We also show that profitable counterfeiting activities that target high-value, high-quality goods, and challenge business innovation and competitiveness of the export-oriented firms, have significant depressing impacts on both export and the degree of trade openness.
E26|How Do Regulated and Unregulated Labor Markets Respond to Shocks? Evidence from Immigrants During the Great Recession|We study wage adjustment during the recent crisis in Italy using a unique dataset on immigrant workers that includes those employed in formal and informal sector. We find that before the crisis immigrants’ wages in the formal and informal sectors moved in parallel (with a 15% premium in the formal labor market). During the crisis, however, formal wages did not adjust down while wages in the unregulated informal labor market fell so that by 2013 the gap had grown to 32%. The difference was particularly salient for workers in occupations where the minimum wage is likely to be binding, and in “simple” occupations where there is high substitutability between immigrant and native workers. Calibrating a simple partial equilibrium model of spillovers between formal and informal markets, we find that less than 10% of workers who lost a formal job during the crisis move to the informal sector. We also find that if the formal sector wages were fully flexible, the decline in formal employment would be in the range of 1.5–4.5%—much lower than 16% decline that we observe in the data.
E26|Financial constraints and firm tax evasion|Abstract Most analyses of tax evasion examine individual behavior, not firm behavior, given obvious and recognized data issues. We use data from the Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey to examine tax evasion at the firm level, focusing on a novel determinant of firm tax evasion: the financial constraints (or credit constraints) faced by the firm. Our empirical results indicate across a range of alternative specifications that more financially constrained firms are more likely to be involved in tax evasion activities, largely because evasion helps them deal with financing issues created by financial constraints. We further show that the effects of financial constraints are heterogeneous across firm ownership, firm age, and firm size. Lastly, we present some suggestive evidence on the possible channels through which the impact of financial constraints on firm tax evasion may operate, including a reduction of information disclosure through the banking system, an increase in the use of cash for transactions, and an increase in bribe activities in exchange for tax evasion opportunities.
E26|Enforcing higher labour standards within developing country value chains: Consequences for MNEs and informal actors in a dual economy|The 2013 Rana Plaza disaster led external stakeholders to insist on higher labour standards in apparel global value chains (GVCs). Stakeholders now expect MNEs to take 'full-chain' responsibility. However, the increased monitoring and enforcement costs of a large network of suppliers have been non-trivial. MNEs instead implement a 'cascading compliance' approach, coupled with a partial re-internalisation. Elevated costs are further exacerbated in developing countries where the informal and formal sector are linked, and cost competitiveness greatly depends on this duality. Monitoring actors in the informal sector is difficult, and few informal actors can achieve compliance. GVCs have therefore reduced informal sector engagement by excluding non-compliant actors and investing in greater automation. By seeking to strictly enforce compliance, MNEs are attenuating some of the positive effects of MNE investment, particularly the prospects for employment creation (especially among women), and enterprise growth in the informal sector. I discuss how these observations might inform other cross-disciplinary work in development, ethics, and sociology. Finally, I note implications for IB theory from the disparities between the ownership, control and responsibility boundaries of the firm.
E26|The nexus between unemployment rate and shadow economy: A comparative analysis of developed and developing countries using a simultaneous-equation model|This paper studies the effects and causal links between the shadow economy and the unemployment rate using a dynamic simultaneous-equation panel data model for 38 developing and 40 developed countries over the 2000−2015 period. The analysis suggests that there is a unidirectional and negative causality running from the unemployment rate to the shadow economy in the developing countries. However, in the developed countries, there is a bidirectional and negative causal relationship between the shadow economy and unemployment rate. The sensitivity of the results makes the authors realize that institutional quality interacts strongly with the relationship between the shadow economy and the unemployment rate. In countries with a good institutional quality, the unemployment rate is associated with a weak informal economy, whereas in countries with low institutional quality, it strongly drives the informal economy.
E26|Will Ukraine Be Able to Establish Real Property Rights?|Over time, the necessary economic reforms have become so obvious that they have become politically possible in most places. The great problem has become the establishment of real property rights. By and large, Central and Eastern Europe have managed to accomplish that not least thanks to support from the European Union. In the former Soviet Union, however, only Georgia succeeded in that endeavor. The big question today is whether Ukraine will manage to do so, or whether it will be caught in a low-economic-growth trap. The three main elements that are needed are independent courts, autonomous prosecutors, and a law-abiding law enforcement, while no old secret police structures should be allowed to sabotage them.
E26|How swelling debts give rise to a new type of politics in Vietnam|Vietnam has seen fast-rising debts, both domestic and external, in recent years. This paperreviews the literature on credit market in Vietnam, providing an up-to-date take on the domesticlending and borrowing landscape. The study highlights the strong demand for credit in both therural and urban areas, the ubiquity of informal lenders, the recent popularity of consumer financecompanies, as well as the government’s attempts to rein in its swelling public debt. Given thehigh level of borrowing, which is fueled by consumerism and geopolitics, it is inevitable that theamount of debt will soon be higher than the saving of the borrowers. Unlike the conventionalwisdom that creditors have more bargaining power over the borrowers, we suggest that—albeitlacking a quantitative estimation—when the debts pile up so high that the borrowers could notrepay, the power dynamics may reverse. In this new politics of debt, the lenders fear to lose themoney’s worth and continue to lend and feed the insolvent debtors. The result is a toxic lending/borrowing market and profound lessons, from which the developing world could learn.
E26|Collusive Tax Evasion by Employers and Employees: Evidence from a Randomized Field Experiment in Norway|Third-party reporting and employers’ tax withholding are powerful compliance mechanisms, as long as the employer and employee do not collude to evade. Using data from randomly assigned on-site audits among 2,462 Norwegian firms, we provide evidence of collusive tax evasion. We find that firms assigned to be audited increased their subsequent wage reporting on behalf of their employees by 18 percent relative to firms assigned to the control group. The effect is more pronounced among small firms with few employees. Our results document the limitations of third-party reporting, but also that these limitations can be counteracted by relatively inexpensive on-site audits.
E26|Caractéristiques de l’entrepreneuriat féminin à Dakar au Sénégal|Cet article vise principalement à mieux comprendre la participation des femmes aux activités entrepreneuriales de la région de Dakar. À partir de modèles théoriques bien connus, nous créons le modèle de l’entrepreneure sénégalaise en mettant l’accent sur la culture entrepreneuriale. Des méthodes d’analyse de données multidimensionnelles, à partir de données primaires collectées auprès de 153 femmes entrepreneures, nous permettent de créer des typologies supervisées de l’entrepreneuriat féminin selon les secteurs (formel, informel). Les résultats montrent que la création dépend du capital humain, social et culturel de l’entrepreneure, et confirment l’importance du capital social dans l’entrepreneuriat féminin des pays en développement.
E26|Corporate governance, tax evasion and business cycles|We develop an agency model of corporate tax evasion and auditing by a residual claimant government and embed it to a macroeconomic environment characterised by credit constraints. In our economy, tax auditing by the government reduces the information asymmetry between lenders and entrepreneurs with an investment opportunity. Corporate governance quality consequently affects macroeconomic variables; with changes in tax rates, auditing and quality of corporate governance having aggregate effects. We show that changes in the revenue system; tax and audit rates, can directly affect asset prices and inflate the effects of exogenous shocks to the economy.
E26|Toward an understanding of collaborative tax evasion: A natural field experiment with businesses|Sales from businesses to consumers provide fertile ground for collaborative tax evasion. However, little is known about the phenomenon. We conduct a natural field experiment with 2,900 businesses in which we take the role of consumers and vary if we request an invoice for the delivery of a service. We find that 56% of businesses approach consumers with the intention to evade. The fraction is zero in the regulated market and 72% in the unregulated market. It increases when consumers signal their willingness to collude. Consumers can save 25% of the legal price on average if they agree to evade.
E26|Money, Inflation, and Unemployment in the Presence of Informality|This paper studies the impact of informality on the long-run relationship between inflation and unemployment in developing economies. I present a dynamic general equilibrium model with informality in both labor and goods markets and where money and credit coexist. An increase in inflation affects unemployment through two channels: the entry channel (size) and the hiring channel (composition). On one hand, higher inflation reduces the surplus of monetary trades thus lowering firms entry and increasing unemployment. On the other hand, it shifts firms hiring decision from high separation informal jobs to low separation formal jobs thus reducing unemployment. The net effect depends on the difference in separation rates and the availability of credit in formal transactions. The model is calibrated to match certain long-run statistics of the Brazilian economy. Numerical results indicate that inflation has a small negative effect on unemployment while producing a significant impact on labor allocation between formal and informal jobs. These results point to the importance of accounting for informality when considering the inflation-unemployment trade-off in the conduct of monetary policy.
E26|Magic mirror in my hand…. how trade mirror statistics can help us detect illegal financial flows|Criminals worldwide typically use misreporting tricks of different sorts to exploit the transfer of goods between different countries for money laundering purposes. The main international anti-money laundering organisations started paying attention to this phenomenon, known as trade-based money laundering, or TBML, a long time ago, but the absence of suitable analytical tools has reportedly impeded preventive action. Nonetheless, the literature has consistently shown that the analysis of discrepancies in mirrored bilateral trade data could provide some help. Based on previous studies, this work builds a model factoring in the main structural determinants of discrepancies between mirrored data concerning Italy’s external trade in the period 2010-13, considered at a highly detailed (6-digit) level of goods classification for each partner country. Point estimates of freight costs are used to net the cif-fob discrepancy. The regression estimates are then used to compute TBML risk indicators at country and at (4-digit) product level. Based on these indicators, rankings of countries and product lines can be compiled and used to detect potential illegal commercial transactions.
E26|Collusive tax evasion by employers and employees. Evidence from a randomized fi eld experiment in Norway|Third-party reporting and employers’ tax withholding are powerful compliance mechanisms, as long as the employer and employee do not collude to evade. Using data from randomly assigned on-site audits among 2,462 Norwegian firms, we provide evidence of collusive tax evasion. We find that firms assigned to be audited increased their subsequent wage reporting on behalf of their employees by 18 percent relative to firms assigned to the control group. The effect is more pronounced among small firms with few employees. Our results document the limitations of third-party reporting, but also that these limitations can be counteracted by relatively inexpensive on-site audits.
E26|La informalidad empresarial, el pago de tributos locales y el monotributo: el caso de las microempresas en Bogotá|La presente sección busca analizar los fenómenos de informalidad empresarial y tributaria por parte de las microempresas en Bogotá. Lo anterior indica que nuestra unidad de análisis son las empresas de diez o menos trabajadores; las definiciones y medidas de la informalidad empresarial y tributaria que se van a utilizar en el resto del trabajo, y la relación que existe entre estas dos variables se presenta a continuación.
E26|Informal Employment Dynamics in Paraguay|I characterize informal-formal employment transitions in Paraguay. Results indicate that some factors, such as education and firms size, improve workers' movement between informal and formal employment, and wage gains from moving into formality are modest. Workers who tend to stay indenitely informal are more likely to become unemployed or inactive. Estimates, based on a survival model, indicate that education and firm size highly increase informal-to-formal transitions, especially if workers have stayed informal for a long time. Older women have lower formal-to-informal transitions and, surprisingly, education plays no significant role. Mincer estimates point to high wages for formal workers, compared with informal, but that individual workers' wage gains from moving into formality are small.
E26|SMMES in South Africa: Understanding the Constraints on Growth and Performance|Small, Medium and Micro Enterprises (SMMEs) have been identified as a key component to advancing inclusive growth and development in South Africa. This paper serves to present a snapshot of the current profile of SMMEs in South Africa as well as the key inhibitors of growth for SMMEs. We provide a comparative perspective of the role of SMMEs and entrepreneurship in South Africa, then profile the current landscape of SMMEs in South Africa, evaluating the characteristics of SMMEs across three dimensions: firm, owner and employee characteristics. Following this, we distinguish between formal and informal SMMEs in order to highlight the unique nature of informality in South Africa. This paper also evaluates the endogenous and exogenous impediments to growth faced by South African SMMEs. Endogenous challenges are internal to the firm while exogenous challenges are external to the firm. In summarising these findings, we present the major challenges inhibiting the growth of SMMEs in South Africa, taking into account firm heterogeneity in terms of both firm size and informality status.
E26|Informality and the labor market effects of financial crises|We provide evidence, based on a large sample of countries, on the effects of financial crises on key labor market indicators, including official and unofficial employment, unemployment and the participation rate. Crises are followed by a drop in the official market participation rate and by an increase in informal employment. These responses are strongly persistent. Empirical results are then interpreted with a DSGE model which accounts for informality and for financial and labor market frictions. In this framework the informal sector acts as a buffer which absorbs workers in bad times and vice versa. Our simulations suggest the informal sector also is a crisis amplifier for the official economy. For a given financial shock, the ensuing contraction in the official economy is deeper and more persistent the larger the initial size of the unofficial sector. This implies that in less developed economies financial crises cause a relatively stronger reallocation of inputs towards less efficient sectors, expose a larger fraction of the population to the adverse effects of informality, cause a sharper deterioration of public finances limiting governments ability to supply public goods and to engage in countercyclical fiscal policies.
E26|Who Creates New Firms When Local Opportunities Arise?|New firm formation is a critical driver of job creation, and an important contributor to the responsiveness of the economy to aggregate shocks. In this paper we examine the characteristics of the individuals who become entrepreneurs when local opportunities arise due to an increase in local demand. We identify local demand shocks by linking fluctuations in global commodity prices to municipality level agricultural endowments in Brazil. We find that firm creation response is almost entirely driven by young individuals with generalist and managerial skills. In contrast, we find no such response within the same municipalities among skilled, yet older individuals. Those individuals who respond to local demand shocks are younger and more skilled than the average entrepreneur in the population. Entrepreneurial response of young individuals is larger in municipalities with better access to finance, more skilled human capital, and with overall younger demographics. These results highlight how the characteristics of the local population can have a significant impact on the entrepreneurial responsiveness of the economy.
E26|Optimal fiscal policy in the presence of VAT evasion: the case of Bulgaria|This paper explores the effects of fiscal policy in the presence of a VAT evasion channel, and then compares and contrasts two regimes - the exogenous vs. optimal policy case. To this end, a dynamic general-equilibrium model, calibrated to Bulgarian data (1999-2014), is augmented with a government sector. The main findings from the computational experiments performed in the paper are: (i) The optimal steady-state income tax rate is zero; (ii) The benevolent Ramsey planner provides the optimal amount of the valuable public services, which are now three times lower; (iii) The size of the grey sector is twice lower; (iv) optimal steady-state consumption tax needed to finance the optimal level of government spending is twice lower, as compared to the exogenous policy case.
E26|The ups and downs of the gig economy, 2015–2017|A variety of researchers and public entities have estimated the prevalence of nontraditional work arrangements — using diverse definitions — in recent decades, and the topic has received increasing attention in the past five years. Despite numerous media reports that the prevalence of nonstandard work has increased since the Great Recession, not all sources agree on this point, and very little evidence exists relating to hours or earnings from such arrangements and their changes over time. Using unique data from the Survey of Informal Work Participation (SIWP), we describe changes in informal work activity across 2015, 2016, and 2017 along multiple dimensions and for a variety of specific jobs. Considering the net changes observed between 2015 and 2017, we find that participation rates and earnings were mostly flat across the period, while average hours for gig workers declined by economically and statistically significant margins. The aggregate number of full-time equivalent jobs embodied in informal work — a measure combining participation rates and hours — also declined by an economically significant margin between 2015 and 2017. A major exception to these trends is that average ridesharing hours more than quadrupled between 2015 and 2017. We find some evidence that the recent declines in informal work hours represented a response to declining unemployment rates, but during this time period there also appears to have been upward structural pressure on gig work that provided a particular boost to platform-based work.
E26|Informality over the life-cycle|In developing countries, informality is mainly concentrated on younger and older workers. In this paper, we propose a dual labor market theory that highlights how frictions and taxation in the formal sector as well as educational choices interact to shape the informality rate over the life-cycle. We develop a life-cycle model with search frictions, skill heterogeneities, and endogenous educational choices. We carry out a numerical analysis and show that our model reproduces remarkably well the life-cycle patterns of informality, non-employment and formal employment in Argentina. We analyze several public policies and show that an educational grant reduces both informality and non-employment and may be fully financed by the extra tax revenues generated by the increase in formal employment and wages. Lowering taxes may achieve similar results but is detrimental for the government budget, in the case of Argentina, despite increasing the base on which they are levied.
E26|Underground activities and labour market performance|Abstract We build a general equilibrium search and matching model with an informal sector. We consider the impact of traditional policy instruments discussed in the tax evasion literature, such as changes in the tax and punishment system and the employment protection legislation, as well as the impact of concealment costs, on labour market outcomes. The model is calibrated to and simulated on the northern and southern European countries, where countries in the south have significantly higher informal sectors than countries in the north. We conclude that differences in tax and punishment systems cannot explain the observed difference. Instead, we find that stricter employment protection legislation in southern Europe, as well as the higher tax morale and more extensive use of third-party reporting in northern Europe, are potential candidates for explaining the difference.
E26|Unemployment and Development|This paper draws on household survey data from countries of all income levels to measure how average unemployment rates vary with income per capita. We document that unemployment is increasing with GDP per capita. Furthermore, we show that this fact is accounted for almost entirely by low-educated workers, whose unemployment rates are strongly increasing in GDP per capita, rather than by high-educated workers, whose unemployment rates are not correlated with income. To interpret these facts, we build a model with workers of heterogeneous ability and two sectors: a traditional sector, in which self-employed workers produce output without reward for ability; and a modern sector, in which firms hire in frictional labor markets, and output increases with ability. Countries differ exogenously in the productivity level of the modern sector. The model predicts that as productivity rises, the traditional sector shrinks, as progressively less-able workers enter the modern sector, leading to a rise in overall unemployment and in the ratio of low-educated to high-educated unemployment rates. Quantitatively, the model accounts for around one third of the cross-country patterns we document.
E26|Who Creates New Firms When Local Opportunities Arise?|New firm formation is a critical driver of job creation, and an important contributor to the responsiveness of the economy to aggregate shocks. In this paper we examine the characteristics of the individuals who become entrepreneurs when local opportunities arise due to an increase in local demand. We identify local demand shocks by linking fluctuations in global commodity prices to municipality level agricultural endowments in Brazil. We find that the firm creation response is almost entirely driven by young and skilled individuals, as measured by their level of experience, education, and past occupations involving creativity, problem-solving and managerial roles. In contrast, we find no such response within the same municipalities among skilled, yet older individuals, highlighting the importance of lifecycle considerations. These responsive individuals are younger and more skilled than the average entrepreneur in the population. The entrepreneurial response of young individuals is larger in municipalities with better access to finance, and in municipalities with more skilled human capital. These results highlight how the characteristics of the local population can have a significant impact on the entrepreneurial responsiveness of the economy.
E26|Sanctions and the shadow economy: empirical evidence from Iranian provinces| Using Iranian province level data from 2001 to 2013, this study finds that the international sanctions of 2012/2013 had a significantly stronger negative impact on the growth rate of the shadow economy than they did on the official GDP growth rate. Thus, the international sanctions on Iran have damaged the informal economy even more than the formal economy.
E26|Amateurs Crowds & Professional Entrepreneurs as Platform Complementors|Platforms often have “crowds” of amateurs working on them as complementors, in other cases professional entrepreneurs—or both. What can a platform owner do to implement these outcomes? I document evidence on mobile app developers showing that just small, incremental changes in platform design—related to the bare minimum costs required to build an app and factors affecting non-pecuniary payoffs—can lead the “bottom-to-fall-out” of the market to amateurs. Where the bottom-falls-out, there is a flood of lowest-quality developers who nonetheless are long-lived on the platform and engage in relatively high development activity. I find no evidence that amateurs crowd-out development activity of top developers in this context. Moreover, the bottom-falling-out is associated with the generation of significantly greater numbers of highest-quality products. I discuss several interpretations.
E26|Who Creates New Firms When Local Opportunities Arise?|New firm formation is a critical driver of job creation, and an important contributor to the responsiveness of the economy to aggregate shocks. In this paper we examine the characteristics of the individuals who become entrepreneurs when local opportunities arise due to an increase in local demand. We identify local demand shocks by linking fluctuations in global commodity prices to municipality level agricultural endowments in Brazil. We find that the firm creation response is almost entirely driven by young and skilled individuals, as measured by their level of experience, education, and past occupations involving creativity, problem-solving and managerial roles. In contrast, we find no such response within the same municipalities among skilled, yet older individuals, highlighting the importance of lifecycle considerations. These responsive individuals are younger and more skilled than the average entrepreneur in the population. The entrepreneurial response of young individuals is larger in municipalities with better access to finance, and in municipalities with more skilled human capital. These results highlight how the characteristics of the local population can have a significant impact on the entrepreneurial responsiveness of the economy.
E26|Unemployment and Development|This paper draws on household survey data from countries of all income levels to measure how average unemployment rates vary with income per capita. We document that unemployment is increasing with GDP per capita. Furthermore, we show that this fact is accounted for almost entirely by low-educated workers, whose unemployment rates are strongly increasing in GDP per capita, rather than by high-educated workers, whose unemployment rates are not correlated with income. To interpret these facts, we build a model with workers of heterogeneous ability and two sectors: a traditional sector, in which self-employed workers produce output without reward for ability; and a modern sector, in which firms hire in frictional labor markets, and output increases with ability. Countries differ exogenously in the productivity level of the modern sector. The model predicts that as productivity rises, the traditional sector shrinks, as progressively less-able workers enter the modern sector, leading to a rise in overall unemployment and in the ratio of low-educated to high-educated unemployment rates. Quantitatively, the model accounts for around one third of the cross-country patterns we document.
E26|Vers une croissance plus inclusive en Tunisie|Le niveau de vie moyen des Tunisiens a augmenté de façon continue depuis plusieurs décennies tandis que la pauvreté et les inégalités ont largement diminué grâce à la mise en oeuvre de nombreux programmes sociaux. L’accès aux infrastructures de base telles que l’eau potable ou l’électricité a également été développé. Néanmoins, le taux d’emploi demeure faible, surtout pour les femmes; environ un tiers des jeunes est au chômage et le travail informel est répandu. Il est urgent de promouvoir des formations répondant aux besoins des employeurs et de favoriser l'emploi des femmes. L’allégement des cotisations sociales pesant sur le travail salarié permettra la création d’emplois de qualité. La mise en oeuvre de la stratégie d’inclusion financière facilitera l’accès au financement. Les disparités régionales en termes de chômage et de niveau de vie entre les régions côtières et les régions de l’intérieur sont importantes. Une nouvelle politique de développement régional, valorisant les atouts spécifiques de chaque région autour du développement de pôles urbains, est nécessaire. La Constitution de 2014, qui prévoit l’accroissement de l’autonomie et des compétences des collectivités locales, représente une opportunité pour réaliser cet objectif. This Working Paper relates to the 2018 OECD Economic Survey of Tunisia (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-tunisia.htm).
E26|International productivity gaps: Are labour input measures comparable?|Cross-country differences in the measurement of labour input contribute to observed productivity gaps across countries. In most countries, labour force surveys (LFS) form a primary source of information for employment related statistics, such as persons employed, employees and hours worked. However, because the coverage of LFS does not fully align with the coverage of activities used to estimate GDP, additional adjustments relying on complementary sources, such as administrative or business statistics, are often applied to bridge conceptual differences, and in many countries, the use of these sources is often preferred to LFS data. Evidence from the 2018 OECD/Eurostat national accounts labour input survey shows that the adjustments made to align measures of labour input with the corresponding measures of production according to the domestic concept, vary considerably across countries, with many countries making no adjustments, in particular, for the measurement of hours worked. This paper demonstrates that countries making no adjustments to average hours worked measures extracted from the original source, such as self-reported hours actually worked in the LFS, appear to systematically over-estimate labour input and, so, under-estimate labour productivity levels. To illustrate the size of this bias, for this group of countries, the paper adopts a simplified component method that introduces a series of explicit adjustments on working time using information available in LFS and complementary sources. The results point to a reduction in relative productivity gaps of around 10 percentage points in many countries compared to current estimates. Although future releases of OECD productivity (levels) statistics will incorporate these changes, it is important to stress that these estimates will only be used as a stop-gap while countries making no, or minimal adjustments, work to leverage all available data sources to produce average hours worked estimates that align with the national accounts domestic concept and that address self-reporting bias; which is the paper’s principal recommendation for those countries that currently make no or only partial adjustments. Indeed, many EU member states, coordinated by Eurostat, are already moving in this direction, with ESA 2010 derogations set to expire by 2020.
E26|Togo - 2017: domestic politics, foreign affairs and socio-economic development|ABSTRACT & RÉSUMÉ & ZUSAMMENFASSUNG: The demand for political alternance, initiated by institutional and electoral reforms, constituted the major contentious issue between the government and the challengers of the Gnassingbé regime throughout the year. Civil society organizations and representatives of the Christian church supported the demands of the opposition. The protest of the notorious divided opposition took a new momentum since August with the lead by a hitherto hardly known opposition party and its charismatic leader, Tikpi Atchadam. He organized huge demonstrations of all the 14 opposition parties in the second half of the year which put the government progressively under pressure. Foreign affairs were dominated by the impact of increased aid by the international donor community. Socio-economic development was marked by diminishing human development and economic freedom. ------------------------------------------------------------ RÉSUMÉ: La demande d'alternance politique, initiée par des réformes institutionnelles et électorales, constitue le principal contentieux entre le gouvernement et les challengers du régime Gnassingbé tout au long de l'année. Les organisations de la société civile et les représentants de l'église chrétienne ont soutenu les demandes de l'opposition. La protestation de l'opposition divisée notoire a pris un nouvel élan depuis le mois d'août avec à sa tête un parti d'opposition jusqu'alors méconnu et son leader charismatique, Tikpi Atchadam. Il a organisé d'énormes manifestations de l'ensemble des 14 partis d'opposition au cours de la seconde moitié de l'année, ce qui a mis le gouvernement sous pression. Les affaires étrangères ont été dominées par l'impact de l'aide accrue de la communauté internationale des donateurs. Le développement socio-économique a été marqué par la diminution du développement humain et de la liberté économique. ------------------------------------------------------------ ZUSAMMENFASSUNG: Die Forderung nach politischer Alternanz, initiiert durch institutionelle und Wahlreformen, war das größte Streitthema zwischen der Regierung und den Herausforderern des Gnassingbé-Regimes während des ganzen Jahres. Zivilgesellschaftliche Organisationen und Vertreter der christlichen Kirche unterstützten die Forderungen der Opposition. Der Protest der zerstrittenen Opposition nahm ab August mit der Führung einer bisher kaum bekannten Oppositionspartei und ihres charismatischen Führers Tikpi Atchadam eine neue Dynamik an. Er organisierte in der zweiten Jahreshälfte große Demonstrationen aller 14 Oppositionsparteien, die die Regierung zunehmend unter Druck setzten. Auswärtige Angelegenheiten waren von den Auswirkungen der verstärkten Hilfe der internationalen Gebergemeinschaft geprägt. Die sozioökonomische Entwicklung war von abnehmender menschlicher Entwicklung und wirtschaftlicher Freiheit geprägt.
E26|Digital Innovations in Public Finance: An Efficient Use of Resources|Digital innovations in fiscal policy is the du jour for the macro policy makers, especially in the post-demonetisation India. India showcases the early three experiments of digitization in public finance – especially financial inclusion through digital financial services - in the recent Economic Survey. It highlights that digitization in public finance helped the government to identify the beneficiaries correctly given the technology it uses. It also helped in the removal of ghost beneficiaries and thus plugged leakages and identification errors. An early figure suggests that digitization in public finances in India has helped to transfer the benefits of welfare programmes to extent of 41% in MGNREGS, 37% in PAHAL (the LPG subsidy scheme), 14% in National Social Assistance Program(NSAP) and 7% in national scholarship schemes.(Economic Survey of India, 2015-16). Yet another successful experiment in digitization of fiscal policy is the new scheme, Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana. It has ensured financial inclusion in financial services through opening savings accounts by the masses so that the money is transferred to the genuine beneficiaries. Another related experiment has been the introduction of Aadhaar cards which provides a unique online identity to each individual in the country and has been linked to bank accounts and mobile numbers in order to ease transactions. Greater use of mobile banking to transfer funds faster and to solve the last mile banking problem has also been encouraged. The use of Jan Dhan accounts, Aadhaar cards and Mobile Banking has helped India take a step closer to the digital revolution that awaits it. Such global experiments of digitization in finance have happened in Kenya, where geospatial surveys were used to decipher how much financial institutions have responded to an increasingly digitizing environment.
E26|Strict duality and overlapping productivity distributions between formal and informal firms|This paper develops a multi-industry general equilibrium model where entrepreneurs within each industry can decide to operate formally or informally. The model generates a rich set of predictions including productivity cut-offs for formal and informal firms to operate within different industries. We allow fixed costs to vary across industries, resulting in overlapping productivity distributions between formal and informal firms in the aggregate, but strict duality within industries. In doing so, we are able to generate and test predictions with regard to heterogeneity in informality across industries for the case of Indian manufacturing establishments. Consistent with the model, we find that the overlap between formal and informal establishments in the aggregate is larger than the overlaps within industries. Informality tends to decrease with average industry productivity and establishment size. Finally, more productive industries have greater overlaps in productivity between formal and informal establishments.
E26|Shadow Economy in Pakistan: Its Size and Interaction with Official Economy|Shadow economy encompasses wide array of activities that influence the official economy and government policies, either directly or indirectly. In this paper we estimate the shadow economy of Pakistan using currency demand approach with two econometric approached, i.e. one using Auto Regressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model and two with Engel Granger two step approach. Additionally, we use a variant of currency demand approach where along with tax variable we include unemployment rate and intensity of government control as indicator variables of shadow economy, for the first time in case of Pakistan. The average shadow economy of Pakistan estimated from 1973-2015 as percentage of GDP is 26.41, 25.29, and 26.11 from Models 1, 2, and 3 respectively. Furthermore, we analyzed interaction between the official and shadow sector using ARDL model. Our results show a significantly increasing shadow economy in Pakistan with positive impact on the official sector in long run while negative impact in the short run. This again is a novelty in our paper where we observe short and long run impacts separately along with dynamic simulations to show Pakistan’s GDP per Capita in the absence of shadow economy.
E26|Inflow of Educational Capital, Intermediation and Informal Sector|Informal sector comprising of unrecorded, unregistered activities in developing economies of the world is a common feature at present scenario. Existence of such sectors in an economy clearly reflects the weakness of government to provide employment opportunities for all. Such informal activities are again facilitated through the extortionists who are bribed by the informal producers. Under such an economic structure the paper investigates into the effect of inflow of educational capital on endogenously determined factor prices and output of formal and informal sectors of an economy.Though there is no change in the factor earnings, an inflow of educational capital gives a boost to the output of skilled sector irrespective of any factor intensity assumption. Output of formal sector also expands depending on the factor intensity assumption but quite interestingly no change is seen in the output of informal sector. Inflow of educational capital leads to dampening of intermediation activities in an economy which is a positive result and this can help the policy makers to choose the right path of development.
E26|Shadow Economy in Pakistan: Its Size and Interaction with Official Economy|Shadow economy encompasses wide array of activities that influence the official economy and government policies, either directly or indirectly. In this paper we estimate the shadow economy of Pakistan using currency demand approach with two econometric approached, i.e. one using Auto Regressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model and two with Engel Granger two step approach. Additionally, we use a variant of currency demand approach where along with tax variable we include unemployment rate and intensity of government control as indicator variables of shadow economy, for the first time in case of Pakistan. The average shadow economy of Pakistan estimated from 1973-2015 as percentage of GDP is 26.41, 25.29, and 26.11 from Models 1, 2, and 3 respectively. Furthermore, we analyzed interaction between the official and shadow sector using ARDL model. Our results show a significantly increasing shadow economy in Pakistan with positive impact on the official sector in long run while negative impact in the short run. This again is a novelty in our paper where we observe short and long run impacts separately along with dynamic simulations to show Pakistan’s GDP per Capita in the absence of shadow economy.
E26|Trust & Informality in the Indian Credit Market: A Snapshot from Recent Data|Credit is very important in the lives of the poor people. The benefits of credit are manifold. Even after more than six and a half decade since independence, the extent and important of informal credit have not diminished to a great degree in India. This paper aims at to understand the significance of personalized relations in the working of the informal credit market with the help of the All Indian Debt and Investment survey data. .Our analysis shows that there is distinct compartmentalization of the Indian credit market with respect to the disbursement of loan from various credit agencies. Each of these category of credit agencies has some definite target group to cater to. Apart from this clear division of loaning pattern, the importance of trust, personalized knowledge and mutual co-operation in the informal credit market has also been observed.
E26|Does the size of the informal economy impede the impact of remittances on economic growth? Evidence from Sub-Saharan African countries|The purpose of this paper is to investigate the relationship between remittances and economic growth. Additionally, it examines whether the size of the informal economy alter negatively the effect of remittances on economic growth, which surprisingly has received less attention in the literature. The paper applied the Ordinary Least Squared (OLS) and system Generalized Method of Moment (GMM) by Arellano and Bond (1991) and Arellano and Bover (1995). The sample include 30 Sub-Saharan African (SSA) countries over 1991-2015. The results show that: first, remittances have a positive and significant effect on economic growth. Second, the impact of remittances on economic growth decreases with the size of the informal economy.
E26|Earnings Inequality and the Minimum Wage: Evidence from Brazil|We assess the extent to which a rise in the minimum wage can account for three facts characterizing a large decline in earnings inequality in Brazil from 1996â€“2012: (i) the decline is more pronounced towards the bottom of the distribution; (ii) one quarter of the decline stems from an increase in relative pay at less productive firms; and (iii) another quarter is attributable to falling pay differences due to worker heterogeneity. To this end, we build an equilibrium search model with heterogeneity in worker ability and firm productivity. The central feature of the model is the presence of spillover effects of the minimum wage on higher earnings ranks due to monopsonistic competition among firms for workers. We estimate the model using indirect inference and find that the rise in the minimum wage explains 70 percent of the decline in the variance of log earnings. Spillover effects of the minimum wage account for more than half of this decline and quantitatively match the three empirical facts. Our results suggest that labor market dynamics can lead to large effects of policy on earnings inequality.
E26|El laberinto de la economia informal: estrategias de medicion e impactos|Uno de los factores que mayores trastornos genera a las perspectivas economicas de un pais es la alta presencia de economia informal. El objetivo de este trabajo es realizar una aproximacion estadistica detallada que permita identificar la importancia de estos factores considerando estrategias econometricas relevantes, empleando diferentes muestras de mas de 160 paises.
E26|The labyrinth of the informal economy: measurement strategies and impacts|One of the factors of the greatest upheaval to a countryâ€™s economic prospects is the substantial presence of the informal economy. The aim of this paper is to articulate a detailed statistical approach to identify the significance of such factors by examining key econometric strategies and availing ourselves of several different samples for over 160 countries.
E26|Fiscal Policy with an Informal Sector|Macroeconomic models that omit the shadow economy systematically mis-forecast and mis-measure the effect of fiscal - in particular tax- policy on economic activity and tax revenue. We add an informal sector to the Bank of Greece DSGE model and use the actual package of fiscal consolidation implemented in Greece over the period 2010-2015 to evaluate the role of the black economy. In the data, official Greek GDP declined by about 26%, budget deficits proved larger and more persistent and tax rates increased by much more and tax revenue by much less than predicted. The model replicates the official output decline but implies a true output decline that is less than two thirds of that in recorded output. The discrepancy is even more pronounced for employment. The model also implies that the size of fiscal adjustment and the drop in economic activity could have been considerably milder had the informal sector been curtailed (it instead increased by about 50%). The underground economy seems to have been a key factor in Greece's failure to achieve orderly debt consolidation while avoiding economic depression.
E26|Implausible Large Differences in the Sizes of Underground Economies in Highly Developed European Countries? A Comparison of Different Estimation Methods|In this paper, first, the MIMIC estimation method is described and criticized and due to a double counting problem a correction is suggested. Second, the measurement methods used for National Accounts Statistics – the discrepancy method and two new micro survey methods – are described and a third, a micro method, using a combination of company manager surveys and their knowledge to calibrate the size of the shadow economy in firms, is presented, too. Third, a detailed comparison of the four micro estimation methods with the MIMIC and the corrected MIMIC method are presented. One major result is that the corrected MIMIC method, especially, comes quite close to various types of lately developed micro survey methods.
E26|Fiscal policy with an informal sector|Macroeconomic models that omit the shadow economy systematically mis-forecast and mis-measure the effect of fiscal –in particular tax– policy on economic activity and tax revenue. We add an informal sector to the Bank of Greece DSGE model and use the actual package of fiscal consolidation implemented in Greece over the period 2010–2015 to evaluate the role of the black economy. In the data, official Greek GDP declined by about 26%, budget deficits proved larger and more persistent and tax rates increased by much more and tax revenue by much less than predicted. The model replicates the official output decline but implies a true output decline that is less than two thirds of that in recorded output. The discrepancy is even more pronounced for employment. The model also implies that the size of fiscal adjustment and the drop in economic activity could have been considerably milder had the informal sector been curtailed (it instead increased by about 50%). The underground economy seems to have been a key factor in Greece’s failure to achieve orderly debt consolidation while avoiding economic depression.
E26|The Role of Informal Urban Settlements in Upward Mobility|The paper uses longitudinal data for South Africa to explore the magnitude of social progression among people living within informal settlements compared with the residents of rural areas and formal urban areas. The objective is to assess whether shack settlements foster or frustrate human progress in the way they link people to the services, contacts and livelihoods concentrated in cities.
E26|The Impact of Informal Sector on Income Distribution: Could Concentration of Income be Explained by the Size of Informal Sector?|This paper uses a cross-sectional data to explore the impact that informal sector has on income variation across different income categories. Instead of using GINI coefficient, the paper considers income shares of decile groups of population. The results reflect a dual role of informal sector in economy. On one hand, informal sector could reduce the gap between income earners at the bottom level of income categories. On the other hand, the size of informal sector could exacerbate the gap between top income earners and other categories indicating further concentration of income. Some implications are discussed.
E26|How Does Corruption Affect Public Debt? An Empirical Analysis|This paper investigates the relationship between corruption, the shadow economy, and public debt. It additionally examines whether the shadow economy increases the adverse effects of corruption on public debt. The model is empirically tested for 126 countries over 1996–2012. Using Ordinary Least Squares (OLS), Fixed effects, system generalized method of moments (GMM) and instrumental variable estimation, and two measures of corruption—the Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index and the Kaufmann et al. Corruption Index—results confirm that increased corruption and a larger shadow economy lead to an increase in public debt. Results additionally indicate that the shadow economy magnifies the effect of corruption on public debt suggesting that they act as complements. Results also suggest that a larger shadow economy reduces tax revenues and thus increases public debt, similarly, higher government expenditure enhances the effects of corruption on government debt. Hence reducing corruption should be a primary policy goal of governments. Given the complementarity detected between corruption and the shadow economy, reducing corruption would also lead to a fall in the size of the shadow economy and public debt. Reducing corruption will also minimize the adverse effects of corruption on government debt through government expenditure.
E26|Wage inflation and informal work|Despite very low unemployment in the United States in recent months, wage inflation has remained modest. This paper investigates the possibility that there is hidden labor market slack in the form of informal or gig economy work, which may help explain this wage growth puzzle. Using unique data from 2015 and 2016 that we collected through the Survey of Informal Work Participation — part of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s Survey of Consumer Expectations — we find indirect and direct evidence for this hypothesis. First, we find that a measure of informal labor is negatively associated with wage growth at the census division level, while we observe no significant association between wage growth and the U-3 or U-6 unemployment rate. Second, most informal work participants in our survey report that for some increase in pay, they would drop hours of informal work in exchange for added hours of formal work. Together our results suggest that informal work represents an economically significant amount of potential labor supply to the formal market that may reduce pressure on measured wages. We also discuss other interpretations of our data.
E26|Striking a balance: optimal tax policy with labor market duality|We develop a dynamic general equilibrium model in which firms may evade the employer contribution component of social security taxes by offering some workers secondary contracts. We calibrate the model to data from the United States and EU-14 countries and obtain estimates of the secondary labor market participation consistent with empirical evidence. We then investigate the optimal mix of the avoidable and unavoidable components of labor taxes and analyze the fiscal and macroeconomic effects of bringing the composition to the welfare optimum. We find that partial labor tax evasion makes tax revenues more elastic, but full tax compliance need not be a welfare enhancing policy mix. Relating to the highly cited work of Trabandt and Uhlig (2011), we extend their framework to analyze the phenomenon of non-standard employment. We distinguish between avoidable and unavoidable labor taxation -- the former may be evaded by firms if they formulate a contract with a worker as a non-standard employment contract and may be associated with employers' share in labor taxation. The latter is paid by worker--households. Our results enrich the intuition about the optimal mix of the two types of labor taxation. We show that in countries where the share of avoidable labor taxes is relatively low, substantial welfare gains can be achieved by changing the mix of the two types of labor taxes. The gains emanate from higher labor supply and consumption which accompanies modest increases in secondary employment. These gains are obtained without loss to aggregate fiscal revenue. In addition to these main results, we also show that plausible estimates of the levels of tax evasion, the efficiency of tax auditing and the shares of secondary employment can be obtained from aggregate tax revenue data.
E26|The Effects of Natural Disasters on the Labour Market: Do Hurricanes Increase Informality?|No abstract is available for this item.
E26|Growth In The Shadows: Effect Of The Shadow Economy On U.S. Economic Growth Over More Than A Century|Taking a long‐term look at U.S. economic growth over 1870–2014, this paper focuses on the spillovers from the shadow or the unofficial economy to growth in the official sector. Shadow activities might spur or retard economic growth depending on their interactions with the formal sector and impacts on the provision of public goods. Nesting the analysis in a standard neoclassical growth model, we use a relatively new time series technique to estimate the short‐run dynamics and long‐run relationship between economic growth and its determinants. Results suggest that prior to World War II (WWII) the shadow economy had a negative effect on economic growth; however, post‐WWII the shadow economy was beneficial for growth. The sanding effect of the shadow economy in the earlier period is especially robust to alternate considerations of possible endogeneity and an alternate set of growth determinants. (JEL E26, O43, O51, K42)
E26|Informality, public employment and employment protection in developing countries|This paper proposes an equilibrium matching model for developing countries’ labor markets where the interaction between public, formal private and informal private sectors are taken into account. Theoretical analysis shows that gains from reforms aiming at liberalizing formal labor markets can be annulled by shifts in the public sector employment and wage policies. Since the public sector accounts for a substantial share of employment in developing countries, this approach is crucial to understand the main labor market outcomes of such economies. Wages offered by the public sector increase the outside option value of the workers during the bargaining processes in the formal and informal sectors. It becomes more profitable for workers to search on-the-job, in order to move to these more attractive and more stable types of jobs. The public sector therefore acts as an additional tax for the formal private firms. Using data on workers’ flows from Egypt, we show empirically and theoretically that the liberalization of labor markets plays against informal employment by increasing the profitability, and hence job creations, of formal jobs. The latter effect is however dampened or even sometimes nullified by the increase of the offered wages in the public sector observed at the same time.
E26|Optimal Long-Run Inflation and the Informal Economy|This paper studies the optimal long-run rate of inflation in a two-sector model of the Lithuanian economy with informal production and price rigidity in the regular sector. The government issues no debt and is committed to follow a balanced budget rule. The informal sector is unregulated and untaxed and its existence limits the government's ability to collect revenues through fiscal policy. Such environment provides therefore the basis for quantifying the possible existence of a public finance motive for inflation. The main results can be summarized as follows: First, there is a strong heterogeneity in the optimal inflation rate which depends on the tax rate that is endogenously adjusted to keep the budget balanced. Inflation can be as high as 6.77% when the capital tax rate is endogenous, but when labor income taxes are adjusted optimal policy calls for a rate of deflation such that the nominal interest rate hits the zero lower bound. Second, the optimal inflation rate is a non-decreasing function of the size of the informal economy and, in most cases, there is a positive relationship between the two. Finally, substantial deviations from zero inflation are observed even in presence of a plausible degree of price rigidity.
E26|How Participating In The Shadow Economy Affects The Growth Of Latvian Firms|This paper examines the relationship between the growth of Latvian firms and their involvement in the shadow economy in 2015. When up to 10% of the overall economic activity of firms is in the shadow economy, this had a growth-enhancing effect on firms that recorded non-positive growth during the last five years. Using the perceptions of corruption and interview languages as instruments of measuring the shadow economy participation rate, the authors conclude that there is a positive relationship between perceptions of corruption and the shadow economy participation rate.
E26|Towards more inclusive growth in Colombia|Growth has become more inclusive in recent years in Colombia. Strong growth and targeted social policies have reduced absolute poverty. Conditional cash transfers and education policies have increased attendance in schools. Universal health care is improving wellbeing of many Colombians. Reductions in non-wage labour costs have increased formal employment and access to social benefits. However, income inequality remains high with large disparities across regions. The causes are many. High informality keeps many workers in low quality jobs without social benefits or access to finance. Inequality is a gender issue as labour force participation rates and wages are lower for women than for men. Inequalities also reflect low social mobility as opportunities for education and jobs are influenced by socio-economic backgrounds. More targeted programmes are necessary to increase education enrolment rates of disadvantaged children in less developed regions. Further reductions in non-wage labour costs can raise formal employment. Better access to labour market programmes, early childhood education and elderly and disability care can boost female labour market participation. More resources are needed for targeted social programmes to achieve stronger outcomes. A comprehensive pension system reform is needed to extend coverage and alleviate old-age poverty. This Working Paper relates to the 2017 OECD Economic Survey of Colombia (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-colombia.htm)
E26|Military expenditures and shadow economy in the Baltic States: Is there a link?|The main goal of our paper is to determine the existence of a link between government (military) expenditures and the shadow economy in the Baltic States. The empirical investigation is done over the years 2003-2014 for Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. We showed that there is a highly statistically significant positive dependence between the size of the shadow economy and military expenditures in the Baltic States. Our conclusion is that higher military expenditures indeed lead to a higher shadow economy and this result is robust to different model specifications. In order to demonstrate the importance of our highly statistically significant results we undertook a simulation where we calculated how much the size of the shadow economy would increase if the size of military expenditure as a percentage of GDP doubled: In Estonia such an expansion would have led to an increase in the size of the shadow economy from 27.1% to 30.1%, in Latvia from 24.7% to 26.1% and in Lithuania from 27.1% to 28.4% in 2014.
E26|The economic ramification of equating women empowerment to feminism in Africa|There is quantum empirical evidence and numerous literature that correlate women empowerment to macroeconomic growth, which further make a strong correlation of empowerment of women to feminism agenda. This has led to the rise of gender democracy and feminism in the past two decades up to date. However this development of women with high educational status driven under feminism is failing to correlate to any meaningful macroeconomic growth in Africa as proposed, which this paper phenomenological seeks to prove the lack of correlation between feminism and women empowerment, hence leading to low or no effect in macroeconomic growth in Africa economic ecosystem
E26|Is GDP more volatile in developing countries after taking the shadow economy into account? Evidence from Latin America|Why is GDP more volatile in developing countries? In this paper we propose an explanation that can account for the substantial differences in the volatility of measured real GDP per capita between developing and developed countries. Our explanation involves the often overlooked fact that developing economies have a sizable shadow economy. We build a two-sector model that distinguishes between measured (formal) and total (formal and shadow) outputs; using data from Latin America, our model results suggest that developing and developed economies are fairly similar in terms of the volatility of total real GDP. We also document an apparent puzzle, in that the model suggests that the volatility of the size of the shadow economy should be substantially larger than what is observed in the real world. We believe that this may be indicative of frictions that prevent agents from optimally moving between the formal and shadow economies.
E26|Measuring the size of the shadow economy using a dynamic general equilibrium model with trends|We propose a methodology for measuring the size and properties of the shadow economy. We use a two-sector dynamic deterministic general equilibrium model with four different trends: hours worked, investment-specific productivity, formal productivity, and shadow productivity. We find that the shadow productivity trend is endogenous, in the sense that it is an exact function of model parameters and the other three trends. We also document that, in order to be consistent with observed (real-world) trend growths, the shadow sector needs to exhibit increasing returns to scale, which is contrary to the standard procedure of imposing decreasing returns to this sector. We apply our methodology to a set of seven Latin American and Asian countries and document several empirical regularities that emerge from our analysis, the most important one being that the volatility of shadow sector output is considerably larger than the one in formal sector output.
E26|Les déterminants de l’entrepreneuriat féminin à Dakar Sénégal<BR>[The determinants of female entrepreneurship in Dakar Senegal]|The purpose of this paper is to understand the determinants of women's entrepreneurship in the informal sector in Dakar (Senegal). It aims mainly at a better knowledge of women's involvement in economic activities through the informal sector. The paper does this in three ways: first, by defining the informal sector and the female entrepreneur through a literature review; second, by adapting theoretical models in entrepreneurship to the Senegalese informal sector and by defining the concept of entrepreneurial culture ; third, by making a discriminating factorial analysis and a barycentric analysis, based on primary data collected from 153 women in Dakar, to describe a woman’s belonging to a category of creation: creation in the formal or large informal sector, creation in the small informal sector and non-creation. The results show that the woman entrepreneurial activity from one sector to another depends on her human, social and cultural capital and confirm the importance of social capital in the female entrepreneurship of the developing countries where the informal sector is highly developed.
E26|Mass Incarceration and the Underground Economy in America|With more than 850,000 people returning home from prisons and jails annually during an era of decarceration, understanding the labor market opportunities available to formerly incarcerated people is important for public policy. Yet, the mark of a criminal record has profound impacts on the employment and wage trajectories of disadvantaged men. Correspondence and audit studies routinely find that low-wage, secondary sector employers actively discriminate against those with criminal records, even when firms say they are open to hiring the formerly incarcerated. In this paper, we investigate whether the underground economy provides employment opportunities for men with criminal histories. Specifically, we assess whether formerly incarcerated men are more likely than their never-incarcerated counterparts to work in the underground economy, and how macroeconomic conditions shape the likelihood of working in the informal economy. We find that formerly incarcerated men are indeed more likely to work underground; however, the extent to which the macroeconomy shapes their odds of employment in either the formal or underground economies is significantly different for incarcerated men than their never-incarcerated counterparts. Our results have implications for understanding patterns of employment and wage mobility among disadvantaged men.
E26|Dollarization in North Korea: Evidence from a Survey of North Korean Refugees|This study measures the degree of dollarization in North Korea using results from a survey of 231 North Korean refugees. Specifically, we compare foreign currency use of households as both store-of-value substitutes (i.e., asset substitution) and transaction substitutes (i.e., currency substitution) before and after the confiscatory currency reform of 2009. The degree of dollarization has advanced since the currency reform in terms of both asset and currency substitutions. Survey results also indicate that the Chinese yuan is frequently used in the Sino-North Korean border area, whereas the US dollar is predominantly used in non-border areas. Furthermore, foreign currency increasingly serves as a medium of exchange not only for large transactions but also for smaller transactions, such as food purchases.
E26|Currency demand and MIMIC models: towards a structured hybrid method of measuring the shadow economy|Abstract Model-based econometric techniques of the shadow economy estimation have been increasingly popular, but a systematic approach to getting the best of their complementarities has so far been missing. We review the dominant approaches in the literature—currency demand analysis and MIMIC model—and propose a hybrid procedure that addresses their previous critique, in particular the misspecification issues in CDA equations and the vague transformation of the latent variable obtained via MIMIC model into interpretable levels and paths of the shadow economy. We propose a new identification scheme for the MIMIC model, referred to as ‘reverse standarization’. It supplies the MIMIC model with the panel-structured information on the latent variable’s mean and variance obtained from the CDA estimates, treating this information as given in the restricted full information maximum likelihood function. This approach allows avoiding some controversial steps, such as choosing an externally estimated reference point for benchmarking or adopting other ad hoc identifying assumptions. We estimate the shadow economy for up to 43 countries, with the results obtained in the range of 2.8–29.9% of GDP. Various versions of our models remain robust as regards changes in the level of the shadow economy over time and the relative position of the analysed countries. We also find that the contribution of (a correctly specified) MIMIC model to the measurement of trends in the shadow economy is marginal as compared to the contribution of the CDA model, confirming the scepticism of some previous literature towards this method.
E26|Striking a balance: optimal tax policy with labor market duality|"We develop a dynamic general equilibrium model in which firms may evade the employer contribution component of social security taxes by offering some workers ""secondary contracts"". When calibrated, the model yields estimates of secondary labor market participation consistent with empirical evidence for the EU14 countries and the US. We investigate the optimal mix of the avoidable and unavoidable components of labor taxes and analyze the fiscal and macroeconomic effects of bringing the composition to the welfare optimum. We find that partial labor tax evasion makes tax revenues more elastic, but full tax compliance need not be a welfare enhancing policy mix."
E26|"Moving towards ""Cashlessness"" in an emerging economy: A case study of latest policy steps in India"|On November 08, 2016, India took a decisive step towards going “cashless” by suddenly announcing withdrawal of its existing currency notes of two highest denominations, namely, the Rs. 500/= and the Rs. 1000/=. The move, announced with a suddenness that took the entire nation by surprise, had at its root the purpose of countering the threefold menaces of rampant corruption, counterfeit money and cross-border and internal terror funding. It has generated widespread controversy, the main criticism being that while the policy intent was sound, the execution plan was rather unsound. With one of the highest cash-GDP ratio in the world (close to 11%), India was revealed by RBI (Reserve Bank of India) data as having a staggering share of nearly 86% held in Rs.500/= and 1,000/= notes in the currency stock in circulation (end of FY 2014-15). The cost of “retiring” this volume of currency was therefore, going to be enormous which, as economists like former World Bank Chief Kaushik Basu (Basu 2016) emphasize, could far exceed the gains. In view of the intriguing developments overtaking the Indian economy since the date of submission of the initial abstract, problems that subsequently emerged as considerably more pressing and pertinent have been treated in greater detail in this study. Consequently, the approach and methodology has been substantially modified, although of course retaining the original motivation. With its laudable objectives of striking at the cash-corruption link, India saw, within the first four days of the announcement of demonetization, a staggering surge in bank deposits exceeding USD 52 billion, leading to high hopes of trapping unaccounted or illegal money through this route, a hope that was unfortunately to be belied. Given the enormous problem of Non-Performing Assets plaguing Indian Banks, we have also paid special attention to this potential vast source of unaccounted money in some detail. Next, an overview of India’s vast informal sector has been given, and the guidelines by Schneider and Williams (2013) and Schneider and Buehn (2008) have been used in an attempt to estimate the shadow economy in India using cointegration in a MIMIC framework. Finally, not only did India’s decision to demonetize have enormous economic or financial implications, but it also has had huge social and political ramifications that must be recognized.
E26|Estimating the roles of financial sector development and international trade openness in underground economies: Evidence from the European Union|This paper investigates both the static and dynamic relationships between the development within the financial sector development and international trade openness with regard to the size of the underground economy in 20 EU (European Union) Countries. Panel data analysis will be conducted for the period 2006 to 2014, in order to examine the effect of the financial sector development and trade openness on the size of the underground economy. In addition to the static relationship framework, the Arellano-Bond Generalized Method of Moments econometric method will be applied to examine the dynamic framework between the variables. The main findings of this paper suggest that financial development has a significant impact on the size of the underground economy, and the existence of the negative correlation between the official GDP and the size of the underground economy is proven. In conclusion, the development within the financial sector is a significant contributor to the underground economy.
E26|Informality and the long run Phillips curve|This paper studies the implications of informality for the long run relationship between inflation, output and unemployment in developing economies. I present a monetary dynamic general equilibrium model with search frictions in both labor and goods markets and where informality is an equilibrium outcome. Policies that lead to a larger informal sector result in an upward shift in both the money demand relation and the Beveridge curve. In contrast, financial development reduces informality and shifts both the Beveridge curve and the money demand relation downwards. An increase in the long run inflation rate affects unemployment through two channels: On the one hand, higher inflation reduces the surplus of monetary trades which lowers firms' profits, job creation and increases unemployment. On the other hand, it shifts firms' hiring decision from high separation and cash intensive informal jobs to low separation formal jobs which reduces unemployment. I calibrate the model to the Brazilian economy and find that the existence of a large informal sector significantly dampens the long run effects of monetary policy on unemployment and output. This result points to the importance of accounting for informality in the conduct of monetary policy in developing economies.
E26|Informal Labour Markets in Pakistan|This paper describes the results of a survey of informal-sector firms in Pakistan. Firms belong to the informal sector mainly because of scarce financial resources. There are significant differences in the level of wages and the flexibility of wages with the informal sector having both lower wages and greater flexibility than the formal sector. While minimum wages are less binding in the informal sector, indexation of wages to inflation is more common. In spite of these differences the reasons for not cutting wages in a recession are similar between the two sectors.
E26|Sex Work Vs. Sexual Exploitation: Assessing Guesstimates For Prostitution In The European Union|Prostitution regimes in the EU-28 include prohibition, regulation and abolition; economics literature tackles this typology from the perspective of both free sex work and forced labour trafficking. We review the data sources on the demand-side and the supply-side in order to gauge how large is the sex market and informal employment for sex workers. We calculate Estimates 1A and 1B from miscellaneous sources, whereas HIV prevalence among sex workers from World Health Organisation provides Estimates 2A and 2B. We calculate Estimate 3 from victims of sexual exploitation trafficking according to data collected by the UNODC and Eurostat. We design an OLS model to test the five Estimates of prostitution in EU-28 according to GDP per capita, legislation, supply-side and demand-side variables. Last, we assess which might be the most likely Estimates as regards GDP enhancement in 2010, with respect to National Accounts adjustment for illegal production and consumption expenditure. Hence, we come up with a lower bound Estimate that may be used as a benchmark for macroeconomic policy.
E26|Measuring the Invisible: An Overview of and Outlook for Tax Non-Compliance Estimates and Measurement Methods for Switzerland|This paper gives an overview of tax non-compliance estimates and evaluates the suitability of various tax non-compliance measurement methods for Switzerland. The existing estimates for Switzerland focus strongly on non-declared assets and are based on a limited number of measurement methods. Nevertheless, the estimates range widely, between CHF 106 to over 500 billion for non-declared assets and 12.6 to 35.1 percent for income, for the time period 1970 to today. These estimates could be taken as a starting point for further tax non-compliance research. They should however be verified and supplemented by estimates resulting from other methods as a solid measurement of tax non-compliance requires a comprehensive approach including several methods. Further, the focus should shift from non-declared assets towards non-declared income.
E26|The Road to Socioeconomic Fractality|Modelling socioeconomic phenomena is a challenge because of the difficulty to relate abstract conceptual structures with complex empirical data. The standard econometric approach takes whatever insight there exists, and simplifies it to fit into regression equations. However, developing economic ideas and empirical models separately may foster a tendency for science to diverge from reality, especially when those ideas originate in another discipline. This paper suggests a stochastic-optimization-based mapping of concepts from any domain on concepts from economics and management science. Such an approach could potentially alleviate the divergence problem by outsourcing part of the researcher’s task to the computational intelligence. By way of example I discuss the opportunities to use the field of mathematical neuroscience as a source of knowledge to be transferred to socioeconomic research.
E26|The Effects of Cameroonian Informal Sector on the Scale and Composition of Output|This paper studies potential economic effect of the informal sector, stemming from two factors: first, that informal workers, rural migrants, bring not only their labour supply with them, but also their consumption demands. Second, that informal workers may have a comparative advantage in the production of local goods. The paper then provides some descriptive statistics on the Informal workers share in the Cameroonian labour force, by industry, region, as well as on their branches distribution. Using data on a sample of microenterprises located in Douala and Yaounde between 2001 and 2010 matched with Rural and Urban Youth Support Program (RUYSP) and the National Employment Fund (NEF) data, the paper find some evidence that rural workers inflows boost employment in the retail sector, which is non-traded and a non-intensive user of informal labour. The paper also find that informalisation is associated with greater stand-alone retail stores, and a fewer number of large and in particular big-box retailers – evidence that likely corroborate a diversityenhancing effect of informalisation. Finally, focusing more sharply on the agricultural sector, for which we can better identify the types of products consumed by customers, the authors indicate that informalisation is associated with increased product diversity of agricultural sellers.
E26|VAT Evasion in Bulgaria: A General-Equilibrium Approach|This paper utilizes an otherwise standard micro-founded general-equilibrium setup, which is augmented with a revenue-extraction mechanism to assess the magnitude of VAT evasion. The model is calibrated to Bulgaria after the introduction of the currency board (1999-2014), as one of the very few countries in Europe with a nondifferentiated consumption tax rate, and an economy where VAT revenue makes almost half of total government tax revenue. A computational experiment performed within this setup estimates that on average, the size of evaded VAT is a bit more than onefourth of output, an estimate which is in line with the figures provided in both Philip (2014) and the European Commission (2014). In addition, model-based simulations suggest that increases in spending on law and order could generate substantial welfare gains by decreasing VAT evasion.
E26|VAT Evasion in Bulgaria: A General-Equilibrium Approach|This paper utilizes an otherwise standard micro-founded general-equilibrium setup, which is augmented with a revenue-extraction mechanism to assess the magnitude of VAT evasion. The model is calibrated to Bulgaria after the introduction of the currency board (1999-2014), as one of the very few countries in Europe with a non-di fferentiated consumption tax rate, and an economy where VAT revenue makes almost half of total government tax revenue. A computational experiment performed within this setup estimates that on average, the size of evaded VAT is a bit more than one-fourth of output, an estimate which is in line with the figures provided in both Philip (2014) and the European Commission (2014). In addition, model-based simulations suggest that increases in spending on law and order could generate substantial welfare gains by decreasing VAT evasion.
E26|Remittances and child labor in Bolivia|This article explores the effect of remittances on the prevalence and intensity of child labor in Bolivia. Using household survey data, we find that children in remittance-receiving households are less likely to be actively supplying labor, and the number of hours worked per week declines with the size of remittances received. The size of the impact varies between urban and rural households. Remittances to urban households have a larger impact on moving children completely out of the labor force, but a smaller increase in remittance size is needed for an equal reduction in number of hours worked in rural areas. JEL codes: F24, O15, E26 Copyright Coon. 2016
E26|Remittances and child labor in Bolivia|Abstract This article explores the effect of remittances on the prevalence and intensity of child labor in Bolivia. Using household survey data, we find that children in remittance-receiving households are less likely to be actively supplying labor, and the number of hours worked per week declines with the size of remittances received. The size of the impact varies between urban and rural households. Remittances to urban households have a larger impact on moving children completely out of the labor force, but a smaller increase in remittance size is needed for an equal reduction in number of hours worked in rural areas. JEL codes: F24, O15, E26
E26|Search frictions and labor market dynamics in a real business cycle model with undeclared work|Abstract We study the effects of undeclared work (UDW) on labor market dynamics in a real business cycle (RBC) model with search and matching frictions in the labor market. Distinction is made between the wages paid and the hours worked in regular and in undeclared types of activity. Calibrating the model on the US economy, we show that a greater size of UDW implies lower average employment, higher volatility of employment and lower volatility of regular wages. These volatilities are affected by the steady-state ratio between the minimum value of the regular wage that can be accepted by a worker and the maximum value that can be paid by a firm in the Nash bargaining process, which occurs when a labor match is realized. The greater the ratio, the higher the volatility of employment and the lower the volatility of wages. We demonstrate that, due to a social stigma attached to UDW, an increase in undeclared hours raises this ratio by reducing the numerator less than the denominator. This suggests that the introduction of UDW may improve the ability of RBC models to match the empirical volatilities of labor market variables.
E26|Evolutionary targeting for inclusive development|Abstract Many studies articulate a theoretical conceptual change—that is, a change from neo-classical economics and “Picking Winners” policy frameworks to a systemic-evolutionary targeting framework. Within such an intellectual context, this paper attempts to expand the evolutionary targeting framework to facilitate the process of inclusive industrial development. We present a unitary industrial development trajectory which is used as a narrative to articulate the evolutionary paths of Taiwan and Malaysia in making their respective sectoral changes (from informal to formal, and then to high technology sectors) endogenous. Building on both cases, we elucidate how the organization of subsistence farming contributes to development, and hence paves the way for new industrial takeoff. In this regard, the targeting programs that focus on the Schumpeterian segment are improved upon to offer support for (re)organization of the informal sector. This study, therefore, proposes a new analytical grid theorizing the current observations in inclusive development studies. It thus explicitly acknowledges the importance of transforming the informal sector to achieve inclusive development.
E26|Informality as a stepping stone: A search-theoretical assessment of informal sector and government policy|This paper develops a model of sequential job search to understand the factors determining the effect of tax and enforcement policies on the size (i.e., employment share) of informal sector. The focus is on the role of informal sector as a stepping stone to formal jobs. I argue that the stepping-stone role of informal jobs is an important concept determining how strongly government policies affect the size of informal sector. I measure the extent of the stepping-stone role with the intensity of skill accumulation in the informal sector. If informal jobs help workers acquire skills, gain expertise, and build professional networks for boosting the chances to switch to a formal job, then the size of informal sector is less sensitive to government policy. In this case, the option value of a job in informal sector will be high and a worker with an informal job will not rush to switch to a formal job when a policy encouraging formal employment is in effect. If, on the other hand, informal sector does not provide satisfactory training opportunities, then the size of informal sector becomes more sensitive to government policy. Calibrating the model to the Brazilian data, I perform numerical exercises confirming that the effect of government policy on the size of informal sector is a decreasing function of the intensity of skill acquisition in the informal sector.
E26|Entrepreneurship in the shadows|I develop a dynamic model of forward-looking entrepreneurs, who decide whether to operate in the formal economy or informal economy and choose how much to invest in their businesses, taking government policy as given. The government has access to two policy tools: taxes on formal business activity and enforcement (or policing) discouraging informality. The main focus of the paper is on transitional dynamics under different initial wealth levels. Whether an initially small business will be trapped in the informal economy and remain small forever or grow quickly and become a large formal business depends on tax and enforcement policies. High tax rates accompanied by loose enforcement—which is mostly the case in less-developed countries (LDCs)—induce tax avoidance, discourage investment in formal businesses, and drive the entrepreneurial activity toward the informal sector even though the initial wealth level is high. Lowering taxes on formal activity joined with strict enforcement can help reducing the magnitude of poverty traps in LDCs—such as the MENA region, Latin America, and developing Asia.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E26|Real Wages and the Business Cycle in Turkey|We analyze the direction and the magnitude of the responsiveness of real wages to the business cycle in Turkey using longitudinal data covering the 2006-2012 period. We find that wages in Turkey are quite procyclical; a 1 percentage point increase in the unemployment rate induces a 0.8 percent decline in real wages. This result can be obtained only if individual heterogeneity is taken into account. We also document wage cyclicality for different groups such as young, low educated, informal workers and job movers. We find a weaker wage response for the low educated and a stronger response for job movers. We also document wage cyclicality along the wage distribution. We find that workers who earn around the minimum wage have acyclical wages. Binding minimum wage suppresses wage cyclicality. For the rest of the distribution wages are highly procyclical.
E26|Informality in the Process of Development and Growth|“Informality” is a term used to describe the collection of firms, workers, and activities that operate outside the legal and regulatory systems. It is widespread in the majority of developing countries—in a typical developing economy, the informal sector produces about 35 percent of gross domestic product and employs 70 percent of the labor force. This paper studies informality in the context of economic development by presenting a model and projections that link informality, regulations, migration, and economic growth. This analytical framework highlights the trade-offs between formality and informality, the relationship between the different types of informality, and the connection between them and the forces of labor, capital, and productivity growth. The paper models the behavior of the informal sector based on the following fundamental asymmetry: formal firms confront higher labor costs while informal firms face higher capital costs and lower productivity. Using mandated minimum wages as the policy-induced distortion, the model first studies the static allocation of formal and informal capital and labor in a modern economy. Second, it opens the possibility of labor migration from a rudimentary economy with an ample supply of labor (rural areas or less advanced neighboring countries). Third, the model analyzes the dynamic behavior of the formal and informal sectors, considering how they affect and are affected by economic growth and labor migration. Then, the paper presents projections for the size of labor informality, in the modern and rudimentary economies, in the next two decades for a large group of countries representing all regions of the world. The projections are based on the calibration and simulation of the model and serve to discuss its usefulness and limitations.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E26|Is consumption-Laffer curve hump-shaped? The role of VAT evasion|This paper shows a standard RBC model, when augmented with a VAT evasion channel, where evasion depends on the consumption tax rate, can produce a hump-shaped consumption Laffer curve. Furthermore, when the evasion channel is turned off, the hump in the Laffer curve disappears, resulting in a monotone relationship between the VAT rate and both the consumption and total tax revenue. This result comes in stark contrast to Hiragara and Nituhara (2015), who generate a peaking curve for consumption tax revenue in a model with a separable utility in consumption and leisure and no evasion. Their results are contingent on implausible values for elasticity parameters, and in addition predict a revenue-maximizing consumption tax rate which is implausibly high. The paper contributes to the public finance literature by providing evidence for the importance of the evasion mechanism, while at the same time adding to the debate about the existence of a peak tax rate for consumption tax revenue.
E26|Energy consumption and the size of the informal economy|In this paper, the authors empirically investigate the relationship between energy consumption and the size of the informal economy. Relying on panel data regression models, their results show that at the aggregate level, energy intensity is inversely related to the size of the informal sector, providing actual empirical evidence on the presence of high labor and low capital intensity in the informal economy. Furthermore, the authors also find some support towards the presence of non-linearity and asymmetry in this relationship.
E26|T - Trabajos precarios|Resumen de la situación de informalidad en Bolivia, 1992 - 2012
E26|Taxation, credit constraints and the informal economy|This paper extends Evans and Jovanovic (1989)’s entrepreneurship model to incorporate the informal sector. Specifically, entrepreneurs can operate either in the formal sector – in which they have limited access to credit markets, but have to pay taxes – or in the informal sector – in which they can avoid paying taxes, but have no access to credit markets. In addition, technology in the informal sector is both less productive and more labor intensive than that in the formal sector. We calibrate the model to the Brazilian economy, and evaluate the impact of credit frictions and taxation on occupational choices, aggregate output and inequality. Removing all distortions can improve aggregate efficiency considerably, largely because this induces entrepreneurs to switch to the formal sector, where technology is superior. Most of this effect comes from removing credit market frictions, but taxes on formal businesses are also important. The elimination of distortions can also reduce inequality, but this comes from credit constraints and labor income taxation. Reducing taxes on formal businesses actually increases inequality in the model.
E26|Informal Sector Misallocation|A quantitative framework of firm dynamics is developed where the size of the informal sector is determined by financial constraints and the burden of taxation. Improving access to credit for formal sector firms increases aggregate TFP and output while reducing the size of the informal sector. Introducing size-dependent taxes reduces the gains from financial development as they incentivize firms to produce at a relatively limited scale. The aggregate effects of eliminating formal sector registration costs are positive but modest relative to previous theoretical models and the gains generated by financial development, and consistent with empirical evidence based on micro-level data.
E26|Reforma tributaria e informalidad laboral en Colombia: Un análisis de equilibrio general dinámico y estocástico|En 2012 el Gobierno Nacional de Colombia aprobó una reforma tributaria que tenía como objetivo central promover la formalización laboral. El presente documento busca evaluar la efectividad de esta reforma con un modelo de equilibrio general dinámico y estocástico calibrado para Colombia. Dicho modelo cuenta con 2 sectores productivos, uno informal y otro formal, y una estructura impositiva que captura los cambios más importantes de la reforma. Los resultados indican que esta tuvo un impacto positivo en la reducción de la informalidad laboral en 2,3 puntos porcentuales. Además, al tener en cuenta el horizonte de pre-anuncio natural en una reforma tributaria, variables como la producción, el consumo, la inversión y la informalidad laboral tienen un comportamiento opuesto en el corto plazo cuando se comparan con los resultados de convergencia en el largo plazo. Es así como, una vez anunciada la reforma tributaria, se observa un aumento en la informalidad laboral, aunque este desempeño se revierte en el largo plazo. Este comportamiento es validado con los datos observados para Colombia después del anuncio de la reforma, lo que refleja la importancia de incluir en el análisis la temporalidad de los cambios de política para explicar la reacción que generan en las variables macroeconómicas.******The Colombian Tax Reform of 2012 had as main objective to promote labor formalization. This paper seeks to evaluate the effectiveness of this reform with a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model calibrated for Colombia. This model has two productive sectors (formal and informal) and a tax structure that captures the major changes of the reform. The results indicate that the new tax policy had a positive impact in reducing labor informality by 2.3 percentage points. Furthermore, when we account for the natural pre-announcement period of any tax reform, variables such as output, consumption, investment and labor informality have the opposite behavior in the short-term when compared to their long-run dynamics. Thus, we find that once the tax reform is announced, an increase in informal employment is observed although this performance was reversed in the long run. We validate this behavior with the observed Colombian data right after the announcement of the reform. This result reflects the importance of including in the analysis the timing of policy changes to explain the response in macroeconomic variables.
E26|Reforma tributaria e informalidad laboral en Colombia: Un análisis de equilibrio general dinámico y estocástico|En 2012 el Gobierno Nacional de Colombia aprobó una reforma tributaria que tenía como objetivo central promover la formalización laboral. El presente documento busca evaluar la efectividad de esta reforma con un modelo de equilibrio general dinámico y estocástico calibrado para Colombia. Dicho modelo cuenta con 2 sectores productivos, uno informal y otro formal, y una estructura impositiva que captura los cambios más importantes de la reforma. Los resultados indican que esta tuvo un impacto positivo en la reducción de la informalidad laboral en 2,3 puntos porcentuales. Además, al tener en cuenta el horizonte de pre-anuncio natural en una reforma tributaria, variables como la producción, el consumo, la inversión y la informalidad laboral tienen un comportamiento opuesto en el corto plazo cuando se comparan con los resultados de convergencia en el largo plazo. Es así como, una vez anunciada la reforma tributaria, se observa un aumento en la informalidad laboral, aunque este desempeño se revierte en el largo plazo. Este comportamiento es validado con los datos observados para Colombia después del anuncio de la reforma, lo que refleja la importancia de incluir en el análisis la temporalidad de los cambios de política para explicar la reacción que generan en las variables macroeconómicas.
E26|Siva Ekonomija U Sektoru Preduzeća I Preduzetnika U Crnoj Gori (Shadow Economy Among Entreprises And Entrepreneurs In Montenegro)|U ovom radu analizira se siva ekonomija u sektoru preduzeća i preduzetnika u Crnoj Gori na osnovu podataka Ankete o uslovima poslovanja preduzeća i preduzetnika. Pored procene osnovnih oblika sive ekonomije, identifikuju se kategorije privrednih subjekata koje su najviše uključene u aktivnosti sive ekonomije, kao i specifični faktori koji su statistički značajni za odluku preduzeća da učestvuje u sivoj ekonomiji, a takođe i njihov neto uticaj. Rezultati ukazuju da se 38,4% privrednih subjekata (preduzeća i preduzetnika) u Crnoj Gori bavilo aktivnostima sive ekonomije 2014. godine. Nešto više od jedne trećine privrednih subjekata imalo je neformalno zaposlene, a 17,4% PDV obveznika više od 10% plaćanja obavljalo je gotovinski. Privredni subjekti sa domaćim kapitalom, sa manjim brojem zaposlenih i oni koji se nisu registrovali kada su počeli sa radom imaju veću verovatnoću da obavljaju aktivnosti sive ekonomije, pod pretpostavkom ostalih istih karakteristika. Rezultati takođe ukazuju da stav o opravdanosti sive ekonomije značajno utiče na odluku pojedinca da učestvuje u sivoj ekonomiji.
E26|Unemployment Compensation and the Allocation of Labor in Developing Countries|This paper studies the effects of the introduction of unemployment compensation (UC) in countries characterized by pervasive informality. We provide a simple framework to analyze the impact of UC on the allocation of workers between formal and informal activities, as well as the allocation of workers between sectors featuring different incentives to go informal. We show that a reasonable amount of UC may reduce informality, while larger amounts of UC induce large disincentives to go formal because of the level of taxation involved. We also argue that the financing of UC should be part and parcel of a well- conceived UC system. We show that UC finance based on payroll taxes is likely to entail an excess level of informality resulting from cross-subsidies between heterogenous sectors. The introduction of a simple layoff tax meant to finance the UC system is then shown to reduce informality, hence highlighting how a well-designed financing scheme may be used as a supplementary instrument to curb informality.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E26|Growth and informality: A comprehensive panel data analysis|In this paper we empirically explore the impact of the presence of informal economies on long-run economic growth. Using a novel panel dataset of 161 countries over the period from 1950 to 2010 we obtain an inverted-U relationship between informal sector size and growth of GDP per capita. That is, small and large sizes of the informal economy are associated with little growth and medium levels of the size of the informal economy are associated with higher levels of growth. We also observe that in high (low) income economies, informal economy size is positively (negatively) correlated with growth. Moreover, when we decompose growth into several components using a simple growth accounting framework, we find that informality is mainly associated with growth in TFP and that this association is different in high and low-income economies.
E26|"Comment on Feige's Paper ""Reflections on the Meaning and Measurement of Unobserved Economies: What do we really know about the 'Shadow Economy'?"""|This comment provides a reply to Prof. Feige’s paper with the title “Reflections on the Meaning and Measurement of Unobserved Economies: What do we really know about the ‘Shadow Economy’?”, in which Prof. Feige heavily criticizes me. I show that the same critique which Prof. Feige raises against me can be put forward to his results on the non-observed economy. Moreover, I show that my dataset is appropriately documented and I also address the problem of calibration and normalization issues when undertaking a MIMIC estimation. In the concluding chapter I suggest that a joint paper should be written in which all the pros and cons of each method of estimating the size and development of the non-observed/shadow economy are presented and criticized.
E26|Impacto de los subsidios estatales sobre el mercado laboral en Colombia|Según las estadísticas del Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadística (DANE), entre enero de 2009 y diciembre de 2014, los hogares colombianos que recibieron ayudas en dinero de instituciones pasaron de 700.000 a casi 3.000.000. Así, cualquiera que sea su finalidad y forma de entrega, estas ayudas pueden tener repercusiones sobre la decisión de participación en el mercado laboral por parte de los integrantes del grupo familiar beneficiario y, una vez tomada la decisión de participar, sobre la conveniencia de emplearse en el sector formal de la economía. Entonces, utilizando los microdatos de un panel a hogares, este documento estima un modelo econométrico de diferencias en diferencias con el fin de verificar el impacto de algunos programas sociales del Estado colombiano sobre la participación laboral y la informalidad de los adultos con responsabilidades familiares, residentes en áreas urbanas. Los resultados indican que el recibir ayudas por parte del Estado no tiene mayores efectos sobre la decisión de participar en el mercado laboral. Por el contrario, algunas transferencias, y sobre todo el acceso subsidiado a los servicios de salud, condicionan a los beneficiarios a permanecer en la informalidad.
E26|Mercado del crédito informal en Colombia: una aproximación empírica|El objetivo de este trabajo es analizar la demanda de créditos informales en Colombia, que permita una mayor inclusión financiera para los hogares e individuos colombianos. Por lo cual, utilizando modelos de regresión binomial y multinomial e información de la Encuesta Longitudinal Colombiana de la Universidad de los Andes (ELCA), se encontró que los atributos como montos, periodicidad de pagos y plazo juegan un papel fundamental, de manera que entre menores sean dichas características, mayor es la probabilidad de acceder al crédito informal. Por otra parte los activos como respaldo de una deuda informal, no juegan un papel significativo, ya que la confianza es fundamental en la relación del prestamista y del prestatario.
E26|Access to Credit and the Size of the Formal Sector|This paper studies the link between credit conditions and formalization in Brazil. Over the last decade, Brazil has experienced a large increase in the level of credit and the rate of formalization. these changes are linked to a reduction in the cost of credit and policy reforms oriented toward improving the ef ciency of the nancial sector. The paper develops a model with endogenous formal and informal sectors to evaluate how much of the change in corporate credit and the size of the formal sector can be attributed to a reduction in nancial intermediation costs. The model predicts that the reduction in intermediation costs generates an increase in the credit-to-output ratio and the fraction of formal workers, in line with the data. By affecting the allocation of capital and the entry and exit rates, the change in credit conditions has important implications for the rm size distribution and aggregate productivity.
E26|Informality and Inclusive Growth in Sub-Saharan Africa|This research seeks to explore the relationship between informality and inclusive growth in sub-Saharan Africa, with a particular focus on South Africa. South Africans typically hold one of two opposing views on the informal sector. The first is that informality should be encouraged as an under-utilised source of new employment; the second is that it should be discouraged as an inferior source of employment. The central research question is therefore: “Do informal labour markets promote or constrain inclusive growth?” In order to examine the hypotheses, we use three different methodologies. Firstly, we undertake a regional evidence synthesis examining literature and case studies from the sub-Saharan Africa region. Secondly, we expand on the South African case study and examine the nature of transitions within the labour market. Thirdly, we examine to what extent income shocks may impact the likelihood of engagement within the informal sector.
E26|Health Shocks and Permanent Income Loss: the Household Business Channel|This study uses an original Vietnamese panel data to provide strong evidence that microenterprises are vulnerable to health shocks affecting their operators and/or other household members. Although intra-household labour reallocation mitigates the direct labour supply decrease, large out-of- pocket health expenditures have the potential of crowding out business-related expenditure, and to significantly decrease investment. The costs associated with illness thus affect directly the household businesses that generate income for countless individuals around the developing world. These results have important implications, among which the underestimation of the positive externalities of health insurance schemes.
E26|Shadow economies at times of banking crises: Empirics and theory|This paper investigates the response of the shadow economy to banking crises. Our empirical analysis, based on a large sample of countries, suggests that the informal sector is a powerful buffer, which expands at times of banking crises and absorbs a large proportion of the fall in official output. To rationalise our evidence, we build a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model which accounts for financial and labour market frictions and for nominal rigidities. In line with the empirical literature on the shadow economy, we assume that in the informal sector access to external finance is limited, and the production technology is relatively more labour intensive. Following a banking shock in the official sector, the model predicts a large negative transmission to the unofficial economy that substantially dampens the overall effect of the shock.
E26|De cartoneros a recicladores urbanos. El rol de las políticas locales en mejorarla sustentabilidad de los recolectores de base|Las políticas locales enfocadas a la economía informal, en general, ya los recolectores, en particular, están basadas en cuatro aproximaciones: (1)Dua-lista, de represión en contra de la actividad, producto de la preservación de la po-breza y de la reducción del crecimiento económico; (2)Estructuralista, enfocadasen reforzar las organizaciones y mejorar la negociación de precios; (3)Neoliberal,dirigida a promover la actividad a través de la legalización y el libre mercado,y (4)Co-producción, que considera un fuerte apoyo de las políticas locales paramejorar la productividad de la actividad. Son escasos los estudios -cualitativos y/ocuantitativos- que comparen estas políticas urbanas. Este estudio evalúa la vera-cidad de la caracterización de la economía informal y el impacto de las políticaslocales que estas teorías recomiendan aplicar. Los resultados obtenidos del estudiomuestran una asociación positiva entre el apoyo local y el incremento de la sosteni-bilidad de los recicladores de base en cuanto a su crecimiento económico, equidadsocial, protección medioambiental y reducción de las externalidades negativas.
E26|Can growth be wage-led in small open developing economies?|This paper investigates the conditions under which wage-led and profit-led growth can take place in a small open developing economy. It presents a model in which three sectors coexist: a capital-intensive tradables sector, a capital-intensive modern non-tradables sector and a labor-intensive traditional or non-capitalist sector producing non-tradable services. The analysis highlights the role and importance of the modern non-tradables sector in the economy (banking and insurance, construction, water, gas, electricity, transport, and communications), showing to what extent the presence of this sector modifies the conditions for wage-led and profit-led growth.
E26|Informalidad, productividad y crecimiento en México, 2000.Q2- 2014.Q4|El desmedido aumento del sector informal, tradicional válvula de escape del mercado laboral, ha condicionado un lento crecimiento de la economía mexicana desde la década de los ochenta. A partir de una lectura del modelo de Lewis (1954), proponemos que el crecimiento de la informalidad en México ha creado limitantes al crecimiento de largo plazo, mediante una sistemática reducción de la productividad factorial total. La estimación de un Vector de Corrección de Error VECM(4) aporta evidencia de la reducción de la productividad debido al crecimiento del sector informal, que asociado a un lento crecimiento hace que se perpetúe un círculo vicioso de la improductividad, muy difícil de romper.
E26|Cash on Trial|Over millennia, mankind has used hard cash in various forms ranging from shells to gold coins and paper. More recently, cash has become unpopular in political circles, as it effectively restricts states’ power to tax (explicitly or via negative interest rates) or to survey and potentially control their citizens. Several states have enacted restrictions to the use of hard cash. Above all, a strong new competitor to cash has arisen in the form of various electronic means of payment. Are we heading towards a society in which ‘coined freedom’ (Dostojewski) will cease to exist? Under this provocative ‘motto’ SUERF organised a combined evening event (in German at the University of Zurich) and one-day conference (in English at the theatre ‘Millers’ in Zurich) to take stock of the arguments brought forward in the current debate on the pros and cons and, more generally, the future of cash.
E26|Who counts as employed?: informal work, employment status, and labor market slack|Several recent studies find that as of 2015, a significant share of working-age adults in the United States participates in nonstandard work arrangements. Such arrangements tend to lack long-term employment contracts and are often referred to as “gig economy” jobs. This paper investigates the implications of nonstandard or “informal” work for the measurement of employment status and labor market slack. Using original survey data, we find that as of 2015 roughly 37 percent of nonretired U.S. adults participated in some type of informal work, and roughly 20 percent participated in informal income-generating activities that did not exclusively involve renting out their own property or selling their own goods. The survey also elicits an individual’s employment status according to the definitions of the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). While not the majority, a significant share of those who engage in informal work are classified as not being in the labor force; if all informal workers were counted as employed, the U.S. labor force participation rate (as of 2015) would have been 2 percentage points higher. In addition, individuals who are classified as working “part-time for economic reasons”—those who would like a full-time job but cannot obtain full-time hours—have the highest participation rate in informal work and the highest average hours per month. This latter finding suggests that informal work embodies labor market slack, and we offer several pieces of evidence that support the thesis that workers engage in informal work as a way to compensate for weak labor demand and may therefore drop informal work as formal labor market conditions improve. To estimate the amount of labor market slack embodied in informal work, we convert the total hours of informal work performed by those classified as employed part-time into a number of full-time job equivalents. This exercise yields a figure that ranges from roughly 275,000 to roughly 400,000, depending on the specifics of the calculation. At the same time, we point out that a significant share of informal work hours offer higher wages than what the same individuals earn in their formal jobs. Therefore, formal wages may need to increase by a relatively large margin moving forward in order to attract additional labor into the formal sector.
E26|How To Define And Measure Informal Employment In Developed Countries? A Case Of Poland|The main aim of this article is to point out the possible measures of how to improve the study of informal employment in developed countries. We choose the case of Poland to examine whether the existing definitions and measurement methods are suitable for indicating the prevalence of informal employment. Firstly, we present the most popular definitions of informal employment, secondly we show the existing research on informal employment in Poland, and thirdly we assess the previous estimations of informal employment in Poland with regard to the definition’s scope. Finally, we propose some improvements that would help in studying this phenomenon in Poland. Through a critical analysis of existing research on informal employment we contribute to the existing literature in two ways: (i) by constructing the definitional frames of informal employment in Poland; and (ii) by pointing out the possible extensions of surveys devoted to informal employment in developed countries.
E26|Sex Work Vs. Sexual Exploitation: Assessing Guesstimates For Prostitution In The European Union|Prostitution regimes in the EU-28 include prohibition, regulation and abolition; economics literature tackles this typology from the perspective of both free sex work and forced labour trafficking. We review the data sources on the demand-side and the supply-side in order to gauge how large is the sex market and informal employment for sex workers. We calculate Estimates 1A and 1B from miscellaneous sources, whereas HIV prevalence among sex workers from World Health Organisation provides Estimates 2A and 2B. We calculate Estimate 3 from victims of sexual exploitation trafficking according to data collected by the UNODC and Eurostat. We design an OLS model to test the five Estimates of prostitution in EU-28 according to GDP per capita, legislation, supply-side and demand-side variables. Last, we assess which might be the most likely Estimates as regards GDP enhancement in 2010, with respect to National Accounts adjustment for illegal production and consumption expenditure. Hence, we come up with a lower bound Estimate that may be used as a benchmark for macroeconomic policy.
E26|Estimación de la economía informal para México mediante un método monetario, 1970-2012|Empleando el método monetario de demanda de circulante sugerido por Tanzi, en el presente artículo se estima el tamaño de la economía informal para México para el periodo 1970-2012. A diferencia de otros trabajos, en este documento se emplea una base de datos bastante amplia. El modelo arroja resultados muy similares a los anteriores y las diferencias importantes sólo radican en la base de datos utilizada y en los periodos que abarcan. Los resultados son consistentes con la existencia de una relación negativa entre el crecimiento de la economía formal y el tamaño de la economía informal./ Using monetary currency demand method suggested by Tanzi, in this article the size of the informal economy in Mexico for the period 1970-2012 is estimated. Unlike other works, in this paper it is used a fairly extensive data base. The model gives very similar results to those and only major differences lie in the database used and the periods they cover. The results are consistent with the existence of a negative relationship between the growth of the formal economy and the size of the informal economy.
E26|Size and Development of the Shadow Economies of 157 Countries Worldwide: Updated and New Measures from 1999 to 2013|"This paper is a first attempt to study the size and development of the shadow economies of 157 countries over 1999 to 2013. Using a MIMIC model, we find that higher tax and regulatory burden, unemployment and self-employment rates are drivers of the shadow economy, meaning that an increase of these causal variables increases the shadow economy. Our result also confirms previous findings of Friedrich Schneider, Andreas Buehn and Claudia Montenegro (2010). The estimated average of informality of 157 countries around the world, including developing, eastern European, central Asian and high income OECD countries averaged over 1999 to 2013 is 33.77% of official GDP. A critical discussion about the size of these macro-estimates comes to the conclusion that most likely the ""true"" shadow economy of these countries is only 69% of their estimated macro-MIMIC-values."
E26|The 'Informality Gap': Can Education Help Minorities Escape Informal Employment? Evidence from Peru|"Discrimination in formal labor markets can push discriminated groups into labor informality, where wages are lower and pensions scarce. In this paper, we explore whether education offsets discrimination by empowering discriminated groups to successfully compete for formal jobs. Specifically, we calculate the returns to education on formal employment for a discriminated group (indigenous Peruvians). We find that certain education levels –primary and tertiary–allow indigenous workers equal access to formal jobs. But, for indigenous workers with only secondary education, we find an ""informality trap"" where returns to secondary education are 6.7 percentage points lower, a difference larger than the net returns of primary education. We find that differences in education quality across districts, more than migration and industry-specific patterns, are the main drivers of this effect. These findings have policy implications suggesting improvements to quality are essential for secondary education to empower discriminated groups to successfully compete in labor markets."
E26|Estimating the Size of the Shadow Economy: Methods, Problems and Open Questions|This paper presents various methods for estimating the size of the shadow economy and analyzes their strengths and weaknesses. The purpose of the paper is twofold. Firstly, it demonstrates that no ideal method exists to estimate the size and development of the shadow economy. Because of its flexibility, the MIMIC method used to get macro-estimates of the size of the shadow economy is discussed in greater detail. Secondly, the paper focuses on the definition and causal factors of the shadow economy and provides a comparison of the size of the shadow economy using different estimation methods.
E26|Cash wage payments in transition economies: Consequences of envelope wages|In transition economies, a significant number of companies reduce their tax and social contributions by paying their staff an official salary, described in a registered formal employment agreement, and an extra, undeclared “envelope wage,” via a verbal unwritten agreement. The consequences include a loss of government income and a lack of fair play for lawful companies. For employees, accepting under-reported wages reduces their access to credit and their social protections. Addressing this issue will help increase the quality of working conditions, strengthen trade unions, and reduce unfair competition.
E26|A bilateral monopsony approach to lending, and the hidden economy in LDCs|Under developing-economy circumstances of small and mainly informal firms and a few official corporate conglomerates, an investigation of the developmental role of banking in such economies might be pursued analytically within the context of a bilateral monopsony for loans. Assuming away wage differences and trade between formal and informal sectors, a model is presented in which one firm borrows from one bank with a positive supply curve of loans. The bank monitors firm’s output, which firm produces output underground too, in order to avoid this monitoring and minimize its marginal expenditure on loans by defaulting. The model incorporates also a laborer-consumer who allocates labor between the formal and informal sectors in a way preserving full employment. In this model, the following results obtain: There cannot be underground only economy even in the absence of government national-accounting induced output monitoring once part at least of the output has to be monitored by the bank. The capital employed officially is always more than that underground. Bank monopoly power induces lexicographic preferences towards underground economy income. The stability of the system depends on the relative size of the official to total capital ratio and the response of loan demand to the interest rate. The introduction of government and indirect taxation alter the optimal official to total capital ratio. Yet, the steady-state and stability of the system remain unchanged under a tax financed balanced budget. Government borrowing by a rent-seeking government or to cope with tax-evasion induced budget deficits lowers lending to the firm and leads thereby the system to equilibrium away from steady-state; but tax evasion increases such lending towards steady-state restoration. It is clear that the approach to development leading to these conclusions focuses not on development per se but on how it is shaped based on overt and covert resources and capabilities financed by concentrated banking. The mentality underlying such an approach abides by Hirschman’s (1965) view of development rather than macroeconomic growth. Policy-wise, international trade and foreign direct investment should be encouraging the official economy at the expense of the unofficial one. Also, government borrowing from abroad is expected to be sooner or later recessionary if the money is not channeled to public investment. Special attention should be paid to the design of trade liberalization towards (i) the implementation of non-inflationary government finance means compensating for the subsequent loss of tariffs, and (ii) discouraging the profit shifting by multinationals abroad.
E26|Tax Losses due to Shadow Economy Activities in OECD Countries from 2011 to 2013: A preliminary calculation|In this short paper an attempt is undertaken to calculate the tax losses which result from shadow economy activities in a country. These calculations are done for the 28 EU countries, for 3 non-EU countries and for 2 other highly-developed OECD countries. The total tax losses over all 28 EU-countries make up 450.8 billion euros or 3.6% of EU-28-GDP in 2011. In 2012 it were 457.3 billion euros or 3.5% of EU-28-GDP and in 2013 454.2 billion euros or 3.4% of EU-28-GDP. For the whole country sample used in this paper the tax losses amounted to 698.7 billion euros or 2.4% of GDP of these 33 countries in 2011. In 2012 the value of tax losses was 737.2 billion euros or 2.3% of GDP and in 2013 it was 713.1 billion euros or also 2.3% of total GDP of these 33 countries.
E26|Aging, Informality and Public Policies in a Small Open Economy|We extend OGRE, the overlapping generation model developed by Baksa and Munkacsi (2016) by adding openness. We then employ the model to explore how the macroeconomic effects of aging, assumed to manifest itself as a decrease in the mortality rate, can be counteracted through public policies. The extended version inherits the previous modelling features of OGRE allowing us to also account for the impact openness has on the effectiveness of the considered policies.
E26|A Detailed Description of OGRE, the OLG Model|In this paper we present the structure of OGRE, a dynamic general equilib-rium model with overlapping generations, unemployment and a shadow economy. Based on a parametrized version of the model, we examine the impacts of aging and calculate multipliers of public pension and other fiscal policies. Also, we contrast macroeconomic reactions with pay-as-you-go and fully funded pension plans. Lastly, we highlight the role of unemployment and that of the underground sector in the framework.Classification-JEL: E24, E26, H55, J11, J46Keywords: population aging, public old-age pension reforms, pay-as-you-go, fully funded, shadow economy, informal employment, government debt, New Keynesian model, overlapping generations, demography, unemployment, retirement age
E26|Aging, (Pension) Reforms and the Shadow Economy in Southern Europe|Southern Europe is currently experiencing a double-whammy: high levels of government debt coupled with a rapidly aging population. Thus, the consolidation of (pension) budgets seems inevitable. In this paper we examine the short- and long-run macroeconomic e ects of public old-age pension reforms and other scal policies under conditions of population aging. To do so, we calibrate OGRE, a New Keynesian model with overlapping generations, unemployment and an underground sector to match annual data on Portugal and Spain. Our main nding is that a retirement-age increase is the least harmful policy with respect to long-run output. However, we raise some doubts about the feasibility of implementing this policy.Classification-JEL: E24, E26, H55, J11, J46Keywords: population aging, public old-age pension reforms, pay-as-you-go, fully funded, shadow economy, informal employment, government debt, New Keynesian model, overlapping generations, demography, unemployment, retirement ageLength: 71 pages
E26|The informal sector and the internal migration process in developing countries: an examination of the Todaro paradox|For several years, accelerated migrations from rural areas to the cities have been observed. Nevertheless, salary differences have been increasingly small. The result is important problems of over-urbanization and urban unemployment. These observations seem to conflict with the microeconomic theories of migrations in the LDCs which predict, on the contrary, that the migrations should slow down because in this case, the prospect of greater earnings in the city is less promising than in the rural areas. It seems to us that these observations do not take the informal economy into account (because it generally is not included in the official figures); this sector nevertheless absorbs an increasing amount of urban labour. We next propose an original model which explicitly accounts for the informal economy and analyse whether or not unemployment reduction policies are effective in this context.
E26|Impact des politiques fiscales et d’emploi sur le secteur informel et la pauvreté au Cameroun|Cette étude examine les rapports entre les économies informelle et formelle en essayant de répondre à la question suivante : quel est l’impact des politiques fiscales et d’emploi sur l’économie informelle et la pauvreté au Cameroun ? Pour y répondre, une approche méthodologique en équilibre général calculable (MEGC) a été mise en œuvre. Le modèle est implémenté à l’aide d’une matrice de comptabilité sociale (MCS) construite à partir des comptes nationaux 2010, puis désagrégée à l’aide des données d’enquêtes ECAM 3 et EESI 2. Les résultats des simulations montrent qu’une hausse de l’emploi qualifié dans le secteur formel engendre un recul de l’activité économique dans le secteur informel, et par conséquent, une amélioration de la croissance du PIB et une réduction considérable de la pauvreté. En revanche, outre la fiscalisation des produits du secteur informel qui amplifie la pauvreté, les politiques fiscales présentent des évolutions sans une démarcation perceptible entre les deux secteurs.
E26|Could Mexico become the new ‘China’? Policy drivers of competitiveness and productivity|Over the last decade, Mexico’s unit labour costs decreased relative to other emerging markets’, especially compared to China’s. This decrease boosted Mexico’s trade competitiveness, particularly in the manufacturing sector. However, Mexico’s increasing competitiveness masks one of the country’s fundamental concerns, which is the absence of productivity improvements. The aim of this paper is two-fold: first, we examine the evolution of total factor productivity in Mexico’s manufacturing sector, as compared to China’s. Firm-level data is employed to analyse the distribution and characteristics of productivity across Mexico’s regions. Second, using regional data for the period 2005–2012, we study the policy impediments behind sluggish productivity improvements, particularly to determine how labour informality may have contributed. The study takes advantage of Mexico’s heterogeneity across regions in terms of productivity, market regulation, financial constraints and firm size to identify economic policies that can help to boost productivity in the future.
E26|Corruption as a Governance Challenge and the Role of Civil Society|A first step towards a sustainable anti-corruption policy is to view corrupt practices as symptoms of a deeper problem in the relationship between state and society in general and in the function of democratic institutions in particular. These considerations bring us closer to conceptualising an anti-corruption strategy as an axis of a systematic reform policy towards social accountability. To implement effective strategies we need to pursue a more focused anti-corruption policies and to get away from a conventional minimalist approach of combating the phenomenon, mainly by choosing broader perspectives with the emphasis on accountability and the role of civil society in the consolidation of good governance. In this context, anti-corruption policy is a policy of accountability towards protecting human rights and in relation to any kind of development. Accountability supports good governance as is a co-creator of the active citizens' participation in a (transparent) decision making process.
E26|Fiscal burden differentiation between European Union countries as a source of opportunism, moral hazard and unproductive entrepreneurship|Free movement and freedom of establishment existing within the European Union institutions are the main factors which make European Union open for business activities. However, it should be noted that all EU countries have their own tax systems and fiscal policy. This, in turn, differentiates fiscal burden of government imposed onto its taxpayers in each Member State. These differences frequently distort the conditions of establishment. As every entrepreneur is willing to minimize costs, especially when their source are compulsory taxes, mass tax migration between Member States might be expected. Tax avoidance and tax evasion, being a form of tax migration, imply numerous economic, social and legal problems. The aim of this paper is to identify these problems along with their causes and effects in terms of fiscal burden differentiation between Member States. Descriptive, qualitative and quantitative analyses have been applied in order to explain the abovementioned phenomena. Additionally, the analyses have been accompanied by case studies.
E26|Reflections on the meaning and measurement of Unobserved Economies: What do we really know about the “Shadow Economy”?|This paper reviews the meaning and measurement of unobserved economies germane to tax evasion and macroeconomic information systems. These include the unreported, non-observed, underground, illegal, informal and unrecorded economies. It reviews the progress and shortcomings of national and international agency efforts to measure these unobserved economies, noting what they have in common, what distinguishes one from another and their interconnections. It then examines the meaning of Professor Schneider’s Shadow Economy (SSE), and the veracity of his claim to have accurately estimated its size and trend worldwide by employing a MIMIC model methodology. It concludes that SSE estimates suffer from conceptual flaws, apparent manipulation of results and insufficient documentation for replication, questioning their place in the academic, policy and popular literature.
E26|Catallactics misapplication: It’s crucial role in Africa’s underdeveloped Economy- Revised Edition Vol. 1|The paper seeks to solve the macroeconomic error. The error that has over the years emerged from the dispensing of the monetary policy by African Central Banks. These monetary policies have refused to address the desired economic growth expected by individual developing and underdeveloped countries. The paper conclusively present a new mathematical model to determine the exact health status of an economy in developing and underdeveloped countries in Africa.
E26|A Short “Second Best” Narrative of the Ukrainian Economy/ Una Breve “Segunda Mejor Opción” de Narrativa de la Economía Ucraniana|This article maintains that in our second best world, neither corruption nor the informal sector and political instability can be held responsible for the moderate performance of the Ukrainian economy. Corruption in Ukraine appears to act as “grease in the wheels of the economy”, while informal activities add to the welfare of its people. And, no connection of political instability with economic performance may be contemplated conclusively. The cause of the inefficiency of private and public investment is traced to poor public governance. Massive infrastructure investments can become the remedy (i) in the context of public-private partnerships with the collaboration of the subnational governments, and (ii) in financing the projects through domestic monetary expansion, under a macroeconomic policy viewpoint emphasizing the monetary rather than fiscal side of the venture. The proposed monetary expansion can only work only under the proper multiplier, accelerator, and capital accumulation link. Special care should be taken to improve the industrial organization of the inefficient banking sector Este artículo manifiesta que en nuestro mundo de la segunda mejor opción, no se puede atribuir ni a la corrupción ni al sector informal y a la inestabilidad política el rendimiento limitado de la economía ucraniana. En Ucrania, la corrupción parece funcionar como “lubrificante para las ruedas de la economía”, mientras las actividades incrementan el bienestar de su pueblo. Además, no se puede contemplar de manera definitiva ninguna conexión entre la inestabilidad política y el rendimiento económico. La causa de la ineficencia de las inversiones particulares y públicas resalen a la gobernación pública ineficaz. Las inversiones masivas en infraestructuras pueden constituir un remedio (i) en el ámbito de partenariados entre los sectores públicos y privados con la colaboración del gobierno a nivel sub-nacional y (ii) financiando los proyectos mediante una expansión monetaria interior, desde un punto de vista de política macroeconómica que se enfoque en el aspecto monetario de la inversión más que en el fiscal. La expansión monetaria propuesta puede funcionar únicamente con el enlace correcto entre multiplicadores, aceleradores y la acumulación de capital. Se debe cuidar en particular de mejorar la organización del sector bancario actualmente ineficiente.
E26|Sistema financiero, informalidad y evasión tributaria en el Perú|Explora la posibilidad de identificar a los informales que han adquirido al menos un crédito en el sistema financiero peruano y aproxima el monto de evasión tributaria correspondiente.
E26|Sistema financiero, informalidad y evasión tributaria en Perú|Según el Instituto Nacional de Estadística e Informática, una unidad productiva se denomina informal si no está registrada en la administración tributaria. Utilizando información de la administración tributaria de Perú y de los créditos otorgados por el sistema financiero peruano, este trabajo identifica a los informales que han adquirido al menos un crédito en el sistema financiero, describe su participación por entidad financiera y tipo de crédito, y estima el monto de evasión tributaria correspondiente. Los resultados muestran que, a diciembre de 2014, existían aproximadamente 1,8 millones de informales que tenían al menos un crédito en alguna entidad del sistema.financiero, lo cual indica que existiría un margen importante para la ampliación de la base tributaria. También se encuentra que las Cajas Rurales, Edpymes y Financieras fueron las entidades con mayores tasas de informalidad, mientras que los montos más importantes de los créditos obtenidos por los informales correspondieron a créditos para micro y pequeña empresa (Mype), créditos de consumo y tarjetas de crédito. En términos de estabilidad financiera, los resultados sugieren que sería prudencial vigilar y cuantificar la exposición al riesgo por informalidad en el sistema financiero. Finalmente, se estima que la evasión tributaria de los clientes informales del sistema financiero habría sido aproximadamente O,7 por ciento del PBI en el año 2014.
E26|Impacts of Universal Health Coverage: Financing, Income Inequality, and Social Welfare|This paper studies the impact of tax-financed universal health coverage schemes on macroeconomic aspects of labor supply, asset holding, inequality, and welfare, while taking into account features common to developing economies, such as informal employment and tax avoidance, by constructing a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model with heterogeneous agents. Agents have different education levels, employment statuses, and idiosyncratic shocks. Given three tax financing options, calibration results based on the Thai economy suggest that the financing options matter for outcomes both at the aggregate and disaggregate levels. Universal health coverage, financed by labor income tax revenue, could reduce inequality due to its large redistributive role. Social welfare cannot be improved when labor decisions are endogenous and distortions are higher than the redistributive gains for all tax financing options. In the absence of labor supply choice, mild welfare gains are found. In a broader sense, the paper aims to provide a frame for policy evaluation of socioeconomic policies from both macro and micro perspectives, taking different social groups into consideration.
E26|Regional Economic Integration and Tax Revenue: East African Community|The ultimate goal of regional integration is the long-term high economic growth for member states. Tax revenues are critical to achieving this objective, given the high dependence of developing countries on this fiscal revenue. However, empirical studies have been unable to determine whether regional integration improves or impedes the mobilization of taxes. We use data from 1980 to 2014 in order to estimate a tax model; the results based on the generalized method of moments technique reveal that East African regional integration has had a significant impact on tax revenue owing to the presence of good institutions. We advocate any policy agenda aimed at improving institutional environment, financial sector, macroeconomic stability, and manufacturing and trade, as well as a well-integrated approach to reduce a shadow economy. Finally, given the deleterious nature of capital account liberalization, we believe that cautiously designed capital control policies are likely to enhance tax collections in East Africa.
E26|De cartoneros a recicladores urbanos. El rol de las políticas locales en mejorar la sustentabilidad de los recolectores de base|Las políticas locales enfocadas a la economía informal, en general, y a los recolectores, en particular, están basadas en cuatro aproximaciones: (1) Dualista, de represión en contra de la actividad, producto de la preservación de la pobreza y de la reducción del crecimiento económico; (2) Estructuralista, enfocadas en reforzar las organizaciones y mejorar la negociación de precios; (3) Neoliberal, dirigida a promover la actividad a través de la legalización y el libre mercado, y (4) Co-producción, que considera un fuerte apoyo de las políticas locales para mejorar la productividad de la actividad. Son escasos los estudios -cualitativos y/o cuantitativos- que comparen estas políticas urbanas. Este estudio evalúa la veracidad de la caracterización de la economía informal y el impacto de las políticas locales que estas teorías recomiendan aplicar. Los resultados obtenidos del estudio muestran una asociación positiva entre el apoyo local y el incremento de la sostenibilidad de los recicladores de base en cuanto a su crecimiento económico, equidad social, protección medioambiental y reducción de las externalidades negativas. Policies towards the urban economy, in general, and towards scavengers, in particular, are based in four approaches: (1) dualists propose repressive policies against scavengers’ activities as they look at them as a means of poverty preservation and slowing of economic growth; (2) structuralists address weak sup- porting policies, reinforcing scavengers association and better negotiation power to avoid capitalist exploitation; (3) neoliberals promote scavenging activities through legalization and free-markets without government intervention; and, (4) co-production arrangements propose a strong local support as a means to enhance scavengers’ productivity. Qualitative-quantitative research on the impact of different policy approaches on scavengers’ sustainable performance is scarce. This paper tries to fill this gap in the literature evaluating the veracity of competing theoretical characterizations and policy approaches. The empirical results suggest a positive association between levels of local government support and scavengers’ sustainable performance on economic growth, social equity, environmental protection and reduction of negative externalities of the activity.
E26|How Strongly The Hidden Economy Of A Small Country Can Be Influenced By Drastic Events: Case Of Macedonia|Hidden economy presents a big concern for both developing and developed countries. Of particular interest is precise determination of the temporal pattern of hidden for small developing economies, which exhibit many peculiarities. Several methods for estimation of hidden economy are effectively used in economic research. Appropriate model based on some of these methods for small developing economies is required. Modified electric energy household consumption model is proposed in this work. Using this model, temporal variations of hidden economy in Republic of Macedonia were calculated for the period 1992–2014. For the sub-period 1999–2007 the obtained values are in excellent agreement with values reported in literature obtained by dynamic multiple indicators multiple causes method, proving that the method proposed in this work produces highly relevant results. Thus obtained temporal pattern of the hidden economy in Macedonia, using deconvolution in Gaussians, is described by five contributions: baseline at 32% and four Gaussian peaks corresponding to hyperinflation, Kosovo conflict, security crisis in Macedonia and banking crisis. After the expiration of the effects of these shocks, hidden economy approaches the baseline at about 32 %. It is proposed to use this modified method for estimating size of hidden economy in various small economies.
E26|"""Sometimes you don't make enough to buy food"" - an analysis of South African street waste pickersâ€™ income"|In this paper we use income data of 873 street waste pickers in South Africa to assess whether their income is sufficient to make a living and to identify the possible factors that may influence their income. The results can assist policy makers to make informed decisions in designing and implementing policies aimed at improving the street waste pickersâ€™ income earning potential. The results of a linear and logistic regression analysis show that street waste pickersâ€™ income is low and many of the street waste pickers in South Africa are trapped in persistent and chronic poverty. The findings further show that the only variables under the direct control of street waste pickers that may have a small positive effect on their income are the use of a trolley and the number of hours worked. Most of the variance in the daily income is explained by the prices of, access to, and the quality of recyclable waste collected over which the street waste pickers have little or no control. This leaves street waste pickers with little scope to improve their income and consequently their socio-economic conditions. Local governments can, however, create an environment and infrastructure in which higher levels of quality waste are made accessible to the street waste pickers.
E26|Wages and Informality in Developing Countries|We develop an equilibrium wage-posting model with heterogeneous firms that decide to locate in the formal or the informal sector and workers who search randomly on and off the job. We estimate the model on Brazilian labor force survey data. In equilibrium, firms of equal productivity locate in different sectors, a fact observed in the data. Wages are characterized by compensating differentials. We show that tightening enforcement does not increase unemployment and increases wages, total output, and welfare by enabling better allocation of workers to higher productivity jobs and improving competition in the formal labor market. (JEL E26, J24, J31, J46, O15, O17)
E26|Informal Employment in a Growing and Globalizing Low-Income Country|We document several facts about workforce transitions from the informal to the formal sector in Vietnam, a fast growing, industrializing, and low-income country. First, younger workers, particularly migrants, are more likely to work in the formal sector and stay there permanently. Second, the decline in the aggregate share of informal employment occurs through changes between and within birth cohorts. Third, younger, educated, male, and urban workers are more likely to switch to the formal sector than other workers initially in the informal sector. Poorly educated, older, female, rural workers face little prospect of formalization. Fourth, formalization coincides with occupational upgrading.
E26|Creación y Destrucción de Empleos e Informalidad|En este documento se estudia la tasa de creación de empleo y la tasa de separación en Lima Metropolitana, el contexto de estudio es relevante al existir pocos estudios que caracterizan estos indicadores en economías informales y en desarrollo. Encontramos que estos indicadores del sector formal son en promedio similares a los estimados en economías desarrolladas; sin embargo, en el sector informal los valores calculados son aproximadamente tres veces mayores a los del sector formal. Existe una considerable heterogeneidad de las dos series según diversas variables observables; además, las dos variables están relacionadas con el ciclo económico: la tasa de separación es contracíclica y la tasa de encontrar empleo es procíclica, siendo esta ciclicidad mayor en el sector formal.
E26|“Determinants of Micro Firm Informality in Mexican States 2008-2012”|Informality has been given adverse associations as a result of its economic and social consequences in developed and developing countries. The latter group of countries has been the most affected in terms of low productivity, unprotected workers and the erosion of institutional credibility. Although the determinants of informality have been studied before, the research conducted on micro firms in a developing country has been less notable. In this paper, Mexico is taken as case study due to its high level of micro firm informality and the heterogeneity among Mexican states. The aim of this paper is to analyse the determinants of micro firm informality by state, using different public sources, such as the Encuesta Nacional de Micronegocios (ENAMIN, or the National Micro Firm Survey), the Instituto Nacional de Estadisica (INEGI, or the National Institute for Statistics) and the Secretaría de Economía (SE, or the Secretariat for Economics). Econometric panel data models were estimated for a sample of 32 states over the 2008-2012 period. Furthermore, this paper uses different definitions of informality to check the robustness of the results. The empirical evidence obtained allows us to conclude that, although economic factors are the main causes of informality, variables such as corruption and education have an important role to play.
E26|Underground Economy Estimation in Iran by Mimic Method|Underground economy, is all countries economy reality and forms a percent of each country`s economy and is the cause of many social and economic disorders that presents its existence in community with an unseen hand and is the cause of monetary and financial problems emergence and obscures economic data and makes inappropriate performance of economic policy therefore, due to the sensitivity of this phenomenon, this research measure the volume of smuggled goods during the years of (1974-2011) based on Lisrel software. In this study, for determining the size of the underground economy, firstly, its index has been determined by using MIMIC method in a ranked series of numbers and then for the sake of comparing different years, calibration and the previous studies were used to estimate the volume of relative and absolute underground economy. Based on mimic method, the average size of the underground economy during (1974-2011), was about 21% of official GDP. The results of this study show that the openness of the economy, inflation, education and the size of the government are considered main causes of the underground economy in Iran. The average size of the underground economy in past studies, was about 19% of GDP but in this study, it`s two percent higher than the average of the whole period.
E26|The growth of the service sector and demand for services|In this paper I present evidence about the importance of demand for services in the development of the service sector. By comparing developments in demand for services in Italy, France, Germany and the US, I show that the contribution of final demand by European households to growth in output is less than that made by US households. In Europe, the share of output produced by market services and utilized by the manufacturing sector is almost twice as high as the average value recorded in the US. The manufacturing sector, however, tends to consume services requiring low-skilled workers such as distribution services and inland transportation. Compared with European countries, the higher growth rate of market services in the US (and of services requiring highly-skilled workers) is then due to higher demand by US households.
E26|Financial support from the family network during the crisis|The financial support provided by family and friends has increased during the crisis, both in frequency and amount. For the beneficiaries, the extent of the support from this informal network is similar to that of consumer credit; its distribution, however, is more limited than indebtedness with financial intermediaries. The probability of exploiting the informal network is greater when the head of the household is unemployed and increases with the difficulty of meeting monthly expenses and with the use of consumer credit because the amount of the loan granted by the intermediaries is too low to cover financial needs or to pay the instalments on the debt itself. The probability diminishes as financial wealth increases. The analysis also highlights the fact that the relief provided by the informal network is not enough to support consumption in the event of a drop in income. In this case financial wealth, the number of income earners in the household and, to a lesser extent, consumer credit all contribute to some kind of consumption smoothing.
E26|Informality, Saving and Wealth Inequality|The informal sector is an extensive phenomenon in developing countries. While some of its implications have drawn considerable attention in the literature, one relatively unexplored aspect has to do with the saving patterns of workers and firms and how these might influence aggregate savings and wealth inequality. In this paper, we aim to fill that gap by examining both entrepreneurs' and workers' choices regarding whether to perform informally and regarding asset accumulation. Specifically, we build an occupational choice model wherein saving is primarily motivated by precautionary considerations. The model features labor and capital market segmentation, and is calibrated to replicate the saving rates, wealth inequality and composition of occupations across the formal and informal sectors of Colombia. Computational experiments further allow us to analyze the effects of highly debated formalization policies on wealth redistribution and promotion of saving and entrepreneurship. Alternative frameworks are finally considered.
E26|Explaining and tackling the shadow economy in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania: a tax morale approach|To explain the shadow economy in the Baltic states of Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia, this paper evaluates the relationship between the shadow economy and tax morale. Viewing tax morale as a measure of the symmetry between the codified laws and regulations of formal institutions (state morality) and the unwritten socially shared rules of informal institutions (civic morality), the proposition is that the lower the tax morale (i.e. the greater the asymmetry between state morality and civic morality), the greater is the likelihood to participate in the shadow economy. To evaluate this, a 2013 survey is reported involving 3036 face-to-face interviews in these 3 Baltic nations. Using logistic regression analysis, the finding is that the likelihood of participating in the shadow economy is greater, the lower is the tax morality of individuals, population groups and countries. In addition, the likelihood to participate is shadow economy is found to significantly vary by, for example, gender, employment status and country, people living in Latvia and Lithuania displaying significantly lower likelihood to engage in the shadow economy. The paper then explores the implications for theorizing and tackling the shadow economy.
E26|The non-observed economy in Uruguay. A look at the first decade of the 21st century|In this paper, a methodological procedure is introduced based on employment variables and a legal criterion for measuring the Non-Observed Economy (NOE) covering the lack of its estimation for a series of years. This procedure is applied for Uruguay and NOE size is estimated for 2001-2010 characterizing it both, through its contribution to gross domestic product and in the principal economic activities in which it is centered. In addition, at the light of the 2008 SNA handbook, a new empirical analytical framework of the NOE is discussed in terms of two big areas that shape it, the informal and the underground, and results of their size in jobs and value added are presented.
E26|A matching model of endogenous growth and underground firms|" type=""main"" xml:lang=""en""> Economic growth and unemployment exhibit an ambiguous relationship, according to empirical studies. This ambiguity can be investigated by observing the role of the underground economy in shaping the productivity of firms. Indeed, unemployment may be absorbed by underground firms, which adopt backward technology, at the cost of reduced economic growth. Alternatively, unemployment diminishes because productivity grows by employing workers who prefer to become skilled, and thus not to work in underground firms. This paper develops these arguments by using a matching model with underground firms and heterogeneous entrepreneurial ability, and by assuming skills-driven growth. Economic growth thus becomes endogenous, and both the underground sector and unemployment become persistent. The main result is that, under conditions of strict monitoring of the regularity of firms, the underground economy is squeezed, unemployment is reduced, and growth is high, whereas in the case of lax monitoring, the underground economy expands, unemployment is absorbed, and growth is low."
E26|Skill Acquisition in the Informal Economy and Schooling Decisions: Evidence from Emerging Economies| Informal jobs offer skill acquisition opportunities that may facilitate a future switch to formal employment for young workers. In this sense, informal training on the job may be a viable alternative to formal schooling in an economy with a large and diverse informal sector. In this paper, I investigate if these considerations are relevant for the schooling decisions of young individuals using panel data for 17 Latin American countries and micro-level data for Turkey. Specifically, I ask if the prevalence of informal jobs distorts schooling attainment. I concentrate on three measures of schooling outcomes: (1) secondary education enrollment rate; (2) out-of-school rate for lower secondary school; and (3) tertiary education graduation rate. I find that the secondary education enrollment rate is negatively correlated with the size of the informal economy, whereas the out-of-school rate is positively correlated. Moreover, the tertiary education graduation rates tend to fall as the informal employment opportunities increase. This means that informal training on the job may be crowding out school education in developing countries. Policies that can potentially affect the size of the informal sector should take into consideration these second-round effects on aggregate schooling outcomes.
E26|Human development and well-being during the great recession. The non-profit sector as a capability enhancing workplace|The current financial crisis poses severe challenges to the economic system. Specifically, the increasing unemployment and the contraction of firms’ labor demand induce a higher social vulnerability, leading to capability deprivation of individuals (Sen 1999), new sources of poverty, and social exclusion. Consequently, labor productivity is reduced and, due to the fiscal pressure, labor costs increase. The analysis sheds a light on a perverse adjustment mechanism that might run the economic system into a vicious circle: enterprises during crises tend to reduce labor costs by firing employees; people run the risk of an economic marginalization and tend to abandon the labor force in favor of household production. In this scenario, the non-profit sector can exert a crucial role as, by lowering the monetary costs of labor and capital, it can offer employees a capability developing workplace context, where they can experience a reduction of their vulnerability by finding an alternative source of employment. Specifically, we propose a model aimed at regulating the interaction between the formal and the informal sector (NPOs, third sector, cooperatives). The main innovation regards the existence of n non-profit activities that can lower the monetary costs of labor and capital by paying a share of wages and dividends in real terms. In this perspective there is room for the public sector to assign a value to the economic activities that foster social capital, contribute to reduce inequality and increase individual and collective well-being. A statistical analysis of the Italian economic system based on this framework stresses the importance of citizens and firms’ participation at political, economic and social level in finding an equitable, sustainable and durable way out of the crisis. Specifically, we focus on the importance to restate the assessment measure of poverty: not only income and expenditures figures, but also contextual factors and capability development opportunity count for building equitable and sustainable life conditions.
E26|A fuzzy model to estimate the size of the underground economy applying structural equation modeling|The underground economy is an ambiguous concept: the literature presents a wide variety of definitions about it; the activities it encompasses are mobile and dynamic; and its structure has displayed several variations as time goes by. The present work aims to estimate a fuzzy number (a possible interval) for the size of the underground economy by applying structural equation modelling with fuzzy data. The proposed fuzzy model applied here involves two main steps, changing the structural equation model to a reduced form, then making a nonlinear model from reduced-form equations applying fuzzy linear regression concepts and solutions. Finally, the time series of the underground economy are obtained using the GAMS mathematical optimization software and compared with the findings of two MIMIC models and a microeconomic method.
E26|Accounting Information Indispensable Source For The Discovery Of Tax Evasion In The Field Of Products Subject To Excise|The present article aims to highlight the kinds of tax evasion methods in the field of products subject to excise duty and the role of the tax inspection in combating them. The research reveals which are the most common methods of tax evasion, but it tries to discern the probable developments of the process. The article has in view the inexorable reality, namely that the ingenuity method of tax fraud increases with the emergence of the new rules or barriers to the fraud. Following the research carried out we found that the tax evasion phenomenon in the field of products subject to excise duty has currently a significant impact in the economic and social Romanian reality. In order to reduce the tax evasion phenomenon in the field of products subject to excise duty, it must set up a mechanism for monitoring, oversight and fiscal control as well as the amendment of legislation, the tax evasion being mainly a consequence of the inaccuracies or imperfection of laws.
E26|Informality, Saving and Wealth Inequality|The informal sector is an extensive phenomenon in developing countries. While some of its implications have drawn considerable attention in the literature, one relatively unexplored aspect has to do with the saving patterns of workers and firms and how these might influence aggregate savings and wealth inequality. In this paper, we aim to fill that gap by examining both entrepreneurs' and workers' choices regarding whether to perform informally and regarding asset accumulation. Specifically, we build an occupational choice model wherein saving is primarily motivated by precautionary considerations. The model features labor and capital market segmentation, and is calibrated to replicate the saving rates, wealth inequality and composition of occupations across the formal and informal sectors of Colombia. Computational experiments further allow us to analyze the effects of highly debated formalization policies on wealth redistribution and promotion of saving and entrepreneurship. Alternative frameworks are finally considered.
E26|Informality and macroeconomic volatility: do credit constraints matter?|Purpose - – The purpose of this paper is to study the implications of borrowing constraints characterizing the informal sector for macroeconomic volatility. Design/methodology/approach - – To this end, the author develops a simple dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model wherein registered activity not only is the basis to determine tax liabilities, but also serves as collateral for securing debts. Such a framework allows for computational experiments to analyze the effect of informality on aggregate fluctuations. Findings - – The experiments show that the credit-constrained informal sector does exert a significant influence on the cyclical volatility of consumption and investment. Originality/value - – There are not many studies addressing the implications of informal economic activities for macroeconomic fluctuations. This paper contributes to the literature by developing a theoretical model showing that credit constraints characterizing these activities might play a non-negligible role in explaining the cyclical volatility of some important aggregates.
E26|Institutions, Informal Labor Markets, and Business Cycle Volatility|I build a business cycle labor search-and-matching model with informal labor mar- kets, which shows that different dimensions of institutional quality have similar effects on the size of the informal sector, but different effects on the relationship between informality and long-run macroeconomic outcomes and between informality and labor market volatility. For the same change in informal sector size, changes in different proxies for institutional quality have contrasting quantitative implications for the steady state and the volatility of the labor market, despite having similar consequences on other macroeconomic variables. These results highlight the importance of identifying the source behind changes in the size of the informal sector to char- acterize the link between informality and business cycle dynamics.
E26|Wealthy Tax Non-Filers in a Developing Nation: The Roles of Taxpayer Knowledge, Perceived Corruption and Service Orientation in Pakistan|Although tax non-filing and the resulting tax evasion are a challenge to public welfare of developing countries, scholarly knowledge on the subject is minimal. The present paper compares rich self- employed identified as non-filers with a randomized group of tax filers in terms of two bases of perceived tax system legitimacy: knowledge of taxpayers’ rights and perceived corruption. The results indicate that both factors relate to tax non-filing and moreover, that perceived service orientation of the tax administration, which reduces citizens’ ignorance of tax rights and doubts about authorities’ correct behaviour might foster perceived legitimacy and in turn increase tax compliance.
E26|The “Peter Pan Syndrome” in Emerging Markets: The Productivity-Transparency Tradeoff in IT Adoption|Firms make investments in technology to increase productivity. But in emerging markets, where a culture of informality is widespread, information technology (IT) investments leading to greater transparency can impose a cost through higher taxes and need for regulatory compliance. This tendency of firms to avoid productivity-enhancing technologies and remain small to avoid transparency has been dubbed the “Peter Pan Syndrome.” We examine whether firms make the tradeoff between productivity and transparency by examining IT adoption in the Indian retail sector. We find that computer technology adoption is lower when firms have motivations to avoid transparency. Specifically, technology adoption is lower when there is greater corruption, but higher when there is better enforcement and auditing. So firms have a higher productivity gain threshold to adopt computers in corrupt business environments with patchy and variable enforcement of the tax laws. Not accounting for this motivation to hide from the formal sector underestimates productivity gains from computer adoption. Thus in addition to their direct effects on the economy, enforcement, auditing and corruption can have indirect effects through their negative impact on adoption of productivity enhancing technologies that also increase operational transparency.
E26|Informality in developing economies: Regulation and fiscal policies|This paper proposes a unified theoretical framework where formal and informal firms coexist and face the same type of product and labor market imperfections: they have monopoly power in the goods market, they are subject to matching frictions in the labor market, and wages are determined by bargaining between large firms and their workers, through either individual or collective bargaining. Our model matches the main stylized facts on informality for developing countries and appears to be a good candidate for policy analysis. In this framework, we study the impact on informality, wages and unemployment of policies that may be used to reduce informality. We consider changes in product market regulation (PMR) and in two types of fiscal policies, labor taxes and formality enforcement. We find that lessening PMR decreases informality and unemployment simultaneously, indicating that there is not necessarily a tradeoff between informality and unemployment. The tradeoff appears when fiscal policies are used, though. Moreover, the impacts of PMR on unemployment and on wages are larger under collective than individual bargaining. With respect to wage inequality, lessening PMR reduces it, while lower taxes tend to increase the formal sector wage premium.
E26|Modeling the money launderer: Microtheoretical arguments on anti-money laundering policy|The existing literature treats the criminal – who generates criminal proceeds – and the launderer – who converts the ‘dirty’ dollars into ‘clean’ ones – as one and the same. And with good reason: it is clear from the evidence that such ‘standard’ vertically integrated launderers exists. Because professionals and institutions are also routinely prosecuted for money laundering transgressions, however, it appears that the market for money laundering is also supplied by third party, ‘professional’ launderers, whose core business lies outside the criminal sector, but who chooses to spend time supplying the market for money laundering.
E26|Measuring the shadow economy using company managers|This study develops a method that uses surveys of company managers to measure the size of a shadow economy. Our method is based on the premise that company managers are the most likely to know how much business income and wages go unreported due to their unique position in dealing with both of these types of income. We use a range of survey design features to maximize the truthfulness of responses. Our method combines estimates of misreported business income, unregistered or hidden employees, and unreported wages, to arrive at an estimate of the size of a shadow economy as a percentage of GDP. This approach differs from most other studies of shadow economies, which largely focus on using macroindicators. We illustrate the application of our method to three new EU member countries. We also analyze the factors that influence companies’ participation in the shadow economy.
E26|Social Protection in ASEAN: Challenges and Initiatives for Post-2015 Vision|The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) is engaged in framing a post- 2015 vision for social protection in ASEAN which would facilitate productive ageing. This paper assesses existing social protection systems in ASEAN and suggests initiatives which policymakers and other stakeholders could consider for progressing towards a more robust social protection system. The paper argues that progressing towards the post-2015 vision of social protection will require greater coordination between ASEAN’s economic and social sector groups, as weak social protection systems existing today will increasingly constrain future economic growth. ASEAN as a group will also need to lessen its reliance on outside donors for funding and expertise. The specific initiatives suggested for facilitating productive ageing in ASEAN are (i) creating an ASEAN social protection forum for developing more robust databases, encouraging communication and indigenous research, and rendering technical assistance to members; (ii) pursuing measures to reduce expenditure needs of the elderly, including well-designed discount systems for public amenities and basic needs; (iii) giving greater priority to cross-border worker agreements to improve their living conditions, and encourage totalization agreements; and (iv) enhancing professionalism and systemic perspectives
E26|Evolving Informal Remittance Methods of Myanmar Migrant Workers in Thailand|We shed light on diverse informal remittance methods of Myanmar migrant workers in Thailand. Based on the questionnaire survey of migrant workers, we examine the determinants in their choice of informal remittance methods. The empirical results indicate that the accessibility of payment points in Myanmar is an important determinant; migrants sending remittances to town can choose potentially more efficient operators who employ bank branches as payment points. On the assumption that informal operators’ use of bank branches stimulates competition among them, we argue that expanding branch network of Myanmar banks adds to efficiency of the informal remittance market.
E26|Stability and Transitions in Emerging Market Policy Rules|Conditions for stability in an open economy dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model adapted to a dualistic labor market (SOEME) are the same as for a mature economy. But the introduction of monetary policy transmission lags makes it deviate from the Taylor Principle. Under rational expectations a policy rule is unstable, but under adaptive expectations traditional stabilization gives a determinate path, with weights on the objective of less than unity. Estimation of a Taylor rule for India and optimization in the SOEME model itself, all confirm the low weights. The results imply that under rational expectations, optimization is better than following a rule. If backward lookingbehavior dominates, however, a policy rule can prevent overshooting and instability. Economy-specific rigidities must inform policy design, and the appropriate design will change as the economy develops.
E26|Growth Performance of the Turkish Economy: The Role of the Informal Sector|The presence of informality and its connection with economic growth has been a contentious issue on which the current literature has failed to generate a consensus. In this study, first, we investigate the growth performance of the Turkish economy through the lenses of a simple growth accounting exercise. Moreover, we also extend the growth accounting framework to account for the presence of an informal sector and give emphasis on how the presence of a relatively large informal sector in Turkey (about 28 % of GDP, according to recent estimates) affects growth of the official economy as well as its determinants.
E26|Informality, Saving and Wealth Inequality in Colombia|The informal sector is an extensive phenomenon in developing countries. While some of its implications have drawn considerable attention in the literature, one relatively unexplored aspect has to do with the saving patterns of workers and firms and how these might influence aggregate savings and wealth inequality. This paper aims to fill that gap by examining both entrepreneurs' and workers' choices regarding whether to perform informally and regarding asset accumulation. Specifically, the paper builds an occupational choice model wherein saving is primarily motivated by precautionary considerations. The model features labor and capital market segmentation, and it is calibrated to replicate the saving rates, wealth inequality and composition of occupations across the formal and informal sectors of Colombia. Computational experiments additionally make it possible to analyze the effects of highly debated formalization policies on wealth redistribution and promotion of saving and entrepreneurship. Alternative frameworks are finally considered.
E26|The shadow economy: a relevant factor for investment decisions in selected European Union countries|The estimation of sovereign risk indicators has a key role for the investment decisions. We were witnesses of inaccurate ratings before the last economic crisis, which altered significantly the results expected by many investors. Thus, we propose an improved rating estimation justifying the insertion of new variables, specifically, the shadow economy as a percentage of the GDP. We find that by taking it into account, the credit rating estimation improves. Our estimation assigns a higher sovereign risk to the new European Union member states, whereas the old European Union member states see their sovereign risk decreased.
E26|Incentivos económicos en la decisión de individuos y empresas para operar en el sector formal o informal: seguro popular y eficiencia recaudatoria|Las empresas e individuos se enfrentan a incentivos económicos que influyen en la decisión de operación entre los sectores formal e informal. El Seguro Popular en México actúa como incentivo a favor de la informalidad, ya que al ser de origen gratuito, reduce el costo de enfermarse y permite un nivel de consumo mayor; esto revierte el sesgo formado naturalmente por las prestaciones laborales ofrecidas en la formalidad. Por otro lado, la eficiencia recaudatoria baja reduce el costo de las empresas por operar en la informalidad, creando un incentivo para este sector. Asimismo, las empresas formales demandarán mano de obra informal, derivado de la amenaza no creíble de castigo. El objetivo del documento es modelar el mercado laboral considerando estos incentivos económicos. Se encuentra que es necesario revisar los programas sociales que sustituyen las prestaciones formales como el Seguro Popular, al tiempo que se mejora la eficiencia recaudatoria para salir de equilibrios no óptimos en términos de empleo y crecimiento económico./ Firms and individuals face economic incentives that affect their decision about to operate either formal or informal sector. In Mexico, the Seguro Popular acts as incentive towards informality because, its free origin, reduces the cost of illnesses and allows a greater consumption level; this reverts the natural bias of the labor remuneration offered in the formal sector. On the other hand, low tax collection efficiency reduces cost that firms have to deal for operating at the informal sector, establishing an incentive for this sector. Also, formal firms will demand informal labor force, since the no credible menace for punishment. The aim of the paper is to model the labor market regarding these economic incentives. It is found that it is necessary to re-view social programs that substitutes formal remunerations, such as Seguro Popular, while improving tax collection efficiency in order to go out of not optimal equilibrium in terms of labor and economic growth.
E26|“Determinants of Micro Firm Informality in Mexican States 2008-2012”|Informality has been given adverse associations as a result of its economic and social consequences in developed and developing countries. The latter group of countries has been the most affected in terms of low productivity, unprotected workers and the erosion of institutional credibility. Although the determinants of informality have been studied before, the research conducted on micro firms in a developing country has been less notable. In this paper, Mexico is taken as case study due to its high level of micro firm informality and the heterogeneity among Mexican states. The aim of this paper is to analyse the determinants of micro firm informality by state, using different public sources, such as the Encuesta Nacional de Micronegocios (ENAMIN, or the National Micro Firm Survey), the Instituto Nacional de Estadisica (INEGI, or the National Institute for Statistics) and the Secretaría de Economía (SE, or the Secretariat for Economics). Econometric panel data models were estimated for a sample of 32 states over the 2008-2012 period. Furthermore, this paper uses different definitions of informality to check the robustness of the results. The empirical evidence obtained allows us to conclude that, although economic factors are the main causes of informality, variables such as corruption and education have an important role to play.
E26|Impacts of Informal Caregiving on Caregiver Employment, Health, and Family|As the aging population increases, the demand for informal caregiving is becoming an ever more important concern for researchers and policy-makers alike. To shed light on the implications of informal caregiving, this paper reviews current research on its impact on three areas of caregivers' lives: employment, health, and family. Because the literature is inherently interdisciplinary, the research designs, sampling procedures, and statistical methods used are heterogeneous. Nevertheless, we are still able to draw several conclusions: first, despite the prevalence of informal caregiving and its primary association with lower levels of employment, the affected labor force is seemingly small. Second, such caregiving tends to lower the quality of the caregiver's psychological health, which also has a negative impact on physical health outcomes. Third, the implications for family life remain under investigated. The research findings also differ strongly among subgroups, although they do suggest that female, spousal, and intense caregivers tend to be the most affected by caregiving.
E26|An empirical analysis of the informal sector in Ghana|This paper examines the determinants of the decision of owners of small enterprises in Ghana to participate in the informal sector at start-up. For enterprises participating in the informal sector, the paper evaluates whether there are linkages with formal sector enterprises, and the determinants of the linkage. Data for the analysis is from the 2013 World Bank Enterprise survey. Using binary choice models, it is evident from the analysis that the informal sector in Ghana is dominated by people who have low levels of education, and hence, do not have otherwise employable skills. Undertaking economic activities in the informal sector becomes a means to survival, and not necessarily an attempt to evade compliance with formal sector regulations. The challenge to policy makers in Ghana is to find the right balance between policies that reduces the costs to enterprises of participating in the informal sector, whiles increasing the benefits for participating in the formal economy.
E26|Transition from black to official markets for foreign exchange in Myanmar|We address the puzzle why the black market for foreign exchange thrives in Myanmar despite the successful unification of multiple exchange rates. A closer look at the black market reveals that its enduring competitiveness stems from its lower transaction costs. A question arising from this observation is how the official market, namely banks, can compete with and replace the black market. Our empirical analysis based on an original questionnaire survey of private export firms regarding their choices of currency trading modes suggests that banks can attract exporters by exploiting the economies of scope between currency trading and lending.
E26|Shedding Light on the Shadow Economy: A Nighttime Light Approach| Measuring the shadow economy is inherently difficult, but critical for understanding economic development. Using census data on formal and informal sectors in Cambodia, we document that 96.6 per cent of non-farm establishments do not formally register with the government, and their sales accounted for 76.6 per cent of total sales in 2011. Estimating their past sales from changes in nighttime light for 1993–2010, we find that both formal and informal firms increased their estimated sales. The share of informal sales increased from 68.8 per cent in 1993 to 76.6 per cent in 2011, suggesting that the informal sector increased quantitatively in both absolute and relative terms over time.
E26|Precautionary Strategies and Household Saving|Why do people save? A strand of the literature has emphasized the role of ‘precautionary’ motives; i.e., private agents save in order to mitigate unexpected future income shocks. An implication is that in countries faced with more macroeconomic volatility and risk, private saving should be higher. From the observable data, however, we find a negative correlation between risk and private saving in cross-country comparisons, particularly in developing countries. We provide a plausible explanation for the disconnect between precautionary-saving theory and the empirical evidence that is based on a model with a richer account for the various modes of ‘precautionary’ behavior by private agents, in cases where institutions are weaker and labor informality is prevalent. In such environments, household saving decisions are intertwined with firms’ investment decisions. As a result, the interaction between saving behavior, broadly construed, and aggregate risk and uncertainty, may be more complex than is frequently assumed. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
E26|Kalman Filter Estimation of the Unrecorded Economy in Macedonia|This paper estimates the unrecorded economic activity and employment in Macedonia during 1998-2013. We model the unrecorded economic activity as an unobserved process that depends on tax “burden”, business regulations and quality of governance, and affects cash in circulation, foreign currency in circulation and energy consumption. We then estimate it, using the Kalman filter. After we estimate the unrecorded economic activity in this way, we calculate the unrecorded employment using a wide range of values for the employment/economic activity ratio. Finally, after we estimate the unrecorded employment, we will be able to calculate the true rate of unemployment in Macedonia. The findings suggest that unrecorded economic activity in Macedonia has declined sizeably, from 34 percent of official GDP in the late 1990’s, to 10 percent in 2010’s. Unrecorded employment has declined over this period, too, from 160- 200,000 in late 1990’s to 70-90,000 currently. Accordingly, the true rate of unemployment was likely to be around 20-22% in 2013, which is some 7-8 percentage points below the official one.
E26|Measuring the effect of informal work and domestic activities on poverty and income inequality in Turkey|In this article, we propose to calculate the size of the population living in poverty, measured through uni- and multidimensional poverty indices, and the Gini coefficient using extended full (time plus money and informal earnings) incomes, from cross-sectional data covering 2003-2006 in Turkey. Thus monetary incomes are corrected by adding the earnings gathered from informal activities and the monetary values of time spent in domestic activities into declared incomes, producing an error-free estimate of the size of the population living in poverty and the Gini ratio overall. To show the effect informal activities with the domestic ones have on poverty, changes in the joint probability of being in informal activity while being considered poor is measured by means of a bivariate probit model using extended (money plus informal earnings) income and extended full incomes
E26|Domestic activity patterns pertaining to households and informality in Turkey|We investigate underlying determinants of informality by representing the Turkish Time Use Survey in 2006 and the Household Budget Surveys for the years from 2003 to 2006 conducted by Turkish Statistical Institute. Following the descriptive methodology proposed by Gronau and Hamermesh (2006), the main focus is to describe the household data by highlighting the main features and revealing the relative importance of expenditures of time and goods through an exhaustive set of commodities and assign time and goods inputs to each in order to measure their relative goods intensities. The analysis of the evolution of commodity per time spent during 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 reveals the fact that the average value for total expenditures per total time spent show increases in a decreasing trend (concave shape) over these years. Supposing that the average time spent among these years in constant on average (meaning that they did not really change from one year to another), the result of this accounting support the hypotheses that the amount of consumption present in household production during these years decreased. Our findings could be used as guides to better understanding the socio-economic conditions in developing countries and to obtain more accurate measurements of the size of informality, poverty and income inequalities
E26|Analysis of Energy Price's Impact on Shadow Economies Around the World|We assume that a growth of energy prices could create incentives for the firms to hide their incomes. To verify this hypothesis we analyze a model of a representative firm that optimizes the size of the hidden income under conditions of non-rigid external control. We found that an improvement of institutional environment in the economy helps to reduce the share of hidden income in the total revenue. To test the hypothesis suggested empirically we run regressions for the variables of shadow economy in GDP shares within the time period 2003-2008 using both already existing data on the size of shadow sector in the other economies and the data constructed by the authors on the basis of modified demand for money method. As opposed to the modifications used before, our methodology is applied to cross-country samples. Using in the regression a specific interaction term being a combination of a tax burden variable and the institutional strength index made it feasible to take into account an important fact that under bad institutions a higher tax level means also a higher shadow economy size but given good institutions - vice versa. Moreover with implementation of model calibrating we applied an estimating algorithm that enables the presence of foreign currency (US dollar in our case) in shadow economy's transactions. Finally our hypothesis was confirmed both using cross-section and panel data analysis, estimations demonstrated stability of its value and sign whatever method of analysis has been used.
E26|Has The Relative Share of Shadow Economy in Bulgaria Been Reduced: Labour Force Evaluations|The article presents a comparative analysis of the scope and distribution of the “shadow economy” in Bulgaria. Analysis of employees’ evaluations allows to make the general conclu­sion that in 2014 in comparison with 2010 the share of “shadow economy” in Bulgaria was reduced, although it remains one of the high­est levels among Member States EU. For 2010- 2014, there are visible trends to reduce the typical shady practices in two areas of economic activity - labor and social security legislation. However, informality is very “plastic” and tends to modify, as in 2014, the most common shadow practice is working contract of employment for a certain amount plus verbal agreements for high­er payment of tax-free cash. So regardless of the emerging trend, in 2014 “shadow economy” continues to be a permanent element of the Bul­garian society.
E26|Political-Economic Symbioses: Towards a Political Economy of Bulgarian Transition|Transition is usually referred to as ‘the Transition’, with a capital letter and in singular, and as ‘from – to’ (‘from totalitarianism and state economy to democracy and market’). This study speaks not of a single, transparent, manageable ‘Transition’ but of many transitions as spontaneously occurring transformations and as legitimating strategies of the actors taking part in them. The key concept to describe these processes is ‘political-economic symbioses – a concretion of political and economic networks whose immediate origin can be found in the last period of the ‘former regime’. They take place at diverse levels and in diverse fields as transformations and restructuring of diverse types of capital (political, economic and social). The network analysis to which I adhere here is close to the sociology of Michel Callon, Bruno Latour, John Law etc., known as ‘actor-network sociology’, combined with that of Pierre Bourdieu, used by Laszlo Bruszt and David Stark in the analysis of the economic transformation in Hungary in the early 1990s. Combining these approaches provides the key to understanding that critical weakening of the state and institutions that is observed in the transition years.
E26|Un modelo Mundell-Fleming con economía ilegal y lavado de dinero<BR>[Modeling illegal economy and money laundering: a Mundell-Fleming framework]|The purpose of this paper is to present an extended version of the Mundell-Fleming model which allows a macroeconomic analysis of the effects stemming from illegal economy with money laundering on the short-term equilibrium for a small open economy. Without disregarding the FATF´s money laundering typology, we propose to differentiate the money laundering activities by the degree of crime organization, i.e. differentiating between individual, national as well as transnational crimes. According to the previous taxonomy, we postulate four channels of money laundering that enable the reintegration of illegal money, through consumption, investment, international trade and capital movements. In this context, it is shown that the multiplier effect triggered by illegal economic activities is always negative on formal GDP. However, the effect on the interest rate is subtler and depends on the structure of the given economy, which could lead to an appreciation or depreciation of the exchange rate related to the degree of capital mobility.
E26|VAT efficiency in the countries worldwide|The article aims to estimate the efficiency of value-added tax (VAT) collection in the countries worldwide. In a large part of developing and transition countries VAT performs primarily fiscal function, being the main source of budget revenue (for example in 2014 in Ukraine the revenue obtained from VAT was 51% of total tax revenue, in Moldova it achieved 58,2%). At the same time the shadow economy particularly in form of corruption and tax evasion that exists in these countries leads to a considerable tax gap which in turns reduces VAT efficiency. So, the present study intends to define the VAT efficiency ratio in countries of the world. Preliminary theoretical and methodological analysis allowed us to use for calculations a modification of widespread formula, considering in a certain way a tax evasion process. We investigated the dependence between VAT efficiency ratio and size of shadow sector and level of corruption in countries. This research will allow further investigation of the strategies for establishing of optimal VAT rates depending on efficiency of its levying and size of taxpayers which in turns will contribute to raising efficiency of VAT administration, to the reduction of shadow sector and to the economic growth.
