E29|Tarjetas de crédito en personas de ingresos medios y bajos en Colombia: ¿qué determina su uso?|Se investigan los determinantes del uso de la tarjeta Crédito Fácil Codensa, utilizando las características demográficas de los tarjetahabientes. Este mecanismo de financiación, de uso generalizado en Bogotá por parte de personas cuyos ingresos se encuentran en la parte baja de la distribución, se utiliza para la financiación de consumo de bienes semidurables (muebles, electrodomésticos, computadores, etc.) y no durables (alimentos, prendas de vestir, etc.). Son algo más de 1.000.000 de clientes al finalizar el período de estudio. Analizamos los determinantes del cupo de crédito, la probabilidad de uso de la tarjeta y el valor de las compras para el período 2010-2015. Ingreso, educación, edad, género, estrato y vivienda propia son determinantes del cupo de crédito junto con variables indicadoras de la fase del ciclo, el comportamiento del mercado laboral y la liquidez de la economía (tasa de intervención de la autoridad monetaria, aproximada por la Tasa Interbancaria, TIB). La probabilidad de compra está determinada no solo por el ambiente macroeconómico, sino también por variables individuales, entre las cuales, el ingreso permanente figura reduciendo dicha probabilidad. El monto de las compras mensuales está determinado por la tasa de interés vigente en el mes de las compras, la tasa de usura y por características individuales como el ingreso, la edad, la educación y el género. Se presenta evidencia de restricciones de liquidez para personas que tienen una alta utilización el cupo; sin embargo, las decisiones de la mayoría de los agentes no distan de la hipótesis de ciclo de vida-ingreso permanente. **** ABSTRACT: The determinants of the Crédito Fácil Codensa card usage are investigated, using the demographic characteristics of cardholders. This financing mechanism, widely used in Bogotá by people (more than 1.000.000 at the end of the sample period) whose income is in the lower part of the distribution, is used to finance the consumption of semi-durable goods (furniture, household appliances, computers, etc.) and non-durable goods (food, clothing, etc.). We analyze the determinants of the credit quota, the probability of using the card and the value of purchases for the period 2010-2015. Income, education, age, gender stratum and own housing are determinants of the credit limit along with variables indicating the phase of the cycle, the labor market performance, and the liquidity of the economy represented by the policy rate (proxied by the Interbank Rate, TIB). The probability of purchase is determined not only by the macroeconomic environment, but also by individual variables. Permanent income reduces the likelihood of buying. The amount of monthly purchases is determined by the current interest rate in the month of purchases or usury rate and by individual characteristics such as income, age, education, gender of the individual. There is evidence of liquidity restrictions for people who have a high use of the card limit. However, the decisions of most agents are not that far from the permanent income-life cycle hypothesis.
E29|The Price Evolution In The Context Of Economic Crisis|The economic crisis is a negative macroeconomic phenomenon with consequences both at European Union level and worldwide. The main objective of this paper is to analyse the variation of price levels in Romania, during the economic crisis until the end of 2015, compared with the Member States of the European Union and the countries of the European Free Trade Association. For this research, information provided by EUROSTAT was used, such as price level indices for actual individual consumption per capita, and for different goods and services, calculated based on purchasing power parity. The aim is to identify solutions to rising living standards, compared with more developed countries of the European Union. This paper presents possible solutions for avoiding a future economic crisis, caused by overconsumption. The paper is divided into four sections: introduction, part two which presents aspects of the economic crisis in Romania and in the European Union, the third part presents price level indices for different products and services in 2015, and the last part, the conclusions of the research.
E29|Инвестирование Денежных Средств В Условиях Экономического Кризиса В 2017 Году|In the conditions of the economic crisis, one of the most urgent aspects is the investment of funds. The choice of the most optimal directions for investing is rather complicated, since there are many alternative options. The purpose of this study is to determine the most profitable directions for investing money in 2017.
E29|Anlageverhalten privater Haushalte in Deutschland: die Rolle der realen Renditen|Nominal interest rates in Germany have fallen to historically low levels in the past years, particularly for bank deposits, thereby potentially reducing households‘ interest incomes. Against this backdrop, this article establishes the computation of the real total portfolio return of households in Germany. Besides bank deposits, this return is also determined by higher-yielding forms of investment such as insurance claims and securities and is not exceptionally low at the current stage. The real return, however, is not the central determinant ofthe financial investment decision. In addition to demographic and institutional factors, preferences concerning the liquidity and riskiness, in fact, are more important determinants. Compared to other euro area countries, German households’ preferences do not constitute an exception in this respect. Die nominalen Zinsen in Deutschland sind insbesondere bei Bankeinlagen in den vergangenen Jahren auf ein historisch niedriges Niveau gesunken und können damit die Zinseinkommen der privaten Haushalte schmälern. Vor diesem Hintergrund leitet dieser Beitrag die Berechnung der realen Gesamtportfoliorendite der Privathaushalte in Deutschland her. Diese Rendite wird neben Bankeinlagen auch von renditeträchtigeren Anlageformen wie Versicherungsansprüchen und Wertpapieren bestimmt und fällt derzeit nicht außerordentlich niedrig aus. Die reale Rendite ist für die Privathaushalte jedoch kein zentraler Faktor bei der Wahl der Geldanlage; neben demografischen und institutionellen Faktoren sind dafür vielmehr die Präferenzen bezüglich Risiko und Liquidität bedeutend. Im Euroraum-Vergleich stellen die Präferenzen der Haushalte in Deutschland dabei keine Ausnahme dar.
E29|The influence of China and emerging donors aid allocation: A recipient perspective|From the perspective of recipients, the increasing influence of China and emerging donors in the aid landscape represents an opportunity to attract additional resources to finance development and improve their control over their development agenda. This paper investigates how African countries and other LMICs deal with this complex and changing aid landscape and explores how government fiscal behaviors and private agent anticipations regarding aid flows are affected.
E29|How uncertain are economic policies? New evidence from a firm survey|This study, using data from an original survey covering both public and private firms in Japan, presents evidence on uncertainties over economic policies, their effects on managerial decisions, and firms’ evaluations of the government’s numerical targets related to economic policies. The results indicate that Japanese firms perceive uncertainty over certain economic policies, such as the social security system, tax policy, fiscal expenditure, and international trade policy. Policy uncertainties have substantial effects on managerial decisions, especially on equipment investment and hiring of regular employees. Medium- to long-term numerical targets related to the government’s economic policies are perceived to be difficult to achieve.
E29|Un análisis econométrico del ahorro y seguros formales en la población urbana y rural en México.An econometric analysis of savings and formal insurance in urban and rural population in Mexico|Savings and insurance are important variables so that families can protect themselves against periods of uncertainty. The development of policies to increase savings and formal insurance should take into account the differences between the rural and urban population, because although these populations have similarities as the importance of income in determining the formal savings, also face realities very different, as the forms that the same savings, transaction costs they face, the kind of goods or events that require secure. Determine which variables influence the savings and insurance are in a different location and can help develop more accurate and have greater impact policies.
E29|An Analysis of the Causes and Consequences of Unemployment in District Peshawar|Abstract This paper concentrates on exploring the causes and consequences of unemployment in district Peshawar. Primary data was collected for this purpose. The results show that out of 120 respondents, 32.5% were unemployed due to low education, 15.8% due to having no skills &55were unemployed due to no approach to the concerned authorities. Out of the total respondents65% were unskilled. 73.3% of the respondents had never joined a job and 18.3% left the job due to low salary. 7.5% were unemployed due to completion of business / projects.100% of the respondents agreed that overpopulation is cause of unemployment. All of 120 respondents agreed with this the fact that unemployment causes suicides and crimes in the society. The causes of high rate of unemployment are lack of education, lack of capital, lack of proper skill, Poverty, and High rate of population growth in Pakistan. It is therefore, recommended on the basis of the study to prepare a proper plan for the provision of proper skills, provision of job opportunities, easy access to credit to motivate people for investment in employment generating activities and eradication of unemployment in the study area.
E29|European Funds Fraud: The Impact on the Process of Absorption of Structural and Cohesion Funds in Romania|The increase of the degree of absorption of European funds offered to Romania by the European Union represents one of its main objectives in the present and future situation. One of the main reasons that the funds are so important is the fact that, taking into consideration the microeconomic and macroeconomic situation that Romania is in, it represents an alternative financing mechanism of the economy that Romania can benefit in very advantageous conditions. Even under these conditions Romania- within 2007-2013 period of programming – couldn’t benefit from it by attracting as many structural and cohesion funds as possible, at least in comparison to other member states. In our opinion, that of the authors’ one of the reasons that led to such a low rate of absorption, alongside with the low administrative capacity of the state is the excessive bureaucracy, an inefficient legislative framework which is not harmonized with the European one, the lack of experience in using and administrating of European funds, the beneficiaries’ incapacity to sustain the financial support of the project (to assure the co-financing of the project), a low involvement of Romanian banking institutions in the process of supporting the beneficiaries of European funds. Another cause is the European funds fraud that happened in Romania. In the present article, the authors have decided to analyze the influence of European funds fraud on the degree of absorption of structural and cohesion funds in Romania. Classification-JEL: E10, E19, E29, E59, E60, E69, G23, K49, O20, O52, P50.
E29|Labour Shortages Driving Economic Growth?|Summary In most of the countries from Central, East and Southeast Europe (CESEE), the current virtuous circle of rising consumption and incomes is expected to continue at least in the near term, accompanied by solid GDP growth to the tune of some 3% p.a. Ongoing labour-market improvements and rising wages will continue to be the main growth driver throughout the region; they will be complemented by a recovery in fixed investments as new EU funds become available. The economies of Russia, other CIS countries (except Belarus) and the Ukraine are expected to bottom out, as the negative shocks of the past two years have already been largely absorbed. Turkey is heading for a ‘soft landing’. These are the main findings of the newly released medium-term macroeconomic forecast by the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies (wiiw). Despite the sluggish external environment, economic growth remains fairly strong in the majority of CESEE countries; the economic dynamics in almost half of those countries have intensified over the current year compared to 2015. Growth in the EU Member States from Central and Eastern Europe (EU-CEE) has declined only modestly over the current year, mostly on account of temporary investment weaknesses. It remains 1.5 pp higher on average than in the euro area. In Turkey, economic dynamics were also very solid up until mid-2016, albeit accompanied by signs of ‘overheating’, while the CIS countries are experiencing a ‘bottoming out’. The main driver of growth throughout the CESEE region continues to be private consumption, underpinned by sharply rising wages and incomes as well as decreasing unemployment. The tightening of labour markets and the rising labour shortages are partly a consequence of sizeable outward migration over the past years, which has had a cumulative negative effect on labour supply. A number of countries have also introduced higher minimum wages, sometimes as part of a more general fiscal relaxation package. Inflationary pressures in most CESEE countries – with the exception of the CIS countries and Turkey – are almost non-existent, as solid wage growth has been largely offset by marked gains in labour productivity and a profit squeeze. The expansion of fixed investments, which were an important pillar of GDP growth in 2015, has largely run out of steam this year. In the EU-CEE region, the main reason for this lies in a temporary drop in EU transfers that, in previous years, used to be an important source of investments. EU funds disbursed under the previous 2007-2013 Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) were absorbed in 2015 at the latest, whereas attracting new funds under the recently adopted 2014-2020 MFF will take time. At the same time, disregarding the ‘EU transfers effect’, the underlying dynamics of investments remain strong. The export dynamics in many CESEE countries have been better than those of imports, resulting in a positive contribution of net exports to GDP growth. In most EU-CEE countries and Serbia, this is largely a reflection of their ever-strengthening export base and further gains in competitiveness. However, in the CIS countries it is entirely due to the weakness of domestic demand which is still depressed following strong currency depreciations over the past two years. Credit expansion in the CESEE region remains rather modest no country, with the possible exception of Slovakia, is currently experiencing a credit boom. Other factors tend to be more important determinants of the demand for loans than interest rates, which in many CESEE countries are rather low. Going forward, this reduces the risk of ‘boom-and-bust’ developments that have characterised the trajectories of a number of CESEE countries in the run-up to and during the global financial crisis. Domestic demand in many CESEE economies is supported by fiscal policy relaxation, particularly in Romania and Ukraine. One reason for this may have been a decline in government borrowing costs. Furthermore, the general disenchantment with the practical results of ‘expansionary austerity’ pursued in the past has played a role as well. At the same time, in most Western Balkan countries and in the CIS, the fiscal stance tends to be either neutral or restrictive – and in the case of the CIS countries it is essentially pro-cyclical. The impact of the forthcoming Brexit on CESEE economies should be contained by those countries’ relatively low trade exposure to the UK economy. In the EU-CEE region, some 1.6% of GDP is accounted for by final demand from the UK, and that share is even lower in other CESEE countries. At the same time, from 2019 onwards the EU-CEE region potentially faces the prospects of much lower (by up to 20%) EU transfers once the UK – the second largest net contributor country to the EU budget after Germany – leaves the bloc. The migration flows from the EU-CEE region to the UK could fall by nearly half compared to the past two years even without any changes to the migration regime, as the UK will become less of a magnet for migrants.
E29|Growth Stabilises: Investment a Major Driver, Except in Countries Plagued by Recession|GDP growth in the EU Member States of Central and Eastern Europe (EU-CEE), the Western Balkans (WB) and Turkey will remain stable or even increase. The trend growth path will be around 3%. EU-CEE countries will thus continue to catch up to the EU average, however at low speed. Russia and Ukraine, on the other hand, will show a considerably worse performance growth will return in 2017 at the earliest. These are the main results of the newly released medium-term macroeconomic forecast by the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies (wiiw). In 2015, the EU-CEE group registered the highest rate of economic growth since the outbreak of the financial crisis, 3.4% (see Table 1). In 2016-2017 the group will experience some modest growth deceleration on account of the recent consumption boom subsiding and a temporary decline in EU transfers. As for 2018, the EU-CEE countries will pick up some speed driven by an inflow of new investments and transfers. Uncertainties concerning the global economy do not allow us to predict average growth of more than 3% over the medium term. Countries in the Western Balkans also improved their performance in 2015 and will maintain positive growth rates in 2016 and beyond. However unimpressive it may be, compared to their need for catching-up, the average growth rate in the WB countries (excluding Serbia) will not lag behind that in the EU-CEE countries. Turkey will maintain a fragile stability despite relatively high inflation and a high current account deficit, while coping with increasing challenges emerging, for instance, from the war in Syria, the refugee crisis and the loss of export and tourism revenue owing to the Russian trade sanctions. Russia and Belarus will face yet another year of recession in 2016. Russia will continue to suffer from low oil prices, high inflation, currency depreciation, sanctions and fiscal austerity. As usual, structural change and institutional reforms will be slow and half-hearted, incapable of offsetting the losses. Ukraine’s economic growth, after the dramatic fall over the past years, will stabilise as the economy will by and large have completed the adjustment process that was triggered by the country decoupling from Russia and the occupied territories. The Russian annexation of the Crimea and the conflict in East-Ukraine look set to last. Export markets lost will not be regained even in the medium term, nor should one expect the volume of exports to the EU to make up for the shortfall quickly. The divergence of economic performance between the EU-CEE and the WB plus Turkey on the one hand and the CIS-3 (Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan) and Ukraine on the other hand will continue in 2016 and beyond. The difference between the two large country groups, however, will not take on more pronounced dimensions as the recent collapse of the major commodity prices may turn into stagnation. The leading role attributed to household demand in driving economic growth in the EU-CEE and WB countries will be matched by investments. A medium-term investment revival is expected in most of the CESEE countries in both the public and private sectors. FDI has already shown some signs of emerging from stagnation in the EU-CEE and WB countries. Credit conditions for private borrowers have improved. Moreover, gross fixed capital formation is responding to the transfer of EU funds that are bound to decline in 2016, but will recover later, once access to EU transfers provided under the 2014-2020 financing framework picks up. As fiscal consolidation and more rapid economic growth have been achieved, fiscal space has widened in several countries, thus granting governments more room in which to implement and support investments. Even highly indebted countries have managed to adopt a less restrictive fiscal stance. The CIS-3 and Ukraine are outliers in this respect as well; they have started cutting back on expenditures so as to reduce their fiscal deficits. Exports may increase if external demand recovers, but imports may grow even more rapidly as consumption and investment expand in the EU-CEE and WB economies. Thus, net exports will not be a strong driver of economic growth. Foreign investors’ income may rise overall, while remittances and labour income from abroad will remain important sources of current account revenues. Special sections of the Forecast shed light on other topical issues low oil prices are mainly supply-driven; the Juncker Initiative will not take the place of EU transfers; outmigration and demography are leading to labour shortages in EU-CEE countries; the recent inflow of refugees may, in the medium term, put pressure on existing migrant workers in Austria.
E29|The Effects of Economic Growth on Earnings in Bolivia|This paper analyzes the effects of economic growth on labor earnings in Bolivia during 1999-2012. More precisely, we develop a labor market model to capture both cycle and trend effects of prices, and production on earnings, which is estimated econometrically using pseudo-panel data methods. The results show that labor earnings have had a pro-cyclical behavior. In particular, we find that, in the short run, an increase of 1% in prices or production explains an earnings rise of around 0.5%, while, in the long run, a production increase of 1% is associated with an earnings variation of 0.4%. Furthermore, we find that labor earnings growth by sector follows, to some extent, the economic performance of its corresponding sector, which responds to the sector segmentation characteristics in the Bolivian labor market.
E29|A reply to “banking crises, labor reforms, and unemployment: A comment”|Aleksynka (2015) points to some important methodological flaws in the labor market indicators data used in Bernal-Verdugo, Furceri and Guillaume (2013) [BFG]. This paper revisits the empirical findings presented in BFG, and shows that the results and conclusions are little affected by these methodological flaws. In particular, we find that: (i) while in countries with more flexible labor markets the impact of banking crises is sharper but short-lived, in countries with more rigid labor markets the effect is initially more subdued but highly persistent; (ii) comprehensive labor market reforms have a positive impact on unemployment, albeit only in the medium term.
E29|Structural change and non-constant biased technical change|Empirical evidence suggests that the differences in rates of technical progress across sectors are time-variant, implying that the bias in technological change is not constant. In this paper, we analyze the implications of this non-constant sectoral biased technical change for structural change and we assess whether this is an important factor behind structural transformations. To this end, we develop a multi-sectoral growth model where TFP growth rates across sectors are non-constant. We calibrate our model to match the development of the U.S. economy during the twentieth century. Our findings show that, by assuming non-constant biased technical change, a purely technological approach is able to replicate the sectoral transformations in the U.S. economy not only after but also prior to World War II.
E29|Russian Devaluation in 2014—2015: Falling into the Abyss or Window of Opportunities?|The fall in the oil prices from mid-2014 is causing a decrease in domestic demand and a strong devaluation of the ruble, which in turn promotes the growth of the price competitiveness of Russian producers, stimulates the supply side of the economy (especially in foreign markets, where there is no recession), and thus creates the possibility of offsetting the fall in domestic demand due to the growth of net exports. However, as the analysis of the economic literature, the world experience and current Russian economic trends demonstrates, the joint impact of oil prices and ruble devaluation on the growth rates of the Russian economy, with all its structural problems, can lead to a much more severe recession than the majority of experts, if to judge by average consensus estimates, expect in their forecasts (as of the end of September 2015).
E29|The Role Of Opinion Leaders Within The Context Of Purchasing Herbal Products For Health|According to definition of World Health Organization ?Health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity?. Starting from this point in present society individuals not only purchasing products for health for any diseases which they suffer but also for sustaining their comfort and to feel themselves well. Herbal products appear as important consuming product in treatment period of diseases and also in protective health. In this study role of opinion leaders about purchasing attitude and behaviors of individuals having knowledge about herbal products somehow is questioned. Study aims to determine under which criteria attitudes occur about very important issue such as health determining the quality of life of individuals is about understanding by which references opinions occur about purchasing herbal products and influence of opinion leaders during purchasing process. Study particularly aims to present the role of opinion leaders within the context of high educated sample.
E29|Mixed Prospects: Consumption Leads Fragile Recovery in the CESEE Core – CIS Stumbles|Summary The economic outlook in the countries of Central East and Southeast Europe (CESEE) will improve in 2015–2017 with the forecast average economic growth rate close to 3% – some 1.5 pp. higher than the expected euro area average growth. Only the CIS countries and Ukraine will be an exception to this trend. Household consumption, aided by labour market improvements and low inflation, will be the main driver of growth. These are the main results of the newly released medium-term macroeconomic forecast by the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies (wiiw), revising slightly upwards the growth projections relative to the Spring 2015 forecast. Sub-regional growth trends vary greatly. At one end of the spectrum, the Central European countries are expected to continue their robust recovery with growth rates in the order of 2-4% per annum over the forecast horizon (2015–2017). At the other end, the prospects facing the CIS countries are particularly poor unless global commodity prices recover, both Russia and Belarus already tumbling into a deep recession (expected growth in 2015 -3.7% and -3.8%, respectively), while Kazakhstan is following suit with a deceleration in growth (1.5% in 2015). Whereas economic activity in the Baltic countries suffered this year on account of their exposure to Russia, they appear to be resilient and recovery is still on track with growth in the medium term expected to be in the range of 1.5-3%. Overall, Southeast Europe displays improving, but irregular growth tendencies, in many cases accompanied by macroeconomic imbalances and deep structural problems. Serbia and Croatia, the worst performers in the group, will enjoy hardly any growth at all in 2015 (0.1% and 0.7%, respectively), while growth in other countries will be in the order of 2-4%. The situation in Ukraine remains particularly fragile and serious downside risks persist, although there are signs that the recession, much deeper than originally anticipated (with output projected to drop by -11.5% this year), might be bottoming out. Net exports are providing only a limited, if at all positive, contribution to growth, while household consumption, supported by labour market improvements and low inflation due to weak commodity prices, is coming to the fore as the main engine of growth across most of the CESEE region; consumption is expected to remain among the key drivers in the medium term as well. At the same time, private investment remains the much-needed missing link in the mechanism essential to rekindling sustainable output growth in the CESEE region, and public investment may prove to be an important complementary factor. In this regard, the EU structural and investment funds under the 2014–2020 Multiannual Financial Framework will be instrumental as a source of co-funding. Inflation remains very weak across the CESEE region, hovering at near-zero levels on account of low commodity prices, with the exception of the CIS countries, Turkey and Ukraine, whose inflation spiked owing to exchange rate pass-through effects that followed sharp currency depreciations in 2014–2015, as well as country-specific factors, such as the food embargo in Russia and the rise in utility tariffs in Ukraine. The external environment is only moderately supportive. As the multi-speed recovery of the world economy continues in 2015, driven primarily by advanced economies and accompanied by poor performance in large emerging market economies, manifold external risks also arise that could jeopardise the recovery of the CESEE region, including geopolitical tensions associated with the situation in Ukraine and the Middle East, a slowdown in major emerging markets, normalisation of monetary policy in the USA and low commodity prices (a negative shock for the CIS group). Special sections of the forecast report focus on some of the potential risks that have attracted much attention since the beginning of the year, including the refugee crisis in Europe, recession and import-substitution policy in Russia, the Volkswagen scandal, the economic slowdown in China and the implications of the Greek crisis. With the exception of the CIS countries and Ukraine, however, the CESEE countries appear to be rather resilient to date.
E29|A Time of Moderate Expectations|Growth in the CESEE region will follow the unimpressive pattern displayed by the euro area. The longer-term convergence of income levels in the CESEE countries can no longer be expected to be as rapid as was assumed a decade or so ago. Growth in the period 2015-2017 is not going to deviate substantially from the pace recorded in 2014. For the new EU Member States growth is expected to remain slightly below 3% in the years to come. This implies an average growth differential of about 1.5 percentage points as compared to the euro area – about half of what it was before the global financial crisis. On the other hand, most of the countries in the region are also expected to evade the dangers of runaway inflation, fiscal deficits or excessive foreign borrowing that often plagued them in the past. These are the main results of the newly released medium-term growth forecast for the region by the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies (wiiw). Depressed aggregate domestic demand has been the major factor behind anaemic growth. This is evidenced by disinflation (or even mildly deflationary tendencies) across much of the region, as well as the persistence of fairly high unemployment. There is some evidence of a ‘race to the bottom’ in terms of wage setting. While wage moderation strengthens profitability and external competitiveness, it also weakens disposable household incomes and thus slows down growth in domestic demand. Apparently, there is a trade-off between improvements in the trade balance and more rapid growth in domestic demand. Overall, GDP growth is being held ‘on a short leash’. Growth in public investment may be supporting economic growth, especially in those new EU Member States (NMS) that have access to EU funds. However, a proper rebound in private-sector investment is still lacking. Weak private-sector investment cannot be attributed to a ‘profit squeeze’ in the corporate sector. On the contrary, the corporate sector has been doing very well, at least in those NMS for which relevant data are available. The corporate sector as a whole still tends to lend rather than borrow. The means available to the corporate sector appear to be plentiful at present – but the sector still prefers to lick its wounds inflicted by former excessive borrowing or extend loans (primarily to the public sector) rather than to invest productively. Loans are stagnant even in those instances where interest rates are relatively low. With a few exceptions (largely on the region’s periphery) the stocks of loans to the non-financial corporate sector increased marginally at best in 2014. This may reflect firms’ pessimistic assessment of future growth in demand, increased ‘liquidity preference’ or the relative abundance of the means at their disposal. Non-performing loans are linked to a high share of borrowing in foreign currencies. The recent strengthening of the Swiss franc will bear some negative consequences for those firms and households that borrowed heavily in that currency in the past. New evidence supports the claim that the countries with floating exchange rates fare better in the medium to long term. They tend to avoid irreversible currency overvaluation, whereas the countries with fixed exchange rates do not quite avert it. It is argued, however, that despite the rigidity of the exchange rates, overvaluation can be avoided – at least in the medium term. All the CESEE countries are running up fiscal deficits. Current account deficits are still depressed. Net national lending in the NMS tends to be positive. This is a consequence of current savings in the private sector in the NMS generally running ahead of gross fixed capital formation in that sector. On average, output growth across the NMS will become more uniform in 2015 – albeit not any faster. Average growth will remain at 2.7% in 2015. Some acceleration in marginal growth is to be expected in the biennium 2016-2017. Unemployment in the NMS will recede only gradually. Low inflation will prevail in 2015, but it will gradually return to more normal levels in 2016. Under sustained – albeit rather anaemic – growth, the current account balances will deteriorate (although they will still remain comparatively low). Growth is hardly accelerating in the (current and potential) EU candidate countries either. Output in those countries is not expected to grow faster than in the NMS. Turkey, Macedonia and Kosovo may fare slightly better than the rest of the group, with growth rates of above 3% in 2015. However, with the exception of Turkey, those countries seem to have put high inflation behind them. Nonetheless, their unemployment figures continue to be dismal (less so only in Turkey). They will also run high (or even very high) current account deficits. Most of the successor states to the Soviet Union will perform rather badly in 2015. Ukraine’s output will continue its free fall as many of the country’s industrial centres have become battlefields. A drop of 5% in economic growth is expected for 2015. The decline in world market prices for energy carriers will negatively affect both Kazakhstan and Russia, with real output in the latter country dropping sharply by almost 4% in 2015. A similar fate will befall Belarus a country that relies heavily on exports to Russia and Ukraine. However, assuming a peaceful resolution to the Ukrainian conflict in 2015, it is expected that all the successor states will resume moderate growth in 2016 or 2017.
E29|Assessing House Price Effects on Unemployment Dynamics|We investigate the causal effect of house price movements on unemployment dynamics. Using a dataset of 34 countries over the last 40 years, we show the large and significant impact of house prices on unemployment fluctuations using property taxes as an instrument for house prices. A 10% (instrumented) appreciation in house prices yields to a 3.4% decrease in the unemployment rate. These results are very robust to the inclusion of the variables commonly used to explain unemployment rate developments. If house prices directly impact employment in construction, job volatility in this sector resulting in large employment fluctuations, they impact also total employment through their effects on non-residential investment and consumption, two determinants of labour demand. Housing booms have a specific effect on employment in the tradable sector as they lead to real exchange rate appreciations that affect manufacturing activity.
E29|Unbundling the Great European Recession (2009-2013): Unemployment, Consumption, Investment, Inflation and Current Account|The aim of the paper is to unbundle the main economic variables involved in the European Crisis and clarify their reciprocal relationship. The variable considered are: unemployment, inflation, consumptions, investments and current accounts. We use annual, quarterly and monthly data, until 2012, mid-2013 or an estimate of 2013 for the main European countries. The main results are the following: a) we show an emerging European economic divide, b) we detect a quasi-Okun relationship between investment and unemployment, c) we show the revival of the Phillips curve, especially in Germany, d) we test for the relationship between unemployment and the Government deficit, e) we show the existence of a relationship between unemployment and current account, f) we show how countries with high unemployment rate could bear the burden, g) we unbundle the unemployment-current account relationship, showing first the relationship between unemployment and final consumption, h) and then between final consumption, imports and corrent account, i) we show why a stable and growing inflation differential is not sustainable, but argue that internal devalution is not an effective policy, pushing inflation rates to a worrisome lower level and even outright deflation, l) we argue and show how to implement a more effective policy looking to the inflation differentials of specific products, looking to the case of Italy, m) we analyze the trade relationship between Germany and China, arguing that since the onset of the EMU and the successive membership of China to the WTO a European structural break occurred, with some European countries relying much more on exports rather than domestic demand. A more general issue of sustainability and replicability of the Germany’s export led growth model is raised.
E29|Labor Regulation and Unemployment: The Case of Tunisia|Using a different database of labor regulation, we sketch the relationship between labor market flexibility and unemployment in Tunisia during the period 2000-2013. The results of the study find no link between labor regulation and unemployment. The main finding from the dynamic panel estimation is that the labor regulation composite indicator used does not have a statistically significant association with the unemployment rate for the selected 115 developing countries. However, there is a direct link between the firing and hiring regulation and unemployment. In addition, the interactive variable between these indicators and the dummy variable for Tunisia doesnâ€™t seem to explain why unemployment is higher in Tunisia than in other countries. Regulation has no adverse effect on aggregate unemployment.
E29|Unbundling the Great European Recession (2009-2013): Unemployment, Consumption, Investment, Inflation and Current Account|The aim of the paper is to unbundle the main economic variables involved in the European Crisis and clarify their reciprocal relationship. The variables considered are: unemployment, inflation, consumptions, investments and current accounts. We use annual, quarterly and monthly data, until 2012, mid-2013 or an estimate of 2013 for the main European countries. The main results are the following: a) we show an emerging European economic divide, b) we detect a quasi-Okun relationship between investment and unemployment, c) we show the revival of the Phillips curve, especially in Germany, d) we test for the relationship between unemployment and the Government deficit, e) we show the existence of a relationship between unemployment and current account, f) we show how countries with high unemployment rate could bear the burden, g) we unbundle the unemployment-current account relationship, showing first the relationship between unemployment and final consumption, h) and then between final consumption, imports and current account, i) we show why a stable and growing inflation differential is not sustainable, but argue that internal devalution is not an effective policy, pushing inflation rates to a worrisome lower level and even outright deflation, l) we argue and show how to implement a more effective policy looking to the inflation differentials of specific products, looking to the case of Italy, m) we analyze the trade relationship between Germany and China, arguing that since the onset of the EMU and the successive membership of China to the WTO, a European structural break occurred, with some European countries relying much more on exports rather than domestic demand. A more general issue of sustainability and replicability of the Germany’s export led growth model is raised.
E29|Oil price shocks and domestic price investment in Ghana|This study examines the effect of oil prices on domestic investment in Ghana using quarterly time series data from 1984 to 2012. Dynamic Ordinary Least Squares (DOLS) technique was used to estimate the effect of oil price on domestic investment in Ghana. The analysis revealed that there is long run relationship between domestic private investment, oil price shocks, exchange rate, inflation, income and credit to private sector. The study found negative effect of oil price shocks on investment. This indicate that shock in oil prices leads to a reduction in investment. It is therefore recommended that mechanisms be put in place to check or cushion the economy against oil price shocks and variability. This could be done through providing domestic credit to the private sector to boast investment.
E29|The sensitivity of households to interest rate - analysis of the relationship of interest rates and the amount of loans and deposits in the Czech Republic|This paper deals with the relationship of short-term and long-term interest rates and the amount of deposits and loans of households. The aim is to demonstrate the relationship between interest and Current Discount Index (CDI). CDI expresses the growth rate of the ratio of loans to deposits of households. Author?s assumption is: increasing interest rates will reduce loans and increase savings. In the paper are savings considered to be identical with deposits in bank accounts. The results of the analysis show that households do not respond to changes in interest rates relative to the amount of loans and the amount of savings.
E29|Wachstumsbeschleunigung dank Investitionswende in Mittel-, Ost- und Südosteuropa|Das Wirtschaftswachstum wird sich in den mittel-, ost- und südosteuropäischen Ländern (MOSOEL) 2014 bis 2016 verstärken und durchschnittlich 2% bis 3% erreichen. Wesentlicher Wachstumsimpuls ist eine Wende in den öffentlichen und privaten Investitionen.
E29|On Thin Ice: CESEE Core Resilient in the Face of EU Stagnation and the Ukraine Crisis|Summary Despite near stagnation in the euro area and the negative impact of the Ukraine crisis, in most of the NMS economies and some of the Western Balkan countries growth prospects are viewed as positive. While the NMS economies will preserve their positive growth differential vis-à-vis the EU-28, Russia and Ukraine are facing a deterioration of their economic performance. External factors have had a major impact on growth performance in the CESEE region. Financial transfers from the EU have lent essential support to economic growth in the European Union’s new Member States (NMS). Investment and operational costs funded via those transfers have become an integral and increasingly important part of aggregate demand in the NMS economies. 2013 and 2014 have been among the strongest years in terms of transfers in the framework of the EU cohesion policy. Their impact is comparable to that of fiscal stimuli, albeit better inasmuch as they do not give rise to new debt. A possible disadvantage compared to classic fiscal stimuli is that transfers have no steerable relation to business cycles. In the eastern part of the CESEE region, the Ukraine conflict has had a pronounced negative impact on economic growth. 25 years after the fall of the Iron Curtain, the current crisis in relations between Russia and the West is evolving into a dangerous geopolitical conflict. In Ukraine, the main victim of the conflict, the economy may decline by 8% over the current year. In Russia, the costs of the conflict are estimated to be to the tune of about 1% of GDP, primarily on account of increased investment risks and the financial sanctions. The impact on the individual EU countries differs according to their exposure to the Russian market. The Baltic States and some other NMS will be those most affected on account of their trade channels with estimated losses in the order of up to 0.4% of GDP. The global financial crisis has shattered the rapid expansion of financial intermediation in nearly all of the countries in the region; recovery of crediting activities is still fragmentary and weak. High levels of non-performing loans are a major concern throughout much of the region. There seems to be a justified concern over the region having entered a period of ‘creditless recovery’ which threatens to be much slower than a recovery with strong credit growth. The outlook for GDP growth in the CESEE region is again fairly diversified. Compared to 2013, the growth performance is expected to improve in twelve and deteriorate in nine of the twenty-one countries in the region in 2014. The general medium-term trend for the NMS as a whole is seen to be positive in most of these countries, we expect a gradual acceleration of GDP growth; exceptions are Hungary and Slovenia where a deceleration is forecast, and Poland where the relatively high GDP growth rate will remain practically unchanged. For the current year, the assumption is that the NMS will grow by 1.8 percentage points higher than expansion in the euro area and 1.3 pp above the EU-28 average. In 2015, the gap in favour of NMS growth performance will become somewhat narrower 1.5 pp relative to the euro area and 1.1 pp to the EU-28 average. For some of the countries in the Western Balkans, growth prospects will only improve over the period 2015-2016, closely related to the damage caused by the floods this summer. Turkey will continue to register remarkable economic growth. Growth performance in Kazakhstan, Russia and Ukraine will worsen in the current year compared to 2013; the medium-term outlook in Russia and Ukraine is, depending on the evolution of the political crisis, fairly uncertain with considerable downward risks. As for our forecasts for 2015 and 2016, a further weakening of performance in the euro area poses a downward risk, while a longer lasting drop in oil prices will represent an upward risk, except for energy exporters Russia and Kazakhstan.
E29|Investment to the Rescue|The Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies (wiiw) expects GDP in Central, East and Southeast Europe (CESEE) to pick up speed and grow on average by 2-3% over the forecast period 2014-2016 a major driving force rooted in an upward reversal of public and private investment. The question remains, however, whether investment-led growth in the CESEE countries is merely a statistical base effect of a few replacement investments or an indication of a profound paradigmatic shift. Increasing evidence suggests the latter for a number of reasons. During the ongoing economic crisis, public investment was severely reduced. However, in times of extreme uncertainty, the private sector is hesitant to invest. Hence, the public sector has to take the lead. It seems that the time for action has now come. This holds especially true for the New Member States, where towards the end of the previous year additional efforts were made to raise the absorption rate of the funds allocated within the context of the EU multiannual financial framework for 2007-2013 that was about to come to a close. Over the remaining disbursement period of the biennium 2014-2015 substantially higher amounts of EU-funded investment are to be expected. Given that, in practically all cases, national co-financing is also required, CESEE public capital investment will increase, with private investors likely following in its slipstream. Apart from a number of transport infrastructure projects, a host of thermal power plant projects are in the pipeline, as are several major investments in the construction and expansion of nuclear power plants across the region. Apart from public and semi-public infrastructure investment initiatives that have the potential to spur subsequent private investment, improving growth prospects in the euro area, the CESEE economies’ main trading partner, are likely to encourage export industries in the region to modernise and increase their capital stock. This should help avert a lapse into a deflationary spiral and foster a shift towards better equilibrium with lower unemployment rates over the medium term. However, substantial downward risks include possible effects from the current Russia-Ukraine conflict; in particular the interruption of energy supplies, potential trade embargoes or additional interest rate risk premia. All this could adversely affect investment-led growth in CESEE.
E29|Venture Capital: Ein neuer Anlauf zur Erleichterung von Wagniskapitalfinanzierungen|Wagniskapitalfinanzierungen - oft mit dem englischen Begriff Venture Capital bezeichnet - spielen eine wichtige Rolle für die Finanzierung innovativer Firmengründungen, die einen hohen Kapitalbedarf für Forschung und Entwicklung haben. Zudem benötigen sie Zeit bis zum Verkauf ihres neuen Produkts oder ihrer Dienstleistung, die finanziell überbrückt werden muss. Die USA sind das klassische Venture-Capital-Land, wobei sich die Aktivitäten auf das legendäre kalifornische Silicon Valley konzentrieren. Europa und vor allem Deutschland liegen weit zurück, was Wagniskapitalfinanzierungen betrifft - mit den entsprechenden negativen Folgen für innovationsstarke Firmen in neuen Branchen. Unternehmen wie Google, Yahoo oder Facebook entstehen nicht bei uns. Seit Jahren wird versucht, an diesem Zustand mit staatlichen Fonds und Änderungen der Rahmenbedingungen etwas zu ändern, doch Erfolge sind kaum zu verzeichnen. Der Anteil der Venture-Capital-Finanzierungen am Bruttoinlandsprodukt stagniert unterhalb von 0,1 Prozent. Auch wenn das Silicon Valley wegen der speziellen strukturellen Bedingungen auf dem US-Markt unerreichbar bleibt: Gründe, Venture Capital zu stärken, gibt es reichlich. Deutschland darf sich nicht auf den Erfolgen seiner Industrie ausruhen, sondern muss endlich die Bedingungen für Vorstöße in neue Branchen grundlegend verbessern. Ansatzpunkte sind die steuerliche Gleichbehandlung von Gewinnen und Verlusten sowie generell die Behandlung von VC-Gesellschaften im Steuerecht. Als Vorbild könnten die Regelungen im Vereinigten Königreich und Frankreich dienen.
E29|Tourism - The Main Component Of Hospitality Industry - It‘S Evolution In Romania|Tourism, by its nature, generates important economic, social, political, and culturaleffects on the society as a whole, thus playing an indisputable role in the development of a nation.As a socio-economic activity, tourism represents, by its content and role, a distinct domain ofactivity, a component of first importance for the economic and social life of a larger and largernumber of countries in the world, including for our country.The objective of this article is to analyse the evolution of some indicators of the tourist movementand their influence on the macro-environment of Romania. As regards the research methodology,this article is based on a positivist quantitative research, which is at the same time longitudinal,given that the various indicators for measuring the impact degree of the hospitality industry on thenational economy are presented in their evolution. The main sources used in this research arerepresented by the information published by the websites of different authorised organizations, suchas INS (National Institute of Statistics), BNR (National Bank of Romania), WTO, using theexploratory method for analysing the evolution of the phenomenon in the course of time, but theinterpretative method was also applied and the results of the performed analisys were thenpresented.
E29|A New Classification Of Smes In The Digital Economy Context|In a highly dynamic and competitive environment as the online one, SMEs need to adapt and change their behavior, requiring a rethinking of classification criteria. Social media is changing the way people interact, but also changing organizations and how they operate. Social networks are no longer just a simple tool to create a network of friends; they have become a destination for business. We can also talk of a new world of business, a new way of working; the freelancers have a share of the increasingly significant. Cloud computing is the support for all changes in the current environment, providing the tools necessary to conduct activities anywhere. Given the mentioned arguments, we consider that the classification of SMEs according to a new set of criteria: operating environment, geographical area, type of employees in the company or how they organize marketing activities.
E29|El valor del capital humano: una aproximación desde el enfoque del ingreso para Colombia, 2001-2009|En este trabajo se estima el valor del stock de capital humano para Colombia en el período 2001-2009, a partir del enfoque de ingresos vitales. Se identifica una tasa de crecimiento del stock agregado de 3,24%, a la cual los hombres contribuyen en mayor medida, al igual que las personas con nivel educativo superior incompleto, mientras los individuos más jóvenes contribuyen más por grupos de edad. Las tasas de inversión bruta, depreciación y revaluación estimadas en 7,48%, 4,44%, y 0,1%, respectivamente, arrojan una tasa de inversión neta de 3,09%. Finalmente, el stock es sensible a cambios paramétricos, pero sus tasas de crecimiento parecen inalteradas. ***** This study employed the lifetime income approach to estimate the value of Colombia’s human capital stock between 2001 and 2009. The findings demonstrate that aggregate stock grew 3.24% over the period. A gender breakdown showed that men contributed more to this growth rate than did women, as did those who had completed higher education compared to those who had not, while analysis by age group showed that younger individuals contributed more than their elders. Likewise, the rates of gross investment, depreciation and revaluation of human capital were estimated at 7.48%, 4.44% and 0.1% respectively, yielding a net investment rate of 3.09%. Finally, although the stock was sensitive to parametric changes, growth rates appeared relatively unaffected overall. ***** Dans ce travail est évaluée la valeur du stock de capital humain pour la Colombie pour la période 2001 – 2009, calculée à partir des entrées vitales. On identifie un taux de croissance du stock cumulé de 3,24%, auquel les hommes contribuent pour la plus grande partie, de même que les personnes d’un niveau d’études supérieur incomplet, tandis que les individus plus jeunes contribuent davantage par groupes d’âge. Les taux d’investissement brut, dépréciation, et réévaluation estimés respectivement à 7,48 %, 4,44% et 0,1% atteignent un taux d’investissement net de 3,09%. Finalement, le stock est sensible aux changements paramétriques, mais ses taux de croissance semblent ne pas en être altérés.
E29|Banking crises, labor reforms, and unemployment|Using a sample of 97 countries spanning the period 1980–2008, we estimate that banking crises have, on average, a large negative impact on unemployment. This effect, however, largely depends on the flexibility of labor market institutions: while in countries with more flexible labor markets the impact of banking crises is sharper but short-lived, in countries with more rigid labor markets the effect is initially more subdued but highly persistent. These effects are even larger for youth unemployment in the short term, and long-term unemployment in the medium term. Conversely, large upfront, or gradual but significant, comprehensive market reforms have a positive impact on unemployment, albeit only in the medium term.
E29|Effects of Uncertainty on Household Saving Rate|In this master thesis we attempted to investigate the role of economic uncertainty in driving the behavior of household savings for six European countries: Germany, France, Finland, United Kingdom (UK), Portugal and Italy. We focused on three main sources of economic uncertainty: Unemployment Risk, Fiscal Policy Uncertainty and Financial Crisis-Investment risk. We used Unemployment rate as a proxy for labor income uncertainty and the risk of an income loss. We computed the volatility of financial stock prices for each country as an indicator for the presence of a financial crisis. With regard to policy uncertainty, we employed three different measures: a Policy Uncertainty Index constructed by Baker, Bloom, and Davis; Debt to GDP ratio and Government Surplus / Deficit over GDP. We estimated first a Structural Vector Autoregressive (SVAR) model, separately for each country, using quarterly data from 1999 to 2012 and we compared country-specific impulse responses on savings rates. We found that household savings rate reacts in response to fiscal and unemployment shocks differently in each country, whereas we didn’t find any significant response to financial stock price volatility. We then proceeded with the Bayesian estimation of the reduced form VARs for the panel of countries mentioned above as a Hierarchical Linear Model. We focused our analysis on the Average Impulse Responses with the aim of analyzing the aggregate effect on household savings of shocks shared by all countries.
E29|Türkiye’de Döviz Kuru Hareketlerinin İç Fiyatlara (İthalat Fiyatları, ÜFE ve TÜFE) Geçişi|Recently, there has been a revival of interest in understanding how changes in the exchange rate pass-through to domestic prices. Pass-through process has been explored within the new open economy macro economic framework based on optimizing behavior. In light of the strong correlation between exchange rate movements and domestic prices, it is important to assess the impact of the exchange rate on domestic prices, in particular as Turkey moves to an inflation targeting regime. Aim of this study is to estimate passthrough into domestic prices of exchange rate movements by means of structural VAR model. In this context, as well as transition into domestic prices of exchange rate movements, it has been also investigated the effect of supply and demand shocks on domestic prices.
E29|Wage discrimination over the business cycle|J7, E3 Copyright Biddle and Hamermesh; licensee Springer. 2013
E29|Double-dip Recession over, yet no Boom in Sight|Summary The protracted recession in the euro area will continue to be a drag on the economic growth of most CESEE countries in 2013. By and large, those countries are small open economies held hostage to the excessive fiscal austerity pursued in the euro area and the sluggish progress on the part of its policy-makers in adequately addressing the structural roots of the crisis. At the same time, the private sector demand in the CESEE countries is unlikely to recover substantially in the near term either. Wherever there will be an increase in investments, it will be primarily funded via public money, with EU transfers playing an increasingly important role. In general, the prospects for 2013 are only marginally better than the previous year; any significant improvement will be unlikely before 2014 – in line with the projected recovery in the euro area. These are the main results of the newly released medium-term growth forecast for the region by the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies (wiiw). Weak exports and suppressed domestic demand pushed nearly half of the Central, East and Southeast European (CESEE) economies into recession in 2012, including the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovenia and nearly all Western Balkan countries. Elsewhere in the region, growth remained positive but was generally unspectacular, with the notable exceptions of Kazakhstan and Latvia. Also in countries that hitherto had been relatively immune to the euro area crisis (such as Russia, Poland, Ukraine and Turkey), growth dynamics progressively decelerated in the second half of the year. On the whole, 2012 was a disappointing year for the CESEE economies, confirming fears of a double-dip recession in the euro area adversely impacting large parts of the CESEE region. This rather poor performance stands in sharp contrast to the better dynamics in other ‘emerging markets’ in Asia and Latin America, and underscores the dependence of large parts of the CESEE region on the troubled euro area (not least in terms of policies pursued) and the structural weakness of many CESEE economies. The crucial factor behind the disappointing CESEE growth performance has been the weakness of domestic demand. Import demand generally lagged behind export growth, and net exports contributed positively to GDP growth in 2012 – despite the anaemic external environment. High unemploymentand stagnant wages, coupled with fiscal austerity and the ongoing (albeit in some cases decelerating) household deleveraging, continue to weigh heavily on the dynamics of private consumption in most CESEE countries, with the exception of Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan and the Baltic states. In turn, investment activity is suppressed by the lasting, and in some cases even deteriorating, perception of uncertain future prospects and by underutilized capacities in an environment characterized by weak demand – even though large parts of the corporate sector are awash with liquidity. In these circumstances, the investment dynamics in the region has been shaped by public investment projects, frequently supported by EU transfers (first of all in Estonia and Romania). The expected marginal improvement in economic performance in some CESEE countries in 2013 is largely due to the somewhat less restrictive fiscal policy (e.g. the Czech Republic) or a better performance of agriculture (Serbia, Romania). However, in Poland and Slovakia economic growth will decelerate, while Slovenia and Croatia will be unable to avoid another recession this year – notwithstanding the likely beneficial impact of inflows of EU funds in the latter case. The near-term economic prospects are generally better on the ‘fringes’ of the CESEE region the Baltic states, Russia, Kazakhstan and Turkey, which are less dependent on the troubled euro area and are in no rush (or need) to pursue fiscal consolidation. In Ukraine, economic prospects are dependent on a timely and ‘controlled’ currency devaluation, which would be crucial for the badly needed growth re-balancing. Even under the most optimistic scenario, in the medium and long term the CESEE countries will be generally unable to replicate the growth rates observed prior to the 2008-2009 crisis. In the Western Balkans, the bleak growth prospects and the high levels of unemployment may eventually imperil the fragile social and political stability of these countries. The newly released wiiw Forecast Report also contains ‘special topics’ dealing in-depth with (1) regional and EU-wide fiscal policy issues, (2) the extent of deleveraging in the household, corporate and banking sectors, and (3) the patterns of structural adjustment and unit labour cost developments in the CESEE countries. Last but not least, it includes for the first time a country report and statistical information on Kosovo.
E29|Animal Spirits still Dimmed: Slow Recovery Expected|Summary Continued weak external demand and uncertain recovery of investments will allow for only modest growth prospects for the countries of Central, East and Southeast Europe (CESEE) this year. Slovenia, Croatia and the Czech Republic will remain in recession. Russia, Ukraine and the Baltic countries will experience a slowdown of growth. Over the next two years, growth will speed up, but will remain below potential for most CESEE countries except Kazakhstan and likely Turkey. The emerging institutional and policy framework in the EU that reflects unresolved dilemmas about the process of deepening may put in question the model of convergence growth. Widening of the EU is, in contrast, proceeding with Croatia acceding and the intention to start negotiations with Serbia being announced. However, given the worsening labour markets, social and political risks may be on the rise. These are the main results of the newly released medium-term growth forecast for the region by the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies (wiiw). wiiw expects slow recovery this year within a mostly restrictive policy framework. Some acceleration, due in part to an improved external environment for EU and CESEE economies and in part to growth of investments, is forecast for the medium term. However, the set of better performers has shrunk, with Poland’s and Slovakia’s performance coming more in line with the growing number of slowly recovering economies. Recovery is slowing down in the Baltic region. There are still some countries that are struggling with recession, such as Slovenia and Croatia and also the Czech Republic within the CESEE group. Stability issues are also still being faced in a number of Balkan countries, e.g. Serbia, Montenegro, and Bosnia and Herzegovina; by contrast, Albania and Kosovo are managing to stay out of recession and on a relatively elevated growth path. Russia and Ukraine are seeing either a slowdown of growth or prospects for stagnation and slow recovery, while positive news keep coming from Kazakhstan and faster growth resuming in Turkey. By and large, Central European countries are relying on a positive contribution from net exports and investments, the Balkan countries on recovery of industrial production and exports, Russia and Ukraine, and perhaps also Turkey, rely on a continued positive contribution of household consumption, and Kazakhstan on receipts from sales of oil and gas. None of these factors is particularly strong – hence weak GDP growth expectations prevail. Last but not least, the contribution of public consumption and investments tends to be rather limited throughout the whole of Europe. Monetary policy has been stabilising due to the assertive communication rather than action by the European Central Bank (ECB) and due to mostly relaxing actions by the other central banks in CESEE. However, these have affected recovery to a lesser extent because of the continuing process of consolidation in the financial sector. While sovereigns have seen a decline in the spreads of their yields, a similar calming down of interest rates in the private sector has been insufficient to support stronger credit activity, especially when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises. This can be expected to continue to be a drag on growth of investments and thus also on overall GDP growth. Within the institutional and policy framework geared towards elimination of external and internal macroeconomic imbalances, the bulk of the structural adjustment is happening in the labour markets. Employment rates have declined in most countries while unemployment in particular among the youth and the long-term unemployed is on the rise. This is particularly damaging in the Balkans where the labour markets have been in depression even before the eruption of the crisis. There are few if any indications of a turnaround in the labour markets in the medium term. The strengthened emphasis on the correction of imbalances, reflected in the Macroeconomic Imbalance Procedure of the EU, may turn out to be harmful for the countries benefiting from EU transfers due to increased stress on using these funds as a disciplining device. In addition to fiscal imbalances, which should prove less of a problem to many CESEE countries, the correction of external and labour market imbalances may turn out to be more difficult to address. Moreover, balanced growth, implying less reliance on cross-border financing, may be a problem for countries that cannot move to a new growth model by mobilising more domestic savings. The processes of deepening and widening of the EU are proceeding, with deepening being more at a project- and institution-building stage while widening is getting a new boost by the accession of Croatia and by the start of accession negotiations with Serbia early next year. Croatia’s accession to the common market also means its departure from the regional free trade area, the CEFTA. Estimates of trade and welfare effects point to relatively mild overall negative consequences for Croatia in the short run. Those should be outweighed by more general positive effects of EU membership in the medium and long run. In a nutshell the CESEE region faces a slow recovery in the short and medium term with unclear prospects for long-run growth and economic convergence.
E29|Auswirkungen der Arbeitsmarktöffnung am 1. Jänner 2014 auf den Wirtschafts- und Arbeitsstandort Österreich|Summary Impact of opening full labour market access to Bulgarians and Romanians as of 1 January 2014 the case of Austria The study analyses the migration potential and the impact on Austria’s economy that is to be expected after the lifting of access restrictions for Bulgarian and Romanian nationals as of 1 January 2014. Estimates show that in the years 2014 and 2015 net migration from the EU-2 to Austria will account for 5700 and 5300 additional migrants, respectively, solely due to the full liberalisation of the labour market. About three quarters of EU-2 migrants are expected to come from Romania. The macroeconomic impact of opening the labour market in January 2014 is being assessed by using the general equilibrium model TaxLab. Given the fact that persons with a higher educational level may work in Austria already now under certain conditions, it can be expected that after the liberalisation larger shares of persons with a lower level of education will migrate to Austria. The simulations reveal that in the years following the opening of the labour market, employment will be by about 6700 persons higher than it would be without liberalisation in 2014 and by about 10,300 persons above that level in 2015. The employment effect results not only from the higher population flows but also from the activation of a part of those Bulgarian and Romanian migrants who have been resident in Austria already before the liberalisation. The additional labour force supply together with labour market frictions cause a temporary marginal increase in the overall unemployment rate by only 0.03 percentage points in both 2014 and 2015. The additional labour supply will have a very minor dampening effect on wage growth. As compared to a scenario where the current restrictions are maintained, wages will rise by about 0.2 percentage points more slowly. The strongest losses in wage growth will occur for the low-skilled and the smallest losses in the case of the high-skilled workforce. As a result of the rise in employment and the increased capital stock, value-added will rise as well. The simulation shows that gross domestic product in 2014 and 2015 will be higher by about 0.09% and 0.13%, respectively, than it would be without labour market liberalisation.
E29|Erhöhung der EEG-Kosten als Investitionshemmnis für stromintensive Unternehmen|Im Rahmen der aktuellen deutschen und europäischen Diskussionen um die Reform der Förderung erneuerbarer Energien wird vor allem auch die Besondere Ausgleichsregelung infrage gestellt, mit der bisher stark stromintensive Unternehmen weitgehend von der EEG-Umlage entlastet werden. Dies wird in der deutschen Politik diskutiert, aber auch von der Europäischen Kommission im Rahmen eines Beihilfeverfahrens sowie im Rahmen des Entwurfs für neue Beihilferegeln bedroht. Eine Abschaffung oder weitgehende Einschränkung der Besonderen Ausgleichsregelung oder vergleichbare Mehrbelastungen würde die Investitionsbereitschaft stromintensiver Unternehmen in Deutschland erheblich einschränken. Schon heute sind eine Desinvestition energieintensiver Unternehmen in Deutschland und ein Ausbau der Investitionen im Ausland zu beobachten. Die aktuelle Energiepolitik führt zu Investitionsattentismus und droht weiter Verlagerungen nach sich zu ziehen. Dies hätte negative Folgen für ganze Wertschöpfungsketten und die Innovationsfähigkeit nachgelagerter Branchen.
E29|Accounting for the effect of health on cross-state income inequality in India|We perform development accounting in accordance with Weil (2005, 2007) in a cross-state analysis of India. Results of similar magnitude are found, demonstrating that health can account for 1% to 18% of income differences depending on the health measure.
E29|The effect of indebtedness on the financial and income position of Hungarian households|During the credit boom prior to 2008, a substantial quantity of cash flowed from the banking sector to Hungarian households. With the emergence of the crisis, however, the direction of the cash flow has reversed, due to a net lending related factor and an income-related factor. First, in terms of the net lending, households turned from net borrowers to net repayers. But there is a second, less often analysed, income-related aspect of the process: the volume of interest payable by households has also increased as a result of the strong growth of credit in the pre-crisis years. This was further aggravated by the effect of the depreciation of the forint on FX loans, and, to a lesser extent, by unilateral interest rate increases by banks after 2008. As a consequence, the net interest balance of households deteriorated significantly, reducing both their disposable income and consumption. As a further novel aspect of our analysis, we also carried out an EU-wide comparison of interest burden on households. This has revealed that although the ratio of (bank-related) household credit to GDP is relatively low in Hungary in comparison to other European countries, the related interest-to-GDP ratio is high.
E29|Economy-Wide Impacts of Industry Policy|Estimates of marginal tax rates (MTRs) faced by individual economic agents, and for various ggregates of taxpayers, are important for economists testing behavioural responses to changes in those tax rates. This paper reports estimates of a number of personal marginal income tax rate measures for New Zealand since 1907, focusing mainly on the aggregate income-weighted average MTRs proposed by Barro and Sahasakul (1983, 1986) and Barro and Redlick (2011). The paper describes the methodology used to derive the various MTRs from original data on incomes and taxes from Statistics New Zealand Official Yearbooks (NZOYB), and discusses the resulting estimates.
E29|Investigating the impact of global financial crisis on indian economy in an aggregate demand framework|In this paper, the impact of global financial crisis on India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is investigated upon in an aggregate demand framework using quarterly data for the period from Q2 of 1996 to Q1 of 2010. GDP, consumption expenditure, capital formation and export were found to be co-integrated. Co-integration estimation re-affirms that domestic consumption remains the key driver of India’s GDP growth. Our analysis establishes that though India’s trade sector dwindled and investment activity declined in the aftermath of global financial crisis, its GDP growth slackened only marginally as domestic consumption provided the necessary buffer in limiting the adverse impact of global financial crisis on the Indian economy.
E29|Purchasing power parity theory in three East Asian economies: New evidence|To an otherwise extensive literature with yet mixed findings on the long run Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) theory, this paper extends the evidence against the PPP hypothesis in three East Asian economies namely Indonesia, Malaysia, and Thailand based on quarterly data spanning forty years (1968:Q1-2008:Q1). The testing of PPP hypothesis in this study employs two methods namely Engle-Granger procedure and Johansen multivariate cointegration method.
E29|Fasting or Feasting? Europe - Old and New - at the Crossroads|External determinants Two key factors currently affect the economic prospects of CESEE the crisis in the euro area and movements in the commodity prices. For Russia, Kazakhstan and Ukraine declining world market prices of energy carriers, steel and other basic commodities are vital. For most of the countries in Central and Southeast Europe, the strength of external demand for their manufacturing exports and their competitiveness are much more important. The European Union constitutes a natural external environment not only through mutual trade, capital and labour flows, but also through ‘intangible links’ regulations/directives enacted ‘in Brussels’. The economic crisis in the euro area is perceived as being primarily about possible insolvencies of peripheral euro area countries. The range of possibilities opened up by sovereign insolvencies is vast. However, a muddling-through scenario still seems the most realistic prospect. Insistence that the ‘problematic’ euro area countries – but possibly also others in the EU (including the new member states) – should enact the austerity measures in order to reduce public debt levels continues to set the tone throughout Europe, as epitomized by the Fiscal Compact. But, were the Fiscal Compact to be actually obeyed, the euro area – and the EU as a whole, including the new member states – would plunge into an era of permanent stagnation with high and rising unemployment. Euro area enters recession, CESEE to follow? Given the prevailing fiscal consolidation policy mix it is not surprising that while the world economy recovers, the euro area returns to recession. Consolidation fever has spread to the new member states – including those that formally refused to subscribe to the Fiscal Compact such as the Czech Republic. Given the trend towards fiscal consolidation, it is natural to expect that the new member states will also slow down in 2012. Chances of faster growth in 2013 remain uncertain – both in the new and old member states. The EU Spring forecast is cautiously optimistic. Our forecasts for the new member states in 2013 and afterwards are also cautiously optimistic. That optimism, however, is based on the assumption that the fiscal consolidation fever will abate – both within the euro area and outside. After the deep recession that beset almost all CESEE countries in 2009, most of them recorded a moderate recovery in 2010. However, on a quarterly basis, growth has been generally slowing down since the third quarter of 2011. In a number of countries (e.g. Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Serbia, Slovenia) the most recent quarterly GDP growth rates are already negative. The recent output contractions do not appear to be exceptions, but point to the possibility of more protracted periods of recession occurring in the CESEE region. Among the star-performers of 2011 (Turkey, the three Baltic countries and Kazakhstan), growth will also slow down. Poland, Slovakia, Ukraine and Russia, all of which displayed steady growth in the biennium 2010-2011, are gradually losing steam as well. External rebalancing is proving temporary Merchandise exports are expected to rise in 2012. This view reflects an assumption of a shallow and short-lived recession in the euro area. In the Baltic countries, as well as in Romania, Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Ukraine, even with relatively slow growth in domestic demand, foreign trade will not be in a position to support overall GDP growth in 2012. The frailty of a proper industrial base capable of supplying higher value-added exports may be one reason for this. Furthermore, those countries’ real exchange rates have also started moving in the wrong direction once again, adding to the deterioration in cost competitiveness. The return of a rise in trade deficits in the Baltic countries (and some other countries) indicates that the ‘rebalancing’ of 2009 may have been a temporary phenomenon. Household consumption and investment steady on the ‘fringes’, sagging in the ‘core’ Investment growth in 2012 is expected to remain quite sluggish throughout the ‘core’ countries (even declining in some of them). Only in the period 2013-2014 is investment growth expected to recover across the new EU member states and in the Balkans. Investment is forecast to remain steady throughout 2012-2014 in Kazakhstan, Russia and Ukraine. In 2012, consumption growth will sag still more in most new EU member states and across the Balkans. Even in the Baltic countries, consumption growth is expected to slow down. Threats and opportunities At present, the major and most realistic danger facing the majority of CESEE countries is that they will stick to their commitment to fiscal consolidation, even if investment, consumption and exports continue to weaken. For that threat to materialize, neither the euro area nor the EU as whole need necessarily plunge into some dramatic crisis. For that danger to become reality, it is sufficient for Europe to continue slowing down, while fiscal consolidation is still being demanded of its old, new or prospective members. Of course, some spectacular collapse of the euro area/EU (as we know it) could perhaps have truly devastating effects on most CESEE countries – via trade, capital flows, transfers and migration. Chaotic developments would then follow in its wake, with repercussions for the global economy at large. However, we may be unqualified to predict events, should chaos erupt. A scenario more optimistic than that possible under ‘muddling through’ may still be beyond the horizon. Muddling through is unlikely to yield satisfactory results, but desirable changes may still eventually come about. But those changes would have to start in ‘high places’ in the leading EU countries and leading European institutions. Should the political and economic elites of Europe start acknowledging the negative consequences of fiscal austerity and efficiently work for an overhaul of EU institutions (including the ECB), things might start looking more promising for Europe as a whole – and hence for the CESEE countries as well.
E29|New Divide(s) in Europe?|The present economic crisis bears all the familiar hallmarks of the financial, debt-related and structural aspects of current account crises. All these aspects have lasting level effects and recovery can be very protracted. Export-led growth was an important feature of the recovery period 2010-2011, yet significant inter-country differences persisted. A few countries with severe pre-crisis imbalances (Romania, Bulgaria and the Baltic states) enjoyed reasonable export growth over that period, while other structurally weak economies on the European periphery (Western Balkan countries and the Southern EU) fared badly in that respect. The latter group of countries will continue to lag behind also in the forecast period 2012-2014, while some of the Central European economies (Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia) will manage to stay out of the vicious circle of low growth, high interest rates and unsustainable debt. These three countries, as well as the Baltic states, are expected to grow by about 3% in the years to come (still significantly below the trend growth rates before the crisis). The remaining EU new member states as well as the Western Balkan countries will achieve only about half of this growth. Turkey, Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan will grow by rates of up to 5%. The need to correct imbalances It is quite apparent that the crisis brought about a need to correct strong external imbalances and the excessive private sector debt build-up prior to the crisis. The extent of adjustment is directly related to the extent of the previous current account disequilibria and private sector debt build-up. These adjustments (and their severity) entail clear medium-term costs in terms of GDP growth and employment. Furthermore, patterns of adjustment across CESEE economies vary greatly, with some countries (such as Croatia) relying almost exclusively (even in the medium term) on import restraint, while others (e.g. the Baltic states) were more successful in terms of export growth. End of convergence? The success of the EU economic policy stance, which the non-member countries in Southeast Europe also follow to a large extent, depends on the revival of external demand. Household consumption will grow only slowly, if at all, and public consumption is set to decline further. Private investment will have a hard time picking up, given high levels of corporate debt, weak banks and consequently very low credit growth with external demand subdued. If the expectation is that structural reforms will spur investments and exports, it may take some time before that actually happens. In the meantime, this could well lead to an ever-widening divide between the various European regions. This stands in sharp contrast to the previous perspective widely subscribed to in the mid-1990s. From that time on, the conventional wisdom was that Europe displayed clear signs of ‘convergence’ at the inter-country level, with low-income economies growing at a faster rate than rich ones. Up to the recent crisis broadly convincing evidence was found of narrowing inter-country income gaps in a wide range of countries based on the availability of cheap finance which does no longer exist. The vicious circle of austerity Important groups of economies, such as the Southern EU Member States and most of the countries of Southeast Europe, have come up against a vicious circle high initial debt levels and dim growth prospects translate into greater doubts about debt sustainability. The resulting higher interest rates impose a constraint on investment and encourage corporate and household deleveraging which is further compounded by the fragile state of the banking system. This dampens consumption expenditures, and leads to cutbacks in employment (and wages), which, in turn, lower household incomes and domestic sales prospects. The induced lower GDP growth outlook, in turn, raises concerns over debt sustainability and fosters the need to keep interest rates high. Similarly, the fiscal stance adopted by most EU countries has been rather restrictive. This will be followed by even more fiscal austerity, as it proves increasingly costly to finance fiscal deficits and refinance public debts. Special topics Two special chapters of this forecast report cover recent developments in the labour markets of the CESEEs and the situation of the banking sector respectively. Towards the end of 2011 the employment situation has deteriorated again and unemployment rates especially for young people have markedly increased. The outlook for the coming years looks very grim. Workers migration from the NMS towards Western Europe kept increasing during the crisis. We also cover the process of retrenchment in credit activity by foreign banks in CESEE and analyse general deleveraging and spillover effects from the crises in Greece and Hungary via Western European banks.
E29|Estimación del stock de capital humano bajo la metodología Jorgenson-Fraumeni para Colombia 2001-2009|Resumen: En este trabajo se lleva a cabo la estimación del valor del stock de capital humano bajo la metodología Jorgenson-Fraumeni para Colombia en el periodo 2001-2009. Se encuentra que la tasa de crecimiento del capital humano es de 3.24%, inferior a la de la producción de la economía que fue de 4.38%. Igualmente, se halla que los hombres contribuyen en mayor medida a la tasa de crecimiento del stock agregado, al igual que las personas que se encuentran en el nivel educativo de superior incompleta, mientras que los individuos más jóvenes, con edad entre 15 y 34 años, contribuyen más por grupos de edad. Asimismo, se halla que el valor del capital humano es superior al PIB de la economía. Además, se estima que las tasas de inversión bruta, depreciación y revaluación real del capital humano, son de 7.48%, 4.44% y 0.1%, respectivamente, dando como resultado una tasa de inversión neta igual a 3.09%. Finalmente, se encuentra que el stock es sensible a los cambios de parámetros, pero sus tasas de crecimiento parecen inalteradas.
E29|Incidencia del gasto público social en el índice de desarrollo humano en Bogotá, 1995-2010|El artículo contribuye a la discusión sobre la equidad y la eficiencia como aporte al análisis económico, en el marco de los servicios públicos domiciliarios en Colombia. A partir de una revisión crítica se encuentra que el criterio de equidad como derecho en la prestación de estos servicios no se alcanza, porque el prestador entiende el servicio desde la visión del mercado (la prestación se centra en la demanda) y no del beneficio social que su consumo representa. Asimismo, la regulación y la forma como se gestionan los recursos de manera descentralizada han generado diversos resultados en términos de eficiencia y equidad en las regiones, debido a que no se han tenido en cuenta las diferencias en cuanto a densidad poblacional, características culturales y el conocimiento de los ciudadanos para participar activamente en los procesosde cambio.
E29|Economía de los servicios públicos domiciliarios, más allá del mercado y del Estado|El artículo contribuye a la discusión sobre la equidad y la eficiencia como aporte al análisis económico, en el marco de los servicios públicos domiciliarios en Colombia. A partir de una revisión crítica se encuentra que el criterio de equidad como derecho en la prestación de estos servicios no se alcanza, porque el prestador entiende el servicio desde la visión del mercado (la prestación se centra en la demanda) y no desde el beneficio social que su consumo representa. Asimismo, la regulación y la forma como se gestionan los recursos de manera descentralizada han generado diversos resultados en términos de eficiencia y equidad en las regiones, debido a que no se han tenido en cuenta las diferencias en cuanto a densidad poblacional, características culturales y el conocimiento de los ciudadanos para participar activamente en los procesos de cambio.
E29|Cycles of Wage Discrimination|Using CPS data from 1979-2009 we examine how cyclical downturns and industry-specific demand shocks affect wage differentials between white non-Hispanic males and women, Hispanics and African-Americans. Women's and Hispanics' relative earnings are harmed by negative shocks, while the earnings disadvantage of African-Americans may drop with negative shocks. Negative shocks also appear to increase the earnings disadvantage of bad-looking workers. A theory of job search suggests two opposite-signed mechanisms that affect these wage differentials. It suggests greater absolute effects among job-movers, which is verified using the longitudinal component of the CPS.
E29|Cycles of Wage Discrimination|Using CPS data from 1979-2009 we examine how cyclical downturns and industry-specific demand shocks affect wage differentials between white non-Hispanic males and women, Hispanics and African-Americans. Women's and Hispanics' relative earnings are harmed by negative shocks, while the earnings disadvantage of African-Americans may drop with negative shocks. Negative shocks also appear to increase the earnings disadvantage of bad-looking workers. A theory of job search suggests two opposite-signed mechanisms that affect these wage differentials. It suggests greater absolute effects among job-movers, which is verified using the longitudinal component of the CPS.
E29|Estimating Potential Output in Romania using a Structural VAR|This paper estimates the potential output in Romania using seven structural VAR models. During the period of economic boom the potential GDP growth in Romania was around 6.5 %. The severe economic crisis that started in the last quarter of 2008 generated a significant reduction of the potential output. The potential economic growth dropped at around -2.8 % during the steep contraction of the economy in 2009 and at 1 % in 2010, according to the model estimates. The economic crisis changed significantly the potential growth in Romania due to the structural changes that affected the country. Labor input as well as capital accumulation negatively affected the potential output during the crisis. As regarding the crisis effects on total factor productivity (TFP) in Romania, the connection is uncertain.
E29|Approaching Competitiveness at the Level of Multinational Companies|The competitiveness of multinational corporations is a particularly complex concept due to the fact that at present this type of company represents economic entities which continue to develop in the context of the process of internationalization and the transition to the use of global strategies. Competitiveness is a competition between corporations for new positions on the markets. With regard to the competitiveness of multinational corporations, the most accurate description was given by Gilbert Abraham Frois who believed these businesses must think globally, but act locally. In the competitive global market, emphasis is laid on plus – the value given by the competitiveness of the human element, taking into account the fact that the human resource doesn’t run out, and its value doesn’t decrease over time, but on the contrary, its value increases on condition that it is rigorously managed and developed.
E29|Raţionalitatea în economie: de la homo oeconomicus la homo irationalis<BR>[Rationality in Economics: from Homo Oeconomicus to „Homo Irationalis”]|"The aim of the present paper is an attempt to build a scaffolding with the help of which, the concept of “rationality” will be explored from the philosophic and also economic point of view, with the purpose of highlighting that Econometrics and other purely quantitative scientific demonstrations are subject to serious errors. The starting issue is given by the usage of the ""rationality"" concept in the economic science, the way that it can change the result of the human action and also the risk of treating the rational as being irrational by only taking into account the results of a sole action."
E29|Impacto amplificador del ajuste de inventarios ante choques de demanda según especificaciones flexibles|"La presente investigación aproxima cuantitativamente las relaciones dinámicas potencialmente asimétricas entre el crecimiento del PBI, del acervo de inventarios y de tres componentes de la demanda agregada (la demanda interna pública, la demanda interna privada y, en particular, la demanda externa por exportaciones) durante la experiencia peruana de crecimiento basado en el mercado (1993-2010). Para capturar la potencial presencia de asimetrías en el vector de medias condicionales, se propone un modelo dinámico flexible (VAR neuronal), una distribución t de Student para el vector de perturbaciones asociado, así como un modelo de heteroscedásticidad dinámica (ARCH) para su matriz de co-varianzas condicionales. Los parámetros de ambos momentos condicionales son robustos ante la presencia de observaciones atípicas -outliers- debido a que los vectores de perturbaciones son realizaciones de una distribución t de Student multi-variada, lo que además reduce la presencia de asimetrías espurias en las medias condicionales. Al cubrir el costo computacional requerido, la aproximación de los parámetros logra develar la presencia de incentivos para mantener inventarios que son adicionales al tradicional suavizamiento de la producción. Un parámetro estadísticamente diferente de cero en la estructura contemporánea indica que un choque positivo en el ritmo de crecimiento de la demanda privada será absorbido principalmente por un aumento más que proporcional en el choque del ritmo de la producción. Este impacto amplificador (""des-moderador"") de los choques de demanda sobre la evolución de la producción es consistente con los cálculos de la incidencia promedio del crecimiento de la inversión en inventarios en el crecimiento del producto real durante 4 recesiones recientes y se explicaría por el ciclo agregado de los inventarios (aunque no necesariamente de bienes finales)."
E29|Economic Indicators of Condition and Tendencies of Serbian Economy|Global economic crisis has, following financial crisis, hit real sector, and as after effect, large number, mostly developed countries in the world are in recession. Serbian industry is also influenced by global economic crisis. Outer debt is significantly and constantly increasing since beginning of transition process. Main cause to it is rather large disproportion between import and export. Trends in structure of outer debt indicate on notable decrease of national debt on account to private one, during whole transition period. On short term there is no significant risk for country on account of outer debt, but for long term elimination of this risk, it is necessary to considerably increase total export. Former policies should be linked to unconventional employment initiatives, as for new labour, as for redundant ones from restructuring economy branches. State has prominent role in transition process, by helping market exhibit its functions through physical and institutional infrastructure, as well trough public sector, removing most of the market obstacles, and stimulating technical-technological development and education.
E29|A Short Empirical Note on Household Debt, Financialization, and Macroeconomic Performance|We empirically examine the relationship between U.S. output and household debt. To account for structural change due to financial liberalization, we divide the sample at the fourth quarter of 1982. We find structural differences between earlier and later business cycles for the U.S. household sector and its relation to the macroeconomy. In the regression analysis for pre-1982, we find no evidence that the household debt variables had any negative effect on output. However, we find some evidence that the household debt variables have negative effects on output for the post-1982 period. A formal structural break test provides evidence of a structural change in the relationship of U.S. output to household debt. Unit root tests for the separate samples show that none of the household variables possesses a unit root in the earlier period, yet all of them do in the later period, indicating fundamental differences between earlier and later periods in terms of the data generating process.
E29|Recovery: Limp and Battered|For 2011 the wiiw central scenario envisages further improvements in the economic performance of those countries that were still stagnating or contracting in 2010 (Bulgaria, Latvia, Romania, Croatia, Macedonia and Montenegro). However, in those countries that performed reasonably well in 2010 (such as Poland and Slovakia), growth will not accelerate all that much. At a later juncture GDP growth rates will stabilize throughout the region, but they will not return to the levels recorded prior to 2007. The relatively rapid growth in terms of the global output expected in 2011 will not of necessity translate directly into equally robust growth across the countries of Central, Eastern and South-east Europe (CESEE). Growth is expected to remain anaemic – less than 2% and imbalanced - in the euro area, which will remain the CESEE countries’ major trading partner. In 2011, net exports will play an essential and positive role in maintaining GDP growth in many new member states (NMS) where domestic demand continues to be languid (e.g. Czech Republic, Hungary and Romania). In countries whose exports depend on energy and raw materials (Russia and Ukraine), net exports will contribute negatively to overall GDP growth (as imports will also rise owing to currency appreciation). In the few countries remaining, net exports will assume a neutral role in generating GDP growth. At a later stage, the contribution of net exports is expected to drop on a fairly universal scale, reflecting a revival in domestic demand (both consumption and investments) and a deterioration of trade balances. All in all, continuation of growth in 2011 in the CESEE region hinges decisively on foreign demand. In the case of Russia, Kazakhstan and (to a lesser degree) Ukraine, an unpredictable slump in the world-market prices of, and demand for, energy carriers and metals would slow down growth substantially. In the case of the remaining CESEE countries, a renewed weakness of growth in the euro area could well mean immediate cuts in their exports. Those cuts could possibly trigger a new slump in their overall GDP growth. Although quite unpredictable, a renewed growth slowdown in the euro area cannot be ruled out. Failure to resolve the euro area debt crisis in an orderly manner – and in the very near future as well – may lead to another financial-cum-real crisis in the euro area; once again it could spill over to the NMS and the Western Balkan countries. A still greater risk looms large as well should the institutional cohesion of the euro area (and of the whole EU) weaken, the NMS are likely to lose out – both economically and politically. The CESEE region is still included in a larger group of countries that of the ‘emerging markets’. However, the economic performance of the CESEE countries is increasingly at variance with that of the remaining ‘emerging markets’. In terms of overall dynamism, the CESEE countries (in particular the NMS) are looking increasingly similar to the euro area – yet without having achieved the euro area’s levels of development. In most cases, the CESEE countries’ relatively close association with the European Union was to all intents and purposes inevitable. However, that irresistible association (implying a relatively rapid external liberalization of the CESEE countries’ trade and capital flows, for example) may have also borne some unwelcome consequences. One of these consequences may have been their losing out to those ‘emerging markets’ whose external opening up has been much more gradual and cautiously controlled. Various scars left by the 2008-2009 recession, be the victims productive capacities, balance sheets of banks, firms and households or labour markets, will gradually have to heal. In the interim, those scars will impair the growth of household consumption and fixed investment in the business sector in 2011 and afterwards. Moreover, attempts at serious fiscal consolidation, which in many countries would be either untimely or not really necessary, will have an additional impact on the rate of domestic demand growth. In all likelihood, however, in many countries fiscal consolidation will be relatively gradual – also on account of electoral concerns. Accelerating inflation is another challenge. Although to date inflation has been essentially exogenous to most CESEE countries – driven by rising energy and food prices – it could provoke more restrictive monetary policies. These, in turn, could support high capital inflows (carry trade) and even stronger nominal appreciation of national currencies in the countries with flexible exchange rates. A decline in cost-competitiveness and worsening in net exports (in tandem with larger current account deficits) could also ensue in countries with fixed exchange rates owing to inflation differentials with respect to the eurozone. The fact that unemployment is expected to return rather slowly to pre-crisis levels could, however, reduce the dangers of wage-driven inflation and induce more accommodative monetary policies. In conclusion, growth in the CESEE region is expected to stabilize, yet remain rather unimpressive in the coming years - the proviso being that external conditions are not disrupted once again.
E29|Thirlwall Yasasi: Turkiye Ornegi, 1982-2008|Bu calismada odemeler dengesi kisitli buyume orani olarak da bilinen Thirlwall yasasi, sermaye hareketleri ve dis borc servisi dikkate alinarak 1982-2008 donemi itibariyle Turkiye icin Kalman filtre tahmin yontemi ile test edilmistir. Elde edilen sonuclara gore, Thirlwall ve Hussain (1982) ve Elliott ve Rhodd (1999)’un odemeler dengesi kisitli buyume orani gerceklesen buyume oraninin iyi bir tahmincisidir.
E29|Price and Transaction Volume in the Dutch Housing Market|Housing markets typically exhibit a strong positive correlation between the rate of price increase and the number of houses sold. We document this correlation on high-quality Dutch data for the period 1985-2007, and estimate a VEC-model that allows us to study the mechanism giving rise to the correlation. The data identify the flows of new houses offered for sale as well as the number of houses sold. According to the estimated model, shocks to market fundamentals (the mortgage rate)have an immediate and significant impact on the rate of sale, little impact on the rate of entry of new houses for sale, and a gradual impact on the house prices. This pattern is consistent with a search model where buyers and sellers gradually learn about changes in market conditions.
E29|The quest for the best consumer confidence indicator|"We search through all possible consumer confidence indicators in order to find the single indicator that has the highest correlation with private consumption growth. Moreover, we contrast this indicator to the Consumer Confidence Indicator used by the European Commission, and some alternative indicators; also in terms of their predictive power of private consumption. In this context, we test the hypothesis that an indicator based on questions related to the household, rather than the general economy, would prove informative. We find that this ""micro"" indicator, as well as an optimal indicator that takes into account the specifics of all EU member states, outperform the current Consumer Confidence Indicator. Both these indicators also perform better than an indicator based on the popular factor methodology."
E29|Petrodollars, Globalization And U.S. Inflation|This paper evaluates the theoretical and empirical evidence that bears on the question of whether globalization and petrodollars recycling contributed to significant changes in inflation performance in the U.S. We assume that the impact of globalization can be direct and indirect. Direct impact is through the cheaper imported goods to the U.S. as a component of Consumer Price Index. Indirect impacts are through the effects on wage, cost of capital, and inflow of funds including the petrodollars and the impacts of price of competing goods. Data for analysis are compiled from the Department of Commerce and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for period of 1990-2005. Our findings suggest that, under current circumstances, globalization could have only a modest disinflationary effect on U.S. inflation. However, if some fundamental factors, such as these countriesâ€™ exchange rates, demand and wage change (i.e. increase), then the downward pressure on U.S. inflation will be decreased. The flow of workers from emerging economies to competitive labor markets will slow down. The downward pressure on rich-world wages and prices will lift, and globalization will become an inflationary force instead.
E29|The quest for the best consumer confidence indicator|"Out of 11 questions included in the EU harmonised consumer questionnaire, it is possible to construct 2 047 different consumer confidence indicators. We search through all these indicators in order to find the single indicator that has the highest correlation with private consumption growth. Moreover, we contrast this indicator to the current Consumer Confidence Indicator used by the European Commission, and some alternative indicators; also in terms of their predictive power of private consumption. The focus of the analysis is thereby on how to best exploit the information content of the current set of questions included in the harmonised consumer questionnaire, while other methodological aspects of the construction of the indicator is left aside. In this context, we test the hypothesis that an indicator based on questions related to the household, rather than the general economy, would prove informative. It seems reasonable to assume that respondents to the surveys have better knowledge of their own economic situation than they have of the general economic situation in their country. We find that this ""micro"" indicator, as well as an optimal indicator that takes into account the specifics of all EU member states, outperform the current Consumer Confidence Indicator. Both these indicators also perform better than an indicator based on the popular factor methodology."
E29|A Pertinent Analytic Method to Correctly Measure Contributions to Growth in Gross Domestic Product|In this paper, Antoine Brunet questions the OECD method in calculating contributions to GDP growth. He tries to show this method induces the users to seriously misjudge the contribution of external trade balance to GDP growth. He shows there is an alternative method, i.e. the AB method which is mathematically as correct as the OECD one. And this method is much more pertinent and allows the users to distinguish between two kinds of countries: on the one hand, the mercantilist countries and on the other hand, the non-mercantilist countries.
E29|Indebtedness and Mercantilism|In a closed economy, the growth of the GDP is equal to the net indebtedness (the increase of indebtedness) of it agents from one period to another, which allows current demand to be greater than the income of the preceding quarter. In an open economy, we must add to that the net indebtedness of the totality of foreign agents in operation: the currencies corresponding to the foreign trade balance. Depending on the sign of these two kinds of net indebtedness, positive or negative, a classification of countries can be made: mainly mercantilist countries that enjoy a foreign surplus, on the one hand, and Keynesian countries running a deficit, whose growth is founded upon domestic demand, on the other hand.
E29|Fiscal Policy and National Saving in Mexico, 1980-2006|This paper uses structural vector autoregression (SVAR) models to characterize the dynamic impact of fiscal policy on national saving. SVARs have extensively been used in case of monetary policy. Data adjusted for inflation, capital flight, the value loss of debt and cyclical effects, is used rather than traditional measures. Our results suggest that fiscal policy that increases the structural surplus has a positive impact on national saving, some negative impact on private savings in shorter horizons but any significant e_ect over longer horizons, and a negative effect on the output gap.
E29|Zur Evolution des deutschen Konjunkturzyklus 1958-2004 / On the Evolution of German Business Cycles 1958-2004: Ergebnisse einer dynamischen Diskriminanzanalyse / Results of a Dynamic Linear Discriminant Analysis|This paper examines changes of the (West) German business cycle from 1958 to 2004. It starts with a multivariate linear discriminant analysis (LDA) based decomposition of the cycle into 4 phases (upswing, upper turning point, downswing, lower turning point). After examining inter-cyclical changes of the cycle, i.e. changes of the weights of the 12 macroeconomic variables employed for classification, the question of intra-cyclical changes is addressed. This is done by using DLDA, a new dynamic variant of LDA which exploits the time series character of the data used to analyse changes of the multivariate structure of the cycle. The DLDA results exemplify that the transition from one to the next phase is much smoother and more continuous than might be expected. Within the sample examined these movements vary as well as the weights attributed to the classifying variables. In a methodological perspective DLDA turns out to be a promising broadening of classification methods.
E29|Freight Transportation Activity, Business Cycles and Trend Growth|This paper studies empirical linkages between cycles and trends in freight transportation activity and real economic activity in Sweden. We find that cycles in freight transportation are highly contemporaneously correlated with cycles in economic variables over both the short run and the medium run. The pattern of long run growth in freight transportation activity coincides with growth in economic variables during long periods, but there are also periods with substantial differences. Furthermore, we observe and explain a large decline in trend growth in tonne-kilometres by road from the mid-nineties and onwards.
E29|Testing the permanent income hypothesis in the developing and developed countries: A comparison between Fiji and Australia|Hall (1978) has stimulated considerable controversy and empirical work on testing the permanent income hypothesis (PIH). Much of the empirical work is on the developed countries where opportunities for inter-temporal substitution are generally higher than in the developing countries. Therefore, it is expected that PIH would be valid for only a smaller proportion of consumers in the developing countries. This paper uses the extended framework of Campbell and Mankiw (1989) to estimate the proportion of consumers for whom PIH is valid in Fiji and Australia. Our results show that PIH consumers are about 40\% higher in Australia than in Fiji.
E29|Sources of Productivity Slowdown in European Countries During 1990s|In this paper we address the question whether the shift in labour supply curve is the only fundamental change capturing the negative correlation between the growth rates of productivity and employment in European countries in the last fifteen years. If this explanation is correct then the labour demand curve did not shift in recent times, keeping other features of the production function unchanged. This is obviously a problem of identification. Thus, in this study we provide some empirical evidence explaining the shifts in labour demand curve over the same period. Our main conclusion is that the sluggish performance of the European economy in the last fifteen years has a common root in the large changes occurred in the labour market. We refer to these changes as technological and non technological shocks. In our model, adverse technological shocks shift the labour demand curve, while positive non technological shocks shift the labour supply curve. These two shifts contribute simultaneously to rise employment and to decrease the growth rate of productivity. Our evidence shows that labour productivity does respond positively to labour demand (technological) shocks and negatively to labour supply (non technological) shocks. Hence, the main result of our study is that both shocks are necessary to provide a complete picture of the employment-productivity trade-off in European countries during the last fifteen years.
E29|Phillips Curve for Advanced Economies on Period 1996-2007 - United States and Euro Area Case|This paper explains and shows us the Phillips Curve for advanced economies on period 1996-2007 for specially for the United States and Euro area case. The informations for 2006 and 2007 was considered being in attention the forecasting of International Monetary Fund (IMF) for these years. We concluded that the true form of Phillips curve for short and long-run will not be verified always that exist equal evolution of their variables or for others words, always that inflation and unemployment rates growing to same direction, in both regions or in any region, the Phillips curve never will have their normal form and this just happen when inflation and unemployment rates growing for different directions (in the short-run) and when inflation rate is growing and unemployment doesn't (in the long-run).
E29|Предложения За Измерване На „Транзакционния Сектор“ От Официалната Статистика<BR>[Suggestions for Measuring the Transaction Sector by the Official Statistics]|The measurement of transaction costs in an economy is a question of present interest and a difficult problem for every country. Attempts for measuring the transaction costs do not take effect mostly due to the fact that the data being gathered by the System of National Accounts do not correspond to the necessary for the measurement of transaction costs data, a fact that has motivated the authors of this paper to make a suggestion to the national statistics for changes in the official statistical studies that would largely improve the quality of transaction costs measurement. Измерването на транзакционните разходи на едно национално стопанство е актуален и труден проблем за всяка страна. Опитите за измерването на транзационните разходи не дават добри резултати главно поради факта, че данните които се събират по правилата на системата на националните сметки до голяма степен не съответстват на необходите за предсмятането на транзакционните разходи данни, което мотивира авторите на статията да направят предложения към официалната статистика да се въведат статистически изследвания, които значително биха подобрили качеството на измерването на транзакционните разходи.
E29|The Cost of Recessions Revisited: A Reverse-Liquidationist View| The observation that liquidations are concentrated in recessions has long been the subject of controversy. One view holds that liquidations are beneficial in that they result in increased restructuring. Another view holds that this rise in restructuring is costly since liquidations are privately inefficient and essentially wasteful. This paper proposes an alternative perspective. On the basis of a combination of theory with empirical evidence on gross job flows and on financial and labour market rents, we find that, cumulatively, recessions result in reduced rather than increased restructuring, and that this is likely to be socially costly once we consider inefficiencies on both the creation and destruction margins. Copyright 2005, Wiley-Blackwell.
E29|Bola hospodárska reforma účinným nástrojom na riešenie finančnej krízy v Juhovýchodnej Ázii?<BR>[Was the economic reform sufficient instrument for solving the financial crisis?]|"The study deals with analysis of economic reforms in South-Eastern Asia affected by financial crisis in 1990s. Authors have stressed, that it was a result of internal and external influences, which caused not only the fatal destabilization of main economic fundaments of affected countries and they have had consequences on international business authority of these countries. It was approved, that the high rate of internal interdependence of countries affected by crisis and also the interdependence on Japan, could be considered as basic, but hidden accelerators of crisis. Nevertheless using of important reforming interventions eliminated most of the economic implications of it the risks of re-outbreak of the crisis have been decreased to certain level only. For prevention against its expansion are responsible all ""attended"" subjects and equally they have to share on realization of reforming economic programs for its long-term elimination."
E29|The Clinton era and the U.S. business cycle : what did change?|The 1990s were the most prosperous decade in U.S. economic history. The paper analyses to which extent this period fits into preceding cyclical experience. This is done by classifying the period 1991-12 to 2000-12 with the help of a 4-phase classification scheme based on multivariate discriminance analysis. It is shown that in relation to the post 1970 experience, the ?fabulous decade? saw considerable shifts of influence between the 19 classifying variables. Most noteworthy are the much reduced influence of M2, Net Exports, and Unemployment on the one side and the increase of Real GNP, inflation, Government Expenditure and of Unit Labor Cost on the other side. This confirms interpretations of the fabulous decade as the result of a forbearing monetary policy made possible by a deficit targeting fiscal policy, low inflation and a productivity jump. However, the era looses some of its uniqueness when it is seen in the entire post WW II cycle history.
E29|Consumer behavior in Japan and its structural change: Re-examination by sup-predictive test|Intertemporal elasticity of substitution (IES) is an important macroeconomic parameter that relates the real interest rate to consumption and thereby aggregate demand. In this paper, we estimate IES in Japan following Ogaki and Reinhart's two-good model. And given that Japanese economy stagnated over the last decade, we perform the test for a possible break in the IES. Our empirical investigation shows that structural shift of IES occurred in 1997:Q1 and that the IES became insignificant. The results show that the consumption expenditure became less elastic to the call rate, and suggests that the effect of monetary policy to consumption diminished.
E29|Reverse Logistics - a review of case studies|Products, components, materials and other equipment stream forward and back wards and back in their supply chains. Reverse Logistics deals with the processes associated with the reverse stream from users/owners to re-users. This paper provides a review and content analysis of scientific literature on reverse logistics case studies. Over sixty case studies are included. In addition, we give an overview of particular issues, which we link with propositions, unanswered questions and thus directions for future research.
E29|Product Return Handling|In this article we focus on product return handling and warehousing issues. In some businesses return rates can be well over 20% and returns can be especially costly when not handled properly. In spite of this, many managers have handled returns extemporarily. The fact that quantitative methods barely exist to support return handling decisions adds to this. In this article we bridge those issues by 1) going over the key decisions related with return handling; 2) identifying quantitative models to support those decisions. Furthermore, we provide insights on directions for future research.
E29|Classifying US business cycles 1948 to 1997: Meyer/Weinberg revisited|No abstract is available for this item.
E29|Classification of German business cycles using monthly data|The recent renaissance of business cycle analysis has led to a renewed interest in business cycle classification as pioneered by Burns/Mitchell, Spiethoff and resumed in the seventies by Meyer/Weinberg (1975a, b). The rather successful elaboration and test of a “modern” four-phase classification scheme for the United States and West Germany by Meyer/Weinberg motivated the present authors to develop such a classification scheme for West Germany. Based on a kind of stylised facts it should help to translate the multifaced quantitative picture of the cycle into qualitative information.
E29|Green national accounting: why and how?|The present paper gives an overview of the theory of green national accounting. Three purposes of green national accounting (measurement of sustainable income, social welfare or net social profit) and two measures (Green NNP and Hicksian income) are considered. It is argued that sustainable income and social welfare correspond to different purposes. Under the assumption of no exogenous technological progress, Green NNP is shown equal to Hicksian income if there is a constant interest rate or if consumption is constant.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E29|The Role of Shocks and Institutions in the Rise of European Unemployment: The Aggregate Evidence| Two key facts about European unemployment must be explained: the rise in unemployment since the 1960s, and the heterogeneity of individual country experiences. While adverse shocks can potentially explain much of the rise in unemployment, there is insufficient heterogeneity in these shocks to explain cross-country differences. Alternatively, while explanations focusing on labour market institutions explain current heterogeneity well, many of these institutions pre-date the rise in unemployment. Based on a panel of institutions and shocks for 20 OECD nations since 1960 we find that the interaction between shocks and institutions is crucial to explaining both stylised facts.
E29|The Effect of Expanding Medicaid Eligibility on the Distribution of Children's Health Insurance Coverage|Federal legislation passed in the late 1980s greatly expanded the Medicaid program to include children in families with incomes at and above the poverty threshold, regardless of family structure. Using March Current Population Survey data, the author evaluates how the expansions affected private and public insurance coverage levels across the income distribution. Estimates of the extent of take-up of public coverage and substitution of private coverage are used to generate distributions of coverage under two counterfactual situations: absence of expansions, and absence of substitution. The results indicate that the expansions had an equalizing effect on coverage levels across the lower five deciles of the income distribution between 1988 and 1995. In their absence, coverage would have fallen significantly in the third through fifth income deciles. Also, if all of the increased Medicaid enrollment had come from the uninsured population, inequality in coverage levels would have decreased even further.
E29|Classification of West German Business Cycles 1955-1994 / Klassifikation westdeutscher Konjunkturzyklen 1955 - 1994|This paper applies multivariate linear discriminant analysis to classify West German business cycles from 1955 to 1994 into a four phase scheme (upswing, downswing, and upper/lower turning point phases). It describes the scheme as well as the selection of the classifying variables, and presents classification results for various sample periods confirming the four phase scheme. Special attention is given to changes of the explanatory power of the variables and its implication for changes of cycle patterns. While for the 1963/94 period the results display all in all much stability, the 1955/62 period does not fit into this pattern, indicating a change of regime which might even reach into the fourth cycle (1963-1967).
E29|Classification of west german business cycles|This paper applies linear discriminant analysis to classify West German business cycles from 1955 to 1994 into a four phase scheme (upswing, downswing, and upper/lower turning point phases). It describes the scheme as well as the selection of the classifying variables, and presents classification results for various sample periods. Special attention is given to changes of the explanatory power of the variables and its implication for changes of West German cycle patterns.
E29|La politique à l'ère de la mondialisation et de la finance : le point sur quelques recherches régulationnistes|"L'article analyse l'évolution macroéconomique des années quatre-vingt-dix à la lumière des avancées récentes de la théorie de la régulation. Elles concernent d'abord la prise en compte des interdépendances entre sphères politique et économique, les notions de complémentarité et hiérarchie institutionnelle, l'endogénéité du passage de la croissance à la crise et la place de l'Etat-Nation face à une plus grande interdépendance internationale. Ainsi, la ""globalisation"" porte surtout sur la finance et constitue plus l'expression d'un projet politique que d'un déterminisme économique. L'extension des ajustements de marché est loin d'avoir conduit au redressement de l'efficacité dynamique. La viabilité des diverses formes de capitalisme dépend beaucoup de la configuration internationale et des stratégies politiques des divers gouvernements. Enfin, la viabilité d'un régime de croissance financiarisé ou encore patrimonial s'avère problématique tant d'un point de vue théorique qu'empirique."
E29|Revisiting European Unemployment : Unemployment, Capital Accumulation and Factor Prices|This paper starts from two sets of facts about Continental Europe.The first is the steady increase in unemployment since the early 1970s. The second is the evolution of the capital share, an initial decline in the 1970s, followed by a much larger increase since the mid-1980s. The paper then develops a model of capital accumulation, unemployment and factor prices. Using this model to look at the data, it reaches two main conclusions: The initial increase in unemployment, from the mid-1970s to the mid-1980s, was mostly due to a failure of wages to adjust to the slowdown in underlying factor productivity growth. The initial effect was to decrease profit rates and capital shares. Over time, the reaction of firms was to reduce capital accumulation and move away from labor, leading to a steady increase in unemployment, and a recovery of the capital share. The reason why wage moderation, clearly evident in the data since the mid-1980s, has not led to a decrease in unemployment is that another type of shift has been at work, this time on the labor demand side. At a given wage and a given capital stock firms have steadily decreased employment. The effect of this adverse shift in labor demand has been to lead to both continued high unemployment, and increasing capital shares. What lies behind this shift in labor demand? There are two potential lines of explanation. The first is shifts in the distribution of rents away from workers, for example, the elimination of chronic excess employment by firms. The second explanation points to technological bias: firms in Continental Europe are introducing technologies biased against labor and towards capital.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E29|Fixed Costs: The Demise of Marginal q|"The standard version of ""q"" theory, in which investment is positively related to marginal ""q"", breaks down in the presence of fixed costs of adjustment. With fixed costs, q is a non-monotonic function of investment. Therefore its inverse, which is the traditional investment function, does not exist. Depending upon auxiliary assumptions, the correlation between investment and marginal ""q"" can be either positive or negative. Given certain homogeneity assumptions, a version of the theory based on average ""q"" still holds, although under the same assumptions profits and sales perform as well as average ""q"". More generally, ""q"" is no longer a sufficient statistic."
E29|Consumption and Savings Over the Life Cycle|During the last decade most western economies have experienced large and unexpected fluctuations in consumption and savings. The purpose of this paper is to provide additional insights into the individual household's consumption decision and thereby increase the knowledge of what governs these important macro variables. A consumption equation is estimated on Swedish micro data using an empirical method capable of dealing with the inherent data problem found in micro data sets.
