E30|The Extended Perturbation Method: New Insights on the New Keynesian Model|This paper introduces the extended perturbation method, which improves upon standard perturbation by removing approximation errors under perfect foresight. For the New Keynesian model, we show that standard perturbation generates explosive sample paths because it does not account for the upper bound on inflation as implied by Calvo pricing. In contrast, extended perturbation generates stable dynamics as it enforces this bound. Extended perturbation also adds to existing evidence on downward nominal wage rigidities in the New Keynesian model, as we only find support for this friction when using standard perturbation but not when using the more accurate extended perturbation approximation.
E30|Mr Phillips and the medium-run: temporal instability vs. frequency stability|The paper goes back to the original insight by Phillips and investigates the negative relationship between money wage inflation and the unemployment rate occurring at frequency bands that stretch beyond those of the business cycle. We use UK annual data for the period 1861-2015, and post- WWII quarterly data from 1960 to 2016. The two critical findings are that the wage Phillips Curve is predominantly a medium-run phenomenon, comprised in the 8-to16-year frequency band, and that the curve disappears beyond this range. Similar conclusions are reached using the post-WWII quarterly sample: at the aggregate level and at high frequencies the PC relationship is unstable over time, whereas in the frequency range between 32 to 64 quarters (our medium run timescale), this time dependency disappears.
E30|Inducing Sparsity and Shrinkage in Time-Varying Parameter Models|Time-varying parameter (TVP) models have the potential to be over-parameterized, particularly when the number of variables in the model is large. Global-local priors are increasingly used to induce shrink- age in such models. But the estimates produced by these priors can still have appreciable uncertainty. Sparsification has the potential to remove this uncertainty and improve forecasts. In this paper, we develop computationally simple methods which both shrink and sparsify TVP models. In a simulated data exercise we show the benefits of our shrink-then-sparsify approach in a variety of sparse and dense TVP regressions. In a macroeconomic forecast exercise, we find our approach to substantially improve forecast performance relative to shrinkage alone.
E30|Measuring real and financial cycles in Luxembourg: An unobserved components approach|We use unobserved components time series models to extract real and financial cycles for Luxembourg over the period 1980Q1-2018Q2. We find that financial cycles are longer and have larger amplitude compared to standard business cycles. Furthermore, financial cycles are highly correlated with cycles in GDP. We compare our results to other approaches to measure financial cycles and show how unobserved components models can serve to evaluate uncertainty and to monitor cyclical developments in real time. Overall, our estimates indicate that in mid 2018 both real and financial cycles in Luxembourg were close to zero, with financial conditions near their long-run trend.
E30|Do SVARs with sign restrictions not identify unconventional monetary policy shocks ?|A growing empirical literature has shown, based on structural vector autoregressions (SVARs) identified through sign restrictions, that unconventional monetary policies implemented after the outbreak of the Great Financial Crisis (GFC) had expansionary macroeconomic effects. In a recent paper, Elbourne and Ji (2019) conclude that these studies fail to identify true unconventional monetary policy shocks in the euro area. In this note, we show that their findings are actually fully consistent with a successful identification of unconventional monetary policy shocks by the earlier studies and that their approach does not serve the purpose of evaluating identification strategies of SVARs.
E30|Credit risk-taking and maturity mismatch: the role of the yield curve|We study the credit-risk-taking behaviour of Italian banks in response to changes in the term structure of interest rates using a confidential dataset on new loans to non-financial firms. We find that ex-ante risk-taking is negatively related to the short end of the yield curve but positively to the long end. Banks’ balance sheet conditions, as captured not only by capitalization but also by the maturity mismatch between assets and liabilities, are key to relating these findings to the theoretical literature.
E30|Fear of taxes|This paper documents that Mexican households anticipated the fiscal reform of 2014 several months before enacted. This change in expectations is documented using a novel source of information available in Google Trends, among other sources. It then analyzes the economic consequences of this change using a general equilibrium growth model with taxes and uncertainty. The model also considers the presence of generic distortions in the form of wedges in the first order conditions to isolate the effect of taxation. The paper provides an explanation for the unusual trajectories of investment and GDP of the Mexican economy around 2013.
E30|Aggregate Dynamics in Lumpy Economies|In economies with lumpy microeconomic adjustment, we establish structural relationships between the dynamics of the cross-sectional distribution of agents and its steady-state counterpart and discipline these relationships using micro data. Applying our methodology to firm lumpy investment, we discover that the dynamics of aggregate capital are structurally linked to two cross-sectional moments of the capital-to-productivity ratio: its dispersion and its covariance with the time elapsed since the last adjustment. We compute these sufficient statistics using plant–level data on the size and frequency of investments. We find that, in order to explain investment dynamics, the benchmark model with fixed adjustment costs must also feature a precise combination of irreversibility and random opportunities of free adjustment.
E30|On money, debt, trust and central banking|This essay examines in detail the properties of a well functioning monetary system - defined as money plus the mechanisms to execute payments - in both the short and long run, drawing on both theory and the lessons from history. It stresses the importance of trust and of the institutions needed to secure it. Ensuring price and financial stability is critical to nurturing and maintaining that trust. In the process, the essay addresses several related questions, such as the relationship between money and debt, the viability of cryptocurrencies as money, money neutrality, and the nexus between monetary and financial stability. While the present monetary system, with central banks and a prudential apparatus at its core, can and must be improved, it still provides the best basis to build on.
E30|Steady-state growth|We compute steady-state economic growth - defined as the rate of growth that the economy would converge to in the absence of new shocks. This rate can be computed in real-time by means of a parsimonious time-varying parameter (TVP) VAR model. Our procedure offers a relatively agnostic estimation of benchmark equilibrium growth rates. Estimates show that the steady-state GDP growth rate in the case of the United States declined from just above 3% per year in the 1990s to 2.4% at present. Results for other six advanced economies and the euro area indicate that the steady-state growth rate, which is consistent with stable inflation and financial conditions, has been relatively stable since 2010 in most cases in spite of a recent slowdown in actual GDP growth rates.
E30|Trend Growth Shocks and Asset Prices|This paper addresses the link between shocks to productivity trend growth and long-run consumption risk in a production economy model with recursive utility. Quantifying trend growth shocks, I find that persistent fluctuations in trend growth are the key driver of sizable long-run consumption risk. I compare this result to two conventional assumptions on a productivity process: 1) a deterministic trend with a cycle and 2) a random walk with drift. Persistent trend growth shocks generate larger long-run consumption risk than both highly persistent cycle shocks and random walk shocks. As a result, agents in the face of the trend growth shocks tend to save more and demand a higher equity premium. In addition, fluctuations in aggregate productivity growth is largely attributable to movements in trend growth.
E30|Exchange Rate Shocks and Quality Adjustments|Do firms respond to cost shocks by reducing the quality of their products? Using microdata from a large Russian retailer that varies its offerings twice-yearly, we document that ruble devaluations are associated with a reduction in the observed material quality of products imported for resale, but that higher quality goods are also more profitable. We reconcile these facts using a simple multi-product sourcing model that features a demand system with expenditure switching, where more profitable products can be dropped more quickly after a cost shock. The estimated model shows that quality downgrading reduces average passthrough by 6% and has meaningful consequences for welfare.
E30|Downward Nominal Wage Rigidity in the United States: New Evidence from Worker-Firm Linked Data|This paper examines the extent and consequences of Downward Nominal Wage Rigidity (DNWR) using administrative worker-firm linked data from the Longitudinal Employer Household Dynamics (LEHD) program for a large representative U.S. state. Prior to the Great Recession, only 7-8% of job stayers are paid the same nominal hourly wage rate as one year earlier - substantially less than previously found in survey-based data - and about 20% of job stayers experience a wage cut. During the Great Recession, the incidence of wage cuts increases to 30%, followed by a large rise in the proportion of wage freezes to 16% as the economy recovers. Total earnings of job stayers exhibit even fewer zero changes and a larger incidence of reductions than hourly wage rates, due to systematic variations in hours worked. The results are consistent with concurrent findings in the literature that reductions in base pay are exceedingly rare but that firms use different forms of non-base pay and variations in hours worked to flexibilize labor cost. We then exploit the worker-firm link of the LEHD and find that during the Great Recession, firms with indicators of DNWR reduced employment by about 1.2% more per year. This negative effect is driven by significantly lower hiring rates and persists into the recovery. Our results suggest that despite the relatively large incidence of wage cuts in the aggregate, DNWR has sizable allocative consequences.
E30|The Macroeconomic Projections of the German Government: A Comparison to an Independent Forecasting Institution|This paper investigates the macroeconomic projections of the German government since the 1970s and compares it those of the Joint Economic Forecast, which is an in-dependent forecasting institution in Germany. Our results indicate that nominal GDP projections are upward biased for longer forecast horizons, which seems to be driven by a false assessment of the decline in Germany’s trend growth and a systematic failure to correctly anticipate recessions. We show that the German government also deviates from the projections of the Joint Economic Forecast, which in fact worsened the forecast accuracy. Finally, we find evidence that these deviations are driven by political motives.
E30|Endogenous Repo Cycles|This paper presents a simple and tractable equilibrium model of repos, where collateralized credit emerges under limited commitment. We show that even if there is no time variation in fundamentals, repo markets can fluctuate endogenously over time. In our theory, repo market fragilities are associated with endogenous fluctuations in trade probabilities, collateral values, and debt limits. We show that the collateral premium of a durable asset will become the lowest right before a recession and the highest right after the recession and that secured credit is acyclical.
E30|A model for international spillovers to emerging markets|This paper develops a small open economy (SOE) dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) model that helps to explain business cycle synchronization between an emerging market and advanced economies. The model captures the specificities of both economies (e.g. primary commodity, manufacturing, intermediate inputs, and credit) that are most relevant for understanding the importance as well as the transmission mechanisms of a wide range of domestic and foreign (supply, demand, monetary policy, credit, primary commodity) shocks facing an emerging economy. We estimate the model with Bayesian methods using quarterly data from South Africa, the US and G7 countries. In contrast to the predictions of standard SOE models, we are able to replicate two stylized facts. First, our model predicts a high degree of business cycle synchronization between South Africa and advanced economies. Second, the model is able to account for the influence of foreign shocks in South Africa. We are also able to demonstrate the specific roles these shocks played during key historical episodes such as the global financial crisis in 2008 and the commodity price slump in 2015. The ability of our framework to capture endogenous responses of commodity and financial sectors to structural shocks is crucial to identify the importance of these shocks in South Africa.
E30|State-Dependent or Time-Dependent Pricing? New Evidence from a Monthly Firm-Level Survey: 1980-2017|We take a monthly panel of German firms over the period 1980–2017 to examine the relative importance of time and state dependence in the decisions of firms to raise, lower or leave their price constant. In addition, we seek to estimate the relative importance of macroeconomic factors and firm-specific factors within state dependence. While price decreases can be well explained by time dependence alone, price increases are best predicted by the interaction of time-dependent and firm-specific state factors. Whilst on their own macroeconomic variables might seem important, once we add firm-specific variables the effects of macroeconomic variables become much smaller in magnitude. Our empirical results suggest that theoretical models should integrate both time and state dependence rather than developing the approaches separately. We also show that time dependence is better captured if we allow for different hazard functions for price increases and decreases.
E30|Volatility costs of R&D|This paper incorporates endogenous growth into a New Keynesian DSGE framework to in-vestigate the effects of R&D on economic volatility. It identiﬁes a mechanism through which the cyclicality of R&D and its effects on volatility depend on the cyclicality of production. R&D activity becomes more procyclical, thereby amplifying economic volatility when labor supply is procyclical. The conclusions are reversed if labor supply is countercyclical. Alterna-tive calibrations show that this link between R&D and production labor is weaker when R&D intensity, the spillover rate of innovation, and R&D adjustment costs are higher. In these cases, R&D tracks economic activity more closely which in turn magniﬁes economic volatility. The higher volatility has considerable welfare consequences and it implies that the steeper path of growth resulting from higher R&D activity comes at a price.
E30|Monetary Equilibrium and the Cost of Banking Activity|We investigate the effects of banks’ operating costs on allocations and welfare in a low interest rate environment. We introduce an explicit production function for banks in a microfounded model where banks employ labor resources, hired on a competitive market, to run their operations. In equilibrium, this generates a spread between interest rates on loans and deposits, which naturally reflects the underlying monetary policy and the efficiency of financial intermediation. In a deflation or low inflation environment, equilibrium deposits yield zero returns. Hence, banks end up soaking up labor resources to offer deposits that do not outperform idle balances, thus reducing aggregate efficiency.
E30|Identification versus misspecification in New Keynesian monetary policy models|In this paper, we study identification and misspecification problems in standard closed and open-economy empirical New-Keynesian DSGE models used in monetary policy analysis. We find that problems with model misspecification still appear to be a first-order issue in monetary DSGE models, and argue that it is problems with model misspecification that may benefit the most from moving from a classical to a Bayesian framework. We also argue that lack of identification should neither be ignored nor be assumed to affect all DSGE models. Fortunately, identification problems can be readily assessed on a case-by-case basis, by applying recently developed pre-tests of identification.
E30|The Slope of the Term Structure and Recessions: Evidence from the UK, 1822-2016|This paper investigates whether the inversion of the yield spread, with short-term rates higher than the long-term rate, has been and remains an effective predictor of recessions in the U.K. using monthly data from 1822 to 2016. Indicators of recession are constructed in a variety of ways depending on the availability and properties of the data in the pre-World War 1, inter-war, and post-World War 2 periods. It is found that, using peak-to-trough recession indicators and a probit regression model, there is reasonably strong evidence to support the inverted yield spread being a predictor of recessions for lead times up to eighteen months in all three periods.
E30|Resolving the Missing Deflation Puzzle|We propose a resolution of the missing deflation puzzle. Our resolution stresses the importance of nonlinearities in price- and wage-setting when the economy is exposed to large shocks. We show that a nonlinear macroeconomic model with real rigidities resolves the missing deflation puzzle, while a linearized version of the same underlying nonlinear model fails to do so. In addition, our nonlinear model reproduces the skewness of inflation and other macroeconomic variables observed in post-war U.S. data. All told, our results caution against the common practice of using linearized models to study inflation and output dynamics.
E30|Stable genius? The macroeconomic impact of Trump|"How much credit does Donald Trump deserve for the macroeconomic performance of the US economy? Growth and job creation have been robust during the first 2.5 years since he took office, but this does not prove that Trump made a difference. In this note we develop a counterfactual scenario for how the US economy would have evolved without Trump---we let a matching algorithm determine which combination of other economies best resembles the pre-election path of the US economy. We then compare the post-election performance of the US economy to this synthetic ""doppelganger"". For now there is little evidence for a Trump effect."
E30|A Risk-centric Model of Demand Recessions and Speculation|We theoretically analyze the interactions between asset prices, financial speculation, and macroeconomic outcomes when output is determined by aggregate demand. If the interest rate is constrained, a decline in risky asset valuations generates a demand recession. This reduces earnings and generates a negative feedback loop between asset prices and aggregate demand. In the recession phase, beliefs matter not only because they affect asset valuations but also because they determine the strength of the amplification mechanism. In the ex-ante boom phase, belief disagreements (or heterogeneous asset valuations) matter because they induce investors to speculate. This speculation exacerbates the crash by reducing high-valuation investors' wealth when the economy transitions to recession. Macroprudential policy that restricts speculation in the boom can Pareto improve welfare by increasing asset prices and aggregate demand in the recession.
E30|Prudential Monetary Policy|Should monetary policy have a prudential dimension? That is, should policymakers raise interest rates to rein in financial excesses during a boom? We theoretically investigate this issue using an aggregate demand model with asset price booms and financial speculation. In our model, monetary policy affects financial stability through its impact on asset prices. Our main result shows that, when macroprudential policy is imperfect, small doses of prudential monetary policy (PMP) can provide financial stability benefits that are equivalent to tightening leverage limits. PMP reduces asset prices during the boom, which softens the asset price crash when the economy transitions into a recession. This mitigates the recession because higher asset prices support leveraged, high-valuation investors' balance sheets. An alternative intuition is that PMP raises the interest rate to create room for monetary policy to react to negative asset price shocks. The policy is most effective when there is extensive speculation and leverage limits are neither too tight nor too slack.
E30|Identification with external instruments in structural VARs under partial invertibility|This paper discusses the conditions for indentification with external instruments in Structural VARs under partial invertibility. We observe that in this case the shocks of interest and their effects can be recovered using an external instrument, provided that a condition of limited lag exogeneity holds. This condition is weaker than that required for LP-IV, and allows for recoverability of impact effects also une VAR misspecification. We assess our claims in a simulated environment, and provide an emirical application to the relevant cas of identification of monetary policy shocks.
E30|Preface to the Chinese Edition of A History of Macroeconomics from Keynes to Lucas and Beyond|In this preface, I reflect on the evolution of macroeconomics in the wake of the 2018 recession. I give a sketch of the developments that have taken place and assess the validity of some of the main criticisms that have been addressed to DSGE macroeconomics
E30|Disentangling the role of the exchange rate in oil-related scenarios for the European stock market|Until now, stock market responses to a distress scenario for oil prices have been analysed considering prices in domestic currency. This assumption implies merging the commodity risk with the exchange rate risk when oil and stocks are traded in different currencies. This article proposes incorporating explicitly the exchange rate, using the convolution concept, to assess how could change the stock market response depending on the source of risk that moves oil prices. I apply this framework to study the change in the 10th lowest percentile of the European stock market under an oil-related stress scenario, without overlooking the role of the exchange rate. The empirical exercise shows that the same stress oil-related scenario in euros could generate an opposite impact in the European stock market depending on the source of risk. The source of risk is not incorporated when performing a bivariate analysis, which suggests ambiguous estimates of the stock response. This framework can improve our understanding of how the exchange rate interacts in global markets. Also, it contributes to reduce the inaccuracy in the impact assessment of foreign shocks where the exchange rate plays a relevant role. JEL Classification: E30, E37, E44, G10
E30|The slope of the term structure and recessions: evidence from the UK, 1822-2016|This paper investigates whether the inversion of the yield spread, with short-term rates higher than the long-term rate, has been and remains an effective predictor of recessions in the U.K. using monthly data from 1822 to 2016. Indicators of recession are constructed in a variety of ways depending on the availability and properties of the data in the pre-World War 1, inter-war, and post-World War 2 periods. It is found that, using peak-to-trough recession indicators and a probit regression model, there is reasonably strong evidence to support the inverted yield spread being a predictor of recessions for lead times up to eighteen months in all three periods
E30|Foreign exchange reserves as a tool for capital account management|Many recent theoretical papers have argued that countries can insulate themselves from volatile world capital flows by using a variable tax on foreign capital as an instrument of monetary policy. But at the same time many empirical papers have argued that only rarely do we observe these cyclical capital taxes used in practice. In this paper we present a small open economy framework where the central bank can engage in sterilized foreign exchange intervention. When private agents can freely buy and sell foreign bonds, sterilized foreign exchange intervention has no effect. But we analytically prove that when private agents cannot freely buy and sell foreign bonds, that is, under acyclical capital controls, optimal sterilized foreign exchange intervention is equivalent to an optimally chosen tax on foreign capital. Numerical simulations of the model show that a variable capital tax is a reasonable approximation for sterilized foreign exchange intervention under the levels of capital controls observed in many emerging markets.
E30|Identifying News Shocks with Forecast Data|Recent studies attempt to quantify the empirical importance of news shocks (i.e., anticipated future shocks) in business cycle fluctuations. This paper identifies news shocks in a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model estimate with not only actual data but also forecast data. The estimation results show new empirical evidence that anticipated future technology shocks are the most important driving force of U.S. business cycles. The use of the forecast data makes the anticipated shocks play a much more important role in fitting model-implied expectations to this data, since such shocks have persistent effects on the expectations and thereby help to replicate the observed persistence of the forecasts.
E30|Do Monetary Policy Announcements Shift Household Expectations?|We use daily survey data from Gallup to assess whether households' beliefs about economic conditions are influenced by surprises in monetary policy announcements. We first provide more general evidence that public confidence in the state of the economy reacts to certain types of macroeconomic news very quickly. Next, we show that surprises about the federal funds target rate are among the news that have statistically significant and instantaneous effects on economic confidence. In contrast, surprises about forward guidance and asset purchases do not have similar effects on household beliefs, perhaps because they are less well understood. We document heterogeneity in the responsiveness of sentiment across demographics.
E30|Trade Exposure and the Evolution of Inflation Dynamics|"The diminished sensitivity of inflation to changes in resource utilization that has been observed in many advanced economies over the past several decades is frequently linked to the increase in global economic integration. In this paper, we examine this ""globalization"" hypothesis using both aggregate U.S. data on measures of inflation and economic slack and a rich panel data set containing producer prices, wages, output, and employment at a narrowly defined industry level. Our results indicate that the rising exposure of the U.S. economy to international trade can indeed help explain a significant fraction of the overall decline in responsiveness of aggregate inflation to fluctuations in economic activity. This flattening of the U.S. Phillips curve is supported strongly by our cross-sectional evidence, which shows that increased trade exposure significantly attenuates the response of inflation to fluctuations in output across industries. Our estimates indicate that the inflation-output tradeoff is about three times larger for low-trade intensity industries compared with their high-trade intensity counterparts."
E30|Rising Market Concentration and the Decline of Food Price Shock Pass-Through to Core Inflation|Using a vector autoregression that allows for time-varying parameters and stochastic volatility, we show that U.S. core inflation became 75 percent less responsive to shocks in food prices since the late 1970s. The decline in the pass-through of food price shocks to inflation is a result of a decline in both volatility and the persistence of food price changes in inflation. This decline in pass-through coincides with a period of increasing concentration in the food supply chain, especially among U.S. grocery retailers and distributors. We find that 60 percent of the variation in pass-through over the last four decades can be explained by changes in food retailers’ and distributors’ market concentration. Controlling for the composition of the food basket and inflation expectations explains an additional 20 percent of the variation. {{p}} Our results suggest that if the market concentration of food retailers and distributors continues to increase and inflation expectations remain well-anchored, the pass-through of food price shocks to inflation will likely remain subdued.
E30|Macroeconomic Implications of Uniform Pricing|We compile a new database of grocery prices in Argentina, with over 9 million observations per day. We find uniform pricing both within and across regions—i.e., product prices almost do not vary within stores of a chain. Uniform pricing implies that prices would not change with regional conditions or shocks, particularly so if chains operate in several regions. We confirm this hypothesis using employment data. While prices in stores of chains operating almost exclusively in one region do react to changes in regional employment, stores of chains that operate in many regions do not seem to react to local labor market conditions. We study the impact of uniform pricing on estimates of local and aggregate consumption elasticities in a tractable two-region model in which firms have to set the same price in all regions. The estimated model predicts an almost one-third larger elasticity of consumption to a regional than an aggregate income shock because prices adjust more in response to aggregate shocks. This result highlights that some caution may be necessary when using regional shocks to estimate aggregate elasticities, particularly when the relevant prices are set uniformly across regions.
E30|Firm-to-Firm Relationships and the Pass-Through of Shocks: Theory and Evidence|Economists have long suspected that firm-to-firm relationships might lower the responsiveness of prices to shocks due to the use of fixed-price contracts. Using transaction-level U.S. import data, I show that the pass-through of exchange rate shocks in fact rises as a relationship grows older. Based on novel stylized facts about a relationship’s life cycle, I develop a model of relationship dynamics in which a buyer-seller pair accumulates relationship capital to lower production costs under limited commitment. The structurally estimated model generates countercyclical markups and countercyclical pass-through of shocks through variation in the economy’s rate of relationship creation, which falls in recessions.
E30|Do Monetary Policy Announcements Shift Household Expectations?|We use daily survey data from Gallup to assess whether households' beliefs about economic conditions are influenced by surprises in monetary policy announcements. We first provide more general evidence that public confidence in the state of the economy reacts to certain types of macroeconomic news very quickly. Next, we show that surprises to the Federal Funds target rate are among the news that have statistically significant and instantaneous effects on economic confidence. In contrast, surprises about forward guidance and asset purchases do not have similar effects on household beliefs, perhaps because they are less well understood. We document heterogeneity in the responsiveness of sentiment across demographics.
E30|What Do Sectoral Dynamics Tell Us About the Origins of Business Cycles?|"We use economic theory to rank the impact of structural shocks across sectors. This ranking helps us to identify the origins of U.S. business cycles. To do this, we introduce a Hierarchical Vector Auto-Regressive model, encompassing aggregate and sectoral variables. We find that shocks whose impact originate in the ""demand"" side (monetary, household, and government consumption) account for 43 percent more of the variance of U.S. GDP growth at business cycle frequencies than identified shocks originating in the ""supply"" side (technology and energy). Furthermore, corporate financial shocks, which theory suggests propagate to large extent through demand channels, account for an amount of the variance equal to an additional 82 percent of the fraction explained by these supply shocks."
E30|An ARDL Approach on Crude Oil Price and Macroeconomic Variables|Objective – The removal of fuel subsidies by the Malaysian government in 2014 has been implement with the managed float system for fuel prices. Methodology/Technique – This study investigates the impact of the managed floating system of crude oil prices on the Malaysian economy using ARDL approach by looking at macroeconomic variables such as inflation, economic growth and unemployment rates. Findings – The results show that all of the variables have short lived relationship with oil prices whereby inflation and economic growth are positively related to oil prices. However, unemployment rate has a negative relationship with the changes of WTI crude oil prices. Novelty – The major input in the economy of Malaysia contributes to a positive relationship between inflation and oil prices, whilst the contribution of Malaysia being an oil-producing country results in the positive relationship of economic growth and oil price. Likewise, as oil prices are high, the increase in demand results in increase in job opportunities. Lastly, the correlation test shows that inflation and economic growth have a high positive correlation while unemployment rate has a low negative correlation with oil price. Type of Paper: Empirical.
E30|Impact of Crude Oil Price Changes on Household Consumption Expenditure in Oman (1990 -2016)|Objective - The preceding three years (2014, 2015, and 2016) saw a drop in the price of oil which has impacted all parts of Omani macroeconomic life. This study aims to identify the association between oil price changes and aggregate household consumption expenditure in the Sultanate by analyzing the long term relationship between the variables of interest. Methodology/Technique - The (ARDL) Autoregressive Distributed Lag bound test of co- integration is used with 27 annual observations obtained between 1990 and 2016. Finding - The statistical results show that there is a long term, positive relationship between the two variables. Novelty – As Oman is heavily dependent on oil, any fluctuation in the price of oil will undoubtedly cause instability in the economy (macroeconomic variables) demonstrating the presence of a robust correlation between consumption and oil prices. The bound test of the ARDL approach demonstrates this relationship. This study is therefore useful for Muscat officials to identify ways to reduce the dependency on oil.
E30|Exchange Rate Pass-through to Prices : Bayesian VAR Evidence for Ghana|Using quarterly data from 2006q3 to 2017q4, this paper employed sign restrictions with rejection method in a Vector Autoregression to estimate the pass-through of exchange rate dynamics to domestic prices in Ghana. The priors of the model belongs to the flat Normal inverted-Wishart family. Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) is used to collect 1000 draws from the posterior distribution of the SVAR parameters that satisfy the sign restrictions. The model specification included some idiosyncratic features of the Ghanaian economy such as the dependence on primary export commodities for foreign exchange revenue and the dependence on foreign aid. Impulse response functions was used to analyze exchange rate pass-through whilst variance decomposition was used to explain the most dominant source of inflation in the study sample. The impulse response showed a fairly large but not unitary pass-through of exchange rate dynamics to domestic prices. The implication herein is that exchange rate depreciation led to upsurge in prices in Ghana albeit, the impact is incomplete. Results from the variance decomposition indicated a monetary expansion was most dominant in explaining inflationary pressures in Ghana. For inflation to be lowered, policy directives should be geared towards exchange rate stability as well as ensuring a stable interest rate environment.
E30|New Essentials of Economic Theory I. Assumptions, Economic Space and Variables|This paper develops economic theory framework free from general equilibrium assumptions. We describe macroeconomics as system of economic agents under action of n risks. Economic and financial variables of agents, their expectations and transactions between agents define macroeconomic variables. Agents variables depend on transactions between agents and transactions are performed under agents expectations. Agents expectations are formed by economic variables, transactions, expectations of other agents, other factors that impact macroeconomic evolution. We use risk ratings of agents as their coordinates on economic space and approximate description of economic and financial variables, transactions and expectations of numerous separate agents by description of variables, transactions and expectations as density functions on economic space. We describe evolution of macroeconomic density functions of variables, transactions and expectations and their flows induced by motion of separate agents on economic space due to change of agents risk rating. We apply our model to description of business cycles, present models of wave propagation for disturbances of economic variables and transactions, model asset price fluctuations and argue hidden complexities of classical Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing.
E30|An attitude of complexity: thirteen essays on the nature and construction of reality under the challenge of Zeno's Paradox|This book is about the construction of reality. The central aim of this study is to understand how gravity works and how it may be focused and manipulated. While I do not have an answer to this question, the discoveries along the way have been worth collecting into a single volume for future reference.
E30|New Essentials of Economic Theory I. Assumptions, Economic Space and Variables|This paper develops economic theory framework free from assumptions on market equilibrium, utility functions, rational expectations and etc. We describe macroeconomics as system of economic agents under action of n risks. Economic and financial variables of agents, their expectations and transactions between agents define macroeconomic variables. Agents variables depend on transactions between agents and transactions are performed under agents expectations. Agents expectations are formed by economic variables, transactions, expectations of other agents, by all factors that impact macroeconomic evolution. We describe evolution of macroeconomic variables, transactions and expectations by systems of economic partial differential equations. We develop asset pricing model as a result of equations on transactions and expectations and derive equations that describe price dynamics. To do this we use risk ratings of economic agents as their coordinates on economic space. We approximate description of economic and financial variables, transactions and expectations of numerous separate agents by description of variables, transactions and expectations as density functions on economic space. We take into account flows of economic variables, transactions and expectations induced by motion of separate agents on economic space due to change of agents risk ratings and describe macroeconomic impact of these economic flows. We apply our model to description of business cycles, describe models of wave propagation for disturbances of economic variables and transactions, model asset price fluctuations and argue hidden complexities of classical Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing.
E30|New Essentials of Economic Theory|This paper develops economic theory tools and framework free from general equilibrium assumptions. We describe macroeconomics as system of economic agents under action risks. Economic and financial variables of agents, their expectations and transactions between agents define macroeconomic variables. Agents variables depend on transactions between agents and transactions are performed under agents expectations. Agents expectations are formed by economic variables, transactions, expectations of other agents, other factors that impact macroeconomic evolution. We use risk ratings of agents as their coordinates on economic space and approximate description of economic and financial variables, transactions and expectations of numerous separate agents by description of variables, transactions and expectations of aggregated agents as density functions on economic space. Motion of separate agents on economic space due to change of agents risk rating induce economic flows of variables, transactions and expectations and we describe their impact on economic evolution. We apply our model equations to description of business cycles, model wave propagation for disturbances of economic variables and transactions, model asset price fluctuations and argue hidden complexities of classical Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing.
E30|Methods of Economic Theory: Variables, Transactions and Expectations as Functions of Risks|This paper develops methods and framework of economic theory free from general equilibrium tools and assumptions. We model macroeconomics as system of agents those perform transactions with other agents under action of numerous expectations. Agents expectations are formed by economic and financial variables, transactions, expectations of other agents, other factors that impact macro economy. We use risk ratings of agents as their coordinates on economic domain and approximate description of economic variables, transactions and expectations of numerous separate agents by density functions of variables, transactions and expectations of aggregated agents on economic domain. Motion of separate agents on economic domain due to change of agents risk rating produce economic flows of variables, transactions and expectations. These risk flows define dynamics of economic variables and disturb any supposed market equilibrium states all the time. Permanent evolution of market supply-demand states due to risk flows makes general equilibrium concept too doubtful. As example we apply our methods to model assets pricing and return fluctuations.
E30|Time-Varying Impact of Uncertainty Shocks on Macroeconomic Variables of the United Kingdom: Evidence from Over 150 Years of Monthly Data|In this paper, we analyse the impact of uncertainty (corporate bond spread) shock on inflation rate, unemployment rate, monetary policy rate, and the nominal exchange rate returns of the United Kingdom over the monthly period of 1855:01 to 2016:12. Given that we use data spanning over one and a half century, we use a time-varying parameter vector autoregressive (TVP-VAR) model. We find that a positive uncertainty shock reflects a negative demand shock as suggested by theory, and results in declines in the inflation, interest rate and dollar-pound exchange rate returns, and an increase in unemployment rate. However, this impact varies over time, with the strongest effect observed for the period after World War II until the start of the Great Moderation, and during the recent global crisis. Our results are in general robust to an alternative econometric framework (breaks-based VAR) and a metric of uncertainty (stock market volatility).
E30|Uniform Pricing Within and Across Regions: New Evidence from Argentina|We compile a new database of grocery prices in Argentina, with over 9 million observations per day. Our main novel inding is that product prices almost do not vary within stores of a chain (i.e., uniform pricing). We also find that prices do not change significantly with regional conditions or shocks, particularly so for chains that operate in many regions. To study the impact of uniform pricing on both consumers and firms, this paper uses a tractable model based on the trade literature. Motivated by our empirical findings, each firm has to set the same price in both regions. Relative to a counterfactual in which firms can set different prices across regions (i.e., flexible pricing), uniform pricing reduces firms’ profits by 0.4%. Consumers, however, prefer uniform pricing and are willing to give up 6.7% of their income to avoid flexible pricing in the baseline model. The effect on consumers, however, depends on how much uniform pricing limits firms’ power to extract consumer surplus and how heterogeneous the regions are.
E30|Inducing Sparsity and Shrinkage in Time-Varying Parameter Models|Time-varying parameter (TVP) models have the potential to be over-parameterized, particularly when the number of variables in the model is large. Global-local priors are increasingly used to induce shrinkage in such models. But the estimates produced by these priors can still have appreciable uncertainty. Sparsification has the potential to remove this uncertainty and improve forecasts. In this paper, we develop computationally simple methods which both shrink and sparsify TVP models. In a simulated data exercise we show the benefits of our shrink-then-sparsify approach in a variety of sparse and dense TVP regressions. In a macroeconomic forecast exercise, we find our approach to substantially improve forecast performance relative to shrinkage alone.
E30|Do SVARs with sign restrictions not identify unconventional monetary policy shocks?|A growing empirical literature has shown, based on structural vector autoregressions (SVARs) identified through sign restrictions, that unconventional monetary policies implemented after the outbreak of the Great Financial Crisis (GFC) had expansionary macroeconomic effects. In a recent paper, Elbourne and Ji (2019) conclude that these studies fail to identify true unconventional monetary policy shocks in the euro area. In this note, we show that their findings are actually fully consistent with a successful identification of unconventional monetary policy shocks by the earlier studies and that their approach does not serve the purpose of evaluating identification strategies of SVARs.
E30|Temporal Disaggregation of Business Dynamics: New Evidence for U.S. Economy|We provide new disaggregated data and stylized facts on firm dynamics of the U.S economy by using a state-space method to transform Census yearly data of entry and exit from 1977 to 2013 into quarterly frequency. Entry is lagging and symmetric, while exit is leading and asymmetric along the business cycle. We select the most significant determinants of these variables by matching Census data with a new database by Federal Reserve. These determinants differ considerably among entry and exit. Finally, standard macroeconometric models estimated on our disaggregated series support the recent theoretical literature, according to which the cleansing effect of recession is mainly due to exit asymmetry.
E30|Behavioural New Keynesian models|This paper provides a bird’s eye view of the behavioural New Keynesian literature. We discuss three key empirical regularities in macroeconomic data which are not accounted for by the standard New Keynesian model, namely, excess kurtosis, stochastic volatility, and departures from rational expectations. We then present a simple behavioural New Keynesian model that accounts for these empirical regularities in a straightforward manner. We discuss elaborations and extensions of the basic model, and suggest areas for future research.
E30|Indeterminacy with Increasing Returns to Variety and Sector-Specific Externalities|No abstract is available for this item.
E30|Aggregate dynamics in lumpy economies|In economies with lumpy microeconomic adjustment, we establish structural relationships between the dynamics of the cross-sectional distribution of agents and its steady-state counterpart and discipline these relationships using micro data. Applying our methodology to firm lumpy investment, we discover that the dynamics of aggregate capital are structurally linked to two cross-sectional moments of the capital-to-productivity ratio: its dispersion and its covariance with the time elapsed since the last adjustment. We compute these sufficient statistics using plant–level data on the size and frequency of investments. We find that, in order to explain investment dynamics, the benchmark model with fixed adjustment costs must also feature a precise combination of irreversibility and random opportunities of free adjustment.
E30|Temperature Volatility Risk|We produce novel empirical evidence on the relevance of temperature volatility shocks for the dynamics of macro aggregates and asset prices. Using two centuries of UK temperature data, we document that the relationship between temperature volatility and the macroeconomy varies over time. First, the sign of the causality from temperature volatility to TFP growth is negative in the post-war period (i.e., 1950-2015) and positive before (i.e., 1800-1950). Second, over the pre-1950 (post-1950) period temperature volatility shocks positively (negatively) affect TFP growth. In the post-1950 period, temperature volatility shocks are also found to undermine equity valuations and other main macro aggregates. More importantly, temperature volatility shocks are priced in the cross section of returns and command a positive premium. We rationalize these findings within a production economy featuring long-run productivity and temperature volatility risk. In the model temperature volatility shocks generate non-negligible welfare costs. Such costs decrease (increase) when associated with immediate technology adaptation (capital depreciation).
E30|Identiﬁcation with External Instruments in Structural VARs under Partial Invertibility|This paper discusses the conditions for identiﬁcation in SVAR-IVs when only the shock of interest or a subset of the structural shocks can be recovered as a linear combination of the VAR residuals. This condition of partial invertibility is very general, often of empirical relevance, and less stringent than the standard full invertibility that is routinely assumed in the SVAR literature. We show that, underpartial invertibility, the dynamic responsescan be correctly recoveredusing an external instrument even when this correlates with leads and lags of other invertible shocks. We call this a limited lead-lag exogeneity condition. We evaluate our results in a simulated environment, and provide an empirical application to the case of monetary policy shocks.
E30|How are oil supply shocks transmitted to the U.S. economy?|We investigate how oil supply shocks are transmitted to U.S. economic activity, consumer prices, and interest rates. Using a structural VAR approach with a combination of sign and zero restrictions, we distinguish between supply and demand channels in the transmission of exogenous changes in crude oil production. We nd that the adverse e ects of negative oil supply shocks are transmitted mainly through the demand side, as both output and interest rates react more strongly to oil supply shocks that shift the U.S. aggregate demand curve, while the supply side matters in transmitting oil supply shocks to consumer prices.
E30|Monetary policy, trade, and endogenous growth under different international financial market structures|This study develops a symmetric two-country New-Keynesian general equilibrium model with endogenous growth, Calvo-style price and wage rigidities, and international trade of final consumption goods and intermediate goods. The equilibrium implications of two financial market structures are compared: financial autarky and complete markets. In the case of financial autarky, no international bond is traded. In the case of complete markets, the households have access to a full set of international nominal state-contingent bonds. We find that assuming complete markets instead of financial autarky leads to higher co-movement of most macroeconomic growth rates across countries, higher co-movement of inflation rates across countries, lower uncovered interest rate parity regression coefficients, and a lower correlation between exchange rate growth and consumption growth differentials. These results are mostly in line with US and UK data from 1950-2015, which are split into two samples, 1950-1970 and 1971-2015, in order to be compared to the model with financial autarky and the model with complete markets, respectively.
E30|The impact of the Fundamental Review of the Trading Book: A preliminary assessment on a stylized portfolio|The aim of this paper is to gauge the impact in terms of capital requirements of the Fundamental Review of the Trading Book (FRTB). To this end we take a stylized portfolio sensible to the risk factors mostly affected by the review and we implement the new regulation both under the Standard Approach (SA) and the Internal Model Approach (IMA). Our results provide an order of magnitude of the increase across the two regulations and the two approaches (SA and IMA), and disentangle the expected increase implied by the FRTB in its main effects both for the SA and IMA approach. Our analyses prove a very relevant increase especially under the SA and underscore possible implications of the review both in terms of regulamentary model’s choice and business strategies.
E30|Prudential Monetary Policy|Should monetary policy have a prudential dimension? That is, should policymakers raise interest rates to rein in financial excesses during a boom? We theoretically investigate this issue using an aggregate demand model with asset price booms and financial speculation. In our model, monetary policy affects financial stability through its impact on asset prices. Our main result shows that, when macroprudential policy is imperfect, small doses of prudential monetary policy (PMP) can provide financial stability benefits that are equivalent to tightening leverage limits. PMP reduces asset prices during the boom, which softens the asset price crash when the economy transitions into a recession. This mitigates the recession because higher asset prices support leveraged, high-valuation investors' balance sheets. An alternative intuition is that PMP raises the interest rate to create room for monetary policy to react to negative asset price shocks. The policy is most effective when there is extensive speculation and leverage limits are neither too tight nor too slack. When shadow banks are present, PMP can still replicate the benefits of macroprudential policy, but PMP is less effective (like macroprudential policy) because shadow banks respond by increasing their leverage.
E30|How Do Foreclosures Exacerbate Housing Downturns?|We present a dynamic search model in which foreclosures exacerbate housing busts and delay the housing market;s recovery. By eroding lender equity, destroying the credit of potential buyers, and making buyers more selective, foreclosures freeze the market for non-foreclosures can cause price-default spirals that amplify an initial shock. To quantitatively asses these channels, the model is calibrated to the recent bust. The amplification is significant: ruined credit and choosey buyers account for 22.5 percent of the total decline in non-distressed prices and lender losses account for an additional 30 percent. We use our model to evaluate foreclosure mitigation policies and find that payment reduction is quite effective, but creating a single seller of foreclosures that holds them off the market until demand picks up is the most effective policy. Policies that slow down the pace of foreclosures can be counterproductive.
E30|Sticky prices and the transmission mechanism of monetary policy: A minimal test of New Keynesian models|This paper proposes a minimal test of two basic empirical predictions that ag-gregate data should exhibit if sticky prices were the key transmission mechanism of monetary policy, as implied by the benchmark DSGE-New Keynesian models. First, large monetary policy shocks should yield proportionally larger initial re-sponses of the price level and smaller real effects on output. Second, in a high trend inflation regime, prices should be more flexible, and thus the real effects of monetary policy shocks should be smaller and the response of the price level larger. Our analysis provides some statistically significant evidence in favor of a sticky price theory of the transmission mechanism of monetary policy shocks.
E30|The Great Recession and the teaching of macroeconomics: A critical analysis of the Blanchard, Amighini and Giavazzi textbook|The publication of the seventh edition of Blanchard’s textbook (Blanchard 2017) and of the third edition of the textbook authored by Blanchard, Amighini and Giavazzi (2017) represents a significant opportunity to assess the impact of the Great Recession on macroeconomic theory and on the teaching of macroeconomics. The authors acknowledge that the mainstream economic model presented in the previous editions of their textbooks is unable to offer a significant explanation of the causes of the crisis as it completely neglects the role of the financial system. They believe that the economics profession has learned the lesson of the crisis since economists understood the limitations of the theoretical model elaborated over the last decades. In the revised editions of their textbooks they present a new theoretical model taking into account the financial system. The objective of this work is twofold: i) to show that the new model does not allow to elaborate a coherent explanation of the Great Recession and: ii) to present the pillars of an alternative theoretical model based on the lessons of Keynes, Schumpeter and Minsky.
E30|Endogenous Separations, Wage Rigidities and Employment Volatility|We show that in micro data, as well as in a search and matching model with endogenous separations and rigid wages, separations and hence employment volatility are non-neutral to wage rigidities of incumbent workers. In contrast to when all wages are flexible, the standard deviation of unemployment in a model with rigid wages for incumbent workers (only) matches the standard deviation in the data. Thus, the degree of wage rigidity for newly hired workers is not a sufficient statistic for determining the effect of wage rigidities on macroeconomic outcomes in this class of models.
E30|Fiscal Forward Guidance: A case for selective transparency|Should the fiscal authority use forward guidance to reduce future policy uncertainty perceived by private agents? Using dynamic stochastic general equilibrium models, we examine the welfare effects of announcing future fiscal policy shocks. Analytical as well as numerical experiments show that selective transparency is desirable—announcing future fiscal policy shocks that are distortionary can be detrimental to ex ante social welfare, whereas announcing non-distortionary shocks generally improves welfare. Sizable welfare gains are found with constructive ambiguity regarding the timing of a consumption tax increase in the fiscal consolidation scenario in Japan recommended by Hansen and Imrohoroglu (2016). However, being secretive about distortionary tax shocks is time inconsistent, and welfare loss from communication may be unavoidable without commitment.
E30|Dealing with Time-inconsistency: Inflation Targeting vs. Exchange Rate Targeting|Abandoning an objective function with multiple targets and adopting a single mandate is an effective way for a central bank to overcome the classic time-inconsistency problem. We show that the choice of a particular single mandate depends on a country's level of trade openness. Both inflation targeting and nominal exchange rate targeting come with their own costs. We show that the costs of inflation targeting are increasing in a country's level of trade openness while the costs of exchange rate targeting are decreasing in trade openness. Thus a relatively closed economy will prefer an inflation targeting mandate and a very open economy will prefer an exchange rate target. Empirical results show that as central banks become less credible they are more likely to adopt a pegged exchange rate, and crucially the empirical link between central bank credibility and the tendency to peg depends on trade openness.
E30|Decoupling of emissions and GDP: Evidence from aggregate and provincial Chinese data|We provide a comprehensive analysis of the relationship between greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and GDP in China using both aggregate and provincial data. The trend or Kuznets elasticity is about 0.6 for China, higher than that in advanced countries but below that of major emerging markets. The elasticity is somewhat lower for consumption-based emissions than for production-based emissions, providing mild evidence consistent with the “pollution haven” hypothesis. The Kuznets elasticity is much lower for the last three decades than for the three previous decades, suggesting a longer-term trend toward decoupling as China has become richer. Further evidence of this comes from provincial data: richer provinces tend to have smaller Kuznets elasticities than poorer ones. In addition to the trend relationship, we find that there is a cyclical relation also holding in China.
E30|Recovering Keynesian Phillips curve theory|Economic theory is prone to hysteresis. Once an idea is adopted, it is difficult to change. In the 1970s, the economics profession abandoned the Keynesian Phillips curve and adopted Milton Friedman's natural rate of unemployment (NRU) hypothesis. The shift was facilitated by a series of lucky breaks. Despite much evidence against the NRU, and much evidence and theoretical argument supportive of the Keynesian Phillips curve, the NRU hypothesis remains ascendant. The hypothesis has had an enormous impact on macroeconomic theory and policy. 2018 is the fiftieth anniversary of Friedman's introduction of the NRU hypothesis. The anniversary offers an opportunity to challenge, rather than celebrate it.
E30|A stochastic estimated version of the Italian dynamic General Equilibrium Model (IGEM)|We estimate with Bayesian techniques the Italian dynamic General Equilibrium Model (IGEM), which has been developed at the Italian Treasury Department, Ministry of Economy and Finance, to assess the effects of alter-native policy interventions. We analyze and discuss the estimated effects of various shocks on the Italian economy. Compared to the calibrated version used for policy analysis, we find a lower wage rigidity and higher adjustment costs. The degree of prices and wages indexation to past inflation is much smaller than the indexation level assumed in the calibrated model. No substantial difference is found in the estimated monetary parameters. Estimated fiscal multipliers are slightly smaller than those obtained from the calibrated version of the model.
E30|Twenty Years of the German Euro Are More than Enough|This paper reviews the performance of the euro area since the euro's launch 20 years ago. It argues that the euro crisis has exposed existential flaws in the euro regime. Intra-area divergences and the corresponding buildup of imbalances had remained unchecked prior to the crisis. As those imbalances eventually imploded, member states were found to be extremely vulnerable to systemic banking problems and abruptly deteriorating public finances. Debt legacies and high unemployment continue to plague euro crisis countries. Its huge current account surplus highlights that the euro currency union, toiling under the German euro and trying to emulate the German model, has become very vulnerable to global developments. The euro regime is flawed and dysfunctional. Europe has to overcome the German euro. Three reforms are essential to turn the euro into a viable European currency. First, divergences in competitiveness positions must be prevented in future. Second, market integration must go hand in hand with policy integration. Third, the euro is lacking a safe footing for as long as the ECB is missing a federal treasury partner. Therefore, establishing the vital treasury/central bank axis that stands at the center of power in sovereign states is essential.
E30|Firm heterogeneity and macroeconomic dynamics: a datadriven investigation|In this paper we offer a unique firm-level view of the empirical regularities underlying the evolution of the Lithuanian economy over the period of 2000 to 2014. Employing a novel data-set, we investigate key distributional moments of both the financial and real characteristics of Lithuanian firms. We focus in particular on the issues related to productivity, firm birth and death and the associated employment creation and destruction across industries, firm sizes and trade status (exporting vs. non-exporting). We refrain from any structural modeling attempt in order to map out the key economic processes across industries and selected firm characteristics. We uncover similar empirical regularities as already highlighted in the literature: trade participation has substantial benefits on firm productivity, the 2008 recession has had a cleansing effect on the non-tradable sector, firm birth and death are highly pro-cyclical. The richness of the dataset allows us to produce additional insights such as the change in the composition of assets and liabilities over the business cycles (tilting both liabilities and assets towards the short-term) or the increasing share of exporting firms but the constant share of importing ones since 2000.
E30|Global temperature, R&D expenditure, and growth|We shed new light on the macroeconomic effects of rising temperatures. In the data, a shock to global temperature dampens expenditures in research and development (R&D). We rationalize this empirical evidence within a stochastic endogenous growth model, featuring temperature risk and growth sustained through innovations. In line with the novel evidence in the data, temperature shocks undermine economic growth via a drop in R&D. Moreover, in our endogenous growth setting temperature risk generates non-negligible welfare costs (i.e., 11% of lifetime utility). An active government, which is committed to a zero fiscal deficit policy, can offset the welfare costs of global temperature risk by subsidizing the aggregate capital investment with one-fifth of total public spending.
E30|Bank credit and money creation in a DSGE model of a small open economy|From the bookkeeping perspective, the flipside of bank loan issuance is a simultaneous creation of a deposit in the borrower’s account. By the act of lending banks do not simply intermediate pre-accumulated real resources but rather create new financial resources (money in the form of deposits) and new purchasing power. Being a major driver behind money growth, bank credit directly fuels domestic demand and inflationary pressures and thus needs to be modelled as a monetary phenomenon rather than as a mere reallocation of real resources. To this end, we develop a simple DSGE model and show that the basic DSGE framework, representing an open flexible-price economy with savers and borrowers and a simple bank with an explicit balance sheet, can indeed capture the essence of a bank as a monetary institution. The theoretical model confirms that the financial system is highly elastic in a sense that banks can extend loans at will largely irrespective of pre-accumulated resources and without needing to raise nominal deposit rates or increase financing from abroad. Moreover, in our model, changes in bank credit do have an immediate impact on nominal incomes, domestic demand and real economic activity. Model results are highly relevant from the policy perspective because they explain the fundamental relationship between financial (credit) cycle and the business cycle (e.g. observed income growth can be a consequence of a credit boom) and also suggest that sound domestic banks can stimulate domestic demand and can effectively reduce the developing economy’s reliance on foreign financing. Notably, the model focuses on a small open economy – a member of a monetary union – which thus has no independent monetary policy. We calibrate the model to the Lithuanian data and perform a number of policy-relevant shock experiments.
E30|Rent creation and sharing: new measures and impacts on TFP|This analysis proposes new measures of rent creation or (notional) mark-up and workers’ share of rents on cross-country-industry panel data. While the usual measures of mark-up rate implicitly assume perfect labor markets, our approach relaxes this assumption, and takes into account that part of firms’ rent created in an industry is shared with workers to an extent which can vary with their skills. Our results are based on a cross-country-industry panel covering 14 OECD countries and 19 industries over the 1985-2005 period. In a first part of our analysis we draw on OECD indicators of product and labor market (anticompetitive) regulations to test how they are related to our new measures of mark-up and rent-sharing. We find that anti-competitive Non-Manufacturing Regulations (NMR) affect mark-up rates positively, and hence firms’ rent creation and workers’ share of rent, whereas Employment Protection Legislation (EPL) has no impact on rent creation, but boosts workers’ wages per hour. However, we observe that these wage increases are offset by a negative impact from EPL on hours worked per output unit, leading to a non-significant impact of EPL on workers’ share of rents. The effects of EPL for low-skilled workers appear to be more pronounced than those for medium-skilled workers, both being much greater than for highly-skilled workers. In the second part of our analysis, we estimate the impacts of our new measures on Total Factor Productivity (TFP) in the framework of a straightforward regression model. We use the OECD regulations indicators as relevant instrument to take care of endogeneity and to make sure that the resulting estimates assess the proper regulation impacts of rent creation and sharing without being biased by other confounding effects. We find that less competition in the product and labor markets as assessed by our measures of mark-up and workers’ share of rents have both substantial negative impacts on TFP.
E30|Forward guidance|We assess the power of forward guidance — promises about future interest rates — as a monetary tool in a liquidity trap using a quantitative incomplete-markets model. Our results suggest the effects of forward guidance are negligible. A commitment to keep future nominal interest rates low for a few quarters—although macro indicators suggest otherwise—has only trivial effects on current output and employment. We explain theoretically why in complete markets models forward guidance is powerful—generating a “forward guidance puzzle”—and why this puzzle disappears in our model. We also clarify theoretically ambiguous conclusions from previous research about the effectiveness of forward guidance in incomplete and complete markets models.
E30|Equilibrium-Disequilibrium Dynamics of the US Housing Market, 2000-2015: A Quantal Response Statistical Equilibrium Approach|In this article, we demonstrate that a quantal response statistical equilibrium approach to the US housing market with the help of maximum entropy method of modeling is a powerful way of revealing di erent characteristics of the housing market behavior before, during and after the recent housing market crash in the US. In this line, a maximum entropy approach to quantal response statistical equilibrium model (QRSE), introduced by Scharfenaker and Foley (2017), is employed in order to model housing market dynamics in di erent phases of the most recent housing market cycle using the S&P Case Shiller housing price index for 20 largest- Metropolitan Regions, and Freddie Mac housing price index (FMHPI) for 367 Metropolitan Cities for the US between 2000 and 2015. Estimated model parameters provide an alternative way to understand and explain the behaviors of economic agents, and market dynamics by questioning the traditional economic theory, which takes assumption for the behavior of rational utility maximizing representative agent with self-fulfilled expectations as given.
E30|Firms’ Dynamics and Business Cycle: New Disaggregated Data|We provide stylized facts on firms dynamics by disaggregating U.S. yearly data from 1977 to 2013. To this aim, we use a new unobserved component-based method, encompassing several classical regression-based techniques currently in use. The new time series of Entry and Exit of firms at establishment level are feasible proxies of Business Cycle. Exit is a leading and countercyclical indicator, while Entry is lagging and procyclical. The resulting SVAR analysis supports the recent theoretical findings of the literature on firms dynamics.
E30|The Lack of European Productivity Growth: Causes and Lessons for the U.S|This paper draws lessons from post-World War II Western European economic performance for the current U.S. economy. We document that much of Western Europe grew very quickly from the end of World War II up to the mid-1970s, reflecting policies that incentivized technology adoption and investment in physical and human capital. But since then, European policies have changed considerably, with higher tax rates and increased regulatory barriers that have reduced competition and new business formation. We discuss how the U.S. has shown signs of becoming like Europe over the last decade, and argue why policy reforms are key to restoring U.S. growth.
E30|The New Area-Wide Model II: an extended version of the ECB's micro-founded model for forecasting and policy analysis with a financial sector|This paper provides a detailed description of an extended version of the ECB’s New Area-Wide Model (NAWM) of the euro area (cf. Christoffel, Coenen, and Warne 2008). The extended model—called NAWM II—incorporates a rich financial sector with the threefold aim of (i) accounting for a genuine role of financial frictions in the propagation of economic shocks and policies and for the presence of shocks originating in the financial sector itself, (ii) capturing the prominent role of bank lending rates and the gradual interest-rate pass-through in the transmission of monetary policy in the euro area, and (iii) providing a structural framework useable for assessing the macroeconomic impact of the ECB’s large-scale asset purchases conducted in recent years. In addition, NAWM II includes a number of other extensions of the original model reflecting its practical uses in the policy process over the past ten years. JEL Classification: C11, C52, E30, E37, E58
E30|What Do We Know About the Macroeconomic Effects of Fiscal Policy? A Brief Survey of the Literature on Fiscal Multipliers|This article discusses recent research on the macroeconomic effects of fiscal policy—the theme of the 2018 edition of the Melbourne Institute Macroeconomic Policy Meeting. We review recent research findings on the effects of fiscal multipliers in normal times, during booms/busts, and in the presence of the zero lower bound. Studies on the effects of fiscal policy in open economy settings as well as contributions on the fiscal‐monetary policy mix are also considered. We conclude by outlining a few research avenues that are particularly relevant from a policy standpoint.
E30|Agnostic Structural Disturbances (ASDs): Detecting and Reducing Misspecification in Empirical Macroeconomic Models|Exogenous random structural disturbances are the main driving force behind fluctuations in most business cycle models and typically a wide variety is used. This paper documents that a minor misspecification regarding structural disturbances can lead to large distortions for parameter estimates and implied model properties, such as impulse response functions with a wrong shape and even an incorrect sign. We propose a novel concept, namely an agnostic structural disturbance (ASD), that can be used to both detect and correct for misspecification of the structural disturbances. In contrast to regular disturbances and wedges, ASDs do not impose additional restrictions on policy functions. When applied to the Smets-Wouters (SW) model, we find that its risk-premium disturbance and its investment-specific productivity disturbance are rejected in favor of our ASDs. While agnostic in nature, studying the estimated associated coefficients and the impulse response functions of these ASDs allows us to interpret them economically as a risk-premium/preference and an investment-specific productivity type disturbance as in SW, but our results indicate that they enter the model quite differently than the original SW disturbances. Our procedure also selects an additional wage mark-up disturbance that is associated with increased capital efficiency.
E30|Quantitative easing|Is Quantitative Easing (QE) an effective substitute for conventional monetary policy? We study this question using a quantitative heterogeneous-agents model with nominal rigidities, as well as liquid and partially liquid wealth. The direct effect of QE on aggregate demand is determined by the difference in marginal propensities to consume out of the two types of wealth, which is large according to the model and empirical studies. A comparison of optimal QE and interest rate rules reveals that QE is indeed a very powerful instrument to anchor expectations and to stabilize output and inflation. However, QE interventions come with strong side effects on inequality, which can substantially lower social welfare. A very simple QE rule, which we refer to as Real Reserve Targeting, is approximately optimal from a welfare perspective when conventional policy is unavailable. We further estimate the model on U.S. data and find that QE interventions greatly mitigated the decline in output during the Great Recession.
E30|History dependence in the housing market|Using the universe of housing transactions in England and Wales in the last twenty years, we document a robust pattern of history dependence in housing markets. Sale prices and selling probabilities today are affected by aggregate house prices prevailing in the period in which properties were previously bought. We investigate the causes of history dependence, with its quantitative implications for the post-crisis recovery of the housing market. To do so we complement our analysis with administrative data on mortgages and online house listings, which we match to actual sales. We find that high leverage in the pre-crisis period and anchoring (or reference dependence) both contributed to the collapse and slow recovery of the volume of housing transactions. We find no asymmetric effects of anchoring to previous prices on current transactions; in other words, loss aversion does not appear to play a role over and above simple anchoring.
E30|Should Monetary Policy Lean against the Wind? An Evidence from a DSGE Model with Occasionally Binding Constraint|This research paper studies the performance of the Taylor-type rules augmented with output and asset prices, and compares their performance in a model with an eternally and occasionally binding constraint. The rules are examined under the optimisation of a central bank's loss function and a welfare maximisation of the economic agents. The analysis delivers the following results. The model with occasionally binding constraint has more favourable properties regarding the hump-shaped and asymmetric impulse responses compared to the eternally binding constraint model. The best rule regarding the lowest value of the central banks' loss function proves to be the rule augmented with asset prices. The optimal reactions are, however, shock- and model-dependent. Moreover, a chosen specification of the loss function plays a significant role. The welfare maximisation reveals that reacting to asset prices might not be welfare-improving for both types of economic agents – households and entrepreneurs. This result is, however, model-dependent.
E30|Financial and Fiscal Shocks in the Great Recession and Recovery of the Spanish Economy|In this paper we develop and estimate a new Bayesian DSGE model for the Spanish economy that has been designed to evaluate different structural reforms.
E30|Macro Aspects of Housing|This paper aims to achieve two objectives. First, we demonstrate that with respect to business cycle frequency (Burns and Mitchell, 1946), there was a general decrease in the association between macroeconomic variables (MV) and housing market variables (HMV) following the global financial crisis (GFC). However, there are macro-finance variables that exhibited a strong association with the HMV following the GFC. For the medium-term business cycle frequency (Comin and Gertler, 2006), we find that while some correlations exhibit the same change as the business cycle counterparts, others do not. These “new stylized facts” suggest that a reconsideration and refinement of existing “macro-housing” theories would be appropriate. We also provide a review of the recent literature, which may enhance our understanding of the evolving macro-housing-finance linkage.
E30|Inflation Globally|The Phillips curve remains central to stabilization policy. Increasing financial linkages, international supply chains, and managed exchange rate policy have given core currencies an outsized influence on the domestic affairs of world economies. We exploit such influence as a source of exogenous variation to examine the effects of the recent financial crisis on the Phillips curve mechanism. Using a difference-in-differences approach, and comparing countries before and after the 2008 financial crisis sorted by whether they endured or escaped the crisis, we are able to assess the evolution of the Phillips curve globally.
E30|Oil, equities, and the zero lower bound|Since 2008, oil and equity returns have moved together much more than they did previously. In addition, we show that both oil and equity returns have become more responsive to macroeconomic news. Before 2008, there is little evidence that oil returns were responsive to macroeconomic news. We argue that these results are consistent with a new-Keynesian model that includes oil and incorporates the zero lower bound on nominal interest rates. Our empirical findings lend support the model's implication that different rules apply at the zero lower bound.
E30|Sovereign Default and Monetary Policy Tradeoffs|The paper is organized around the following question: when the economy moves from a debt-GDP level where the probability of default is nil to a higher level—the “fiscal limit”—where the default probability is non-negligible, how do the effects of routine monetary operations designed to achieve macroeconomic stabilization change? We find that the specification of the monetary policy rule plays a critical role. Consider a central bank that targets the risky rate. When the economy is near its fiscal limit, a transitory monetary policy contraction leads to a sustained rise in inflation, even though monetary policy actively targets inflation and fiscal policy passively adjusts taxes to stabilize debt. If the central bank targets the riskfree rate, on the other hand, the same transitory monetary contraction keeps inflation under control but leads output to contract for a prolonged period of time. The comparison shows that sovereign default risk puts into sharp relief the tradeoff between inflation and output stabilization.
E30|The Real Term Premium in a Stationary Economy with Segmented Asset Markets|This paper proposes an equilibrium model to explain the positive and sizable term premia observed in the data. We introduce a slow mean-reverting process of consumption growth and a segmented asset market mechanism with heterogeneous trading technology to otherwise a standard heterogeneous agent general equilibrium model. First, a slow mean-reverting consumption growth process implies that the expected consumption growth rate is only slightly countercyclical and the process can exhibit a near zero first-order autocorrelation as seen in the data. The very small countercyclicality of the expected consumption growth rate suggests that the long term bonds are risky and hence the term premia are positive. Second, the segmented asset market mechanism amplifies the size and the magnitude of term premia since the aggregate risk is concentrated into a small fraction of marginal traders who demand high risk premia. For sensitivity analysis, the role of each assumption is further investigated by taking each factor out one by one.
E30|Understanding HANK: Insights from a PRANK|Does market incompleteness radically transform the properties of monetary economies? Using an analytically tractable heterogeneous agent New Keynesian (NK) model, we show that whether incomplete markets resolve `policy paradoxes' in the representative agent NK model (RANK) depends primarily on the cyclicality of income risk, rather than incomplete markets per se. Incomplete markets reduce the effectiveness of forward guidance and multipliers in a liquidity trap only if risk is procyclical. Acyclical or countercyclical risk amplifies these puzzles relative to RANK. Cyclicality of risk also affects determinacy: procyclical risk permits determinacy even under a peg, while countercyclical income risk generates indeterminacy even if the Taylor principle holds. Finally, we uncover a new dimension of monetary-fiscal interaction. Since fiscal policy affects the cyclicality of income risk, it influences the effects of monetary policy even when `passive'.
E30|Monetary Policy across Space and Time|In this paper we ask two questions: (i) is the conduct of monetary policy stable across time and similar across major economies, and (ii) do policy decisions of major central banks have international spillover effects. To address these questions, we build on recent semi-parametric advances in time-varying parameter models that allow us to increase the VAR dimension and to jointly model three advanced economies (US, UK, and the Euro Area). In order to study policy spillovers, we jointly identify three economy-specific monetary policy shocks using a combination of sign and magnitude restrictions.
E30|Inequality, Frictional Assignment and Home-ownership|Cross-city variation in the rate of home-ownership and the relative costs of renting and owning are studied using a model of frictional assignment. Houses of different types are built by a competitive construction industry and either rented in Walrasian markets or sold through a process of competitive search to households. Households differ with regard to their permanent income and sort over house types and housing tenure at each point in time. Along a balanced growth path, both the composition of the city's housing stock and the rate of home-ownership depend on the distributions of income, construction costs, and housing amenities. In the absence of either financial frictions or minimum house size requirements, higher income households live in better houses and are more likely on average to be homeowners than lower income ones. A calibrated version illustrates the extent to which income/wealth inequality alone can ac- count for variation in home-ownership and the price-rent ratio both within and across cities.
E30|The effects of external shocks on Azerbaijan economy|This paper examines the effects of external shocks on the economy of oil rich Azerbaijan. Using oil price and macroeconomic indicators of three major trade partners of Azerbaijan – EU, Russia, and Turkey - as the external shock variables, we analyze the effects of those shocks on the domestic macroeconomic variables of Azerbaijan during the period from 2000Q1 to 2017Q4, in the SVAR framework with block exogeneity restriction. The results show that the overall importance of the four groups of shocks, in descending terms, is in the following order: oil shock, EU origin shocks, Russia origin shocks, and Turkey origin shocks. The major findings of the paper are: a) among considered foreign shocks oil price shock is the most important foreign shock for the economy of Azerbaijan; b) in general EU origin shocks has larger impact on considered domestic variables compared to other trade partners origin shocks; c) Turkey origin shocks have almost no impact in any of the considered domestic variables of Azerbaijan, d) among considered external shocks oil price is the main determinant of the non-oil sector of economy, and e) among considered external shocks GDP growth of the trade partners is the main determinant of the inflation in Azerbaijan.
E30|Financial and Fiscal Shocks in the Great Recession and Recovery of the Spanish Economy|In this paper we develop and estimate a new Bayesian DSGE model for the Spanish economy that has been designed to evaluate different structural reforms. The small open economy model incorporates a banking sector, consumers and entrepreneurs who accumulate debt, and a rich fiscal structure and monopolistic competition in products and labor markets, for a country in a currency union, with no independent monetary policy. The model can be used to evaluate ex-ante and ex-post policies and structural reforms and to decompose the evolution of macroeconomic aggregates according to different shocks. In particular, we estimate the contribution of financial and fiscal shocks to both the crisis of the Great Recession and the recovery of the Spanish economy.
E30|Term structure and real-time learning|This paper introduces the term structure of interest rates into a medium-scale DSGE model. This extension results in a multi-period forecasting model that is estimated under both adaptive learning and rational expectations. Term structure information enables us to characterize agents’ expectations in real time, which addresses an imperfect information issue mostly neglected in the adaptive learning literature. Relative to the rational expectations version, our estimated DSGE model under adaptive learning largely improves the model fit to the data, which include not just macroeconomic data but also the yield curve and the consumption growth and inflation forecasts reported in the Survey of Professional Forecasters. Moreover, the estimation results show that most endogenous sources of aggregate persistence are dramatically undercut when adaptive learning based on multi-period forecasting is incorporated through the term structure of interest rates.
E30|The young, the old, and the government: demographics and fiscal multipliers|We document that fiscal multipliers depend on the age structure of the population. Using the variation in military spending and birth rates across U.S. states, we show that local fiscal multipliers increase with the share of young people in total population. We rationalize this fact with a parsimonious life-cycle open-economy New Keynesian model with credit market imperfections. The model explains 65% of the relationship between local fiscal multipliers and demographics. We use the model to study the implications of population aging, and find that nowadays U.S. national fiscal multipliers are 36% lower than in 1980.
E30|Real exchange rate misalignments in the euro area|Building upon a Behavioural Equilibrium Exchange Rate (BEER) model, estimated at a quarterly frequency since 1999 on a broad sample of 57 countries, this paper assesses whether both the size and the persistence of real effective exchange rate misalignments from the levels implied by economic fundamentals are affected by the adoption of a single currency. While real misalignments are found to be smaller in the euro area than in its main trading partners, they are also more persistent, although the reactivity of real exchange rates to past misalignments increased, and therefore the persistence decreased, after the global financial crisis. In the absence of the nominal adjustment channel, an improvement in the quality of regulation and institutions is found to reduce the persistence of real exchange rate misalignments, plausibly by removing real rigidities. JEL Classification: E24, E30, F00
E30|¿Cuál es la dimensión y en que se gastó la reciente bonanza en Colombia?|En las primeras décadas del siglo XXI, Colombia experimentó una de las bonanzas más importantes de su historia. Este artículo identifica y cuantifica las más recientes del país, y los sectores en los que aumentó el gasto público en el período 2008-2016. Además, contrasta los resultados con un grupo de países suramericanos. Surgen cuatro mensajes: (i) en comparación con sus países vecinos, Colombia ha experimentado menos bonanzas, con una duración promedio similar a la mediana regional; (ii) mientras los otros países tienden a tener un sector económico que origina siempre la bonanza, Colombia tuvo un cambio sectorial al pasar de alimentos (café) a combustibles (hidrocarburos); (iii) el tamaño de la bonanza de hidrocarburos fue cerca de cinco veces la del café, lo que tuvo un impacto significativo en el presupuesto público; y (iv) al comparar el periodo anterior y posterior a la bonanza, se encuentra un cambio de tendencia simultáneo en la inversión pública con aumentos en rubros que, desde un perspectiva teórica, podrían haber tenido un impacto positivo en el desarrollo económico. **** ABSTRACT: Colombia experienced one of the major economic booms in its history during the first two decades of the 21st century. This paper characterizes and quantifies them and identifies the sectors where public expenditures increased over the period 2008-2016. Additionally, it compares these results with a group of South American countries. Four conclusions arise: (i) Colombia experienced fewer booms than its neighbors, although the average duration is similar to the regional median; (ii) while other countries maintain a historic leading sector, in Colombia a sectoral change occurred from food (coffee) to fuels (oil); (iii) income windfall of the oil boom in Colombia was around five times larger than the coffee boom, which significantly increased public budget and spending; and (iv) trend changes in public investment occurred during the recent oil boom in a way that, could have had a positive impact in economic development.
E30|A risk-centric model of demand recessions and macroprudential policy|When investors are unwilling to hold the economy's risk, a decline in the interest rate increases the Sharpe ratio of the market and equilibrates the risk markets. If the interest rate is constrained from below, risk markets are instead equilibrated via a decline in asset prices. However, the latter drags down aggregate demand, which further drags prices down, and so on. If investors are pessimistic about the recovery, the economy becomes highly susceptible to downward spirals due to dynamic feedbacks between asset prices, aggregate demand, and potential growth. In this context, belief disagreements generate highly destabilizing speculation that motivates macroprudential policy.
E30|Central Bank Reputation and Inflation-Unemployment Performance: Empirical Evidence from an Executive Survey of 62 Countries|Although there is a well-established theoretical literature that links central bank (CB) reputation with inflation performance following Barro and Gordon, there is little empirical work testing the relationship rigorously. This paper empirically tests the impact of reputation on inflation-unemployment performance using a novel set of data on CB reputation--an annual local business manager survey on central bank policy covering 62 countries during 1995-2016. This paper finds that CB reputation is a significant determinant of inflation: the results of an FE panel and Arellano-Bond difference GMM model show that high-reputation CBs have achieved better inflation performances over the past 20 years with lower levels of inflation than others, holding the output gap and unemployment rate constant. This result remains robust to various control variables including money growth, past inflation levels, exchange rates, and financial crisis dummies. This paper also finds that high CB reputation is associated with a tight anchoring of inflation expectations to inflation targets in inflation-targeting countries. The effects of reputation on the volatility of inflation and unemployment rates are found to be not robust. This paper offers evidence of the opposite-direction causality as well that goes from high inflation to decreased CB reputation.
E30|How the Financial Market Can Dampen the Effects of Commodity Price Shocks|Commodities have begun to function as an asset class during the past decade, as trading in commodity derivatives has increased massively since the 2000s. This paper studies the role of commodities as an asset class in accounting for the recently lessened impacts of commodity price shocks on the economy, by constructing a model with financial frictions and with financial intermediaries that own two assets ? tied to commodities as well as to capital. Simulation results of the model show that financial intermediaries¡¯ holdings of commodities as assets have contributed to the recent reduction in the effects of commodity price shocks.
E30|Dynamic Effects of Monetary Policy Shocks on Macroeconomic Volatility|We use a simple New Keynesian model, with firm specific capital, non-zero steady-state inflation, long-run risks and Epstein-Zin preferences to study the volatility implications of a monetary policy shock. An unexpected increase in the policy rate by 150 basis points causes output and inflation volatility to rise around 10% above their steady-state standard deviations. VAR based empirical results support the model implications that contractionary shocks increase volatility. The volatility effects of the shock are driven by agents' concern about the (in) ability of the monetary authority to reverse deviations from the policy rule and the results are re-enforced by the presence of non-zero trend inflation.
E30|International Commodity Prices and Civil War Outbreak: New Evidence for Sub-Saharan Africa and Beyond|A new dataset by Bazzi and Blattman (2014) allows examining the effects of international commodity prices on the risk of civil war outbreak with more comprehensive data. I find that international commodity price downturns sparked civil wars in Sub-Saharan Africa. Another finding with the new dataset is that commodity price downturns also sparked civil wars beyond Sub-Saharan Africa since 1980. Effects are sizable relative to the baseline risk of civil war outbreak. My conclusions contrast with those of Bazzi and Blattman, who argue that the new dataset rejects that commodity price downturns cause civil wars. The reason is that I calculate commodity price shocks using time-invariant (fixed) export shares as commodity weights. Bazzi and Blattman also calculate commodity price shocks using export shares as commodity weights but but the exports shares they use are time-varying. Using time-invariant export shares as commodity weights ensures that time variation in price shocks solely re ects changes in international commodity prices. Price shocks based on time-varying export shares partly re ect (possibly endogenous) changes in the quantity and variety of countries' exports, which jeopardizes causal estimation.
E30|Divorce and Gold Coins: A Case Study of Iran|The increasing divorce rate has become a major social concern for policy makers in the Islamic government of Iran. The price of gold coin is an important factor in cost-benefit analysis for individuals in their marriage and divorce decisions in Iran. Dowries (Mehrieh) are usually in the form of gold coin and a wife has a legal right to them upon both parties signing the marriage contract. Increasing the price of gold coin may intensify the internal stress and struggles within families, leading to a higher probability of divorce. We investigate the long-run relationship between real price of gold coin and divorce rate for the case of Iran over the period 1980-2014. Controlling for other factors, our regression results show that there is a positive and significant long-run relationship between real price of gold coin (as well as unanticipated changes in real price of gold coin) and marital instability.
E30|Jean-Michel Grandmont A forthcoming mind|This profile of Jean-Michel Grandmont is based on several interviews we had with him between September 2016 and April 2017. The interviews took place at our CREST offices, located at that time in Malakoff, just south of Paris. The objective of the profile is twofold. First, we trace the career of this highly influential mathematical economist who made seminal contributions to the fields of monetary economics, temporary equilibrium, business cycle theory, and aggregation of individual behavior. Second, we show how Grandmont and his colleagues contributed to changing the French landscape of economic research.
E30|Positive Trend Inflation And Determinacy In A Medium-Sized New Keynesian Model|This paper studies the challenge that increasing the inflation target poses to equilibrium determinacy in a medium-sized New Keynesian model without indexation fitted to the Great Moderation era. For moderate targets of the inflation rate, such as 2 or 4 percent, the probability of determinacy is near one conditional on the monetary policy rule of the estimated model. However, this probability drops significantly conditional on model-free estimates of the monetary policy rule based on real-time data. The difference is driven by the larger response of the federal funds rate to the output gap associated with the latter estimates.
E30|Intermittent Price Changes in Production Plants: Empirical Evidence Using Monthly Data|The price‐setting behaviour of manufacturing plants is examined using a large panel of monthly surveyed plant‐ and product‐specific prices. The sample shows a high frequency of zero changes, relatively small price changes and a strong seasonal price‐change pattern. The intermittent feature of price changes is modelled with thresholds which are smaller in January, and a quadratic loss function associated with the distance from the target price. The findings show statistically significant pricing thresholds, which are only two‐thirds in January, and partial adjustment parameters implying that 60% of the deviation between the target price and the current price is closed each month.
E30|The Propagation of Monetary Policy Shocks in a Heterogeneous Production Economy|We study the transmission of monetary policy shocks in a model in which realistic heterogeneity in price rigidity interacts with heterogeneity in sectoral size and input-output linkages, and derive conditions under which these heterogeneities generate large real effects. Empirically, heterogeneity in the frequency of price adjustment is the most important driver behind large real effects, whereas heterogeneity in input-output linkages contributes only marginally, with differences in consumption shares in between. Heterogeneity in price rigidity further is key in determining which sectors are the most important contributors to the transmission of monetary shocks, and is necessary but not sufficient to generate realistic output correlations. In the model and data, reducing the number of sectors decreases monetary non-neutrality with a similar impact response of inflation. Hence, the initial response of inflation to monetary shocks is not sufficient to discriminate across models and for the real effects of nominal shocks.
E30|Agnostic Structural Disturbances (ASDs): Detecting and Reducing Misspecification in Empirical Macroeconomic Models|Exogenous random structural disturbances are the main driving force behind fluctuations in most business cycle models and typically a wide variety is used. This paper documents that a minor misspecification regarding structural disturbances can lead to large distortions for parameter estimates and implied model properties, such as impulse response functions with a wrong shape and even an incorrect sign. We propose a novel concept, namely an agnostic structural disturbance (ASD), that can be used to both detect and correct for misspecification of the structural disturbances. In contrast to regular disturbances and wedges, ASDs do not impose additional restrictions on policy functions. When applied to the Smets-Wouters (SW) model, we find that its risk-premium disturbance and its investment-specific productivity disturbance are rejected in favor of our ASDs. While agnostic in nature, studying the estimated associated coefficients and the impulse response functions of these ASDs allows us to interpret them economically as a risk-premium/preference and an investment-specific productivity type disturbance as in SW, but our results indicate that they enter the model quite differently than the original SW disturbances. Our procedure also selects an additional wage mark-up disturbance that is associated with increased capital efficiency.
E30|Quantitative Easing|Is Quantitative Easing (QE) an effective substitute for conventional monetary policy? We study this question using a quantitative heterogeneous-agents model with nominal rigidities, as well as liquid and partially liquid wealth. The direct effect of QE on aggregate demand is determined by the difference in marginal propensities to consume out of the two types of wealth, which is large according to the model and empirical studies. A comparison of optimal QE and interest rate rules reveals that QE is indeed a very powerful instrument to anchor expectations and to stabilize output and inflation. However, QE interventions come with strong side effects on inequality, which can substantially lower social welfare. A very simple QE rule, which we refer to as Real Reserve Targeting, is approximately optimal from a welfare perspective when conventional policy is unavailable. We further estimate the model on U.S. data and find that QE interventions greatly mitigated the decline in output during the Great Recession.
E30|Equilibrium wage rigidity in directed search|Matching frictions and downward wage rigidity emerge as equilibrium phenomena in a two-sided labor market where firms sustain variable wage adjustment costs. Firms post wages to attract workers and matches are endogenous. Reducing the wage relative to the wage previously posted is costly to the firm, where the cost is proportional to the size of the proposed cut. Shocks to the firm’s profitability may yield an equilibrium wage above what the firm would offer absent proportional adjustment costs. Wage cuts can be partial or full, immediate or delayed, and are non-linear in the shock size. Importantly, wages are sticky even if firms have negligible costs for cutting wages.
E30|¿Cuál es la dimensión y en que se gastó la reciente bonanza en Colombia?|En las primeras décadas del siglo XXI, Colombia experimentó una de las bonanzas más importantes de su historia. Este artículo identifica y cuantifica las más recientes del país, y los sectores en los que aumentó el gasto público en el período 2008-2016. Además, contrasta los resultados con un grupo de países suramericanos. Surgen cuatro mensajes: (i) en comparación con sus países vecinos, Colombia ha experimentado menos bonanzas, con una duración promedio similar a la mediana regional; (ii) mientras los otros países tienden a tener un sector económico que origina siempre la bonanza, Colombia tuvo un cambio sectorial al pasar de alimentos (café) a combustibles (hidrocarburos); (iii) el tamaño de la bonanza de hidrocarburos fue cerca de cinco veces la del café, lo que tuvo un impacto significativo en el presupuesto público; y (iv) al comparar el periodo anterior y posterior a la bonanza, se encuentra un cambio de tendencia simultáneo en la inversión pública con aumentos en rubros que, desde un perspectiva teórica, podrían haber tenido un impacto positivo en el desarrollo económico. **** ABSTRACT: Colombia experienced one of the major economic booms in its history during the first two decades of the 21st century. This paper characterizes and quantifies them and identifies the sectors where public expenditures increased over the period 2008-2016. Additionally, it compares these results with a group of South American countries. Four conclusions arise: (i) Colombia experienced fewer booms than its neighbors, although the average duration is similar to the regional median; (ii) while other countries maintain a historic leading sector, in Colombia a sectoral change occurred from food (coffee) to fuels (oil); (iii) income windfall of the oil boom in Colombia was around five times larger than the coffee boom, which significantly increased public budget and spending; and (iv) trend changes in public investment occurred during the recent oil boom in a way that, could have had a positive impact in economic development.
E30|International Evidence on Firm Level Decisions in Response to the Crisis: Shareholders vs. Other Stakeholders|The relationship between changes in GDP and unemployment during the 2008 financial crisis differed significantly from previous experiences and across countries. We study firm-level decisions in France, Germany, Japan, the UK, and the US. We find significant differences between the response of US and non-US firms. US firms significantly decreased their production costs relative to firms in other countries. They have also reduced debt, reduced dividend payout, and increased their cash holdings compared to firms in other countries. The differences are, in general, explained by differences in financial leverage. However, financial leverage does not explain differences between production decisions in German and U.S. firms and between Japanese and US firms. We argue that differences in firm governance between US firms and firms in Germany and Japan drive these responses. US firms are more prone to cut labor costs and reduce leverage compared to German firms and Japanese firms in order to achieve larger profits and a larger cash-cushion in the short-run.
E30|What Drives Aggregate Investment? Evidence from German Survey Data|The ifo Investment Survey asks firms in the German manufacturing sector about the importance of sales, technological factors, finance, return expectations, and macroeconomic policy for their investment activity in a given year. We show that these subjective investment determinants 1) capture economically what their labels suggest, and 2) have strong explanatory power for aggregate manufacturing investment growth fluctuations. In a second step, we use these determinants to identify aggregate demand and aggregate technology shocks and argue that the bulk of the variance of both aggregate manufacturing investment and output growth fluctuations (as much as approximately two thirds in both cases) is explained by aggregate demand shocks. Consistent with neoclassical views, however, technological factors are the most important investment determinant on average.
E30|Inflation Dynamics and Price Flexibility in the UK|Using microdata underlying the UK consumer price index we study how the capacity of nominal demand shocks to stimulate the rate of inflation has evolved over the last two decades. To this end, we estimate a generalized $Ss$ model of lumpy price adjustment, and document sizeable time variation in the behavior of price flexibility. Most notably, the latter shoots up in the aftermath of the Great Recession and rapidly falls thereafter, with these sharp movements reflecting into increased inflation volatility. These features map into a marked non-linearity of inflation dynamics with respect to the degree of price flexibility, with mean reversion being significantly faster when prices are relatively more flexible. State dependence plays a major role for price setting at the microeconomic level, and more so when inflation is particularly high and volatile. Neglecting these facts may severely bias our understanding of inflation dynamics.
E30|Quantitative Easing|Abstract Is Quantitative Easing (QE) an effective substitute for conventional monetary policy? We study this question using a quantitative heterogeneous-agents model with nominal rigidities, as well as liquid and partially liquid wealth. The direct effect of QE on aggregate demand is determined by the difference in marginal propensities to consume out of the two types of wealth, which is large according to the model and empirical studies. A comparison of optimal QE and interest rate rules reveals that QE is indeed a very powerful instrument to anchor expectations and to stabilize output and inflation. However, QE interventions come with strong side effects on inequality, which can substantially lower social welfare. A very simple QE rule, which we refer to as Real Reserve Targeting, is approximately optimal from a welfare perspective when conventional policy is unavailable. We further estimate the model on U.S. data and find that QE interventions greatly mitigated the decline in output during the Great Recession.
E30|The History of Recent Macroeconomics Through the Lens of the Marshall-Walras Divide|According to Leijonhufvud, the development of economic theory can be compared to a decision tree, the branches of which originate in choices made about basic methodological nodes. My paper is an attempt at putting this insight into practice by reconstructing the recent history of macroeconomics on its basis. To this end, I examine whether the decision-tree framework can explain three crucial turns in the history of the field: (a) the transition from Keynesian to new classical macroeconomics triggered by Lucas; (b) the transition from the Lucas model to Kydland and Prescott’s ‘real business cycle’ modeling strategy; and (c) the transition from RBC modeling to DSGE modeling.
E30|Bank Recapitalizations, Credit Supply, and the Transmission of Monetary Policy|We integrate a banking sector in a standard New-Keynesian DSGE model, and examine how government policies to recapitalize banks after a crisis affect the supply of credit and the transmission of monetary policy. We examine two types of recapitalizations: immediate and delayed ones. In the steady state, both policies cause the banking sector to charge inefficiently low lending rates, which leads to an inefficiently large capital stock. Raising bank equity requirements reduces this dynamic inefficiency and increases lifetime utility. After the banking sector suffered large losses, a delay in recapitalizations creates banking sector debt-overhang. This debt-overhang leads to inefficiently high lending rates, which reduces the supply of credit and weakens the transmission of monetary policy to inflation (the transmission to output is largely unchanged). Raising bank equity requirements under these circumstances can cause lifetime utility to decline. Hence, the timing of bank recapitalizations after a crisis has several macro-economic implications.
E30|Global Commodity Prices and Global Stock Volatility Shocks|This paper investigates the time-varying dynamics of global stock volatility, commodity prices, and domestic output and consumer prices. The main empirical findings of this paper are: (i) stock volatility and commodity price shocks impact each other and the economy in a gradual and endogenous adjustment process; (ii) the impact of a commodity price shock on global stock volatility is far greater during the global financial crisis than at other times; (iii) the effects of global stock volatility on the US output are amplified by the endogenous commodity price responses; (iv) in the long run, shocks to commodity prices (stock market volatility) account for 11.9% (6.6%) and 25.1% (11.6%) of the variation in US output and consumer prices; (v) the effects of global stock volatility shocks on the economy are heterogeneous across nations and relatively larger in the developed countries; (vi) developing/small economies are relatively more vulnerable upon commodity price shocks.
E30|Cyclical Behavior of Fiscal Policy in the Western Balkans|This paper studies the cyclical behavior of fiscal policy in the Western Balkans region, investigating empirically the fiscal policy response to business cycles for the period 2003-2016. Although there is a large empirical literature which has found that fiscal policy in developing countries is pro-cyclical, not many studies are found on the Western Balkans region, with only a few done at country level. We apply the Hodrick-Prescott (HP) filter and other filters to measure the potential output and output gap for each of the respective Western Balkans countries. By performing country regressions we find that one of the main determinants fiscal pro-cyclicality in the WB6 region is the quality of the government. We conduct a series of structural vector auto-regressions (SVAR) for each of the countries in an attempt to obtain further evidence on the reaction of fiscal policy to the business cycle.
E30|The Determinants of Price Frequency in Turkey|The effect of monetary and fiscal policy on the output depends on the frequency of price changes. When the prices change infrequently or prices change slowly, monetary and fiscal policy have a real effects on the output. Developed countries generally have a rigid prices but developing countries have a relatively flexible prices. This difference is originated from the reality that the developing countries have higher average inflation than the developed countries. Economic literature focuses on the micro reasons of the frequency of price changes, on the other hand, the inflation is seen the main factor which affects the frequency of price changes in the macro perspective. This study holds down the assumption that the frequency of price changes is a function of the inflation rate in the macro perspective. In addition to this, it is also focused on the direct relationships between the frequency of price changes and the macro variables which affect the inflation rate. It is revealed the effect of macro factors on the frequency of price changes in this work. It is concluded that the determinants of the frequency of price changes in the macro perspective in Turkey are the expected inflation and the exchange rate rather than output gap. It can be said that firms’ price frequency behavior directly depends on cost push factors in Turkey.
E30|Firm Dynamism and Housing Price Volatility|Using data for a large sample of countries, we find a robust economic and quantitatively significant positive relationship between new firm density and house price volatility. A business cycle model with endogenous firm entry, housing, and housing finance constraints successfully replicates this new fact, both qualitatively and quantitatively. Greater average firm entry is associated with higher average house prices. This makes the cost of housing loans more sensitive to housing-finance shocks, leading to sharper credit and lending-spread fluctuations, and ultimately factually-sharper house price fluctuations. We find broad empirical validation for this mechanism.
E30|Sobre volatilidad macroeconómica y dolarización de la riqueza: el caso argentino<BR>[On macroeconomic volatility and wealth dollarization: the Argentine case]|Portfolios dollarization, understood as the holding of assets in foreign currency by domestic agents, has become a recurrent process in economies that present high levels of macroeconomic and exchange rate stress, among which the Argentine Republic stands out. One of the objectives of this paper aims to explain, on the one hand, the origins and causes of the accentuated macroeconomic volatility in Argentina from its link with monetary and fiscal policies. In conjunction with these phenomena, we seek to analyze the genesis of the dollarization of wealth in the country through a consumption based asset pricing model. In turn, a third objective will be the study of the effects of dollarization on monetary policy, especially in those cases in which the central monetary authority implements an inflation targeting regime. One of the conclusions of this paper is that the dollar has played an appropriate role in safeguarding the value of the wealth of the Argentine private sector, working as an efficient insurance against the exchange volatility that has occurred historically in Argentina (as well as against recurrent inflationary episodes). In connection with this, it is also found that this saving vehicle has empirically presented a dynamic consistent with that thrown as a result of the calibration of the consumption based asset pricing model. Finally, it is concluded that the available evidence and the Latin American experience show that dollarization per se is not an obstacle to successfully implement an inflation targeting scheme and that, in addition, those countries that applied this type of regimes have managed to reduce their coefficient of transfer of the exchange rate to prices.
E30|Expectations, Price Fluctuations and Lorenz Attractor|This paper describes expectations and Buy-Sell transactions of selected Stokes between economic agents and Exchange on economic space as ground for modeling trading volume and price fluctuations. We study simple model of mutual relations between transactions and expectations and derive economic equations that describe disturbances of price, trading volume and expectations. We obtain simple harmonic oscillations for price fluctuations. We show that our model economic equations can take form of Lorenz attractor. Our approximation of transactions and expectations and economic equations on disturbances of price, trading volume and expectations allows apply dynamical systems methods for modeling chaotic behavior of economic and financial systems.
E30|Does an Oligopolistic Primary Market Matter? The Case of an Asian Housing Market|This paper takes advantage of the oligopolistic structure of the Hong Kong primary housing market and examines whether the time-variations of the market concentration are caused by or cause the variations of the local economic factors. The analysis also takes into consideration of the changes of the U.S. variables and commodity prices, which arguably may represent changes in the construction cost. We find clear evidence of time-varying responses of housing market variables to macroeconomic variables. Policy implications and directions for future research are also discussed.
E30|Macroeconomic Uncertainty and the Comovement in Buying versus Renting in the United States|This paper characterizes the sources of the comovement in the U.S metropolitan buy-rent growth rate. The analysis is based on quarterly buy-rent indices from 1982:Q1 to 2016:Q4. To this end, we used the dynamic factor model to decompose the index into national and local factors. The national component contributed more to the variation in the buy-rent indices relative to the local component with variance decomposition values of 72% and 27% respectively albeit this varied across the cities. We further examined the sensitivity of the national buy-rent factor to macroeconomic uncertainty. Our full sample results show that uncertainty has a significant negative effect on the buy-rent behavior thus favouring buying a home as a wealth accumulation channel relative to renting a similar home. The results from the recursive estimation further confirmed a dominant negative relationship with fewer periods of positive relationship. The implications of these findings are drawn.
E30|Systematic Monetary Policy and the Macroeconomic Effects of Shifts in Loan-to-Value Ratios|What are the macroeconomic consequences of changes in residential mortgage market loan-to-value (LTV) ratios? In a structural VAR, real GDP and business investment increase significantly following an expansionary LTV shock. The impact on residential investment, however, is contingent on the systematic reaction of monetary policy. Historically, the FED responded directly to lower collateral requirements by significantly raising the policy instrument, thereby increasing mortgage rates and reducing residential investment. In a counterfactual policy experiment, where the Federal Funds rate remains constant after the shock, the reaction of non-residential GDP components is magnified and residential investment increases significantly. While firms increase their borrowing after a relaxation of bank lending standards, whether monetary policy reacts endogenously or is held constant, household debt only increases in an environment of a counterfactually constant Federal Funds rate.
E30|Understanding HANK: insights from a PRANK|We show analytically that whether incomplete markets resolve New Keynesian “paradoxes” depends primarily on the cyclicality of income risk, rather than marginal propensity to consume (MPC) heterogeneity. Incomplete markets reduce the effectiveness of forward guidance and multipliers in a liquidity trap only with procyclical risk. Countercyclical risk amplifies these “puzzles.” Procyclical risk permits determinacy under a peg; countercyclical risk generates indeterminacy even under the Taylor principle. MPC heterogeneity leaves determinacy and paradoxes qualitatively unaffected, but can change the sensitivity of GDP to interest rates. By affecting the cyclicality of risk, even “passive” fiscal policy influences the effects of monetary policy.
E30|Downward Nominal Wage Rigidity in the United States: New Evidence from Worker-Firm Linked Data|This paper examines the extent and consequences of Downward Nominal Wage Rigidity (DNWR) using administrative worker-firm linked data from the Longitudinal Employer Household Dynamics (LEHD) program for a large representative U.S. state. Prior to the Great Recession, only 7-8% of job stayers are paid the same nominal hourly wage rate as one year earlier - substantially less than previously found in survey-based data - and about 20% of job stayers experience a wage cut. During the Great Recession, the incidence of wage cuts increases to 30%, followed by a large rise in the proportion of wage freezes to 16% as the economy recovers. Total earnings of job stayers exhibit even fewer zero changes and a larger incidence of reductions than hourly wage rates, due to systematic variations in hours worked. The results are consistent with concurrent findings in the literature that reductions in base pay are exceedingly rare but that firms use different forms of non-base pay and variations in hours worked to flexibilize labor cost. We then exploit the worker-firm link of the LEHD and find that during the Great Recession, firms with indicators of DNWR reduced employment by about 1.2% more per year. This negative effect is driven by significantly lower hiring rates and persists into the recovery. Our results suggest that despite the relatively large incidence of wage cuts in the aggregate, DNWR has sizable allocative consequences.
E30|Fiscal Compact and Debt Consolidation Dynamics|We analyse the macroeconomic effects of a debt consolidation policy in the Euro Area mimicking the Fiscal Compact Rule (FCR). The rule requires the signatory states to target a debt-to-GDP ratio below 60%. Within the context of Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium models (DSGE), we augment a fully micro-founded New-Keynesian model with a parametric linear debt consolidation rule, and we analyse the effects on the main macroeconomic aggregates. To fully understand its implications on the economy, we study different debt consolidation scenarios, allowing the excess debt to be re-absorbed with different timings. We show that including a debt consolidation rule can exacerbate the effects of the shocks in the economy by imposing a constraint on the public debt process. Secondly, we note that the effect of loosening or tightening the rule in response to a shock is heterogeneous. Shocks hitting nominal variables (monetary policy shock) are not particularly sensitive. On the contrary, we prove that the same change has a more pronounced effect in case of shock hitting real variables (productivity and public spending shocks). Finally, we show that the macroeconomic framework worsens as a function of the rigidity of the debt consolidation rule. As a limiting case, we show that the effects on output, employment, real wages, inflation, and interest rates are sizable.
E30|Heterogeneity, Frictional Assignment And Home-ownership|A model of frictional assignment is developed to study the composition of housing units and households across city-level ownership and rental markets. Heterogeneous houses are built by a competitive development industry and either rented competitively or sold through directed search to households which differ in wealth and sort over housing types. Even in the absence of financial restrictions and constraints on house characteristics, higher income households are more likely to own and lower quality housing is more likely to be rented. When calibrated to match average features of housing markets within U.S. cities, the model is qualitatively consistent with U.S. data on the relationships between observed differences in median income, inequality, median household age, and construction/land costs across cities and both home-ownership and the average cost of owning vs. renting. Policies designed to improve housing affordability raise both housing quality and ownership for lower income households while lowering housing quality (but not ownership) for high income ones.
E30|Research and Development Contribution to the Czech Industry Branch Growth|GDP growth is one of the most closely watched macroeconomic aggregates. To predict its growth, it is very important to know the importance and development of individual structural components - this article has been focused on the Czech industry NACE C and its role for GDP growth in the Czech Republic. The research was mainly focused on the impact of research and development, as the revised methodology of the national accounts system in the Czech Republic has been pursuing this factor differently since 2014. For better outlook, the development has also been compared with the Visegrad countries, where the Czech Republic is a member. The years 2005 to 2016 were selected for the period under review, when the effects of the economic crisis were reflected. The end of the survey period has shown a boom in economic growth, so research has covered all the important phases of the business cycle.
E30|Identification with External Instruments in Structual VARs under partial invertibility|This paper discusses the conditions for identification with external instruments in Structural VARs under partial invertibility. We observe that in this case the shocks of interest and their effects can be recovered using an external instrument, provided that a condition of limited lag exogeneity holds.This condition is weaker than that required for LP-IV, and allows for recoverability of impact efects also under VAR misspecification. We assess our claims in a simulated environment and provide an empirical application to the relevant cas of identification of monetary policy shocks.
E30|From the horse’s mouth: surveying responses to stress by banks and insurers|Existing stress tests do not capture feedback loops between individual institutions and the financial system. To identify feedback loops, the European Systemic Risk Board has developed macroprudential surveys that ask banks and insurers how they would behave in a macroeconomic stress scenario. In a pilot application of these surveys, we find evidence of herding behaviour in the banking sector, notably concerning credit retrenchment. Results show that the consequences can be large, potentially undoing the initial effects of banks’ remedial actions by worsening their solvency position. In contrast, insurers’ responses to the survey provide little evidence of herding in response to macroeconomic stress. These results highlight the usefulness of macroprudential surveys in identifying feedback loops. JEL Classification: E30, E44, G10, G18, G21, G22, G28
E30|An appraisal of Friedman's positively sloped Phillips Curve conjecture|In this paper we ask what happens in the medium-term interregnum between the domain of the short-run Phillips curve and that of the long-run effects on the natural rate of unemployment, according to Friedman's conjecture. We discuss the new classical and hysteresis alternatives to Friedman's conjecture, and some of the methodological issues involved in appraising the conjecture. A simple model, and some data, are employed in this task.
E30|An analysis of systematic risk in worldwide econonomic sentiment indices|"In this paper, we investigate the temporal dynamics of correlations between sentiment indices worldwide. Employing the tools of Random Matrix Theory (RMT) and Principal Component Analysis (PCA), our paper aims to extract latent information embedded in the interactions between economic and business sentiment indices around the world. We find that: (i) The dynamics of the sentiment indices across countries can be well explained by the evolution of a single factor (the ""market mode""), (ii) during most periods, some groups of countries exhibit sentiment dynamics less associated with (or divergent from) the market mode, while (iii) during the financial crisis, no country or group of countries has been able to escape the market mode, which accounts for almost all movements in the indices. We argue that strong ""global"" information signals, like the collapse of the US housing market in 2007, can lead to a homogenization of the expectation structure around the world, as such information can provide a coordination signal for a global phase of low confidence."
E30|IW-Studentenwohnpreisindex 2018: Mietpreisunterschiede zwischen Hochschulstandorten weiten sich|Die Zahl der Studenten ist seit 2010 um etwa 28 Prozent in Deutschland gestiegen, in manchen der betrachteten Hochschulstandorte lag der Zuwachs sogar bei 40 Prozent und mehr. Gleichzeitig hinkt die Bautätigkeit dem Einwohnerwachstum in vielen Städten hinterher, so dass der Markt für studentisches Wohnen angespannt ist. Der IW-Studentenwohnpreisindex zeigt für alle betrachteten Städten Mietpreisanstiege an. Bezogen auf 2010 haben die Mieten vor allem in München (+51 Prozent) und in Berlin (+67 Prozent) stark zugelegt. Auch im 1. Halbjahr 2018 sind die Mieten für studentisches Wohnen weiter gestiegen, besonders in Berlin mit einem Preisanstieg gegenüber dem Vorjahr um 9,8 Prozent. Doch auch in Heidelberg, Frankfurt und Bamberg sind die Mieten mit über 6 Prozent zuletzt deutlich gestiegen. Für eine Musterwohnung müssen Studenten in München am meisten zahlen, dort beträgt die Warmmiete 634 Euro in Monat. Der nächstteuerste Hochschulstandort ist Frankfurt mit 500 Euro pro Monat. Insgesamt zeigt die Analyse, dass die Streuung der Durchschnittsmieten zugenommen hat und insbesondere hochpreisige Angebote die durchschnittlichen Mieten nach oben ziehen. Allerdings gibt es auch Hochschulstandorte, die deutlich günstiger sind. In sechs der achtzehn betrachteten Hochschulstandorte liegt der Preis für eine Musterwohnung bei unter 350 Euro, im Ruhrgebiet, in Magdeburg und in Leipzig sogar unter 300 Euro. Auch die Zuwachsraten bei den Mieten liegen in diesen Hochschulstandorten deutlich unter den Werten für Berlin, München oder Köln. Mieten werden damit zunehmend wichtiger für die Hochschulwahl - und dieser Trend bietet Chancen für die regionale Entwicklung. Schließlich können starke Hochschulen abseits der Großstädte Wachstumsimpulse geben und damit gleichsam die angespannten Wohnungsmärkte der Großstädte entlasten.
E30|A Large Central Bank Balance Sheet? The Role of Interbank Market Frictions|Recent quantitative easing (QE) policies implemented over the course of the Great Recession by the major central banks have had a profound impact on the working of money markets, giving rise to large excess reserves and pushing down key interbank rates against their floor .the interest rate on reserves. With macroeconomic fundamentals improving, central banks now face the dilemma as to whether to maintain this large balance sheet/floor system, or else to reduce balance sheet size towards pre-crisis trends and operate traditional corridor systems. We address this issue using a relatively simple New Keynesian model with two distinct features: heterogeneous banks that trade funds in an interbank market, and matching frictions in the latter market. We show that a large balance sheet allows for ampler .policy space.by widening the average distance between the interest on reserves and its effective lower bound. Nonetheless, a lean-balance-sheet regime that resorts to temporary QE in response to recessions severe enough for the lower bound to bind achieves similar stabilization and welfare outcomes as a large-balance-sheet regime in which interest-rate policy is the primary adjustment margin thanks to the larger policy space. At the same time, the effectiveness of QE through the channel we model is limited. In line with the empirical evidence, the marginal effect vanishes as the balance sheet becomes very big.
E30|Oil Prices and Informational Frictions: The Time-Varying Impact of Fundamentals and Expectations|This paper accounts for informational frictions when modelling the time-varying relationship between crude oil prices, traditional fundamentals and expectations. Informational frictions force a wedge between oil prices and supply and/or demand shocks, especially during periods of elevated risk aversion and uncertainty. In such a context expectations can be a key driver of oil price movements. We utilize a variety of proxies for forward-looking expectations, including business confidence, consumer confidence and leading indicators. In addition, our paper implements a time-varying parameter approach to account empirically for time-varying informational frictions. Our results illustrate firstly that oil supply shocks played an important role in both the 1970’s and coinciding with the recent shale oil boom. Secondly, demand had a positive impact upon oil prices, especially from the mid-2000’s. Finally, we provide evidence that oil prices respond strongly to expectations but the source of the shock matter: business leaders’ expectations are positively related, while markets’ expectations are not strongly linked to oil prices.
E30|Fiscal policy in developing countries: Do governments wish to have procyclical fiscal reactions?|This study aimed to analyze the intentionally fiscal position of the governments of developing countries. Our results suggest that a significant proportion of developing countries adopts counter-cyclical positions. However, forecasting errors weak their positions. Results lead to conclude that if developing countries want to increase the effectiveness of their fiscal policies, they must build the skills of their forecast offices, and enhance the political and institutional framework governing the budget process.
E30|Yes we can! Teaching DSGE models to undergraduate students|Dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) models have become the workhorse of modern macroeconomics and the standard way to communicate ideas among applied macroeconomists. Undergraduate students, however, often remain unaware of their existence. The lack of specialized knowledge can hurt them if they decide to attend graduate school. Indeed, many first-year PhD students discover that the material they are currently learning differs significantly from what they mastered in college. But this can change. In this essay, I describe how to teach a full-fledged macroeconomics course where DSGE models take center stage. I discuss how to arrange such a course within a one-semester time frame, detail the main components of instruction, and finish with some thoughts based on my teaching experience at Macalester College.
E30|Three essays on uncertainty: real and financial effects of uncertainty shocks|The thesis consists of three essays on real and financial effects of uncertainty shocks. The first chapter investigates two different news-based uncertainty indices, Economic Policy Uncertainty Index (EPU) and Relative Sentiment Shift Index (RSS). I employ reduced form VAR and local projections (Jordá, 2005) to explore the differences in wait-and-see effect of uncertainty on the real economy. Surprises in either index lead to significant declines in production and employment and the effect is larger and persistent in the case of RSS shocks than EPU. In the second chapter, the probabilistic approach is applied to uncover the dependence structure in inflation uncertainty for the countries bordering a major currency area, the UK and the euro area. Inflation uncertainty is measured by the conditional volatility removing entire forecastable variations by bivariate VAR GARCH model and joint distribution of uncertainties of two regions is estimated by using copula to account for non-linear association. The results show that the left tail events of inflation are positively correlated between the two regions. This implies that the appropriate monetary policy can be drawn if policymakers consider the interconnectedness of the deflationary pressures. Finally, the third chapter examines the long run relationship between gross capital flow and its determinants, focusing on the impact of uncertainty as global and contagion factors. I apply bounds testing approach by Pesaran, Shin, and Smith (2001) allowing for he underlying regressors being either I(0), I(1) or mutually cointegrated. Both gross capital inflows and outflows exhibit significant level relationship with global, contagion and domestic factors and uncertainty spillovers through financial linkages between the UK and the euro area play crucial role in predicting capital flows of the UK.
E30|Constitutional Bases of Public Finances in the Central and Eastern European Countries|The paper analyses and compares some constitutional examples, especially in the 29 NISPAcee countries, how the states settle the bases of the economy and public finance in their constitutions or fundamental laws. The main hypothesis can be formulated as, is there any correlation between the constitutional provisions (or other relevant law sources) and the performance of the economy (GDP growth), sound and sustainable fiscal policy (budgeting, government debt, taxation, audit), furthermore monetary policy (price and exchange rate stability); also after the amendments can any changes be identified or not.
E30|Common business cycles and volatilities in US states and MSAs: The role of economic uncertainty|This paper analyses the role of a news-based measure of economic policy uncertainty (EPU) in explaining time-varying co-movements in economic activity and volatility of 48 US states and 51 largest MSAs. In this regard, we, first, estimate a dynamic factor model with time-varying loadings and stochastic volatility (DFM-TV-SV). Then, in the second step, we use a quantile-on-quantile (QQ) predictive regression model to capture the effect of EPU on the common factor and stochastic volatility derived from the DFM-TV-SV for the states and MSAs. Our results show that EPU has a significant negative effect on the common economic activity of both the states and MASs, and it also significantly increases the common volatility. However, the impact of uncertainty varies substantially depending on the initial states (quantiles) of both common output or volatility and EPU. Thus, our results tend to suggest that policy design should be state-dependent.
E30|Investment Shocks, Sticky Prices, and the Endogenous Relative Price of Investment|This paper estimates a two-sector DSGE model of the U.S. economy with two key ingredients: (i) an explicit distinction between shocks to investment demand and shocks to investment supply; (ii) sector-specific pricing frictions. According to the estimation results, investment demand shocks are more important than investment supply shocks in driving aggregate fluctuations. Furthermore, sticky investment prices are important to capture the effects of sector-specific technology shocks, in particular recessionary investment supply shocks. Finally, the model suggests that the relative price of investment provides a poor indicator of relative technology in short to medium horizons. (Copyright: Elsevier)
E30|Product Scope and Endogenous Fluctuations|Recent empirical evidence suggests that product creation is procyclical and it occurs largely within existing firms. Motivated by these findings, the current paper investigates the role of intra-firm product scope choice in a general equilibrium economy with oligopolistic producers. It shows that the multi-product nature of firms makes the economy susceptible to sunspot equilibria. The model is estimated via Bayesian methods. Artificial business cycles closely resemble empirically observed fluctuations with sunspots explaining a significant portion of U.S. business cycles. (Copyright: Elsevier)
E30|Macroeconomic Fluctuations with HANK & SAM: An Analytical Approach|"New Keynesian models with unemployment and incomplete markets are rapidly becoming a new workhorse model in macroeconomics. Such models typically require heavy computational methods which may obscure intuition and overlook equilibria. We present a tractable version which can be characterized analytically. Our results highlight that - due to the interaction between incomplete markets, sticky prices and endogenous unemployment risk - productivity shocks may have radically different effects than in traditional NK models, that the Taylor principle may fail, and that pessimistic beliefs may be self-fulfilling and move the economy into temporary episodes of low demand and high unemployment, as well as into a long-lasting ""unemployment trap"". At the Zero Lower Bound, the presence of endogenous unemployment risk can create inflation and overturn paradoxical properties of the model. We further study financial asset prices and show that non-negligible risk premia emerge."
E30|A New Perspective on the Finance-Development Nexus|The existing literature on financial development focuses mostly on the causal impact of the quantity of financial intermediation on economic development. This paper, instead, focuses on the role of the financial sector in creating securities that cater to the needs of heterogeneous investors. To that end, we describe a dynamic extension of Allen and Gale (1989)’s optimal security design model in which producers can tranche the stochastic cash flows they generate at a cost. Lower tranching costs in that environment lead to capital deepening and raise aggregate output. The implications of lower tranching costs for TFP, on the other hand, are fundamentally ambiguous. In other words, our model predicts that increased financial sophistication/complexity—a securitization boom, e.g.—can have adverse consequences on aggregate productivity as it is conventionally measured.
E30|Market Structure and Monetary Non-neutrality|I propose an equilibrium menu cost model with a continuum of sectors, each consisting of strategically engaged firms. Compared to a model with monopolistically competitive sectors that is calibrated to the same data on good-level price flexibility, the dynamic duopoly model features a smaller inflation response to monetary shocks and output responses that are more than twice as large. The model also implies (i) four times larger welfare losses from nominal rigidities, (ii) smaller menu costs and idiosyncratic shocks are needed to match the data, (iii) a U-shaped relationship between market concentration and price flexibility, for which I find empirical support.
E30|Can Learning Explain Boom-Bust Cycles In Asset Prices? An Application to the US Housing Boom|Explaining asset price booms poses a difficult question for researchers in macroeconomics: how can large and persistent price growth be explained in the absence large and persistent variation in fundamentals? This paper argues that boom-bust behavior in asset prices can be explained by a model in which boundedly rational agents learn the process for prices. The key feature of the model is that learning operates in both the demand for assets and the supply of credit. Interactions between agents on either side of the market create complementarities in their respective beliefs, providing an additional source of propagation. In contrast, the paper shows why learning involving only one side on the market, which has been the focus of most of the literature, cannot plausibly explain persistent and large price booms. Quantitatively, the model explains recent experiences in US housing markets. A single unanticipated mortgage rate drop generates 20 quarters of price growth whilst capturing the full appreciation in US house prices in the early 2000s. The model is able to generate endogenous liberalizations in household lending conditions during price booms, consistent with US data, and replicates key volatilities of housing market variables at business cycle frequencies.
E30|Dealing with time-inconsistency: Inflation targeting vs. exchange rate targeting|Abandoning an objective function with multiple targets and adopting single mandate can be an effective way for a central bank to overcome the classic time-inconsistency problem. We show that the choice of a particular single mandate depends on an economy’s level of trade openness and the credibility of the central bank. We begin with reduced form empirical results which show that as central banks become less credible they are more likely to adopt a pegged exchange rate, and crucially, the tendency to peg depends on trade openness. Then in a model where the central bank displays “loose commitment” we show that as central bank credibility falls, they are more likely to adopt either an inflation target or a pegged exchange rate. A relatively closed economy would adopt an inflation target to overcome the time-inconsistency problem, but a highly open economy would prefer an exchange rate peg.
E30|Liquidity Constraints in the U.S. Housing Market|We study the severity of liquidity constraints in the U.S. housing market using a life-cycle model with uninsurable idiosyncratic risks in which houses are illiquid, but agents have the option to extract home equity by refinancing their long-term mortgages. The model implies that three quarters of homeowners are liquidity constrained and willing to pay an average of 5 cents to extract an additional dollar of liquidity from their home. Most homeowners value liquidity for precautionary reasons, anticipating the possibility of income declines and the need to make mortgage payments in future periods. Mortgage assistance policies structured as credit lines to homeowners who experience a shortfall in income greatly reduce the severity of liquidity constraints.
E30|Government-sponsored labour-market training and output growth - cyclical, structural and globalization influences|Empirical work on the effects of government-sponsored labour-market training programs (LTPs) has been largely focused on the unemployment-exit and employment-entry probabilities of program participants using micro-level data. This paper seeks to add to the current literature by providing broad cross-country evidence on whether or not additional public-sector resources allocated to LTPs contributes to raising output growth and per-capita incomes. Using data from OECD countries during 1989-2009 and GMM estimation, we find evidence suggesting that on average labour-market training programs are growth-enhancing. The positive growth-effect of LTP-spending is found to be stronger the more favourable are business-cycle conditions, the larger is the magnitude of structural shocks at country level and the greater is the scale of opening-up of markets at the global level.
E30|Active labour-market policies and output growth: Is there a causal relationship?|While the labour-market impact of ALMP interventions has been extensively studied, an issue that has not been widely addressed in the literature is to what extent active labour-market policies have beneficial effects for the whole economy at the macroeconomic level. This paper addresses this issue by examining how additional resources allocated to active labour-market policies relate to output-growth rates. It also examines the sensitivity of the growth-ALMP relationship to the business cycle. Based on a structural model, we find that whether or not additional resources allocated to ALMPs contribute to raising output growth is a priori unclear. However, using data from OECD countries during 1991–2011 and GMM estimation to account for potential endogeneities, we find evidence suggesting a net positive output-growth differential due to implementing active labour-market policies in normal times of between 0.004 and 0.006 percentage point. This differential becomes larger during economic upturns when market conditions are improving relative to trend.
E30|An Investigation of Economic Factors Affecting Output Gap in the Iranian Economy|Due to the importance of production in economy, its volatility affect economic sectors and agents significantly. Therefore, understanding the causes of business cycles is very important. Thus, this study extracted business cycles and investigated the effects of aggregate demand variables cycles in business cycle and the size of this effects in Iran’s economy over 1959-2014. For this purpose, first Hodrick-Prescott filter and then Markov-switching model are used to extract and examine the business cycles. The results showed asymmetry in the production cycles in Iran’s economy. The results of the regime of recession and expansion probability also revealed that although with less intensity, cycles of recession are more probable compared to expansion cycles, and have happened in longer period. Then, using the relevant indicators and Hsiao's causality tests, we focused on the relationship of demand side variables cycle with business cycles. The results indicated that the three variables including consumption, investment and government spending were all leading and coincident to business cycles. There was a two-way causality relationship between all three variables and the business cycles. However, balance of trade was found to be lagging and non-coincident to business cycles. It was also found that the causality runs only from balance of trade to business cycles.
E30|Gravitation of Market Prices towards Normal Prices: Some New Results|The gravitation process of market prices towards production prices is here presented by means of an analyti-cal framework where the classical capital mobility principle is coupled with a determination of the deviation of market from normal (natural) prices which closely follows the description provided by Adam Smith: each pe-riod the level of the market price of a commodity will be higher (lower) than its production price if the quanti-ty brought to the market falls short (exceeds) the level of effectual demand. This approach also simplifies the results with respect to those obtained in cross-dual literature. Three versions of the model are here proposed: i) assuming a given level of aggregate employment; ii) assuming a sort of Say’s law; iii) and on the basis of an explicit adjustment of actual outputs to effectual demands. All these cases describe dynamics in which market prices can converge asymptotically towards production prices.
E30|On the influence of US monetary policy on crude oil price volatility|Abstract Forecasting oil prices is not straightforward, such that it is convenient to build a confidence interval around the forecasted prices. To this end, the principal ingredient for obtaining a reliable crude oil confidence interval is its volatility. Moreover, accurate crude oil volatility estimation has fundamental implications in terms of risk management, asset pricing and portfolio handling. Generally, current studies consider volatility models based on lagged crude oil price realizations and, at most, one additional macroeconomic variable as crude oil determinant. This paper aims to fill this gap, jointly considering not only traditional crude oil driving forces, such as the aggregate demand and oil supply, but also the monetary policy rate. Thus, this work aims to contribute to the debate concerning the potential impact of (lagged) US monetary policy as well as the other crude oil future price (COFP) determinants on daily COFP volatility. By means of the recently proposed generalized autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity mixed data sampling model, different proxies of the US monetary policy alongside US industrial production (proxy of the US aggregate demand) and oil supply are included in the COFP volatility equation. Strong evidence that an expansionary (restrictive) variation in monetary policy anticipates a positive (negative) variation in COFP volatility is found. We also find that a negative (positive) variation of industrial production increases (decreases) COFP volatility. This means that volatility behaves counter-cyclically, according to the literature. Furthermore, the out-of-sample forecasting procedure shows that including these additional macroeconomic variables generally improves the forecasting performance.
E30|Monetary Policy Shifts and Central Bank Independence|Why does low central bank independence generate high macroeconomic instability? A government may periodically appoint a subservient central bank chairman to exploit the inflation-output trade-off, which may generate instability. In a New Keynesian framework, time-varying monetary policy is connected with a “chairman effect.” To identify departures from full independence, I classify chairmen based on tenure (premature exits), and the type of successor (whether the replacement is a government ally). Bayesian estimation using cross-country data confirms the relationship between policy shifts and central bank independence, explaining approximately 25 (15) percent of inflation volatility in developing (advanced) economies. Theoretical analyses reveal a novel propagation mechanism of the policy shock.
E30|The Impact of US Financial Uncertainty Shocks on Emerging Market Economies: An International Credit Channel|Abstract I document that US financial uncertainty shocks, measured by an increase in VIX, have a substantial impact on the output of emerging market economies (EMEs) without a material impact on US output during the last two decades. To understand this puzzling phenomenon, I propose a credit channel as a propagation mechanism of US financial uncertainty shocks to EMEs. I augment a boom-bust cycle model of EMEs by Schneider and Tornell (Rev Econ Stud 71(3):883–913 2004) with a portfolio choice model of constrained international investors. As international investors pull their money from EMEs—to satisfy their Value-at-Risk constraints—in response to financial uncertainty shocks, borrowing costs increase and domestic credit contracts. Higher borrowing costs and a decline in domestic credit, in turn, lead to a fall in investment in the non-tradable sector that causes a real depreciation via currency mismatch prevalent in EMEs and a decline in total output through sectoral linkages. The empirical regularity obtained by estimating structural VARs of 18 EMEs is consistent with the prediction of the model.
E30|Stability and welfare effects of profit taxes within an evolutionary market interaction model|We develop a partial equilibrium model in which firms can locate in two separate regions. A firm's decision where to locate in a given period depends on the regions' relative profitability. If firms react strongly to the regions' relative profitability, their market switching behavior generates unstable dynamics. If the goal of policy makers is to stabilize these dynamics they can do so by introducing profit taxes that reduce the regions' relative profitability. While stability can already be obtained by imposing profit taxes in one of the two regions, total welfare is maximized if policy makers coordinate their tax setting behavior across regions. However, policy makers only interested in welfare in their own region may have the incentive to decrease their profit tax below this level, thereby attracting more firms and increasing tax revenues, at the cost of instability in both regions.
E30|External financing and economic activity in the euro area - why are bank loans special?|"Using a Bayesian vector autoregression (BVAR) identified with a mix of sign and zero restrictions, we show that a restrictive bank loan supply shock has a strong and persistent negative impact on real GDP and the GDP deflator. This result comes about even though flows of other sources of financing, such as equity and debt securities, expand strongly and act as a ""spare tire"" for the reduction in bank loans. We show that this result can be rationalized by a recently revived view of banking, which holds that banks increase the nominal purchasing power of the economy when they create additional deposits in the act of lending. Consequently, our findings indicate that a substitution of bank loans by other sources of financing might have negative macroeconomic repercussions."
E30|Temperature shocks and welfare costs|This paper examines the welfare implications of rising temperatures. Using a standard VAR, we empirically show that a temperature shock has a sizable, negative and statistically significant impact on TFP, output, and labor productivity. We rationalize these findings within a production economy featuring long-run temperature risk. In the model, macro-aggregates drop in response to a temperature shock, consistent with the novel evidence in the data. Such adverse effects are long-lasting. Over a 50-year horizon, a one-standard deviation temperature shock lowers both cumulative output and labor productivity growth by 1.4 percentage points. Based on the model, we also show that temperature risk is associated with non-negligible welfare costs which amount to 18.4% of the agent’s lifetime utility and grow exponentially with the size of the impact of temperature on TFP. Finally, we show that faster adaptation to temperature shocks results in lower welfare costs. These welfare benefits become substantially higher in the presence of permanent improvements in the speed of adaptation.
E30|Drivers of the Post-Crisis Slump in the Eurozone and the US|The Global Crisis led to a sharp contraction and long-lasting slump in both Eurozone and US real activity, but the post-crisis adjustment in the Eurozone and the US shows striking differences. This column argues that financial shocks were key determinants of the 2008-09 Great Recession, for both the Eurozone and the US. The post-2009 slump in the Eurozone mainly reflects a combination of adverse aggregate demand and supply shocks, in particular lower productivity growth, and persistent adverse shocks to capital investment linked to the poor health of the Eurozone financial system. Mono-causal explanations of the persistent slump are thus insufficient. Adverse financial shocks were less persistent for the US.
E30|The Rational Inattention Filter|Dynamic rational inattention problems used to be difficult to solve. This paper provides simple, analytical results for dynamic rational inattention problems. We start from the benchmark rational inattention problem. An agent tracks a variable of interest that follows a Gaussian process. The agent chooses how to pay attention to this variable. The agent aims to minimize, say, the mean squared error subject to a constraint on information flow, as in Sims (2003). We prove that if the variable of interest follows an ARMA(p,q) process, the optimal signal is about a linear combination of {X(t),...,X(t-p+1)} and {e(t),... e(t-q+1)}, where X(t) denotes the variable of interest and e(t) denotes its period t innovation. The optimal signal weights can be computed from a simple extension of the Kalman filter: the usual Kalman filter equations in combination with first-order conditions for the optimal signal weights. We provide several analytical results regarding those signal weights. We also prove the equivalence of several different formulations of the information flow constraint. We conclude with general equilibrium applications from Macroeconomics.
E30|ECB-Global: Introducing the ECB's global macroeconomic model for spillover analysis|In a highly interlinked global economy a key question is how foreign shocks transmit to the domestic economy, how domestic shocks affect the rest of the world, and how policy actions mitigate or amplify spillovers. For policy analysis in such a context, global multi-country macroeconomic models that allow a structural interpretation are needed. In this paper we introduce the European Central Bank's global macroeconomic model: ECB-Global, a semi-structural, global multi-country model for the euro area, the US, Japan, the UK, China, oil-exporting economies, Emerging Asia and a rest-of-the-world block. ECB-Global features rich channels of international shock propagation through trade, oil prices and global financial markets. We illustrate the range of applications of ECB-Global in the context of policy analysis by presenting its predictions for global spillovers from a US monetary policy tightening, a growth slowdown in China, and a drop in oil prices. In contrast to many existing structural models, ECB-Global implies large spillovers from US monetary policy and oil price shocks, which transmit through trade and financial cross-border interlinkages. Compared to these shocks, ECB-Global does not imply large spillovers from a slowdown in China, primarily because of the latter's still limited integration in global financial markets. We also illustrate how ECB-Global can be modified flexibly in order to address evolving questions relevant for policy makers by adding new features in an ad hoc manner.
E30|Sectoral interlinkages in global value chains: spillovers and network effects|This paper studies the role of global input-output linkages in transmitting economic disturbances in the international economy. Our empirical results suggest that these sectoral spillovers are both statistically significant and of economic importance. We also provide evidence that it is not the interlinkages per se that matter for the international transmission but rather the presence of global hub sectors that are either large suppliers or purchasers of other sectors' inputs. When the links between these sectors and the rest of the global value chain are severed, the spillovers diminish strongly and eventually become statistically insignificant. This highlights the importance of the structure of the network for enabling spillovers and the prominent role played by hub sectors in the global economy. JEL Classification: E30, E32, F44, F62
E30|The Asymmetric Effects of Real and Nominal Uncertainty on Inflation and Output Growth: Empirical Evidence from Bangladesh|This study examines an empirical analysis of the causal links and volatility spillovers between inflation, output growth and their uncertainties in Bangladesh by utilizing the autoregressive AR(p)-exponential generalized AR conditional heteroscedasticity (EGARCH) model for the period 1993-2014. The study shows that EGARCH version provides the best statistical fit by investigating that volatility is variable and asymmetric than symmetric. The empirical results show an overwhelming support for Friedman-Ball hypothesis that inflationary shocks affect inflation uncertainty positively. Both inflation and output growth generate output uncertainty which is detrimental for real economic activity while nominal uncertainty (real uncertainty) is positively (negatively) affecting output growth. Finally, output uncertainty is reducing inflation uncertainty while there is no effect from the opposite side. Our estimated results suggest that policy makers should adopt dynamic stabilization policies in order to reduce a rise in inflation and to achieve economic stability for stimulating output growth further
E30|Impulse response matching estimators for DSGE models|The existing asymptotic theory for VAR-based impulse response matching estimators of the structural parameters of DSGE models does not cover situations in which the number of impulse responses exceeds the number of VAR model parameters. We establish the consistency of the estimator in this situation, we derive its asymptotic distribution, and we show how this distribution can be approximated by bootstrap methods. We also demonstrate that under our assumptions special care is needed to ensure the asymptotic validity of Bayesian methods of inference. Finally, we show how to deal with weak identification both under our assumptions and under standard assumptions.
E30|Trade and synchronization in a multi-country economy|Countries with strong trade linkages have more synchronized business cycles. However, the standard international business cycle framework cannot replicate this finding, uncovering the trade-comovement puzzle. Modeling trade using more sophisticated micro-level assumptions does not help resolve the puzzle. This happens because for a large class of trade models, under certain macro-level conditions, output comovement is determined by the same factor structure. We show that in such models comovement can be explained by three factors: (i) the correlation between each country's TFP; (ii) the correlation between each country's share of expenditure on domestic goods; and (iii) the correlation between each country's TFP and the partner's share of expenditure on domestic goods. An empirical investigation of the link between trade and each of the three factors shows that the trade-comovement relation is in large part explained by the second factor while in the theoretical model this factor reacts counterfactually to changes in trade costs.
E30|Crisis, potential output and hysteresis|This paper seeks to estimate the effects of financial crises on potential output accounting for hysteresis on a panel of 34 OECD economies. Hysteresis amplifies the effect of financial crises on potential output. The difference is marginal in the first years (below 0.5% point) but grows over time to about 1/3 after six years. These results are robust to a range of specifications. On average across crisis and country the maximum crisis effect on potential output is about 3%. The effect appears to be more severe for the 2008 crisis though, with a maximum impact above 4% on average for G7 countries. Lastly, the empirical work undertaken in this paper suggests that financial crises have had on average an effect on potential growth in the first years following the crisis but not after.
E30|Crisis, potential output and hysteresis|This paper seeks to estimate the effects of financial crises on potential output accounting for hysteresis on a panel of 34 OECD economies. Hysteresis amplifies the effect of financial crises on potential output. The difference is marginal in the first years (below 0.5% point) but grows over time to about 1/3 after six years. These results are robust to a range of specifications. On average across crisis and country the maximum crisis effect on potential output is about 3%. The effect appears to be more severe for the 2008 crisis though, with a maximum impact above 4% on average for G7 countries. Lastly, the empirical work undertaken in this paper suggests that financial crises have had on average an effect on potential growth in the first years following the crisis but not after.
E30|Corporate failures and the denomination of corporate bonds: Evidence from emerging Asian economies over two financial crises|Using a novel financial data-set which covers an extensive time period between 1995 to 2012, we test for the impact of currency denomination of bonds on Asian firms’ survival probabilities. Our data span two financial crises: the 1997–98 Asian crisis and the 2007–09 global financial crisis. We find that during the former crisis firms with foreign currency denominated bonds face a higher probability of failure compared to firms with domestic bonds. On the other extreme, we find no notable differences between the 2007–09 financial crisis and tranquil times for both domestic and foreign issuers.
E30|Side effects of nonlinear profit taxes in an evolutionary market entry model: Abrupt changes, coexisting attractors and hysteresis problems|In order to demonstrate that nonlinear tax systems may have surprising and potentially undesirable side effects, we develop an evolutionary market entry model in which firms decide on the basis of past profit opportunities whether or not to enter a competitive market. Our main focus is on the case of a proportional tax on positive profits. Such a piecewise-linear tax scheme induces a kink in the firms’ profit functions, and may lead to abrupt changes in a market's dynamics, coexisting attractors and hysteresis problems. Since these phenomena can also be observed in more general models, a proper understanding of their basic mechanism may be helpful to explain the intricate behavior of many economic systems.
E30|Does US monetary policy respond to oil and food prices?|A common view is that US monetary policy does not respond to changes in volatile energy and food prices. Despite this view, the popular New Keynesian models assume Taylor-type rules under which the short-term interest rates react to headline inflation. This paper evaluates the fit of alternative Taylor rules within an estimated New Keynesian model. A main finding is that the US central bank includes energy and food prices in its policy rule, although the weight assigned to these prices is much smaller than their share in the economy.
E30|The WHO warns of outbreak of virulent new â€˜Economic Realityâ€™ virus|A new virus, known as â€˜Realityâ€™, has started to afflict Mainstream Economists, causing them to reject the â€˜as ifâ€™ arguments they used to use to justify their models. There is no known cure for the virus, and complete avoidance of â€˜Realityâ€™ is the only effective strategy to prevent infection.
E30|¿Realmente bajan los precios durante el Buen Fin?|Background. The Buen Fin is a commercial annual event consisting of four days of promotions and sales of products and services during the third week of November in Mexico. The event has gradually increased in relevance since its first edition in 2011. However, there is no formal analysis that assess the effect of the event on prices, mainly because of the lack of relevant information. Methods. This article analyzes the pricing policy during the Buen Fin in Mexico for a sample of urban establishments in the country. Using the database “Who’s Who in prices?” of the Federal Consumer Protection Agency, an unbalanced panel of weekly prices for electronic products in 525 establishments during 2010-2015 is built. An event study design is further implemented in order to analyze the effects of the Buen Fin over average and specific prices of products and establishments and over the strategic pricing policies from participating companies. Results. The Buen Fin reduces the average prices of electronics items in 7% when compared with the prices observed in September before the event. Only 52% of the products in the sample effectively reduced their prices during the event. Accounting only for discounted products, an average discount of 15% is observed. There is also evidence of a systematic increase in electronic prices weeks before the event, on average, 2%; some establishments have adopted practices to make discounts more salient for consumers. Conclusions. The Buen Fin cannot be considered as an event of widespread sales and discounts. The discounts offered by different chains have significant differences. In some cases, several establishments have taken strategic practices to make more evident the deals offered during the event.// Antecedentes. El Buen Fin es un evento comercial de periodicidad anual que consiste en cuatro días de promoción y rebajas de productos y servicios durante la tercera semana del mes de noviembre en México. El evento ha incrementado su relevancia desde su primera edición en 2011. Sin embargo, no existe un análisis formal que evalúe el efecto del Buen Fin sobre los precios y las políticas de fijación de precios de las empresas, principalmente debido a la falta de información relevante. Métodos. Este artículo analiza la fijación de precios durante el Buen Fin para una muestra de establecimientos ubicados en áreas urbanas del país. Empleando la base de datos ¿Quién es quién en los precios? de la Procuraduría Federal del Consumidor (Profeco) se construye un panel no balanceado de precios semanales de productos electrónicos para 525 establecimientos durante 2010-2015. Posteriormente, se utiliza la metodología de estudio de eventos para analizar los efectos del Buen Fin en el nivel de precios promedio y en los precios específicos por producto y por cadena. Adicionalmente, se analizan las políticas de fijación estratégica de precios para las empresas participantes. Resultados. El Buen Fin reduce en promedio 7% los precios con respecto al precio observado en septiembre antes del evento. Sólo 52% de los productos analizados reduce efectivamente su precio en el Buen Fin. Restringiendo el análisis a productos descontados, se obtiene un descuento promedio de 15%. El aumento promedio de precios antes del evento es de 2%, evidencia de que algunos establecimientos han adoptado prácticas para hacer más evidentes las ofertas del Buen Fin. Conclusión. El Buen Fin no puede ser considerado como un evento de baja generalizada de precios. Los descuentos ofrecidos por distintas cadenas tienen diferencias considerables. En algunos casos, diversos establecimientos han adoptado prácticas estratégicas que permiten hacer más evidentes las ofertas ofrecidas durante el evento.
E30|Fiscal Forward Guidance: A Case for Selective Transparency|Should the fiscal authority use forward guidance to reduce future policy uncertainty perceived by private agents? Using dynamic stochastic general equilibrium models, we examine the welfare effects of announcing future fiscal policy shocks. Analytical as well as numerical experiments show that selective transparency is desirable—announcing future fiscal policy shocks that are distortionary can be detrimental to ex ante social welfare, whereas announcing nondistortionary shocks generally improves welfare. Sizable welfare gains are found with constructive ambiguity regarding the timing of a consumption tax increase in the fiscal consolidation scenario in Japan recommended by Hansen and Imrohoroglu (2016). However, being secretive about distortionary tax shocks is time inconsistent, and welfare loss from communication may be unavoidable without commitment.
E30|Financial Engineering and Economic Development|The vast literature on financial development focuses mostly on the causal impact of the quantity of financial intermediation on economic development and productivity. This paper, instead, focuses on the role of the financial sector in creating securities that cater to the needs of heterogeneous investors. We describe a dynamic extension of Allen and Gale (1989)’s optimal security design model in which producers can tranche the stochastic cash flows they generate at a cost. Lowering security creation costs in that environment leads to more financial investment, but it has ambiguous effects on capital formation, output, and aggregate productivity. Much of the investment boom caused by increased securitization activities can, in fact, be spent on securitization costs and intermediation rents, with little or even negative effects on development and productivity.
E30|Industry Effects of Oil Price Shocks: Re-Examination|Sectoral responses to oil price shocks help determine how these shocks are transmitted through the economy. Textbook treatments of oil price shocks often emphasize negative supply effects on oil importing countries. By contrast, the seminal contribution of Lee and Ni (2002) has shown that almost all U.S. industries experience oil price shocks largely through a reduction in their respective demands. Only industries with very high oil intensities face a supply-driven reduction. In this paper, we re-examine this seminal findings using two additional decades of data. Further, we apply updated empirical methods, including structural factor-augmented vector autoregressions, that take into account how industries are linked among themselves and with the remainder of the macro-economy. Our results confirm the original finding of Lee and Ni that demand effects of oil price shocks dominate in all but a handful of U.S. industries.
E30|Large and State-Dependent Effects of Quasi-Random Monetary Experiments|Fixing the exchange rate constrains monetary policy. Along with unfettered cross-border capital flows, the trilemma implies that arbitrage, not the central bank, determines how interest rates fluctuate. The annals of international finance thus provide quasi-natural experiments with which to measure how macroeconomic outcomes respond to policy rates. Based on historical data since 1870, we estimate the local average treatment effect (LATE) of monetary policy interventions and examine its implications for the population ATE with a trilemma instrument. Using a novel control function approach we evaluate the robustness of our findings to possible spillovers via alternative channels. Our results prove to be robust. We find that the effects of monetary policy are much larger than previously estimated, and that these effects are state-dependent.
E30|A Likelihood-Based Comparison of Macro Asset Pricing Models|We estimate asset pricing models with multiple risks: long-run growth, long-run volatility, habit, and a residual. The Bayesian estimation accounts for the entire likelihood of consumption, dividends, and the price-dividend ratio. We find that the residual represents at least 80% of the variance of the price-dividend ratio. Moreover, the residual tracks most recognizable features of stock market history such as the 1990's boom and bust. Long run risks and habit contribute primarily in crises. The dominance of the residual comes from the low correlation between asset prices and consumption growth moments. We discuss theories which are consistent with our results.
E30|Default risk, sectoral reallocation, and persistent recessions|Sovereign debt crises are associated with large and persistent declines in economic activity, disproportionately so for nontradable sectors. This paper documents this pattern using Spanish data and builds a two-sector, dynamic quantitative model of sovereign default with capital accumulation. Recessions are very persistent in the model and more pronounced for nontraded sectors because of default risk. An adverse domestic shock increases the likelihood of default, limits capital inflows, and thus restricts the ability of the economy to exploit investment opportunities. The economy responds by reducing investment and reallocating capital toward the traded sector to support debt service payments. The real exchange rate depreciates, a reflection of the scarcity of traded goods. We find that these mechanisms are quantitatively important for rationalizing the experience of Spain during the recent debt crisis.
E30|Default Risk, Sectoral Reallocation, and Persistent Recessions|Sovereign debt crises are associated with large and persistent declines in economic activity, disproportionately so for nontradable sectors. This paper documents this pattern using Spanish data and builds a two-sector dynamic quantitative model of sovereign default with capital accumulation. Recessions are very persistent in the model and more pronounced for nontraded sectors because of default risk. An adverse domestic shock increases the likelihood of default, limits capital inﬂows, and thus restricts the ability of the economy to exploit investment opportunities. The economy responds by reducing investment and reallocating capital toward the traded sector to support debt service payments. The real exchange rate depreciates, a reﬂection of the scarcity of traded goods. We ﬁnd that these mechanisms are quantitatively important for rationalizing the experience of Spain during the recent debt crisis.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E30|Market Structure and Monetary Non-Neutrality|Canonical macroeconomic models of pricing under nominal rigidities assume markets consist of atomistic firms. Most US retail markets are dominated by a few large firms. To bridge this gap, I extend an equilibrium menu cost model to allow for a continuum of sectors with two large firms in each sector. Compared to a model with monopolistically competitive markets, and calibrated to the same good-level data on price adjustment, the duopoly model generates output responses to monetary shocks that are more than twice as large. Firm-level prices respond equally to idiosyncratic shocks, but less to aggregate shocks in the calibrated duopoly model. Under duopoly, the response of low priced firms to an increase in money is dampened: a falling real price at its competitor weakens both the incentive to increase prices, and price conditional on adjustment. The dynamic duopoly model also implies (i) large first order welfare losses from nominal rigidities, (ii) lower menu costs, (iii) a U-shaped relationship between market concentration and price flexibility, forwhich I find strong evidence in the data, (iv) a source of downward bias in markup estimates attained from inverting a static oligopoly model.
E30|Green Technology Adoption and the Business Cycle|We analyze the adoption of green technology in a dynamic economy affected by random shocks where demand spillovers are the main driver of technological improvements. Firms’ beliefs and consumers’ anticipations drive the path of the economy. We derive the optimal policy of investment subsidy and the expected time and likelihood of reaching a targeted level of environmental quality under economic uncertainty. This allows us to estimate the value that should be given to the environment in order to avoid an environmental catastrophe as a function of the strength of spillover effects.
E30|Is Chad Affected by Dutch or Nigerian Disease?|In this paper, we first analyse if Chadâ€Ÿs economy presents some features that support the existence of the natural resource curse, such as volatility in government resources, poor institutions, recurrent tensions, and mismanagement of oil resources. Then, deepening our analysis, we use a structural Vector auto-regressive model to show whether or not Chad is affected by Dutch disease. Our results suggest that changes in domestic output and prices are determined by aggregate demand and supply shocks. However, while oil production and high international prices negatively affect agricultural output, the effects are small. We associate our findings with structural underemployment and the inefficient use of existing production factors. In this context, increased public expenditures in tradable sectors present the opportunity to make oil revenues an engine of national development.
E30|Mortality and the business cycle: Evidence from individual and aggregated data|There has been much interest recently in the relationship between economic conditions and mortality, with some studies showing that mortality is pro-cyclical, while others find the opposite. Some suggest that the aggregation level of analysis (e.g. individual vs. regional) matters. We use both individual and aggregated data on a sample of 20–64 year-old Swedish men from 1993 to 2007. Our results show that the association between the business cycle and mortality does not depend on the level of analysis: the sign and magnitude of the parameter estimates are similar at the individual level and the aggregate (county) level; both showing pro-cyclical mortality.
E30|How Tolerant Should Inflation-Targeting Central Banks Be? Selecting the Proper Tolerance Band - Lessons from Sweden|Should an inflation-targeting central bank have an explicit tolerance band around its inflation target? This paper provides an answer derived from the Swedish experience. The Riksbank is exceptional in the sense that it first adopted and later abolished an explicit band and is currently considering bringing it back. We conclude that the band should be explicit for several reasons. Most important, an inflation-targeting central bank should be open and transparent to the public regarding its actual ability to control inflation. We discuss how a numerical measure of the proper width of the band can be constructed to foster communication and credibility.
E30|Systemic risk: A new trade-off for monetary policy?|We introduce time-varying systemic risk (à la He and Krishnamurthy, 2014) in an otherwise standard New-Keynesian model to study whether simple leaning-against-the-wind interest rate rules can reduce systemic risk and improve welfare. We find that while financial sector leverage contains additional information about the state of the economy that is not captured in inflation and output leaning against financial variables can only marginally improve welfare because rules are detrimental in the presence of falling asset prices. An optimal macroprudential policy, similar to a counter cyclical capital requirement, can eliminate systemic risk raising welfare by about 1.5%. Also, a surprise monetary policy tightening does not necessarily reduce systemic risk, especially during bad times. Finally, a volatility paradox a la Brunnermeier and Sannikov (2014) arises when monetary policy tries to excessively stabilize output.
E30|Manufacturing Decline and House Price Volatility|Using a unique dataset of all Swedish housing transactions over the 2009-2017 period, we find that an increase in manufacturing's share of employment is positively associated with house price growth volatility and negatively associated with risk-adjusted housing returns. Both effects appear to be related to manufacturing's impact on firm concentration and employment volatility. Moreover, as we demonstrate in an application, our results have implications for portfolio choice. They also suggest that the manufacturing decline since 1970 could account for a 32% reduction in house price volatility in Sweden, and similar reductions in the U.S., U.K., and Japan.
E30|What is Driving Inflation and GDP in a Small European Economy: The Case of Croatia|In this paper we estimate and identify a small open economy Bayesian VAR model in order to disentangle the contribution of individual domestic, euro area-specific and global shocks to domestic macroeconomic developments. Our identification suggests that foreign (global and euro area - specific) shocks have a large impact on the variability of domestic variables - they account for approximately 40% of variation in GDP growth and around 50% of variation in inflation. Looking at the contribution of individual structural shocks our results emphasize two particular findings. First, low oil prices have played an important role for muted inflation in Croatia during the last two years while, at the same time, domestic real activity has not benefited much. We show how this finding depends crucially on the specific mix of economic shocks underlying the movements in oil prices (demand vs supply shocks). Second, our results suggest that the large-scale asset purchase programme launched by the ECB at the beginning of 2015 resulted in favourable, albeit limited, spillover effects on domestic economy.
E30|Oil Prices and Informational Frictions: The Time-Varying Impact of Fundamentals and Expectations|This paper accounts for informational frictions when modelling the time-varying relationship between crude oil prices, traditional fundamentals and expectations. Informational frictions force a wedge between oil prices and supply and/or demand shocks, especially during periods of elevated risk aversion and uncertainty. In such a context expectations can be a key driver of oil price movements. We utilize a variety of proxies for forward-looking expectations, including business confidence, consumer confidence and leading indicators. In addition, our paper implements a time-varying parameter approach to account empirically for time-varying informational frictions. Our results illustrate firstly that oil supply shocks played an important role in both the 1970’s and coinciding with the recent shale oil boom. Secondly, demand had a positive impact upon oil prices, especially from the mid-2000’s. Finally, we provide evidence that oil prices respond strongly to expectations but the source of the shock matter: business leaders’ expectations are positively related, while markets’ expectations are not strongly linked to oil prices.
E30|Effectiveness and Transmission of the ECB's Balance Sheet Policies|We estimate the effects of exogenous innovations to the balance sheet of the ECB since the start of the financial crisis within a structural VAR framework. An expansionary balance sheet shock stimulates bank lending, reduces interest rate spreads, leads to a depreciation of the euro, and has a positive impact on economic activity and inflation. A counterfactual analysis reveals that the macroeconomic consequences of the balance sheet policies in the aftermath of the crisis have been substantial. For example, euro-area output and inflation would have been more than 1 percent lower in 2012 without the threeyear LTRO programs. Finally, we find that the effects on output turn out to be smaller in the member countries that have been more affected by the financial crisis, in particular those countries where the banking system is less well capitalized.
E30|IGEM-PA: a Variant of the Italian General Equilibrium Model for Policy Analysis|This paper extends IGEM, the dynamic general equilibrium model for the Italian economy currently in use at the Italian Department of the Treasury for economic policy analysis. In this new variant of the model the public sector is explicitly modelled as suppliers of goods and services. With this tool in hand we are able to present an in-depth analysis of expenditure-based fiscal multipliers and ameliorate our understanding of the potential macroeconomic effects of several policy interventions,such as those aimed at the rationalization of public spending, at the improvement of the business environment and at fostering productivity of the public administration (PA).
E30|Unconventional Monetary Policy Effects on Bank Lending in the Euro Area|This paper employs a structural VAR framework with sign restrictions to estimate the effects of unconventional monetary policies of the European Central Bank since the Global Financial Crisis, mainly in their effectiveness towards bank lending. Using a variable for newly issued credit instead of the outstanding stock of credit, the effects on bank lending are smaller than found in previous similar studies for the Euro area.
E30|Towards a New Austrian Macroeconomics|Abstract Austrian macroeconomists of the interwar period saw the economy as a complex adaptive system, in which macroeconomic variables emerge from the interaction between millions of purposefully acting agents. Recent advances in computation technology allow us to build empirically salient synthetic economies in silico, and thereby formalize many Austrian insights. We present a workhorse model with firms on an input-output network. Macroeconomic variables evolve through the interaction between micro-economic decisions. We use the model to explain an effect of monetary shocks on the price distribution and provide a sketch of other potential applications.
E30|How Germany’s anti-Keynesianism has brought Europe to its knees| This paper investigates the (lack of any lasting) impact of John Maynard Keynes’s General Theory on economic policy-making in Germany. The analysis highlights the interplay between economic history and the history of ideas in shaping policy-making in postwar (West) Germany. The paper argues that Germany learned the wrong lessons from its own history and misread the true sources of its postwar success. Monetary mythology and the Bundesbank, with its distinctive anti-inflationary bias, feature prominently in this collective odyssey. The analysis shows that the crisis of the euro today is largely the consequence of Germany’s peculiar anti-Keynesianism.
E30|Firms’ responses to shocks by price, wage and employment in Macedonia|This paper analyses the role of the intensity of output market competition, firm’s technology and of the incidence of collective wage-bargaining on firm’s adjustment strategies to adverse shocks using firm-level data for Macedonia. We find that international character of product market competition reduces the relevance of firms’ price reactions to cost shocks, whereas firms’ exposure to domestic competition seems to have an opposite effect. The presence of collective wage agreements at national level makes a price increase less likely. The results suggest that labour intensity in production process makes firms more likely to increase prices after wage shock. The second part of the paper focuses on cost-cutting strategies and the factors that explain the choice of the strategy. The data indicate that market competition and wage agreements signed outside the firm increase the likelihood of cost-cutting strategies via labour costs, particularly through employment reduction, after cost shock. On the contrary, empirical results indicate that fluctuations in permanent employment to cost and wage shock are safeguarded by presence of temporary and part time employment.
E30|The effects of quasi-random monetary experiments|The trilemma of international finance entails that fluctuations in interest rates for countries with fixed exchange rates that allow unfettered cross-border capital flows are mostly due to international arbitrage. Consequently, we can locate a valid source of exogenous variation to identify monetary policy effects with instrumental variable methods. Paired with conventional instruments based on central bank staff forecasts, and using historical data since 1870, we estimate local average treatment effects (LATE) of monetary policy interventions for different subpopulations. Using a novel control function approach we determine the robustness of our findings to possible spillovers via alternative trade-based channels. Our results reveal and rectify attenuation bias in previous estimates, are consistent with theory, and provide a good approximation to the ATE. The effects that we report are quantitatively important and state-dependent.
