E31|Disappearing money illusion|In long-term US stock market data the price-dividend ratio strongly predicts future inflation with a positive slope coefficient up to the mid 1970s. Thereafter, the predictability turns negative. We argue that this phenomenon reflects money illusion that disappears during the 1970s. We develop a consumption-based asset pricing model with recursive preferences and either money illusion or inflation non-neutrality that can explain the predictive patterns. The model is also consistent with a structural shift around the mid 1970s in the real interest rate - inflation relationship, thus supporting the hypothesis of disappearing money illusion at that time.
E31|Bounded Rationality, Monetary Policy, and Macroeconomic Stability|This paper estimates a Behavioral New Keynesian model to revisit the evidence that passive US monetary policy in the pre-1979 sample led to indeterminate equilibria and sunspot-driven fluctuations, while active policy after 1982, by satisfying the Taylor principle, was instrumental in restoring macroeconomic stability. The model assumes “cognitive discounting”, i.e., consumers and firms pay less attention to variables further into the future. We estimate the model allowing for both determinacy and indeterminacy. The empirical results show that determinacy is preferred both before and after 1979. Even if monetary policy is found to react only mildly to inflation pre-Volcker, the substantial degrees of bounded rationality that we estimate prevent the economy from falling into indeterminacy.
E31|How does consumption respond to news about inflation? Field evidence from a randomized control trial|We implement a survey of Dutch households in which random subsets of respondents receive information about inflation. The resulting exogenously generated variation in inflation expectations is used to assess how expectations affect subsequent monthly consumption decisions relative to those in a control group. The causal effects of elevated inflation expectations on non-durable spending are imprecisely estimated but there is a sharp negative effect on durable spending. We provide evidence that this is likely driven by the fact that Dutch households seem to become more pessimistic about their real income as well as aggregate spending when they increase their inflation expectations. There is little evidence to support the idea that the degree to which respondents change their beliefs or their spending in response to information treatments depends on their level of cognitive or financial constraints.
E31|Fertility, Inequality and Income Growth|This paper sets an endogenous fertility model with a two-sector model: one for the final goods sector and the other for child care service sector. Results of theoretical analysis indicate that the subsidy for children raises the labor share of the child care service sector and that it can increase fertility. An aging population reduces fertility and the labor share of the child care service sector. In addition to these results, we consider monetary policy effects on fertility. Results show that monetary policy can raise fertility and the labor share of the child care service sector by virtue of an increase in the pension benefit if a pay-as-you-go pension exists.
E31|Understanding Inflation in Emerging and Developing Economies|"Emerging market and developing economies (EMDEs) have experienced an extraordinary decline in inflation since the early 1970s. After peaking in 1974 at 17.3 percent, inflation in these economies declined to 3.5 percent in 2017. Despite a checkered history of managing inflation among many EMDEs, disinflation occurred across all regions. This paper presents a summary of our recent book, ""Inflation in Emerging and Developing Economies: Evolution, Drivers, and Policies,"" that analyzes this remarkable achievement. Our findings suggest that many EMDEs enjoy the benefits of stability-oriented and resilient monetary policy frameworks, including central bank transparency and independence. Such policy frameworks need to be complemented by strong macroeconomic and institutional arrangements. Inflation expectations are more weakly anchored in EMDEs than in advanced economies. In EMDEs that do not operate inflation targeting frameworks, exchange rate movements tend to have larger and more persistent effects on inflation."
E31|Global Inflation Synchronization|We study the extent of global inflation synchronization using a dynamic factor model in a large set of countries over a half century. Our methodology allows us to account for differences across groups of countries (advanced economies and emerging market and developing economies) and to analyze commonalities in inflation synchronization across a wide range of inflation measures. We report three major results. First, inflation movements have become increasingly synchronized internationally over time: a common global factor has accounted for about 22 percent of variation in national inflation rates since 2001. Second, inflation synchronization has also become more broad-based: while it was previously much more pronounced among advanced economies than among emerging market and developing economies, it has become substantial in both groups over the past two decades. In addition, inflation synchronization has become significant across all inflation measures since 2001, whereas it was previously prominent only for inflation measures that included mostly tradable goods.
E31|Inflation Expectations: Review and Evidence|This paper presents a comprehensive examination of the determination and evolution of inflation expectations, with a focus on emerging market and developing economies (EMDEs). The results suggest that long-term inflation expectations in EMDEs are not as well anchored as those in advanced economies, despite notable improvements over the past two decades. Indeed, in EMDEs, long-term inflation expectations are more sensitive to both domestic and global inflation shocks. However, EMDEs tend to be more successful in anchoring inflation expectations in the presence of an inflation targeting regime, high central bank transparency, strong trade integration, and a low level of public debt.
E31|Irreversible monetary policy at the zero lower bound|Real-world central banks have a strong aversion to policy reversals. Nevertheless, theoretical models of monetary policy within the dynamic general equilibrium framework normally ignore the irreversibility of interest rate control. In this paper, we develop a formal model that incorporates a central bank's discretionary optimization problem with an aversion to policy reversals. We show that, even under a discretionary regime, the optimal timing of liftoff from the zero lower bound is characterized by its history dependence, which arises from the option value to waiting, and there exists an optimal degree of reversal aversion at which the social loss is minimized.
E31|An investigation of the exchange rate pass-through in the Baltic states|In this paper, we investigate the Exchange Rate Pass-Through (ERPT) to import and consumer prices in the three Baltic states. We apply reduced form equations first. Then, to look at measures of shock-dependent ERPT, we use Bayesian VARs with zero and sign restrictions and a local projection exercise, using common euro area shocks. We find that results from reduced form equations are in line with the ERPT literature. As for shock-dependent ERPTs, the magnitudes are overall bigger than in the literature in the case of import prices. They get smaller for consumer prices and even smaller if we remove energy and food prices.
E31|More Gray, More Volatile? Aging and (Optimal) Monetary Policy|The empirical and theoretical evidence on the inflation impact of population aging is mixed, and there is no evidence regarding the volatility of inflation. Based on advanced economies’ data and a DSGE-OLG model - a multi-period general equilibrium framework with overlapping generations, - we find that aging leads to downward pressure on inflation and higher inflation volatility. Our paper is also the first to discuss, using this framework, how aging affects the short-term cyclical behavior of the economy and the transmission channels of monetary policy. Further, we are also the first to examine the interplay between aging and optimal central bank policies. As aging redistributes wealth among generations, generations behave differently, and the labor force becomes more scarce with aging, our model suggests that aging makes monetary policy less effective, and aggregate demand less elastic to changes in the interest rate. Moreover, in more gray societies central banks should react more strongly to nominal variables, and in a very old society the nominal GDP targeting rule might become the most effective monetary policy rule to compensate for higher inflation volatility.
E31|Robust Monetary Policy Under Uncertainty About the Lower Bound|Central banks face uncertainty about the true location of the effective lower bound (ELB) on nominal interest rates. We model optimal discretionary monetary policy during a liquidity trap when the central bank designs policy that is robust with respect to the location of the ELB. If the central bank fears the worst-case location of the ELB, monetary conditions will be more expansionary before the liquidity trap occurs.
E31|Role of expectations in a liquidity trap|A number of previous studies suggest that inflation expectations are important in considering the effectiveness of monetary policy in a liquidity trap. However, the role of inflation expectations can be very different, depending on the type of monetary policy that a central bank implements. This paper reveals how a private agent forms inflation expectation affects the effectiveness of monetary policy under the optimal commitment policy, the Taylor rule, and a simple rule with price-level targeting. We examine two expectation formations: (i) different degrees of anchoring, and (ii) different degrees of forward-lookingness. We show that how to form inflation expectations is less relevant when a central bank implements the optimal commitment policy, while it is critical when the central bank adopts the Taylor rule or a simple rule with price-level targeting. Even for the Japanese economy, the effects of monetary policy on economic dynamics significantly change according to expectation formations under rules other than the optimal commitment policy.
E31|Understanding Inflation in Emerging and Developing Economies|"Emerging market and developing economies (EMDEs) have experienced an extraordinary decline in inflation since the early 1970s. After peaking in 1974 at 17.3 percent, inflation in these economies declined to 3.5 percent in 2017. Despite a checkered history of managing inflation among many EMDEs, disinflation occurred across all regions. This paper presents a summary of a recent book,""Inflation in Emerging and Developing Economies: Evolution, Drivers, and Policies,""that analyzes this remarkable achievement. The findings suggest that many EMDEs enjoy the benefits of stability-oriented and resilient monetary policy frameworks, including central bank transparency and independence. Such policy frameworks need to be complemented by strong macroeconomic and institutional arrangements. Inflation expectations are more weakly anchored in EMDEs than in advanced economies. In EMDEs that do not operate inflation targeting frameworks, exchange rate movements tend to have larger and more persistent effects on inflation."
E31|Inflation Expectations: Review and Evidence|This paper presents a comprehensive examination of the determination and evolution of inflation expectations, with a focus on emerging market and developing economies (EMDEs). The results suggest that long-term inflation expectations in EMDEs are not as well anchored as those in advanced economies, despite notable improvements over the past two decades. Indeed, in EMDEs, long-term inflation expectations are more sensitive to both domestic and global inflation shocks. However, EMDEs tend to be more successful in anchoring inflation expectations in the presence of an inflation targeting regime, high central bank transparency, strong trade integration, and a low level of public debt.
E31|Can loss aversion shed light on the deflation puzzle?|This paper argues that the application of loss aversion to wage determination can explain the deflation puzzle: the failure of persistently high unemployment to exert a persistent downward impact on the rate of inflation in money wages. This is an improvement on other theories of the deflation puzzle which simply assume downward wage rigidity; which are the hysteresis theory, the lubrication theory and the efficiency wage theory. The paper presents estimates that support the loss aversion explanation of the deflation puzzle for both the US and Australia. Furthermore, our estimation approach gives a more precise estimate of the potential rate of unemployment than does the natural rate approach and reveals a potential rate of unemployment for the US and Australia at the current time (end of 2017) of about 4% and 3.3% respectively.
E31|Monetary Policy, Inflation Target and the Great Moderation: An Empirical Investigation|This paper compares the empirical fit of a Taylor rule featuring constant versus time-varying inflation target by estimating a Generalized New Keynesian model under positive trend inflation while allowing for indeterminacy. The estimation is conducted over two different periods covering the Great Inflation and the Great Moderation. We find that the rule embedding time variation in target inflation turns out to be empirically superior and determinacy prevails in both sample periods. Counterfactual simulations point toward both `good policy' and `good luck' as drivers of the Great Moderation. We find that better monetary policy, both in terms of a more active response to inflation gap and a more anchored inflation target, has resulted in the decline in inflation gap volatility and predictability. In contrast, the reduction in output growth variability is mainly explained by reduced volatility of technology shocks.
E31|Inflation and monetary policy: What South African newspapers report in an era of policy transparency|Inflation is a monetary policy outcome, but in the short to medium term, price and wage decisions are co-determined by the public and private sectors. Many central banks have adopted transparency as a strategic policy approach, whereby communication of monetary policy goals is used as a public anchor. While the central bank’s strategy involves carefully crafted, deliberately simplified messages, most of the public tends to access inflation-related information through the media. In this paper, we examine South African newspaper articles to identify how inflation is presented in the media and the role of the media, through this presentation, in the process of shaping public opinion around inflation expectations. We do this in two ways. First, we examine how inflation is presented in the media and then we identify the various actors presented in the media, their positions on inflation, and how these relate to each other. The systematic analysis of the media’s presentation of inflation allows us to identify some challenges to the central bank’s communication strategy.
E31|An Investigation of the Exchange Rate Pass-Through in the Baltic States|In this paper, we investigate the Exchange Rate Pass-Through (ERPT) to import and consumer prices in the three Baltic states. We apply reduced form equations first. Then, to look at measures of shock-dependent ERPT, we use Bayesian VARs with zero and sign restrictions and a local projection exercise, using common euro area shocks. We find that results from reduced form equations are in line with the ERPT literature. As for shock-dependent ERPTs, the magnitudes are overall bigger than in the literature in the case of import prices. They get smaller for consumer prices and even smaller if we remove energy and food prices.
E31|Global factors and trend inflation|We develop a model to empirically study the influence of global factors in driving trend inflation and the inflation gap.We apply our model to five established inflation targeters and a group of heterogeneous Asian economies. Our results suggest that while global factors can have a sizeable influence on the inflation gap, they play only a marginal role in driving trend inflation. Much of the influence of global factors in the inflation gap may be reflecting commodity price shocks. We also find global factors have a greater influence on inflation, and especially trend inflation, for the group of Asian economies relative to the established inflation targeters. A possible interpretation is that inflation targeting may have reduced the influence of global factors on inflation, and especially so on trend inflation.
E31|US monetary policy since the 1950s and the changing content of FOMC minutes|Content analysis is used to analyze 60 years of FOMC minutes. Since there is no unique algorithm to quantify content two different algorithms are applied. Wordscores compares content relative to a chosen benchmark while DICTION is an alternative algorithm that is specifically designed to capture various elements that capture the sentiment or tone conveyed in a text. The resulting indicators are then incorporated into a VAR. The content of FOMC minutes is found to be significantly related to the state of the economy, notably real GDP growth and changes in the fed funds rate. However, the relationship between content and macroeconomic conditions changes after 1993 when minutes are made public with a lag. Both content indicators also suggest substantive changes in the content of FOMC minutes since the 1950s in terms of the FOMC’s dovishness or hawkishness.
E31|Firms' Price, Cost and Activity Expectations: Evidence from Micro Data|Firms’ expectations play a central role in modern macroeconomic models, but little is known empirically about how these are formed or whether they matter for economic outcomes. Using a novel panel data set of manufacturing firms’ expectations about prices and wage rates, new orders, employment and unit costs for the United Kingdom, we document a range of stylized facts about the properties of firms’ expectations and their relationship with recent experience. There is wide dispersion of expectations across firms. Expected future price and wage growth are influenced by firm-specific factors but macroeconomic factors also matter. Expectations of employment and new orders are influenced by firm-specific measures of past orders while expected unit costs seem to be influenced more by firm-specific cost pressures and aggregate import prices. After controlling for a wide range of variables we find a significant connection between past expected price and wage increases and their out-turns. But there is also strong evidence that firms’ expectations are clearly not rational.
E31|Not All Price Endings Are Created Equal: Price Points and Asymmetric Price Rigidity|There is evidence that 9-ending prices are more common and more rigid than other prices. We use data from three sources: a laboratory experiment, a field study, and a large US supermarket chain, to study the cognitive underpinning and the ensuing asymmetry in rigidity associated with 9-ending prices. We find that consumers use 9-endings as a signal for low prices, and that this signal interferes with price information processing. Consequently, consumers are less likely to notice a bigger price when it ends with 9, or a price increase when the new price ends with 9, in comparison to a situation where the prices end with some other digit. We also find that retailers respond strategically to this consumer bias by setting 9-ending prices more often after price increases than after price decreases. 9-ending prices, therefore, usually increase only if the new prices are also 9ending. Consequently, there is an asymmetry in the rigidity of 9-ending prices: they are more rigid than non 9-ending prices upward but not downward.
E31|Testing the Asymmetric Effects of Exchange Rate and Oil Price Pass-Through in BRICS Countries: Does the state of the economy matter?|This paper investigates not only the question of whether there is exchange rate and oil price pass-through (EROPPT) but also the extent to which the pass-through is asymmetric or state dependent in the BRICS countries. Using monthly data and the nonlinear Vector Smooth Transition Autoregressive (VSTAR) model, we find evidence of period specific pass-through between the upper and lower regime periods, governed by the selected transition variables. We also find asymmetric pass-through in all the countries with strong evidence of higher pass-through when the size of the shocks to the transition variable moves the system above a threshold level. The result further divulges that output growth asymmetrically reacts to the shocks. The implication of these findings is that the pass-through is strongly affected by the state of the economy.
E31|News, noise and Indian business cycle|New Keynesian Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium (DSGE) models with various specifications oftechnology, markup and interest rate shocks are estimated with Indian data using Kalman filter basedpure and Bayesian likelihood estimation. Preference and interest rate shocks are found to be importantfor output determination whereas markup and interest rate shocks are important for inflation. News,such as contained in stock market variables and arising from anticipated interest rates, affects growth ofgross domestic product. Interest rate shock is anticipated at horizon of one quarter and out of totalvariance explained by interest rate shock, one third is due to the anticipated shock. Anticipated interestrate shock diminishes the role of preference shock in output determination. Markup shock has a largeshare, very low persistence but is correlated. There is evidence that permanent component of technologyis not well anticipated, and once we incorporate that technology shocks become more important fordetermination of output although it still remains much below US levels. Implications for policy aredrawn out.
E31|Inflation and deflationary biases in inflation expectations|We explore the consequences of losing confidence in the price-stability objective of central banks by quantifying the inflation and deflationary biases in inflation expectations. In a model with an occasionally binding zero-lower-bound constraint, we show that both inflation bias and deflationary bias can exist as a steady-state outcome. We assess the predictions of this model using unique individual-level inflation expectations data across nine countries that allow for a direct identification of these biases. Both inflation and deflationary biases are present and sizable, but different across countries. Even among the euro-area countries, perceptions of the European Central Bank's objectives are very distinct.
E31|Flexible Majority Rules for Cryptocurrency Issuance|We suggest that flexible majority rules for currency issuance decisions foster the stability of a cryptocurrency. With flexible majority rules, the voteshare needed to approve a particular currency issuance growth is increasing with this growth rate. By choosing suitable parameters for these flexible majority rules, we show that optimal growth rates can be achieved in simple settings. Moreover, with flexible majority rules, changes in the composition of growth-friendly and growth-adverse agents only have a comparatively moderate impact on growth rates, and extreme growth rates are avoided. Finally, we show that optimal money growth rates are realized if agents entering financial contracts anticipate ensuing inflation rates determined by these flexible majority rules.
E31|Inflation Expectations, Consumption and the Lower Bound: Micro Evidence from a Large Euro Area Survey|This paper exploits a very large multi-country survey of consumers to investigate empirically the relationship between inflation expectations and consumer spending. We document that for the Euro Area and almost all of its constituent countries this relationship is generally positive: a higher expected change in inflation is associated with an increase in the probability that a given consumer will make major purchases. Moreover, in line with the predictions of macroeconomic theory, the impact is stronger when the lower bound on nominal interest rates is binding. Also, using the estimated spending probabilities from our micro-level analysis, we indirectly estimate the impact of a gradual increase in inflation expectations on aggregate private consumption. We find the effects to be economically relevant, especially when the lower bound is binding.
E31|Skills Mismatch and Productivity in the EU|This paper analyses different dimensions of skills mismatch (notably ‘macro-economic skills mismatch’, ‘skills shortages’, and ‘on-the-job skills mismatch’) and their empirical relationship with labour productivity. Macro-economic skills mismatch arises when the skills distribution differs between the available workers and those that get hired. Skills shortages occur when employers encounter difficulties to fill their vacancies. On-the-job skills mismatch (overqualification or underqualification) refers to a discrepancy between the qualification level of a jobholder and the requirements for that particular job. Our data suggest that certain types of skills mismatch are indeed on the rise in the EU, notably skills shortages and overqualification. Other types are on a long-term declining trend (e.g. underqualification) or follow more complex patterns over time (e.g. macro-economic skills mismatch). There are also significant differences across EU Member States in the levels of these indicators. We further suggest that theoretical predictions on the relationship between skills mismatch and productivity depend on the dimension of skills mismatch considered. Our empirical analysis suggests a negative relationship between macro-economic skill mismatch and labour productivity and – as a sign of a buoyant economy - a positive relationship between skills shortages and labour productivity. With regard to on-the-job skills mismatch, our data confirm earlier findings from the economic literature: when comparing a mismatched with a well-matched worker within the same occupation, overqualification raises and underqualification reduces productivity. When comparing a mismatched with a well-matched worker within the same qualification level, overqualification reduces and underqualification increases productivity. Our results imply a positive link between skills supply and productivity. However, to realise the full potential of higher skills, skills should be labour market relevant and skilled workers need to be matched with jobs that use these skills. Therefore, upskilling policies should ideally be accompanied by policies that assure quality and labour market relevance of acquired skills, policies that foster a general upgrading of jobs such as business regulations allowing for firm entry, growth, sectoral reallocation, and policies supporting labour mobility and innovation.
E31|The propagation of uncertainty shocks : Rotemberg vs. Calvo|This paper studies the effects of uncertainty shocks on economic activity, focusing on inflation. Using a VAR, I show that increased uncertainty has negative demand effects, reducing GDP and prices. I then consider standard New Keynesian models with Rotemberg-type and Calvo-type price rigidities. Despite the belief that the two schemes are equivalent, I show that they generate different dynamics in response to uncertainty shocks. In the Rotemberg model, uncertainty shocks decrease output and inflation, in line with the empirical results. By contrast, in the Calvo model, uncertainty shocks decrease output but raise inflation because of firms' precautionary pricing motive.
E31|Financial Variables in a Policy Rule: Does It Bring Macroeconomic Benefits?|The main aim of this research is to find whether direct incorporation of the financial variables in the monetary policy rule can bring macroeconomic benefits in terms of lower volatility of inflation and output. This paper sheds light on the performance of the augmented Taylor rules with financial variables in a small open economy. For this purpose, a New Keynesian DSGE model with two types of financial frictions is constructed. This work provides three conclusions. First, incorporation of asset prices in the monetary policy rule can be beneficial for macroeconomic stabilisation in terms of lower implied volatilities of inflation and output in the response to certain domestic shocks. Second, the usefulness of the augmented monetary policy rule with asset prices deteriorates in case of the shocks originating abroad. The most favourable results as a response to foreign shocks delivers the rule accounting for movements in inflation and output, since this rule can accommodate foreign first-round effects. Third, when all shocks are set to be operative, the best performance delivers the rule accounting for movements in output.
E31|Time-Varying Money Demand and Real Balance Effects|This paper presents an analysis of the stimulants and consequences of money demand dynamics. By assuming that households’ money holdings and consumption preferences are not separable, we demonstrate that the interest-elasticity of demand for money is a function of the households’ preference to hold real balances, the extent to which these preferences are not separable in consumption and real balances, and trend inflation. An empirical study of U.S. data revealed that there was a gradual fall in the interest-elasticity of money demand of approximately one-third during the 1970s due to high trend inflation. A further decline in the interest-elasticity of the demand for money was observed in the 1980s due to the changing household preferences that emerged in response to financial innovation. These developments led to a reduction in the welfare cost of inflation that subsequently explains the rise in monetary neutrality observed in the data.
E31|Mis-Specification in Phillips Curve Regressions: Quantifying Frequency Dependence in This Relationship While Allowing for Feedback|We use recently developed econometric tools to demonstrate that the Phillips curve unemployment rate–inflation rate relationship varies in an economically meaningful way across three phases of the business cycle. The first (“bust phase”) relationship is the one highlighted by Stock and Watson (2010): A sharp reduction in inflation occurs as the unemployment rate is rising rapidly. The second (“recovery phase”) relationship occurs as the unemployment rate subsequently begins to fall; during this phase, inflation is unrelated to any conventional unemployment gap. The final (“overheating phase”) relationship begins once the unemployment rate drops below its natural rate. We validate our findings in a forecasting exercise and find statistically significant episodic forecast improvement. Our analysis allows us to provide a unified explanation of many prominent findings in the literature.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E31|Monetary Policy and Macroeconomic Stability Revisited|A large literature with canonical New Keynesian models has established that the Fed's policy change from a passive to an active response to inflation led to U.S. macroeconomic stability after the Great Inflation of the 1970s. We revisit this view by estimating a staggered price model with trend inflation using a Bayesian method that allows for equilibrium indeterminacy and adopts a sequential Monte Carlo algorithm. {{p}} The model empirically outperforms a canonical New Keynesian model and demonstrates an active response to inflation even in the Great Inflation era, during which the U.S. economy was likely in the indeterminacy region of the model's parameter space. A more active response to inflation alone does not suffice for explaining the shift to determinacy after the Great Inflation, unless it is accompanied by a decline in trend inflation or a change in policy responses to the output gap and output growth.
E31|Thinking Outside the Box: Do SPF Respondents Have Anchored Inflation Expectations?|Despite the stability of the median 10-year inflation expectations in the Survey of Professional Forecasters (SPF) near 2 percent, we show that not a single SPF respondent’s expectations have been anchored at the target since the Federal Open Market Committee’s (FOMC) enactment of an inflation target in January 2012, or even since 2015. However, we find significant evidence for “delayed anchoring,” or a move toward being anchored, particularly after the federal funds rate lifted off in December 2015.
E31|A Theory of Intrinsic Inflation Persistence|We propose a novel theory of intrinsic inflation persistence by introducing trend inflation and variable elasticity of demand in a model with staggered price and wage setting. Under nonzero trend inflation, the variable elasticity generates intrinsic persistence in inflation through a measure of price dispersion stemming from staggered price setting. It also introduces intrinsic persistence in wage inflation under staggered wage setting, which affects price inflation. With the theory we show that inflation exhibits a persistent, hump-shaped response to a monetary policy shock. We also show that a credible disinflation leads to a gradual decline in inflation and a fall in output, and lower trend inflation reduces inflation persistence, as observed around the time of the Volcker disinflation.
E31|Time-Varying Money Demand and Real Balance Effects|This paper presents an analysis of the stimulants and consequences of money demand dynamics. By assuming that household?s money holdings and consumption preferences are not separable, we demonstrate that the interest-elasticity of demand for money is a function of the household?s preference to hold real balances, the extent to which these preferences are not separable in consumption and real balances, and trend infl?ation. An empirical study of U.S. data revealed that there was a gradual fall in the interest elasticity of money demand of approximately one-third during the 1970s due to high trend in?flation. A further decline in the interest-elasticity of the demand for money was observed in the 1980s due to the changing household preferences that emerged in response to ?financial innovation. These developments led to a reduction in the welfare cost of infl?ation that subsequently explains the rise in monetary neutrality observed in the data.
E31|Two Measures of Core Inflation: A Comparison|Trimmed-mean Personal Consumption Expenditure (PCE) inflation does not clearly dominate ex-food-and-energy PCE inflation in real-time forecasting of headline PCE inflation. However, trimmed-mean inflation is the superior communications and policy tool because it is a less-biased real-time estimator of headline inflation and because it more successfully filters out headline inflation’s transitory variation, leaving only cyclical and trend components.
E31|Optimal monetary policy regime switches|Given regime switches in the economy’s growth rate, optimal monetary policy rules may respond by switching policy parameters. These optimized parameters differ across regimes and from the optimal choice under fixed regimes, particularly in the inflation target and interest rate inertia. Optimal switching rules produce welfare gains relative to constant rules, with switches in the implicit real interest rate used for policy and the degree of interest rate inertia producing the largest gains. However, gains from switching rules decrease if the monetary authority trades-off the probability of low rates, or if it may misidentify the regime.
E31|Using Brexit to Identify the Nature of Price Rigidities|Using price quote data that underpin the official U.K. consumer price index (CPI), we analyze the effects of the unexpected passing of the Brexit referendum to the dynamics of price adjustments. The sizable depreciation of the British pound that immediately followed Brexit works as a quasi-experiment, enabling us to study the transmission of a large common marginal cost shock to inflation as well as the distribution of prices within granular product categories. A large portion of the inflationary effect is attributable to the size of price adjustments, implying that a time-dependent price-setting model can match the response of aggregate inflation reasonably well. The state-dependent model fares better in capturing the endogenous selection of price changes at the lower end of the price distribution, however, it misses on the magnitude of the adjustment conditional on selection.
E31|Monetary Policy Options at the Effective Lower Bound : Assessing the Federal Reserve's Current Policy Toolkit|We simulate the FRB/US model and a number of statistical models to quantify some of the risks stemming from the effective lower bound (ELB) on the federal funds rate and to assess the efficacy of adjustments to the federal funds rate target, balance sheet policies, and forward guidance to provide monetary policy accommodation in the event of a recession. Over the next decade, our simulations imply a roughly 20 to 50 percent probability that the federal funds rate will be constrained by the ELB at some point. We also find that forward guidance and balance sheet polices of the kinds used in response to the Global Financial Crisis are modestly effective in speeding up the labor market recovery and return of inflation to 2 percent following an economic slump. However, these policies have only small effects in limiting the initial rise in the unemployment rate during a recession because of transmission lags. As with any model-based analysis, we also discuss a number of c aveats regarding our results.
E31|Trade Exposure and the Evolution of Inflation Dynamics|"The diminished sensitivity of inflation to changes in resource utilization that has been observed in many advanced economies over the past several decades is frequently linked to the increase in global economic integration. In this paper, we examine this ""globalization"" hypothesis using both aggregate U.S. data on measures of inflation and economic slack and a rich panel data set containing producer prices, wages, output, and employment at a narrowly defined industry level. Our results indicate that the rising exposure of the U.S. economy to international trade can indeed help explain a significant fraction of the overall decline in responsiveness of aggregate inflation to fluctuations in economic activity. This flattening of the U.S. Phillips curve is supported strongly by our cross-sectional evidence, which shows that increased trade exposure significantly attenuates the response of inflation to fluctuations in output across industries. Our estimates indicate that the inflation-output tradeoff is about three times larger for low-trade intensity industries compared with their high-trade intensity counterparts."
E31|Getting Smart About Phones: New Price Indexes and the Allocation of Spending Between Devices and Services Plans in Personal Consumption Expenditures|This paper addresses two measurement issues for mobile phones. First, we develop a new mobile phone price index using hedonic quality-adjusted prices for smartphones and a matched-model index for feature phones. Our index falls at an average annual rate of 17 percent during 2010-2018, close to the rate of decline in the price index used in the GDP Accounts. Given relatively flat average prices over this period, our index points to substantial quality improvement. Second, we propose a methodology to disentangle purchases of phones and wireless services when they are bundled together as part of a long-term service contract. Getting the allocation right is especially important for real PCE because the price deflators for phones and wireless services exhibit very different trends. Our adjusted estimates suggest that real PCE spending currently captured in the category Cellular Phone Services increased 4 percentage points faster than is reflected in published data.
E31|Inflation and Deflationary Biases in Inflation Expectations|We explore the consequences of losing confidence in the price-stability objective of central banks by quantifying the inflation and deflationary biases in inflation expectations. In a model with an occasionally binding zero-lower-bound constraint, we show that both inflation bias and deflationary bias can exist as a steady-state outcome. We assess the predictions of this model using unique individual-level inflation expectations data across nine countries that allow for a direct identification of these biases. Both inflation and deflationary biases are present and sizable, but different across countries. Even among the euro-area countries, perceptions of the European Central Bank’s objectives are very distinct.
E31|Understanding Persistent Stagnation|We theoretically explore long-run stagnation at the zero lower bound in a representative agent framework. We analytically compare expectations-driven stagnation to a secular stagnation episode and find contrasting policy implications for changes in government spending, supply shocks and neo-Fisherian policies. On the other hand, a minimum wage policy is expansionary and robust to the source of stagnation. Using Bayesian methods, we estimate a DSGE model that can accommodate two competing hypotheses of long-run stagnation in Japan. We document that equilibrium selection under indeterminacy matters in accounting for model fit.
E31|Monetary policy, housing rents, and inflation dynamics|In this paper we study the effect of monetary policy shocks on housing rents. Our main finding is that, in contrast to house prices, housing rents increase in response to contractionary monetary policy shocks. We also find that, after a contractionary monetary policy shock, rental vacancies and the homeownership rate decline. This combination of results suggests that monetary policy may affect housing tenure decisions (own versus rent). In addition, we show that, with the exception of the shelter component, all other main components of the consumer price index (CPI) either decline in response to a contractionary monetary policy shock or are not responsive. These findings motivated us to study the statistical properties of alternative measures of inflation that exclude the shelter component. We find that measures of inflation that exclude shelter have most of the statistical properties of the widely used measures of inflation, such as the CPI and the price index for personal consumption expenditures, but have higher standard deviations and react more to monetary policy shocks. Finally, we show that the response of housing rents accounts for a large proportion of the “price puzzle” found in the literature.
E31|Hitting the Elusive Inflation Target|Since the 2001 recession, average core inflation has been below the Federal Reserve’s 2% target. This deflationary bias is a predictable consequence of a low nominal interest rates environment in which the central bank follows a symmetric strategy to stabilize inflation. The deflationary bias increases if macroeconomic uncertainty rises or the natural real interest rate falls. An asymmetric rule according to which the central bank responds less aggressively to above-target inflation corrects the bias and allows inflation to converge to the central bank’s target. We show that adopting this asymmetric rule improves welfare and reduces the risk of self-fulfilling deflationary spirals. This approach does not entail any history dependence in setting the policy rate or any commitment to overshoot inflation after periods in which the lower bound constraint was binding.
E31|Rising Market Concentration and the Decline of Food Price Shock Pass-Through to Core Inflation|Using a vector autoregression that allows for time-varying parameters and stochastic volatility, we show that U.S. core inflation became 75 percent less responsive to shocks in food prices since the late 1970s. The decline in the pass-through of food price shocks to inflation is a result of a decline in both volatility and the persistence of food price changes in inflation. This decline in pass-through coincides with a period of increasing concentration in the food supply chain, especially among U.S. grocery retailers and distributors. We find that 60 percent of the variation in pass-through over the last four decades can be explained by changes in food retailers’ and distributors’ market concentration. Controlling for the composition of the food basket and inflation expectations explains an additional 20 percent of the variation. {{p}} Our results suggest that if the market concentration of food retailers and distributors continues to increase and inflation expectations remain well-anchored, the pass-through of food price shocks to inflation will likely remain subdued.
E31|The Monetary and Fiscal History of Argentina, 1960-2017|In this chapter, we review the monetary and fiscal history of Argentina for the period 1960–2017, a time during which the country suffered several balance of payments crises, three periods of hyperinflation, two defaults on government debt, and three banking crises. All told, between 1969 and 1991, after several monetary reforms, thirteen zeros had been removed from its currency. We argue that all these events are the symptom of a recurrent problem: Argentina’s unsuccessful attempts to tame the fiscal deficit. An implication of our analysis is that the future economic evolution of Argentina depends greatly on its ability to develop institutions that guarantee that the government does not spend more than its genuine tax revenues over reasonable periods of time.
E31|Russia’s Monetary Policy in 2018|Russia’s central bank adopted a new monetary policy regime in 2018 by raising the key interest rate for the first time since December 2014. After slashing the key interest rate on February 9th and on March 23rd by 0.25 percentage points to 7.5 and 7.25 percent per annum, respectively, the central bank lifted the rate on September 14th by 0.25 percentage points to 7.5 percent per annum, with another hike on December 14th of 0.25 percentage points to 7.75 percent per annum. The transition to a neutral monetary policy regime2 slowed as far back as in 2017. There were more constraints to interest rate cuts in 2018 that came from new April and August anti-Russia sanctions that spurred capital outflows from the country and depreciation of the Russian ruble, a VAT hike decision scheduled for 2019, a late-year fall in energy prices, and concerns about possible heightening of inflation expectations. The key interest rate hike suggested that the Bank of Russia is committed to bring inflation back down to target in the medium term. For instance, according to a forecast of the central bank, end-of-year inflation for 2019 may reach 5–5.5 percent, and it is not until 2020 that inflation is back to its target.
E31|Owner-Occupied Housing, Inflation, and Monetary Policy| The treatment of owner-occupied housing (OOH) in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) affects inflation expectations, real interest rates, and hence market outcomes. After showing that none of the existing treatments of OOH are fit for purpose, we propose a new simplified user cost method with better properties. We then compare empirically eight treatments of OOH. Our preferred approach pushes up the CPI during housing booms. We relate our findings to the following macroeconomic debates: the disinflation puzzle, leaning against the wind, and the effectiveness of monetary policy in the presence of secular stagnation, the zero lower bound, and globalization.
E31|Inflation targeting and the forward bias puzzle in emerging countries|Based on quarterly data on 31 emerging countries (among which 16 are inflation targeting countries) from 1990Q1 to 2014Q3, we obtain a strong support for the conjecture that the implementation of inflation targeting weakens the Fisherian relation between expected depreciation and the interest rate differential (uncovered interest parity condition) and thus is conducive to the appearance of the forward bias puzzle in emerging countries. We show that this reflects the performance of inflation targeting regimes in lowering the level and volatility of inflation. Our finding holds when controlling for country-specific effects, time-specific effects, global disinflation, exchange rate management, crises, and using different econometric techniques.
E31|Inflation target and (a)symmetries in the oil price pass-through to inflation|In this paper we employ state-space models to estimate the pass-through of oil price changes to consumer prices for a large sample of countries from 1970 to 2017. By controlling for self-selection bias and endogeneity and allowing for different responses to positive and negative price changes, we asses the differences between explicit inflation targeting (IT) countries and a control group. Surprisingly perhaps, our results suggest that the pass-through is higher for IT countries. Our main contribution is to show that these is mainly due to IT countries having a significant higher pass-through than non-IT countries when the oil price decreases: a 10% drop in oil price leads about a 0.11% drop in inflation in ITers (of which 4pp are explained by the monetary regime). Importantly, we show that adopting IT reduces the asymmetry of the pass-through. We run several robustness checks and conclude that falling oil prices are more welcomed by the central banks with an IT framework, in particular during deflationary episodes or when inflation is above the target.
E31|Episodes of War and Peace in an Estimated Open Economy Model|We analyze the effects of large war episodes (world wars) on the macroeconomic dynamics of four advanced countries (France, Germany, the UK and the U.S.) by means of an estimated open-economy model. The model allows wars to produce specific effects on the economy through capital depreciation, sovereign default and a military draft. These effects, together with large surges in public spending and debt, and significant drops in labor taxes, account for the bulk of fluctuations during wars. We also use our estimations to discuss the size and state-dependence of output multipliers, and the size of welfare losses from fluctuations.
E31|Does inflation targeting always matter for the ERPT? A robust approach|This paper estimates the effects of different forms of inflation targeting (IT) in the exchange rate pass-through (ERPT). To this end, we first estimate the ERPT for a large sample of countries using state-space models. We then consider the adoption of an inflation targeting framework by a country as a treatment to find suitable counterfactuals to the actual targeters. By controlling for self-selection bias and endogeneity of the monetary policy regime, we confirm that the ERPT tends to be lower for countries adopting explicit IT. However, we uncover that older regimes, adopting a range or point with tolerance band and keeping inflation close to the target, outperform other IT regimes. We also show that IT is effective even with a relatively high inflation target or low central bank independence.
E31|Disinflation, Inequality and Welfare in a TANK Model|We investigate the redistributive and welfare effects of disinflation in a two-agent New Keynesian (TANK) model characterized by Limited Asset Market Participation (LAMP) and wealth inequality. We highlight two key mechanisms driving our long-run results: i) the cash in advance constraint on firms working capital (CIA); ii) dividends endogeneity. These two channels point in opposite directions. Lower inflation softens the CIA and, by raising labor demand, lowers inequality. But the disinflation also raises dividends and this increases inequality. The disinflation is always welfare-improving for asset holders. We obtain ambiguous results for non-asset holders, who suffer substantial consumption losses during the transition.
E31|On Staggered Prices and Optimal Inflation|This paper computes the steady-state optimal rate of inflation assuming two di erent sticky-price specifications, Calvo (1983) and Taylor (1980), in a model with monopolistic competition. The optimal rate of inflation in steady state is always positive. This result is robust to changes in the degree of price stickiness. In both cases of staggered prices, the optimal rate of inflation is approximately equal to the ratio between the rate of discount and the Dixit-Stiglitz elasticity.
E31|Consumers’ Perception of Inflation in Inflationary and Deflationary Environment|Abstract The paper employs survey data on quantitative inflation perceptions to investigate the formation of consumers’ opinions about current price developments. Firstly, we compare Polish consumers’ estimates of price changes with the consumer price index (CPI) and find that consumers react more quickly to inflation increases than decreases, and that they ignore small moves in inflation. Moreover, the previously stable relation between inflation perception and the CPI inflation was distorted during the deflationary period, leading to a smaller perception bias. Secondly, we relax the assumption that consumers perceive price changes in the CPI terms and show that consumers over-weight clothing and footwear prices and under-weight transport prices relative to the expenditure shares of these items. Prices of food and beverages, as well as prices related to housing, water, gas, electricity, etc. have similar impact on inflation perception as on the CPI inflation. Thirdly, selective attention of consumers to price changes and asymmetric reaction to increases and falls in prices, captured by alternative price aggregates, do not explain inflation perception during deflation.
E31|Three decades of inﬂation targeting|Over the last three decades, inflation targeting has become one of the most widespread monetary policy frameworks used in economies striving to conduct independent monetary policy. However, the recent global financial crisis provoked criticism of the way monetary policies had been conducted, including under an inflation targeting strategy, and called for some adjustments to the monetary policy regimes. Against this background, the report is aimed at showing that introducing changes to inflation targeting has been an ongoing process. This is illustrated by discussing the key modifications that have been applied to the inflation targeting framework over the last decades, as well as by pointing to some less commonly reviewed adjustments of the strategy as practiced by some central banks in the past. While quite a number of more recent studies on inflation targeting emphasise lessons learnt from the global financial crisis, this report looks at the full 30 years of experiences with the regime and covers rather diversified array of issues relevant for understanding the strategy, reaching also for more distant examples of its modifications. Importantly, the focus is put on strategic elements of the framework, and consequently the topics related to macroprudential policy and monetary policy instruments are discussed rather briefly.
E31|Negative nominal interest rates and the bank lending channel|Following the crisis of 2008, several central banks engaged in a new experiment by setting negative policy rates. Using aggregate and bank level data, we document that deposit rates stopped responding to policy rates once they went negative and that bank lending rates in some cases increased rather than decreased in response to policy rate cuts. Based on the empirical evidence, we construct a macro-model with a banking sector that links together policy rates, deposit rates and lending rates. Once the policy rate turns negative, the usual transmission mechanism of monetary policy through the bank sector breaks down. Moreover, because a negative policy rate reduces bank profits, the total effect on aggregate output can be contractionary. A calibration which matches Swedish bank level data suggests that a policy rate of - 0.50 percent increases borrowing rates by 15 basis points and reduces output by 7 basis points.
E31|A Requiem for the Fiscal Theory of the Price Level|The Fiscal Theory of the Price Level (FTPL) is the claim that, in a popular class of theoretical models, the price level is sometimes determined by fiscal policy rather than monetary policy. The models where this claim has been established assume that all decisions are made by an infinitely-lived representative agent. We present an alternative, arguably more realistic model, populated by sixty-two generations of people. We calibrate our model to an income profile from U.S. data and we show that the FTPL breaks down. In our model, the price level and the real interest rate are indeterminate, even when monetary and fiscal policy are both active. Our findings challenge established views about what constitutes a good combination of fiscal and monetary policies.
E31|Minding Your Ps and Qs: Going from Micro to Macro in Measuring Prices and Quantities|Key macro indicators such as output, productivity, and inflation are based on a complex system across multiple statistical agencies using different samples and levels of aggregation. The Census Bureau collects nominal sales, the Bureau of Labor Statistics collects prices, and the Bureau of Economic Analysis constructs nominal and real GDP using these data and other sources. The price and quantity data are integrated at a high level of aggregation. This paper explores alternative methods for reengineering key national output and price indices using item-level data. Such reengineering offers the promise of greatly improved key economic indicators along many dimensions.
E31|Has the U.S. Wage Phillips Curve Flattened? A Semi-Structural Exploration|Unconditional reduced form estimates of a conventional wage Phillips curve for the U.S. economy point to a decline in its slope coefficient in recent years, as well as a shrinking role of lagged price inflation in the determination of wage inflation. We provide estimates of a conditional wage Phillips curve, based on a structural decomposition of wage, price and unemployment data generated by a VAR with time varying coefficients, identified by a combination of long-run and sign restrictions. Our estimates show that the key qualitative findings from the unconditional reduced form regressions also emerge in the conditional evidence, suggesting that they are not entirely driven by endogeneity problems or possible changes over time in the importance of of wage markup shocks. The conditional evidence, however, suggests that actual changes in the slope of the wage Phillips curve may not have been as large as implied by the unconditional estimates.
E31|Monetary Policy Communications and their Effects on Household Inflation Expectations|We study how different forms of communication influence the inflation expectations of individuals in a randomized controlled trial. We first solicit individuals’ inflation expectations in the Nielsen Homescan panel and then provide eight different forms of information regarding inflation. Reading the actual Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) statement has about the same average effect on expectations as simply being told about the Federal Reserve’s inflation target. Reading a news article about the most recent FOMC meetings results in a forecast revision which is smaller by half. Our results have implications for how central banks should communicate to the broader public.
E31|IQ, expectations, and choice|We use administrative and survey-based micro data to study the relationship between cognitive abilities (IQ), the formation of economic expectations, and the choices of a representative male population. Men above the median IQ (high-IQ men) display 50% lower forecast errors for inflation than other men. The inflation expectations and perceptions of high-IQ men, but not others, are positively correlated over time. High-IQ men are also less likely to round and to forecast implausible values. In terms of choice, only high-IQ men increase their propensity to consume when expecting higher inflation as the consumer Euler equation prescribes. High-IQ men are also forward-looking - they are more likely to save for retirement conditional on saving. Education levels, income, socio-economic status, and employment status, although important, do not explain the variation in expectations and choice by IQ. Our results have implications for heterogeneous-beliefs models of household consumption, saving, and investment.
E31|Is Inflation Just Around the Corner? The Phillips Curve and Global Inflationary Pressures|Tightening labor markets in the United States and other advanced economies suggest inflation should be on the rise, yet it remains subdued. Is the Phillips curve broken? We bring together surveys of household or firm expectations for 18 countries to estimate an expectations-augmented Phillips curve. We find strong evidence of a Phillips curve relationship: the Phillips curve is alive and well. The fact that inflation remains well below inflation expectations, both in the United States and abroad, suggests that there remains significant slack in labor markets.
E31|The Nonpuzzling Behavior of Median Inflation|Economists are puzzled by the behavior of U.S. inflation since the Great Recession of 2008-2009, and many suggest that the Phillips curve relating inflation to unemployment has broken down. This paper argues that inflation behavior is easier to understand if we divide headline inflation into core and transitory components, and if core inflation is measured by the weighted median of industry inflation rates. This weighted median is less volatile than the traditional measure of core inflation, the inflation rate excluding food and energy prices, because it filters out large price changes in all industries. We illustrate the usefulness of the weighted median with a case study of inflation in 2017 and early 2018. We also show that a Phillips curve relating the weighted median to unemployment appears clearly in the data for 1985-2017, with no sign of a breakdown in 2008.
E31|Productivity Measurement: Racing to Keep Up|This paper provides a non-technical review of the literature and issues related to the measurement of aggregate productivity. I begin with a discussion of productivity measures, their performance in recent decades, and key measurement puzzles that emerge from the data. The remainder of the review focuses on two important questions. First, how do we make more accurate the measures of prices used to deflate nominal output so as to win (or at least not lose) the race for economic measurement to keep up with a changing economy? This section frames the issues and points to the most important and promising areas for further research. Second, what does or should GDP measure? I defend GDP as a valuable measure of production and offer suggestions for improving it. At the same time, I emphasize the importance of measuring economic welfare (well being) and highlight the value of supplementing GDP with a satellite account that measures economic welfare.
E31|Recovery of 1933|When Roosevelt abandoned the gold standard in April 1933, he converted what had been effectively real government debt into nominal government debt to open the door to unbacked fiscal expansion. We argue that he followed a state-contingent fiscal rule that ran nominal-debt-financed primary deficits until the price level rose and economic activity recovered. Theory suggests that government spending multipliers can be substantially larger when fiscal expansions are unbacked than when they are tax-backed. VAR estimates find that primary deficits made quantitatively important contributions to raising both the price level and real GNP from 1933 through 1937. The evidence does not support the conventional monetary explanation that gold revaluation and gold inflows, which were permitted to raise the monetary base, drove the recovery independently of fiscal actions.
E31|Getting Smart About Phones : New Price Indexes and the Allocation of Spending Between Devices and Services Plans in Personal Consumption Expenditures|This paper addresses two measurement issues for mobile phones. First, we develop a new mobile phone price index using hedonic quality-adjusted prices for smartphones and a matched-model index for feature phones. Our index falls at an average annual rate of 17 percent during 2010-2018, close to the rate of decline in the price index used in the GDP Accounts. Given relatively flat average prices over this period, our index points to substantial quality improvement. Second, we propose a methodology to disentangle purchases of phones and wireless services when they are bundled together as part of a long-term service contract. Getting the allocation right is especially important for real PCE because the price deflators for phones and wireless services exhibit very different trends. Our adjusted estimates suggest that real PCE spending currently captured in the category Cellular Phone Services increased 4 percentage points faster than is reflected in published data.
E31|The local aggregate effects of minimum wage increases|This paper examines the effect of minimum wage changes on local aggregate inflation and consumption growth. The paper utilizes variation in state-level minimum wages across locations and finds that minimum wage increases have a relatively modest effect on both city-level inflation and spending growth over the years following the change. The most noticeable effects are for food consumed at home and away from home—industries that typically employ a large share of low-wage and minimum-wage workers. Interestingly, consumers adjust their real food consumption when minimum wages rise, suggesting that some workers benefit from minimum wage changes.
E31|Prospects for Inflation in a High Pressure Economy: Is the Phillips Curve Dead or is It Just Hibernating?|This paper reviews a substantial range of empirical evidence on whether the Phillips curve is dead, i.e. that its slope has flattened to zero. National data going back to the 1950s and 60s yield strong evidence of negative slopes and significant nonlinearity in those slopes, with slopes much steeper in tight labor markets than in easy labor markets. This evidence of both slope and nonlinearity weakens dramatically based on macro data since the 1980s for the price Phillips curve, but not the wage Phillips curve. However, the endogeneity of monetary policy and the lack of variation of the unemployment gap, which has few episodes of being substantially below zero in tis sample period, makes the price Phillips curve estimates from this period less reliable. At the same time, state level and MSA level data since the 1980s yield significant evidence of both negative slope and nonlinearity in the Phillips curve. The difference between national and city/state results in recent decades can be explained by the success that monetary policy has had in quelling inflation and anchoring inflation expectations since the 1980s. We also review the experience of the 1960s, the last time inflation expectations became unanchored, and observe both parallels and differences with today. Our analysis suggests that reports of the death of the Phillips curve may be greatly exaggerated.
E31|On Money as a Medium of Exchange in Near-Cashless Credit Economies|We study the transmission of monetary policy in credit economies where money serves as a medium of exchange. We find that—in contrast to current conventional wisdom in policy-oriented research in monetary economics—the role of money in transactions can be a powerful conduit to asset prices and ultimately, aggregate consumption, investment, output, and welfare. Theoretically, we show that the cashless limit of the monetary equilibrium (as the cash-and-credit economy converges to a pure-credit economy) need not correspond to the equilibrium of the nonmonetary pure-credit economy. Quantitatively, we find that the magnitudes of the responses of prices and allocations to monetary policy in the monetary economy are sizeable—even in the cashless limit. Hence, as tools to assess the effects of monetary policy, monetary models without money are generically poor approximations—even to idealized highly developed credit economies that are able to accommodate a large volume of transactions with arbitrarily small aggregate real money balances.
E31|The Fiscal Roots of Inflation|Unexpected inflation devalues nominal government bonds. It must therefore correspond to a decline in expected future surpluses, or a rise in their discount rates, so that the real value of debt equals the present value of surpluses. I measure each component via a vector autoregression, in response to inflation, recession, monetary and fiscal policy shocks. Discount rates, rather than deficits, account for much inflation and deflation. Monetary policy smooths the inflationary response to fiscal shocks. I interpret the results through a fiscal theory of monetary policy.
E31|Optimal Inflation and the Identification of the Phillips Curve|Several academics and practitioners have pointed out that inflation follows a seemingly exogenous statistical process, unrelated to the output gap, leading some to argue that the Phillips curve has weakened or disappeared. In this paper we explain why this seemingly exogenous process arises, or, in other words, why it is difficult to empirically identify a Phillips curve, a key building block of the policy framework used by central banks. We show why this result need not imply that the Phillips curve does not hold – on the contrary, our conceptual framework is built under the assumption that the Phillips curve always holds. The reason is simple: if monetary policy is set with the goal of minimising welfare losses (measured as the sum of deviations of inflation from its target and output from its potential), subject to a Phillips curve, a central bank will seek to increase inflation when output is below potential. This targeting rule will impart a negative correlation between inflation and the output gap, blurring the identification of the (positively sloped) Phillips curve. We discuss different strategies to circumvent the identification problem and present evidence of a robust Phillips curve in US data.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E31|A unified approach to measuring u|This paper bridges the gap between two popular approaches to estimating the natural rate of unemployment, u*. The first approach uses detailed labor market indicators, such as labor market flows, cross-sectional data on unemployment and vacancies, or various measures of demographic changes. The second approach, which employs reduced-form models and DSGE models, relies on aggregate price and wage Phillips curve relationships. We combine the key features of these two approaches to estimate the natural rate of unemployment in the United States using both data on labor market flows and a forward-looking Phillips curve that links inflation to current and expected deviations of unemployment from its unobserved natural rate. We estimate that the natural rate of unemployment was around 4.0 percent toward the end of 2018 and that the unemployment gap was roughly closed. Identification of a secular downward trend in the unemployment rate, driven solely by the inflow rate, facilitates the estimation of u*. We identify the increase in labor force attachment of women, decline in job destruction and reallocation intensity, and dual aging of workers and firms as the main drivers of the secular downward trend in the inflow rate.
E31|Slack and Cyclically Sensitive Inflation|We investigate the flattening Phillips relation by making two departures from standard specifications. First, we measure slack using real activity variables that are bandpass filtered or year-over-year changes in activity (these are similar), instead of gaps. Second, we study the components of inflation instead of the standard aggregates. We find that some inflation components have strong and stable correlations with the cyclical component of real activity; these components tend to be relatively well-measured and domestically determined. Other components, typically prices that are poorly measured or internationally determined, have weak and/or unstable correlations with cyclical activity. We construct a new inflation index, Cyclically Sensitive Inflation, that weights the components by their joint cyclical covariation with real activity. The index has strong and stable correlations with cyclical activity and provides a real-time measure of cyclical movements in inflation.
E31|A Classical View of the Business Cycle|"In the 1920s, Irving Fisher extended his previous work on the Quantity Theory to describe how, through an early version of the Phillips Curve, changes in the price level could affect both output and unemployment. At the same time, Holbrook Working designed a quantitative rule for achieving price stability through control of the money supply. This paper develops a structural vector autoregressive time series model that allows these ""classical"" channels of monetary transmission to operate alongside, or perhaps even instead of, the now-more-familiar interest rate channels of the canonical New Keynesian model. Even with Bayesian priors that intentionally favor the New Keynesian view, the United States data produce posterior distributions for the model's key parameters that are more consistent with the ideas of Fisher and Working. Changes in real money balances enter importantly into the model's aggregate demand relationship, while growth in Divisia M2 appears in the estimated monetary policy rule. Contractionary monetary policy shocks reveal themselves through persistent declines in nominal money growth instead of rising nominal interest rates. These results point to the need for new theoretical models that capture a wider range of channels through which monetary policy affects the economy and suggest that, even today, the monetary aggregates could play a useful role in the Federal Reserve's policymaking strategy."
E31|Re-Engineering Key National Economic Indicators|Traditional methods of collecting data from businesses and households face increasing challenges. These include declining response rates to surveys, increasing costs to traditional modes of data collection, and the difficulty of keeping pace with rapid changes in the economy. The digitization of virtually all market transactions offers the potential for re-engineering key national economic indicators. The challenge for the statistical system is how to operate in this data-rich environment. This paper focuses on the opportunities for collecting item-level data at the source and constructing key indicators using measurement methods consistent with such a data infrastructure. Ubiquitous digitization of transactions allows price and quantity be collected or aggregated simultaneously at the source. This new architecture for economic statistics creates challenges arising from the rapid change in items sold. The paper explores some recently proposed techniques for estimating price and quantity indices in large scale item-level data. Although those methods display tremendous promise, substantially more research is necessary before they will be ready to serve as the basis for the official economic statistics. Finally, the paper addresses implications for building national statistics from transactions for data collection and for the capabilities and organization of the statistical agencies in the 21st century.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E31|The Rise of Niche Consumption|We show that over the last 15 years, the typical household has increasingly concentrated its spending on a few preferred products. However, this is not driven by “superstar” products capturing larger market shares. Instead, households increasingly focus spending on different products from each other. As a result, aggregate spending concentration has in fact decreased over this same period. We use a novel heterogeneous agent model to conclude that increasing product variety is a key driver of these divergent trends. When more products are available, households can select a subset better matched to their particular tastes, and this generates welfare gains not reflected in government statistics. Our model features heterogeneous markups because producers of popular products care more about maximizing profits from existing customers, while producers of less popular niche products care more about expanding their customer base. Surprisingly, however, our model can match the observed trends in household and aggregate concentration without any resulting change in aggregate market power.
E31|Exposure to Daily Price Changes and Inflation Expectations|We show that, to form aggregate inflation expectations, consumers rely on the price changes they face in their daily lives while grocery shopping. Specifically, the frequency and size of price changes, rather than their expenditure share, matter for individuals’ inflation expectations. To document these facts, we collect novel micro data for a representative US sample that uniquely match individual expectations, detailed information about consumption bundles, and item-level prices. Our results suggest that the frequency and size of grocery-price changes to which consumers are personally exposed should be incorporated in models of expectations formation. Central banks' focus on core inflation - which excludes grocery prices - to design expectations-based policies might lead to systematic mistakes.
E31|Liquidity Deflation and Liquidity Trap under Flexible Prices: Some Microfoundations and Implications|The paper discusses simple microfoundations for Liquidity Deflation (Calvo 2016, Chapter 2), which gives rise to liquidity trap under perfectly flexible prices/wages. Unlike Keynes (1936), this is a Supply Side Liquidity Trap, SSLT, not resolved by a fall in prices /wages, or massive helicopter increase in liquid government liabilities. However, escaping SSLT could be achieved by low policy interest rates on money (unless ZLB holds) and, more interestingly, higher inflation driven by administered prices/wages. Moreover, contrary to (Friedman 1969), under Liquidity Deflation the Optimal Quantity of Money does not call for liquidity satiation, and may be dangerously close to SSLT.
E31|Nominal and Real Effective Exchange Rates for Europe, 1870-2016: Some methodological issues|This paper presents and discusses a new database on nominal and real effective exchange rates for an extensive range of European countries spanning 1870-2016. Indeed, with the exception of a few countries, such long run historical series have not been previously constructed. To gage the validity of these series, comparisons with the BIS and IMF indices are conducted. In addition to stretching further back in time, it is shown that the new indices are more consistent and transparent in construction, even over the recent period. Limitations of the new series, relating to both some underlying data and the index problem are considered. Supplementary to the effective exchange rate indices, is a collection of cost of living or CPI indices 1870-1990, which are based on a critical survey in this paper of those indices which are widely used and abused.
E31|Robustness of the Norwegian wage formation system and free EU labour movement. Evidence from wage data for natives|Norway experienced a high immigration flow after the EEA directive in 2004 stating workers right to free movement within the European Union and EEA-countries. There is no clear consensus in the literature on how immigration affects native wages, but some studies using Norwegian micro data have estimated a negative effect of higher immigration for some type of workers. In this paper, to capture that the wage setting is highly coordinated in Norway, we model a system of native wages for three sectors; manufacturing, private service industries and public sector. We estimate that labour immigration has had a negative effect on the attainable wage growth for natives in all three sectors, but that the largest and most direct impact on wages has been in the private service industries. Immigration is found to be exogenous with respect to the parameters of our model of wage formation.
E31|Multilateral Sato-Vartia Index for International Comparisons of Prices and Real Expenditures|The Sato-Vartia (SV) index for bilateral price comparisons has impressive analytical properties and is used intensively in recent international trade and macroeconomic analyses. In this paper we propose several ways of constructing transitive multilateral version of the SV index. We show that the SV index is only one of many logarithmic indices that satisfy the factor reversal test discussed in index number theory. We derive closed form expressions for the generalized SV indices and empirically implement the new indices for making cross-country price comparison using World Bank data from the 2011 International Comparison Program.
E31|Long-term inflation expectations and inflation dynamics|After rising sharply following the Global Financial Crisis, inflation in Iceland has been low and stable in recent years despite a strong cyclical recovery. This not only reflects favourable external conditions but also coincides with a significant decline in long-term inflation expectations in financial markets. It is argued, however, that this market-based measure of inflation expectations actually underestimates the true decline in long-term inflation expectations of price setters. To extract this unobserved wedge between inflation expectations of price setters and financial agents, we estimate a time-varying parameter Phillips curve model for the inflation-targeting period since 2001, adjusting also for an unobserved risk premium in market-based inflation expectations. The empirical results suggest that the expectations wedge was significantly positive until early 2012, after which it starts to gradually decline towards zero. The true decline in long-term inflation expectations of actual price setters is therefore much steeper than is captured by the market-based measure and taking this into account results in a stable and plausible specification of the Phillips curve that can explain key features of the recent inflation developments in Iceland.
E31|Low Inflation Bends the Phillips Curve|The Phillips curve, which traces out a negative relationship between inflation and unemployment, has undergone tremendous changes over more than 100 years. Some researchers argue that the slope of the curve in the United States fell substantially around 20 years ago so that unemployment now has little or no effect on inflation. This paper shows that another hypothesis is equally consistent with the data: The Phillips curve may be nonlinear when inflation is low, with the economy having operated in the flat region of the curve for most of the past 20 years. The next few years may be decisive in the debate between these hypotheses, as unemployment has returned to a range in which a nonlinear curve ought to display significant steepness. A flat Phillips curve implies little change in inflation going forward, but a nonlinear curve implies moderate increases in inflation over the next few years.
E31|Self-Organization of Inflation Volatility|We present a state-dependent pricing model that generates inflation fluctuations from idiosyncratic shocks on firms. A firm's nominal price increase lowers the other firms' relative prices, thereby inducing those firms' nominal price increases. This snow-ball effect of repricing causes the fluctuations of aggregate price without exogenous aggregate shocks. The fluctuations caused by this mechanism are more volatile when the density of firms at repricing threshold is high, and the density at the threshold is high when the trend inflation level is high. Thus, the model implies that the higher trend inflation causes the larger volatility of short-term inflation rates. Analytical and numerical analyses show that the model can account for the positive relationship between inflation level and volatility that has been observed empirically.
E31|Imperfect Information, Shock Heterogeneity, and Inflation Dynamics|We establish novel empirical regularities on firms’ expectations about aggregate and idiosyncratic components of sectoral demand using industry-level survey data for the universe of Japanese firms. Expectations of the idiosyncratic component of demand differ across sectors, and they positively co-move with expectations about the aggregate component of demand. To study the implications for inflation, we develop a model with firms that form expectations based on the inference of distinct shocks from a common signal. We show that the sensitivity of inflation to changes in demand decreases with the volatility of idiosyncratic component of demand that proxies the degree of shock heterogeneity. We apply principal component analysis on Japanese sectoral-level data to estimate the degree of shock heterogeneity, and we establish that the observed increase in shock heterogeneity plays a significant role for the reduced sensitivity of inflation to movements in real activity since the late 1990s.
E31|Multivariate Filter Estimation of Potential Output for the United States: An Extension with Labor Market Hysteresis|This paper extends the multivariate filter approach of estimating potential output developed by Alichi and others (2018) to incorporate labor market hysteresis. This extension captures the idea that long and deep recessions (expansions) cause persistent damage (improvement) to the labor market, thereby reducing (increasing) potential output. Applying the model to U.S. data results in significantly smaller estimates of output gaps, and higher estimates of the NAIRU, after the global financial crisis, compared to estimates without hysteresis. The smaller output gaps partly explain the absence of persistent deflation despite the slow recovery during 2010-2017. Going forward, if strong growth performance continues well beyond 2018, hysteresis is expected to result in a structural improvement in growth and employment.
E31|News, Noise and Indian Business Cycle|New Keynesian Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium (DSGE) models with various specifications of technology, markup and interest rate shocks are estimated with Indian data using Kalman filter based pure and Bayesian likelihood estimation. Preference and interest rate shocks are found to be important for output determination whereas markup and interest rate shocks are important for inflation. News, such as contained in stock market variables and arising from anticipated interest rates, affects growth of gross domestic product. Interest rate shock is anticipated at horizon of one quarter and out of total variance explained by interest rate shock, one third is due to the anticipated shock. Anticipated interest rate shock diminishes the role of preference shock in output determination. Markup shock has a large share, very low persistence but is correlated. There is evidence that permanent component of technology is not well anticipated, and once we incorporate that technology shocks become more important for determination of output although it still remains much below US levels. Implications for policy are drawn out.
E31|Inflation convergence and anchoring of expectations in India|Careful research on the inflation targeting regime's impact on anchoring inflation expectations as well as an empirical examination of convergence is used to assess the direction of convergence between core and headline inflation as well as the efficacy of the expectation channel compared to the aggregate demand channel of monetary transmission. There is evidence of more anchoring, with RBI communications as well as headline inflation affecting short-run inflation expectations and core inflation dominating in the long-run. The Repo rate has hardly any affect. While persistently high headline affects core, normally a volatile headline reverts to a more stable core. Transitory shocks to components of core have kept it sticky, but it is also softening, so that both core and headline can be expected to approach the inflation target. Our evidence supports the expectation channel of monetary transmission to inflation but not the aggregate demand channel. It follows monetary policy should focus on clear communication and accurate forecasts, while avoiding excessively high policy rates.
E31|Correlated shocks, hysteresis, and the sacrifice ratio: Evidence from India|In an emerging market subject to frequent shocks output sacrifice from disinflation depends not only on the Phillips curve slope but also on shifts in demand and supply. Introducing shocks and correlations between shocks in a Kalman filter based estimation, the slope flattens, correlation between permanent output shocks (supply) and output gap (demand) shocks is negative and a new decomposition of output between trend and output gap shocks is obtained. The flat supply curve is robust to parameter changes, and business cycle turning points are tracked well, but the decomposition varies. More stable inflation expectation and rise in forward-looking behaviour increases volatility of trend growth and reduces the output gap. Inflation targeting had such effects in India. Estimated sacrifice ratio varies with the period and method, but it rises to 6.7 over 2011-17 if such hysteresis is included. Simultaneous equation estimation corroborates the results. In the estimation period, inflation targeting affected expectations but not inflation.
E31|Lost in translation: What do Engel curves tell us about the cost of living?| The Hamilton method for estimating CPI bias is simple, intuitive, and has been widely adopted. We show that the method conflates CPI bias with variation in cost-of-living across income levels. Assuming a single price index across the income distribution is inconsistent with the downward sloping Engel curves that are necessary to implement the method. We develop and implement the Translated Engel curve (TEC) method that disentangles genuine CPI bias from differences caused by comparing changes in the cost of living across different income levels - non-homotheticity. The TEC method gives substantially different estimates of CPI bias prior to major reforms to the CPI in 1999 (post-Boskin), but both methods suggest very little CPI bias thereafter.
E31|Measuring consumer inflation in a digital economy|The effect on the household consumption price index from possible sources of error in capturing digital products depends on the weight of the affected products. To calculate upper bounds for this effect, we apply weights based on the average structure of household consumption in OECD countries to a maximum plausible overstatement of price change for each affected or potentially affected product. The products account for about 35% of household expenditure in 2005, declining to 32% in 2015. The upper bound simulation effect on the growth rate of the consumption deflator is somewhat less than –0.6 percentage points in 2015 – large enough to improve the picture of GDP and productivity growth in advanced economies. However, this would not overturn the conclusion that productivity growth has slowed substantially compared over the past decades.
E31|Imperfect Information, Shock Heterogeneity, and Inflation Dynamics|We establish novel empirical regularities on firmsâ€™ expectations about aggregate and idiosyncratic components of sectoral demand using industry-level survey data for the universe of Japanese firms. Expectations of the idiosyncratic component of demand differ across sectors, and they positively co-move with expectations about the aggregate component of demand. To study the implications for inflation, we develop a model with firms that form expectations based on the inference of distinct shocks from a common signal. We show that the sensitivity of inflation to changes in demand decreases with the volatility of idiosyncratic component of demand that proxies the degree of shock heterogeneity. We apply principal component analysis on Japanese sectoral-level data to estimate the degree of shock heterogeneity, and we establish that the observed increase in shock heterogeneity plays a significant role for the reduced sensitivity of inflation to movements in real activity since the late 1990s.
E31|Exchange Rate Pass-Through to Prices: VAR Evidence for Albania|This paper estimates the impact of exchange rate shocks to prices in Albania from 2000Q1 to 2017Q1. The empirical analysis is based on a Vector Autoregressive approach for Albanian economy following Cholesky decomposition scheme. Impulse-response functions give evidence for an incomplete “pass-through” of exchange rate shocks to prices. Impulse-response functions to oil shocks indicates initial positive values for import and producer prices and negative value for consumer prices and interest rates. Variance decomposition reveal that the highest fluctuations of import prices is triggered by growth rate and oil prices shocks, whereas the variance of producer prices and consumer prices is explained by its own innovations. Exchange rate’s innovations are less aggressive to import prices and producer prices then to consumer prices. We perform the robustness check allowing interest rate to be ordered before exchange rates and the results do not change from the previous findings.
E31|Time series modeling and forecasting of the consumer price index in Japan|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in Japan from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the X series is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 0) model for predicting CPI in Japan. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is actually stable and acceptable. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Japan is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study basically encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Japan.
E31|Forecasting UK consumer price index using Box-Jenkins ARIMA models|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in the UK from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the K series is I (2). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 2, 1) model for predicting CPI in the UK. The diagnostic tests further indicate that the presented optimal model is actually stable and acceptable. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in the UK is likely to continue on a sharp upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study basically encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in the UK.
E31|Forecasting consumer price index in Norway: An application of Box-Jenkins ARIMA models|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in Norway from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the N series is I (2). The study presents the ARIMA (2, 2, 2) model for predicting CPI in Norway. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is actually stable. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Norway is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study basically encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Norway.
E31|Forecasting Australian CPI using ARIMA models|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in Australia from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the A series is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 0) model for predicting CPI in Australia. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is stable and acceptable. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Australia is likely to continue on an upwards trend in the next decade. The study basically encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Australia.
E31|Predicting CPI in Singapore: An application of the Box-Jenkins methodology|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in Singapore from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the S series is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 2) model for predicting CPI in Singapore. The diagnostic tests further show that the presented optimal model is actually stable and acceptable. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Singapore is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study basically encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Singapore.
E31|Time series modeling and forecasting of the consumer price index in Belgium|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in Belgium from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the B series is I (2). The study presents the ARIMA (0, 2, 1) model for predicting CPI in Belgium. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is apparently stable and acceptable. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Belgium is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study basically encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Belgium.
E31|Understanding CPI dynamics in Canada|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in Canada from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the C series is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 1) model for predicting CPI in Canada. The diagnostic tests further show that the presented parsimonious model is stable. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Canada is likely to continue on a sharp upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Canada.
E31|Predicting CPI in France|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in France from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the F series is I (2). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 2, 0) model for predicting CPI in France. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented model is stable and acceptable for predicting CPI in France. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in France is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next ten years. The study encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in France.
E31|Forecasting CPI in Sweden|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in Sweden from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the W series is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 0) model for predicting CPI in Sweden. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is stable as expected. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Sweden is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next ten years. The study encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Sweden.
E31|Predicting CPI in Panama|This study uses annual time series data on CPI in Panama from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the P series is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 0) model for predicting CPI in Panama. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is actually stable and acceptable for forecasting CPI in Panama. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Panama is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next 10 years. The study encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to deal with inflation in Panama.
E31|Modeling and forecasting CPI in Myanmar: An application of ARIMA models|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in Myanmar from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the M series is I (2). The study presents the ARIMA (2, 2, 1) model for predicting CPI in Myanmar. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is stable and acceptable in modeling CPI in Myanmar. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Myanmar is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to deal with inflation in Myanmar.
E31|Analyzing CPI dynamics in Italy|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in Italy from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the T series is I (2). The study presents the ARIMA (0, 2, 1) model for predicting CPI in Italy. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is actually stable and acceptable for predicting CPI in Italy over the period under study. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Italy is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study basically encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Italy.
E31|Predicting consumer price index in Saudi Arabia|This paper uses annual time series data on CPI in Japan from 1963 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the Y series is I (2). The study presents the ARIMA (0, 2, 1) model for predicting CPI in Saudi Arabia. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is actually stable and acceptable for predicting CPI in Saudi Arabia. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Saudi Arabia is likely to be relatively high in the next decade. The study encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to deal with inflation in Saudi Arabia.
E31|Modeling and forecasting CPI in Mauritius|This paper uses annual time series data on CPI in Mauritius from 1963 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the Z series is I (2). The study presents the ARIMA (0, 2, 3) model for predicting CPI in Mauritius. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is actually stable and acceptable for predicting CPI in Mauritius. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Mauritius is likely to continue on a very sharp upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study basically encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Mauritius.
E31|Prediction of Inflation in Algeria using ARIMA models|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Algeria from 1970 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARIMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that A is I(1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 1). The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARIMA (1, 1, 1) model is stable and acceptable for predicting inflation in Algeria. The results of the study apparently show that A will ranging between 4.9% and 5.2% over the out-of-sample period. Monetary authorities in Algeria are expected to tighten Algeria’s monetary policy in order to maintain price stability.
E31|Understanding inflation trends in Israel: A univariate approach|This paper uses annual time series data on inflation in Israel from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that Q is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 2) model for predicting inflation in Israel. The diagnostic tests further show that the presented parsimonious model is stable and acceptable for predicting inflation in Israel. The results of the study apparently show that inflation in Israel is likely to be hovering around 1.6% over the next decade. Basically, the study encourages the Bank of Israel to continue being transparent and independent in order to retain credibility and boost its ability to engineer successful macroeconomic policy actions.
E31|Modeling and forecasting inflation in Lesotho using Box-Jenkins ARIMA models|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Lesotho from 1974 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARIMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that L is I(1). The study presents the ARIMA (0, 1, 2). The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARIMA (0, 1, 2) model is stable and acceptable for predicting inflation in Lesotho. The results of the study apparently show that L will be approximately 5.2% over the out-of-sample forecast period. The CBL is expected to tighten Lesotho’s monetary policy in order to maintain price stability.
E31|Modeling and forecasting inflation in Philippines using ARIMA models|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in the Philippines from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARIMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that P is I(1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 3). The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARIMA (1, 1, 3) model is stable and acceptable for predicting inflation in the Philippines. The results of the study apparently show that P will fall down from 5.6% in 2018 to approximately 0.3% in 2027. The Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas is expected to continue implementing it inflation targeting policy framework since it proves to work well for the economy.
E31|Predicting inflation in Senegal: An ARMA approach|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Senegal from 1968 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that the inflation rate series is I(0). The study presents the ARMA (1, 0, 0) model, which is equivalent to an AR (1) model. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARMA (1, 0, 0) model is stable and acceptable for forecasting inflation rates in Senegal. The results of the study apparently show that inflation will be approximately 4.7% by 2020. Policy makers and the business community in Senegal are expected to take advantage of the anticipated stable inflation rates over the next decade.
E31|Predicting inflation in Sri Lanka using ARMA models|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Sri Lanka from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that S is I(0). The study presents the ARMA model (1, 0, 0) [or simply AR (1) process] for forecasting inflation rates in Sri Lanka. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARMA (1, 0, 0) model is not only stable but also suitable. The results of the study apparently show that S will be approximately 8.17% by 2020. Policy makers and the business community in Sri Lanka are expected to take advantage of the anticipated stable inflation rates over the next decade.
E31|ARIMA modeling and forecasting of Consumer Price Index (CPI) in Germany|This paper uses annual time series data on CPI in Germany from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the GC series is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 1) model for predicting CPI in Germany. The diagnostic tests further show that the presented parsimonious model is stable and acceptable for predicting CPI in Germany. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Germany is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to deal with inflation in Germany.
E31|Forecasting inflation in Burkina Faso using ARMA models|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Burkina Faso from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that B is I(0). The study presents the ARMA (2, 0, 0) model, which is nothing but an AR (2) model. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARMA (2, 0, 0) model is stable and acceptable. The results of the study apparently show that W will be approximately 4% by 2020. Policy makers and the business community in Burkina Faso are expected to take advantage of the anticipated stable inflation rates over the next decade.
E31|Modeling and forecasting inflation in Burundi using ARIMA models|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Burundi from 1966 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARIMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that B is I(1). The study presents the ARIMA (0, 1, 1). The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARIMA (0, 1, 1) model is stable and acceptable for predicting inflation in Burundi. The results of the study apparently show that B will be approximately 9.4% by 2020. Policy makers, particulary, monetary authorities in Burundi are expected to tighten Burundi’s monetary policy in order to restore price stability.
E31|ARIMA modeling and forecasting of inflation in Egypt (1960-2017)|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Egypt from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARIMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that E is I(1). The study presents the ARIMA (0, 1, 1). The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARIMA (0, 1, 1) model is stable and acceptable for predicting inflation in Egypt. The results of the study apparently show that E will be approximately 23.3% over the out-of-sample forecast period. The CBE is expected to continue tightening Egypt’s monetary policy in order to restore price stability.
E31|Understanding inflation trends in Finland: A univariate approach|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Finland from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARIMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that F is I(1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 3) model. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARIMA (1, 1, 3) model is stable and acceptable in predicting Finnish inflation. The results of the study apparently show that F will be hovering around 1% over the next 10 years. Policy makers and the business community in Finland are expected to take advantage of the anticipated stable inflation rates over the next decade.
E31|Inflation dynamics in Jamaica: Evidence from the ARMA methodology|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Jamaica from 1968 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that JINF is I(0). The study presents the ARMA (1, 0, 0) model, which is the same as an AR (1) process. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARMA (1, 0, 0) model is stable and acceptable for forecasting inflation rates in Jamaica. The results of the study apparently show that JINF will be approximately 11.42% by 2020. Policy makers in Jamaica are expected to the take the necessary action with regards to maintaining a low and stable inflation rate over the next decade and even beyond.
E31|Inflation dynamics in Niger unlocked: An ARMA approach|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Niger from 1964 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that N is I(0). The study presents the ARMA (1, 0, 0) model, which is simply an AR (1) model. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARMA (1, 0, 0) model is stable. The results of the study apparently show that N will be approximately 4.3% by 2020. Policy makers and the business community in Niger are expected to take advantage of the anticipated stable inflation rates over the next decade.
E31|Understanding inflation patterns in Thailand: An ARMA approach|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Thailand from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that T is I(0). The study presents the ARMA (0, 0, 1) model, which is nothing but an MA (1) process. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARMA (0, 0, 1) model is stable and acceptable. The results of the study apparently show that T will be approximately 4.2% by 2020. Policy makers and the business community in Thailand are expected to take advantage of the anticipated stable inflation rates over the next decade.
E31|Predicting inflation in the Kingdom of Bahrain using ARIMA models|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in the Kingdom of Bahrain from 1966 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARIMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that Bahrain inflation series is I(1). The study presents the ARIMA (0, 1, 1). The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARIMA (0, 1, 1) model is stable and acceptable for predicting inflation in the Kingdom of Bahrain. The results of the study apparently show that predicted inflation will be approximately 1.5% by 2020. Policy makers and the business community in the Kingdom of Bahrain are expected to take advantage of the anticipated stable inflation rates over the next decade.
E31|Modeling and forecasting CPI in Iran: A univariate analysis|This paper uses annual time series data on CPI in Iran from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the I series is I (2). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 2, 1) model for predicting CPI in Iran. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is actually stable and acceptable for predicting CPI in Iran. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Iran is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next ten years. The study basically encourages Iranian policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Iran.
E31|Uncovering inflation dynamics in Morocco: An ARIMA approach|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Morocco from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARIMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that M is I(1). The study presents the ARIMA (0, 1, 1) model. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARIMA (0, 1, 1) model is stable and acceptable in forecasting inflation in Morocco. The results of the study apparently show that M will be hovering somewhere around 1.1% over the next decade. Policy makers and the business community in Morocco are expected to take advantage of the anticipated stable inflation rates over the next decade.
E31|Modeling and forecasting inflation in Tanzania using ARIMA models|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Tanzania from 1966 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the T series is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 2) model for predicting inflation in Tanzania. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is actually stable and acceptable for predicting inflation in Tanzania. The results of the study apparently show that inflation in Tanzania is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study basically encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Tanzania.
E31|Understanding inflation dynamics in the United States of America (USA): A univariate approach|This paper uses annual time series data on inflation rates in the USA from 1960 to 2016, to model and forecast inflation using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the US inflation series is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (2, 1, 1) model for predicting inflation in the US. The diagnostic tests further show that the presented parsimonious model is stable and acceptable for predicting annual inflation rates in the US. The results of the study apparently show that inflation in the US is likely to be less than 2% over the out-of-sample forecast period (i.e 10 years). The study encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary policy measures in order to maintain price stability in the US.
E31|Epidemiology of Inflation Expectations and Internet Search- An Analysis for India|This paper investigates how inflation expectations of individuals are formed in India. We investigate if the news on inflation plays a role in the formation of inflation expectations following the epidemiology-based work by Carroll (2003). The standard literature on this topic considers news coverage by the print and audio-visual media as the sources of formation of inflation expectations. Instead, we consider the Internet as a potential common source of information based on which agents form their expectations about future inflation. Based on data extracted from Google Trends, our results indicate that during the period 2006 to 2018, the Internet has indeed been a common source of information based on which agents have formed their expectations about future inflation, and the Internet search sentiment has had some impact on inflation expectations. Additionally, based on the inflation expectations series derived from the Google Trends data, we find that there is presence of “information stickiness” in the system since only a small fraction of the population update their inflation expectations each period.
E31|The Neo-Fisherianism to Escape Zero Lower Bound|Sufficiently persistent rise in nominal interest increases inflation rate in short-run. This short-run comovement of nominal interest rate and inflation rate is known as Neo-Fisherianism. This paper proposes a policy based on Neo-Fisherianism to escape Zero Lower Bound (ZLB) using a textbook forward looking New Keynesian model. I have shown that proposed policy with properly chosen inflation target and persistence can stimulate economy and escape ZLB by raising nominal interest rate. I have also shown that the proposed policy is robust to varying degrees of price stickiness.
E31|Growth and Inflation Regimes in Greater Tumen Initiative Area|This paper tests for multiple structural breaks in the mean, seasonality, dynamics and conditional volatility of Greater Tumen Initiative Countries’ (GTI) growth and inflation, while also accounting for outliers. It finds a drop in the level of Chinese growth rate in the third quarter of 2011 and of inflation rate in 1998. There are more volatility regimes than the growth regimes and most GTI countries are currently enjoying historically low volatility of their growth and inflation. Two exceptions are the increased growth volatility for Japan since 2006 and inflation volatility for Russia since 2012. There is an increased importance of seasonality in GTI and especially in Chinese inflation volatility, constituting at least a half of the total volatility.
E31|Economic Misery, Urbanization and Life Expectancy in MENA Nations: An Empirical Analysis|This paper has examined the effect of urbanization and economic misery on average life expectancy in selected MENA nations from 2001 to 2016. The selected MENA nations are: Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Iran, Islamic Rep., Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates and Yemen Rep. PP-Fisher Chi-square, Levin, Lin & Chu t*, Im, Pesaran and Shin W-stat and ADF-Fisher Chi-square unit root tests have been used for examining unit root issue in the data. Panel ARDL has been used for reviewing the co-integration among the selected indicators. The causality of the variables has been analyzed by impulse response function and variance decomposition. The outcomes reveal that food availability has significant and positive relation with an average life expectancy. The outcomes show that environmental standards put significant and positive impact on average life expectancy. The outcomes reveal that economic misery has a significant and negative influence on average life expectancy in MENA nations. The findings reveal that urbanization puts significant and positive influence on average life expectancy. So, for improving the average life expectancy in MENA nations availability of food, household final consumption and the level of urbanization must be enhanced. Whereas at the time economic misery will be reduced.
E31|The Advancement in Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) and Economic Development: A Panel Analysis|This study analyses the impact of advancement in information and communication technologies (ICT) on economic development over the period of 2000 to 2017 in the case of 87 developed and developing countries. The developed and developing countries are selected following the ranking of International Monetary Fund's World Economic Outlook Database, October 2018. This article uses three types of analysis: the first is based on the whole sample, and for comparative analysis developed and developing countries’ analysis are done separately. The results of panel least squares reveal that advancement in information and communication technologies has an insignificant relationship with economic development, whereas the advancement in information and communication technologies is playing a positive and significant role in the economic development of developing countries. This shows that developed countries are getting more benefits from advancement in information and communication technologies in comparison with developing countries in the process of economic development. The developed countries have a more stable macroeconomic environment in comparison with developing countries, so macroeconomic stability is playing more significant role in the case of developed countries. If developing countries want to achieve higher economic development, they must increase trade and physical capital with stable macroeconomic environment. Moreover, developing countries should adopt advancement in information and communication technologies (ICT) to compete with developed countries in the process of economic development.
E31|Distributional Impacts of Low for Long Interest Rates|This paper asks whether tepid inflation in Canada since the financial crisis can in part be explained by the effects of monetary policy on inequality. Using different structural vector autoregression models we show that expansionary monetary policy post-crisis has led to increased inequality as more resources are shifted away from lower-income individuals, which in general have higher marginal propensities to consume. As a result, aggregate demand has not risen as much as it otherwise would have, leading to a more muted inflationary response. Our results suggest that failure to account for the heterogeneity of consumption responses across the income distribution could lead to an underestimation of the magnitude of inflation’s response to a monetary policy shock.
E31|Negative interest rate policy in a permanent liquidity trap|Using a dynamic general equilibrium model, this paper theoretically analyzes a negative interest rate policy in a permanent liquidity trap. If the natural nominal interest rate is above the lower bound set by the presence of vault cash held by commercial banks, a reduction in the nominal rate of interest on excess bank reserves can get an economy out of the permanent liquidity trap. In contrast, if the natural nominal interest rate is below the lower bound, then it cannot do so, but instead a rise in the rate of tax on vault cash is useful for doing so.
E31|Tobin’s Q and Its Determinants: A Study of Market Valuation in MISC Berhad|The study examines the impact of Tobin’s Q or market valuation determinants on firm corporate governance of MISC Berhad. Tobin’s Q of the firm represents the ratio of market capitalization plus long-term debt to total assets. This study employs time series regression analysis from 2012 to 2016. The findings show that only internal factors giving significant impact to the market valuation of the firm when it has been tested solely in Model 1 and combined for both internal and external factors in Model 3. Meanwhile, there is no significant result when the external factors were tested solely in Model 2. The multiple linear regression analysis shows that the Altman Z score is the most significant and positively influenced the market valuation of MISC Berhad.
E31|Understanding inflation dynamics in the Kingdom of Eswatini: a univariate approach|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in the Kingdom of Eswatini from 1966 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the H series is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (0, 1, 1) model for predicting inflation in the Kingdom of Eswatini. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is actually stable and acceptable for predicting inflation in the Kingdom of Eswatini. The results of the study apparently show that inflation in the Kingdom of Eswatini is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study basically encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in the Kingdom of Eswatini.
E31|Modeling and forecasting inflation in The Gambia: an ARMA approach|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in The Gambia from 1962 to 2016, to model and forecast inflation using ARMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that G is I(0). The study presents the ARMA (1, 0, 0) model [which is nothing but an AR (1) model]. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARMA (1, 0, 0) model is stable and indeed acceptable. The results of the study apparently show that G will be approximately 7.88% by 2020. Policy makers and the business community in The Gambia are expected to take advantage of the anticipated stable inflation rates over the next decade.
E31|Modeling the long-run relationship between inflation and economic growth in Zimbabwe: a bi-variate cointegration (Engle-Granger Two-Step) approach|The debate on the nexus between economic growth and inflation is generally inconclusive and yet inevitably interesting. This study makes a contribution to the existing debate by empirically investigating the relationship between inflation and economic growth in the context of Zimbabwe. Using time series data spanning from 1960 up to 2017, the study employs the Engle – Granger Two Step modeling technique in order to analyze the relationship between inflation and economic growth in Zimbabwe. Our findings indicate that there is a negative and statistically significant relationship between inflation and economic growth both in the short – run and long – run. The speed of adjustment to equilibrium is approximately 62% annually when the variables wander away from their equilibrium values. Amongst other policy prescriptions, the study recommends inflation targeting policy in order to stimulate growth while maintaining price stability in Zimbabwe.
E31|Demystifying inflation dynamics in Rwanda: an ARMA approach|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Rwanda from 1967 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation over the next decade using ARMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that W is I(0). The study presents the ARMA (3, 0, 0) model [which is nothing but an AR (3) model]. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARMA (3, 0, 0) model is stable and acceptable. The results of the study apparently show that W will be approximately 7.45% by 2020. Policy makers and the business community in Rwanda are expected to take advantage of the anticipated stable inflation rates over the next decade.
E31|A Theory of Inflation: The Law of Motion for Inflation under the MDC-based Procedure|In this paper, I construct an inflation model in an economy where the government and households behave under a procedure based on the maximum degree of comfortability (MDC) to reach steady state. MDC indicates the state at which the combination of revenues and assets is felt most comfortable. I show that, if MDCs of the government and households are not consistent, inflation accelerates (or decelerates) because the government behaves to match the rate of increase of its real obligations with its MDC, but households and firms behave to match the real interest rate with household’s MDC. This inconsistency or contradiction must be resolved by acceleration (or deceleration) of inflation. To control inflation, therefore, a truly independent central bank is needed because MDC is a type of preference. The central bank can control the government’s MDC by forcing the government to increase its real obligations and thereby control inflation.
E31|Promise, Trust and Betrayal: Costs of Breaching an Implicit Contract|We study the cost of breaching an implicit contract in a goods market, building on a recent study that documented the presence of such a contract in the Coca-Cola market, in the US, during 1886?1959. The implicit contract promised a serving of Coca-Cola of a constant quality (the “real thing”), and of a constant quantity (6.5oz in a bottle or from the fountain), at a constant nominal price of 5¢. We offer two types of evidence. First, we document a case that occurred in 1930, where the Coca-Cola Company chose to incur a permanently higher marginal cost of production, instead of a one-time increase in the fixed cost, to prevent a quality adjustment of Coca-Cola, which would be considered a breach of the implicit contract. Second, we explore the consequences of the Company’s 1985 decision to replace the original Coke with the “New Coke.” Using the model of Exit, Voice, and Loyalty (Hirschman 1970), we argue that the unprecedented public outcry that followed the New Coke’s introduction, was a response to the Company’s breaching of the implicit contract. We document the direct and quantifiable costs of this implicit contract breach, and demonstrate that the indirect, although unquantifiable, costs in terms of lost customer goodwill were substantial.
E31|The price of demography|A few studies lately explored the relationship between changes in the demographic structure and inflation using mainly cross-country analyses. In this paper we investigate how the evolution in the age structure of the population affected price dynamics in Italy, using annual data for a panel of provinces in the period 1982-2016. The within-country approach allows us to wipe out the effects of supranational shocks, as well as to better take into account the effects of monetary policy, main common driver of price dynamics over the medium-term. We use a set of indicators, namely young age, old age and overall dependency ratios, and the share of working age population. Our results suggest that the ongoing ageing process likely contributed to dampening price dynamics.
E31|If You Think 9-Ending Prices Are Low,Think Again|9-ending prices are a dominant feature of many retail settings, which according to the existing literature, is because consumers perceive them as being relatively low. Are 9-ending prices really lower than comparable non 9-ending prices? Surprisingly, the empirical evidence on this question is scarce. We use 8 years of weekly scanner price data with over 98 million price observations to document four findings. First, at the category level, 9-ending prices are usually higher, on average, than non 9-ending prices. Second, at the product level, in most cases, 9-ending prices are, on average, higher than prices with other endings. Third, sale prices are more likely to be non-9 ending than the corresponding regular prices. Fourth, among sale prices, 9-ending prices are often lower, on average, than comparable non 9-ending prices. The first three findings imply that although consumers may associate 9-ending prices with low prices, the data indicates otherwise. The fourth finding offers a possible explanation for this misperception. Retailers may be using 9-ending prices to draw consumers’ attention to particularly large price cuts during sales, which perhaps conditions the shoppers to associate 9-ending prices with low prices.
E31|Understanding Inflation Dynamics in the kingdom of Eswantini: A Univariate Approach|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in the Kingdom of Eswatini from 1966 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the H series is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (0, 1, 1) model for predicting inflation in the Kingdom of Eswatini. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is actually stable and acceptable for predicting inflation in the Kingdom of Eswatini. The results of the study apparently show that inflation in the Kingdom of Eswatini is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study basically encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in the Kingdom of Eswatini.
E31|How to disappear completely: non-linearity and endogeneity in the new keynesian wage Phillips curve|We use a three-regime threshold regression model to assess the ability of the New Keynesian Wage Phillips Curve (NKWPC) to describe wage inflation in the U.S. over the 1965-2018 period. Non-linearity is clearly supported by the data and it easily resists an endogeneity correction. However, this correction exposes more clearly the shortcomings of the NKWPC as a successful description of wage dynamics in the extreme phases of the business cycles, when unemployment is either low or high. In both cases it becomes completely flat.
E31|Poverty analysis in the macroeconomic perspective|Abstract Poverty is one of the problems in a complex and multi-dimensional economy. Therefore, efforts to alleviate poverty must be carried out comprehensively covering various aspects of people's lives. In the discussion of this journal by focusing the discussion on the relationship between inflation and poverty reduction. Price stabilization and inflation are still considered more general problems and are rarely associated with poverty reduction issues. One of the factors of increasing poverty that occurs is due to higher inflation rates and price volatility. For this reason, a comprehensive and effective macroeconomic policy is needed to reduce poverty. At this writing, the literature study is taken from library data and secondary data as support.
E31|Revisiting the Anomalous Relationship between Inflation and REIT Returns in Presence of Structural Breaks: Empirical Evidence from the USA and the UK|In this paper we have re-investigated the frequently observed anomalous negative relationship between inflation and REIT returns for two most important economies viz., the USA and the UK by addressing two aspects of misspecification: inappropriate functional form and omission of relevant variable. We have found that the anomalous relationship between REIT and inflation appear to proxy for the significant effect of relative price variability on REIT returns in both the countries. Further, it is evidenced that the effect of relative price variability on real estate investment trust (REIT) returns is not stable over time in case of the USA while in the UK there is no structural change in the relationship.
E31|Pricing Better|Electronic shelf label (ESL) is an emerging price display technology around the world. While these new technologies require non-trivial investments by the retailer, they also promise significant operational efficiencies in the form of savings in material, labor and managerial costs. The presumed benefits of ESL, for example, tend to be focused around lower price adjustment costs (PAC), also known as menu costs. However, ESL not only can save PAC but may also enable the retailer to price “better,” generating greater value for the transacting parties. Thus, ESL’s strategic impact for retailers occurs between claiming these presumed efficiencies and realizing the value generating potential. Using transactions data from a longitudinal field experiment, we assess such impact of ESL by studying how it shapes retail pricing practices and outcomes. Our general finding is that ESL plays an enabling role to the retailer’s strategy – thereby enhancing the retailer’s sales and revenues. The price adjustment efficiencies of ESL allows retailers to do better waste management, price discovery, as well as leveraging value in information for consumers. However, ESL’s impact on prices is nuanced, based on the retail strategy (EDLP, HI-LO) being used. Papers quantifying emerging technologies’ impact on retail outcomes are sparse, even fewer investigating their role in pricing. To the best of our knowledge, ours is the first study to explore and quantify how ESL interacts with retail strategy to affect retail pricing practices and retail outcomes.
E31|Is Inflation Fiscally Determined?|This paper examines the relationship between fiscal variables and inflation for 46 countries from 1960–2017 using a linear identity that links inflation to fiscal and monetary variables and economic growth. The results indicate that inflation is affected by both monetary and fiscal policies. However, the relation between inflation and fiscal variables disappears when monetary policy is based on commitment strategies. We conclude that fiscal determinacy of inflation is only possible when central banks practice poorly structured discretion.
E31|Justifying the Impact of Economic Deprivation, Maternal Status and Health infrastructure on Under-Five Child Mortality in Pakistan: An Empirical Analysis|During the 1980’s child survival first time attached with biological and social factors for its determination (Mosley and Chen, 1984). Socioeconomic factors need some proximate factor to impact child survival, at that time policymakers believe that socioeconomic factors indirect impact on child survival. But maternal factors, environmental contamination, nutrient deficiency and injury have direct impact on child survival. This study has tried to justify the fact that economic deprivation, health, infrastructure and maternal status impact under-five child mortality in Pakistan over the period of 1980 to 2017. For checking the stationarity of the data, Augmented Dickey-Fuller (ADF) unit root test is applied. Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model has been used for examining the co-integration among the variables of the model. Granger causality test has been applied to explore the causal relationship among the variables. The estimated results show that there is a long run relationship among the variables of the model. The results of Granger causality test highlight that there is unidirectional causality is running from independent variables to the dependent variable. The findings suggest that for reducing under-five child mortality, the government of Pakistan should improve the maternal status and health infrastructure whereas economic deprivation should be minimized.
E31|Forecasting with many predictors using message passing algorithms|Machine learning methods are becoming increasingly popular in economics, due to the increased availability of large datasets. In this paper I evaluate a recently proposed algorithm called Generalized Approximate Message Passing (GAMP) , which has been very popular in signal processing and compressive sensing. I show how this algorithm can be combined with Bayesian hierarchical shrinkage priors typically used in economic forecasting, resulting in computationally efficient schemes for estimating high-dimensional regression models. Using Monte Carlo simulations I establish that in certain scenarios GAMP can achieve estimation accuracy comparable to traditional Markov chain Monte Carlo methods, at a tiny fraction of the computing time. In a forecasting exercise involving a large set of orthogonal macroeconomic predictors, I show that Bayesian shrinkage estimators based on GAMP perform very well compared to a large set of alternatives.
E31|Inflation Aversion and the Growth-Inflation Relationship|This paper re-examines the theoretical relationship between inflation and output growth by introducing inflation aversion in a standard overlapping generations monetary endogenous growth model with productive public expenditure. We show that when the time preference parameter is a negative function of expected money growth rate, then the theoretical growth-inflation relationship that emerges is “hump-shaped”. This finding is consistent with recent empirical literature.
E31|Exchange Rate Pass-Through to Consumer Prices: The Increasing Role of Energy Prices|A group of researchers has asserted that the rate of exchange rate pass-through (ERPT) to domestic prices has declined substantially over the last few decades. We revisit this claim of a downward trend in ERPT to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) in a vector autoregressive (VAR) model for US macroeconomic data under the current floating exchange rate regime. Our VAR approach nests the conventional single equation method, revealing very weak evidence of ERPT during the pre-1990 era, but statistically significant evidence of ERPT during the post-1990 era, sharply contrasting with previous findings. After statistically confirming a structural break in ERPT to total CPI via Hansen's (2001) test procedure, we seek the source of the structural break with disaggregated level CPIs, pinning down a key role of energy prices in the break. The dependency of US energy consumption on imports increased since the 1990s until the recent recession. This change magnifies effects of the exchange rate shocks on domestic energy prices, resulting in greater responses of the total CPI via this energy price channel.
E31|Mr Phillips and the medium-run: temporal instability vs. frequency stability|The paper goes back to the original insight by Phillips and investigates the negative relationship between money wage inflation and the unemployment rate occurring at frequency bands that stretch beyond those of the business cycle. We use UK annual data for the period 1861-2015, and post- WWII quarterly data from 1960 to 2016. The two critical findings are that the wage Phillips Curve is predominantly a medium-run phenomenon, comprised in the 8-to16-year frequency band, and that the curve disappears beyond this range. Similar conclusions are reached using the post-WWII quarterly sample: at the aggregate level and at high frequencies the PC relationship is unstable over time, whereas in the frequency range between 32 to 64 quarters (our medium run timescale), this time dependency disappears.
E31|A Model of Intermediation, Money, Interest, and Prices|A model integrates a modern implementation of monetary policy (MP) into an incomplete markets monetary economy. Policy sets corridor rates and conducts open-market operations and fiscal transfers. These tools grant independent control over credit spreads and inflation. We study the implementation of spreads and inflation via different MP instruments. Through its influence on spreads, MP affects the evolution of real credit, interests, output, and wealth distribution (both in the long and the short run). We decompose effects through different transmission channels. We study the optimal spread management and find that the active management of spreads is a desirable target.
E31|Multivariate Filter Estimation of Potential Output for the United States: An Extension with Labor Market Hysteresis|This paper extends the multivariate filter approach of estimating potential output developed by Alichi and others (2018) to incorporate labor market hysteresis. This extension captures the idea that long and deep recessions (expansions) cause persistent damage (improvement) to the labor market, thereby reducing (increasing) potential output. Applying the model to U.S. data results in significantly smaller estimates of output gaps, and higher estimates of the NAIRU, after the global financial crisis, compared to estimates without hysteresis. The smaller output gaps partly explain the absence of persistent deflation despite the slow recovery during 2010-2017. Going forward, if strong growth performance continues well beyond 2018, hysteresis is expected to result in a structural improvement in growth and employment.
E31|Publish and Perish: Creative Destruction and Macroeconomic Theory|A number of macroeconomic theories, very popular in the 1980s, seem to have completely disappeared and been replaced by the dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) approach. We will argue that this replacement is due to a tacit agreement on a number of assumptions, previously seen as mutually exclusive, and not due to a settlement by ‘nature’. As opposed to econometrics and microeconomics and despite massive progress in the access to data and the use of statistical software, macroeconomic theory appears not to be a cumulative science so far. Observational equivalence of different models and the problem of identification of parameters of the models persist as will be highlighted by examining two examples: one in growth theory and a second in testing inflation persistence.
E31|The Interplay between Oil and Food Commodity Prices: Has It Changed over Time?|Using time-varying BVARs, we find that oil price increases caused by oil supply shocks did not affect food commodity prices before the start of the millennium, but had positive spillover effects in more recent periods. Likewise, shortfalls in global food commodity supply—resulting from bad harvests—have positive effects on crude oil prices since the early 2000s, in contrast to the preceding era. Remarkably, we also document greater spillover effects of both supply shocks on metals and minerals commodity prices in recent periods, as well as a stronger impact on the own price compared to earlier decades. This (simultaneous) time variation of commodity price dynamics cannot be explained by the biofuels revolution and is more likely the consequence of heightened informational frictions and information discovery in more globalized and financialized commodity markets.
E31|Populism, Economic Policies, Political Pressure And Central Bank (In)Dependence|This article discusses the relationships between populism, economic policy design and central bank independence (CBI). Assuming that 1) a macro (banking) shock can occur, 2) the incumbent government can face a trade - off between bail-out and bail-in and can finance its public spending choosing between taxes and debt; 3) an independent central bank design the monetary policy strategy assuming a long run perspective – i.e. welfare function maximization; 3) labour and financial assets represent the citizens endowment, with the possibility of monetary and banking externalities, it is possible that the majority of citizens prefer an overall policy design – including monetary policy - that are different from the social optimal ones. Then if the incumbent government wishes to please the voters, the political pressure measures the difference between the government goals and the central bank choices. The political pressure can be considered a proxy for a contingent demand of CBI reform – a metrics for de facto CBI. If we define as populist any policy that guarantees anti- elites redistribution without regard for longer term distortions, a populist pressure that promote a more politically dependent central bank can arise when the elites are sophisticated investors, while the majority of citizens are unsophisticated investors.
E31|Exploring Wage Phillips Curves in Advanced Economies|We investigate the extent to which excess supply (demand) in labour markets contributes to a lower (higher) growth rate of average nominal wages for workers. Using panel methods on data from 10 advanced economies for 1992–2018, we produce reduced-form estimates of a wage Phillips curve specification that is consistent with a New Keynesian framework. We find comparable effects on nominal wage growth from several indicators of “slack” in the labour market: unemployment rates, unemployment rate gaps, the prime-age employment-to-population ratios, a composite labour market indicator constructed using a principal component for a wide range of labour force data, and unemployment rates separated by duration of unemployment. Our results provide evidence that while the slope of the wage Phillips curve seems to have become flatter following the global financial crisis in 2008, the relationship still appears to be highly significant. We find that the long-term unemployment rate (unemployment longer than six months) has had a larger effect on wage growth in the period since 2008. We also investigate the shape of the Phillips curve and find some evidence of a convex relationship between labour market slack and nominal wage growth, particularly for the pre-crisis period. Piecewise regressions suggest some mixed evidence on nominal rigidities in the aggregate data.
E31|A Comprehensive Evaluation of Measures of Core Inflation in Canada: An Update|We provide an updated evaluation of the value of various measures of core inflation that could be used in the conduct of monetary policy. We find that the Bank of Canada’s current preferred measures of core inflation—CPI-trim, CPI-median and CPI-common—continue to outperform alternative core measures across a range of criteria. These measures remain less biased, less volatile and much more persistent relative to alternative core measures and CPI inflation. They are also still moving with the economic cycle. Our analysis shows that historical revisions have been relatively small among these three core inflation measures since their inception and that CPI-common seems less prone to revisions and sector-specific shocks than CPI-trim and CPI-median.
E31|Drivers of Weak Wage Growth in Advanced Economies|Since the global financial crisis, advanced-economy wage growth has been generally low relative to past recoveries, especially after accounting for the evolution of labour market conditions over this period. This paper investigates a variety of potential explanations for this weakness, drawing on findings from the literature as well as analysis of recent labour market data in advanced economies. Overall, we find that much of the unexplained weakness is likely explained by alternative measures of labour market slack—particularly the rise of involuntary part-time work. In addition, changing inflation dynamics and a number of structural factors may also be contributing to the weakness. These factors include weaker bargaining power of workers due to lower unionization rates, increased firm concentration, restrictive labour mobility practices, greater labour market reform and changing demographic factors. Other factors, such as migration and technological change, may also be affecting advanced-economy wage growth, but the direction and magnitude of these impacts are more ambiguous. Identifying and quantifying the causal effects that the factors examined in this note may have on advanced-economy wage growth is beyond the scope of our analysis. However, our review of international evidence does help to recognize likely drivers of the observed weakness in wage growth and lays the foundation for future work examining certain factors in more detail.
E31|El índice de precios de consumo: usos y posibles vías de mejora|En este documento se presentan de forma breve los principales usos de las estadísticas de precios de consumo, prestando especial atención a la predicción de la inflación mediante modelos econométricos. También se realizan algunas propuestas de cara a aumentar la utilidad del índice de precios de consumo para los usuarios finales.
E31|Exploring trend inFLation dynamics in Euro Area countries|This paper analyzes the inflation processes of twelve Euro Area countries over the period 1984:q1-2017:q4. The stylized features of inflation uncover its changing nature and cross-country heterogeneity, in terms of mean, volatility and persistence. After estimation of a wide array of unobserved components models, we isolate trend inflation rates in a framework that allows for time-varying inflation gap persistence and stochastic volatility in both the trend and transitory components. On average, a sizeable share of overall inflation dynamics is accounted for by movements in the trend. In explaining trend dynamics, we consistently find a signficant role for short-term inflation expectations, economic slack, and openness variables. However, the cumulated impacts of these are fairly small, except in certain, sustained episodes. This is of policy relevance since the monetary authority might want to respond to shocks that are prone to affect the inflation trend in order to ensure that long-term inflation expectations remain anchored.
E31|Monetary policy implications of state-dependent prices and wages|"This paper studies the dynamic general equilibrium effects of monetary shocks in a ""control cost"" model of state-dependent retail price adjustment and state-dependent wage adjustment. Suppliers of retail goods and of labor are both monopolistic competitors that face idiosyncratic productivity shocks and nominal rigidities. Stickiness arises because precise choice is costly: decision-makers tolerate errors both in the timing of adjustments, and in the new level at which the price or wage is set, because making these choices with perfect precision would be excessively costly. The model is calibrated to microdata on the size and frequency of price and wage changes. We find that the impact multiplier of a money growth shock on consumption and labor in our calibrated state-dependent model is similar to that in a Calvo model with the same adjustment frequencies, though the response is less persistent than it would be under the Calvo mechanism. Wage rigidity accounts for most of the nonneutrality that occurs in a model where both prices and wages are sticky; hence, a model with both rigidities produces substantially larger real effects of monetary shocks than does a model with sticky prices only. We find that the state-dependence of nominal rigidity strongly decreases the slope of the Phillips curve as trend inflation declines. This result is not driven by downward wage rigidity; adjustment costs are symmetric in our model. Here, instead, price- and wage-setters prefer to adjust less frequently when trend inflation is low, making short-run inflation less reactive to shocks."
E31|Inflation interdependence in advanced economies|Although there is a vast literature on GDP comovement across countries, there is scant evidence on inflation interdependence. We analyze inflation comovements across a wide set of advanced economies and across the subset of euro area countries. Some of our findings are expected, such as the fact that inflation interdependence among advanced economies is quite relevant, but is higher among euro area countries, which show strong trade links and a share common monetary policy, or the fact that inflation synchronization among countries is highest for energy prices, reflecting common oil shocks. We also find a robust puzzle: core inflation interdependence is fairly low and this result holds for both core goods and services. Inflation synchronization seems to be particularly linked to comovements in driving variables of open economy new Keynesian Phillips curve and mark-up pricing models.
E31|Mapping China’s time-varying house price landscape|The recent increase in China’s house prices at the national level masks tremendous variation at the city level – a feature largely overlooked in the macroprudential literature. This paper considers the evolving heterogeneity in China’s house price dynamics across 70 cities and assess the main deter-minants. We gauge the heterogeneity of house price dynamics using a novel regime-switching modelling approach to estimate the time-varying patterns of China’s city-level housing price synchronization. After sorting city-level housing prices into four clusters sharing similar cyclical features, we see that each group shows increasing synchronization in the years leading up to 2015, and a decoupling pattern thereafter. We document high synchronization within each of the clusters of cities, but low synchronization among them. The empirical evidence suggests that differentials in the growth of households, income, investment and even differences in air quality explain housing price synchronization among cities.
E31|Benefits of gradualism or costs of inaction? Monetary policy in times of uncertainty|Should monetary policy be more aggressive or more cautious when facing uncertainty on the relationship between macroeconomic variables? This paper's answer is: “it depends” on the degree of persistence of the shocks that hit the economy. The paper studies optimal monetary policy in a basic (two-equation) forward looking New-Keynesian (NK) framework with random parameters. It relaxes the assumption of full central bank information in two ways: by allowing for uncertainty on the model parameters and by assuming asymmetric information. While the private sector observes the realizations of the random process of the parameters as they occur, the central bank observes them with a one period delay. Compared to the problem with full information, the monetary authority must solve the Bayesian decision problem of minimizing the expected stream of future welfare losses integrating over its prior probability distribution of the unknown parameters. The paper proposes a general method to account for uncertainty on any subset of parameters of the model. As an application, it focuses on two cases: uncertainty on the natural rate of interest and on the slope of the Phillips curve.
E31|Evolution and Characteristics of the Exchange Rate Pass Through to Prices in Mexico|This paper analyzes the exchange rate pass through to consumer prices in Mexico using different methodologies. First, we estimate Vector Autoregressive Models (VAR). Subsequently, we estimate Autoregressive Distributed Lags Models (ARDL) in order to make a long run analysis. In particular, we find that the exchange rate pass through to consumer prices is low and has barely changed in relation with the findings in previous studies. We also estimate that when the economy grows above its long-run trend, the point estimation of the exchange rate pass through is larger on average. Finally, we provide some evidence of asymmetry in the exchange rate pass through, that is, the point estimation of the exchange rate pass through is greater when there is a depreciation than when there is a currency appreciation. It should be noted that in the long run analysis these results are preserved.
E31|Nonlinear relationship between the weather phenomenon El Niño and Colombian food prices|Extreme weather events, like a strong El Niño (ENSO), affect society in many different ways especially in the context of recent globe warming. In the Colombian case, ENSO had a significant impact on consumer food prices during the strongest event in 2015-16. Our research evaluates the relationship between ENSO and Colombian food inflation growth by using a smooth transition non-linear model. We estimate the impacts of a strong ENSO on food inflation growth by adopting Generalized Impulse Response Functions (GIRFs) and the results suggest that the weather shocks are transitory and asymmetric on inflation. A strong El Niño shock has a significate effect on the food inflation growth from six to nine months after the shock and the accumulated elasticity is close to 465 basic points. We build the GIRFs for eight different episodes associated with a strong El Niño in the period corresponding from March 1962 to December 2018 and there is no evidence of changes in the size of Colombian food inflation growth responses over time. **** RESUMEN: Eventos extremos del clima como El Niño (ENSO) fuerte afectan la sociedad de diferentes maneras en especial en el reciente contexto de calentamiento global. En 2015-16, se observó el evento de El Niño más fuerte en los últimos cien años el cual presentó un impacto significativo sobre los precios de alimentos al consumidor en el caso colombiano. El presente trabajo de investigación evalúa la relación entre ENSO y el crecimiento de la inflación de alimentos para el consumidor en Colombia usando un modelo no lineal de transición suave y estimando funciones de impulso respuesta generalizadas (GIRFs). Los resultados sugieren que dichos choques climáticos son transitorios y asimétricos sobre la inflación. Así, El Niño fuerte tiene un impacto significativo sobre el crecimiento de la inflación de alimentos entre seis y nueve meses después del choque climático y la elasticidad acumulada es 465 puntos básicos. Adicionalmente, se construyeron GIRFs para ocho diferentes episodios de tiempo asociados con un fenómeno de El Niño fuerte que se observaron entre marzo de 1962 y diciembre de 2018 y se encontró que no hay evidencia estadística de cambios en el tamaño de las respuestas del crecimiento de la inflación de alimentos en Colombia a través del tiempo.
E31|Does informality facilitate inflation stability?|Informality is an entrenched structural trait in emerging market economies, despite of the progress achieved in macroeconomic management. Informality determines the behavior of labour markets, financial access and the productivity of the overall economy. Therefore it influences the transmission of shocks and also of monetary policy. This paper develops a simple general equilibrium closed economy model with nominal rigidities, labor and financial frictions. Informality is captured by a dual labour market where the share of informal workers is endogenous. Only formal sector firms have access to financing, which is instrumental in their production process. Informality has a buffering effect on the propagation of demand and supply shocks to prices; the financial feature of the model exacerbates the impact of financial shocks in the formal sector while the informal sector is in principle unaffected. As a result informality dampens the impact of demand and financial shocks on wages and inflation but heighten the impact of technology shocks. Informality also increases the sacrifice ratio of monetary policy actions. From a Central Bank perspective, the results imply that the presence of an informal sector mitigates inflation volatility for some type of shocks but makes monetary policy less effective.
E31|New information and inflation expectations among firms|Using data from a unique and novel monthly firm-level survey on inflation expectations in Uruguay we first present stylized facts about the inflation expectation formation process and then show how information acquisition affects firms' inflation expectations. We show that firms' forecasts are close to observed inflation, that a sizable proportion of firms do not revise their expectations, and that there is substantial disagreement about future inflation among firms. We also present evidence on industrial sector effects on inflation forecasts and show that the correlation between inflation expectations and cost expectations increases with the forecast time horizon. We then exploit peculiarities of the collective wage bargaining negotiation mechanism to estimate the impact of acquiring information about past inflation on expected future inflation. Our results imply that firms that adjust wages expect lower inflation, revise their expectations downwards and make smaller forecast errors than firms that do not adjust wages. We find no effect of wage adjustments on firms' own cost expectations and that disagreement among firms is lower in the months of wage adjustment. The latter suggests that inflation expectations tend to converge as firms are more informed about past inflation.
E31|Has globalization changed the inflation process?|The relationship central to most inflation models, between slack and inflation, seems to have weakened. Do we need a new framework? This paper uses three very different approaches - principal components, a Phillips curve model, and trend-cycle decomposition - to show that inflation models should more explicitly and comprehensively control for changes in the global economy and allow for key parameters to adjust over time. Global factors, such as global commodity prices, global slack, exchange rates, and producer price competition can all significantly affect inflation, even after controlling for the standard domestic variables. The role of these global factors has changed over the last decade, especially the relationship between global slack, commodity prices, and producer price dispersion with CPI inflation and the cyclical component of inflation. The role of different global and domestic factors varies across countries, but as the world has become more integrated through trade and supply chains, global factors should no longer play an ancillary role in models of inflation dynamics.
E31|Inflation expectations anchoring: new insights from micro evidence of a survey at high-frequency and of distributions|We shed new light on the anchoring of long-term euro area inflation expectations since the crisis by using micro evidence from a new survey at high (weekly) frequency. We find that long-term inflation expectations remained well anchored to the ECB's inflation aim, which has acted as a focal point. By contrast, we find no evidence that professional forecasts (reported by Consensus Economics) acted as focal points. But there are subtle signs of long-term inflation expectations not being perfectly well-anchored. Using measures based on the distribution of inflation expectations from a quarterly survey, namely uncertainty based on the full distribution, the probability of expected long-term inflation lying between 1.5% and 2.5%, and the effect of short-term on long-term deflation risk, we find that long-term euro area inflation expectations have remained well-anchored, and have become better-anchored between 2011 and 2018.
E31|Modelling yields at the lower bound through regime shifts|"We propose a regime-switching approach to deal with the lower bound on nominal interest rates in dynamic term structure modelling. In the ""lower bound regime"", the short term rate is expected to remain constant at levels close to the effective lower bound; in the ""normal regime"", the short rate interacts with other economic variables in a standard way. State-dependent regime switching probabilities ensure that the likelihood of being in the lower bound regime increases as short rates fall closer to zero. A key advantage of this approach is to capture the gradualism of the monetary policy normalization process following a lower bound episode. The possibility to return to the lower bound regime continues exerting an influence in the early phases of normalization, pulling expected future rates downwards. We apply our model to U.S. data and show that it captures key properties of yields at the lower bound. In spite of its heavier parameterization, the regime-switching model displays a competitive out-of-sample forecasting performance. It can also be used to gauge the risk of a return to the lower bound regime in the future. As of mid-2018, it provides a more benign assessment than alternative measures."
E31|Promise, Trust and Betrayal: Costs of Breaching an Implicit Contract|We study the cost of breaching an implicit contract in a goods market, building on a recent study that documented the presence of such a contract in the Coca-Cola market, in the US, during 1886‒1959. The implicit contract promised a serving of Coca-Cola of a constant quality (the “real thing”), and of a constant quantity (6.5oz in a bottle or from the fountain), at a constant nominal price of 5¢. We offer two types of evidence. First, we document a case that occurred in 1930, where the Coca-Cola Company chose to incur a permanently higher marginal cost of production, instead of a one-time increase in the fixed cost, to prevent a quality adjustment of Coca-Cola, which would be considered a breach of the implicit contract. Second, we explore the consequences of the Company’s 1985 decision to replace the original Coke with the “New Coke.” Using the model of Exit, Voice, and Loyalty (Hirschman 1970), we argue that the unprecedented public outcry that followed the New Coke’s introduction, was a response to the Company’s breaching of the implicit contract. We document the direct and quantifiable costs of this implicit contract breach, and demonstrate that the indirect, although unquantifiable, costs in terms of lost customer goodwill were substantial.
E31|Financial Stability Implications of Policy Mix in a Small Open Commodity-Exporting Economy|In this paper, we study how systematic monetary policy under inflation targeting in a commodity-exporting economy not fully isolated from commodity price volatility by fiscal policy may contribute to financial instability by fueling the credit cycle when commodity prices increase or by amplifying the credit crunch when commodity prices decline. We report several empirical observations that illustrate the potential procyclicality (relative to credit developments) of inflation targeting policy where commodity price fluctuations are the main drivers of macroeconomic developments. Namely, we find that relative prices in commodity-exporting economies are much more volatile than in other countries. The length of periods when relative prices grow or decline is comparable to the monetary policy horizon of most inflation targeters (2-3 years). Note that the central banks that target inflation, including those of the commodity-exporting countries, usually target the headline CPI. This index accommodates relative price changes by design. We proceed with formal statistical testing using panel structural VARs and local projection models. The tests support the procyclicality of inflation targeting, but only in a group of emerging market economies, which in practice have more procyclical fiscal policy than advanced economies: monetary policy eases in response to a higher price of an exported commodity while real credit grows. Counterfactual exercises show that endogenous monetary policy responses to commodity shocks explain around 20% on average of the real credit growth in a group of commodity exporting countries for which the reaction of policy rates to commodity shocks is statistically significant. We cross-check the empirical findings by reviewing a collection of papers with estimated DSGE models and analysing impulse responses of real policy rates to commodity price changes. We also conduct a theoretical analysis and compare stabilization properties (while accounting for financial stability risks) of the inflation-targeting policy rule and the ‘leaning against the wind’ policy rules. Notably, we do this exercise conditionally on the role of commodity price shocks for the economy. For this purpose, we use the DSGE with financial frictions and a banking sector estimated basing for the Russian economy and measure the efficiency of policy results with different sensitivity to credit developments (the ‘leaning against the wind’ rules) under different variance of oil price shocks (which may be interpreted also as different efficiency of fiscal policy in insulating the economy from a given oil price volatility). Results show that when commodity price volatility is relatively high (fiscal policy is not countercyclical), leaning against the wind outperforms pure inflation targeting, thus supporting our empirical findings. Interestingly, even when the financial stability risks associated with the volatility of credit developments are negligible, a moderate leaning against the wind policy is still preferable. As policy implication, we point that a commodity-exporting economy should have countercyclical fiscal policy for inflation targeting to become countercyclical in a commodity cycle.
E31|Disinflation and reliability of underlying inflation measures|We estimated a Non-Stationary Dynamic Factor model and used it to generate artificial episodes of disinflation (permanent change in the mean inflation rate). These datasets were used to test the forecasting abilities of alternative underlying inflation indicators (i.e. the measures that capture sustained movements in inflation extracted from information in a disaggregated set of price data). We found that the out of sample forecast errors of the benchmark underlying inflation measures (based on unobserved trend extraction) are more severely affected by disinflation than the alternative simpler methods (based on exclusion or reweighting approaches). We also show that a Non-Stationary Dynamic Factor model may be employed for extraction of the unobserved trend to be used as an underlying inflation measure.
E31|Firms' Price, Cost and Activity Expectations: Evidence from Micro Data|Firms' expectations play a central role in modern macroeconomic models, but little is known empirically about how these are formed or whether they matter for economic outcomes. Using a novel panel data set of manufacturing firms' expectations about prices and wage rates, new orders, employment and unit costs for the United Kingdom, we document a range of stylized facts about the properties of firms' expectations and their relationship with recent experience. There is wide dispersion of expectations across firms. Expected future price and wage growth are influenced by firm-specific factors but macroeconomic factors also matter. Expectations of employment and new orders are influenced by firm-specific measures of past orders while expected unit costs seem to be influenced more by firm-specific cost pressures and aggregate import prices. After controlling for a wide range of variables we find a significant connection between past expected price and wage increases and their out-turns. But there is also strong evidence that firms' expectations are clearly not rational.
E31|Efectos de las variaciones del IPC en las decisiones financieras|En este documento se desarrolló un análisis de mercado que derivó en un modelo econométrico con miras a determinar el comportamiento del Índice de Precios al Consumidor en un horizonte de tiempo de 2 años, para dar apoyo a la toma de decisiones financieras de inversión y financiamiento. En el análisis se tuvieron en cuenta las Encuestas a expertos y los Pronósticos a entidades financieras. Sin embargo, al enfrentar dicha información con el IPC observado, se concluyó que los pronósticos y encuestas mencionadas no tenían una capacidad de predicción a dos años confiable. Debido a que el mercado no permitió cumplir con el objetivo propuesto, fue necesario desarrollar un modelo econométrico de tipo ARIMA con datos mensuales desde entre enero de 2010 y diciembre de 2018. En la construcción del modelo se determinó que la volatilidad del IPC estaba fuertemente influida por el precio de los alimentos, y por ende serían el fenómeno del niño y los paros de transporte las variables idóneas en la conformación del modelo. Como resultado, se obtuvo una proyección del IPC a dos años. No obstante, el pronóstico presentó una desviación estándar considerable y creciente en el tiempo que redujo la efectividad del modelo a un año. En el desarrollo del modelo como paso a seguir, se plantea necesario realizar una función impulso respuesta de las variables Dummy y adaptar el modelo a la nueva metodología del IPC propuesta por el DANE para 2019. *** In this document, a market analysis was developed which derived in an econometric model with a view to determining the behaviour of the Consumer Price Index in a time horizon of 2 years, to give support to the financial decision making of investment and financing. The analysis took into account the Surveys to experts and the Forecasts to financial entities. However, when facing said information with the observed CPI, it was concluded that the forecasts and surveys mentioned did not have a reliable two-year prediction capacity. Since the market did not comply with the proposed objective, it was necessary to develop an ARIMA-type econometric model with monthly data from January 2010 to December 2018. In the construction of the model, it was determined that the volatility of the CPI was strongly influenced by the food price, and therefore the El Niño phenomenon and transport stoppages would be the ideal variables in shaping the model. As a result, a two-year CPI projection was obtained. However, the forecast presented a considerable and increasing standard deviation over time that reduced the effectiveness of the model to one year. In the development of the model as a step to follow, it is necessary to carry out a response impulse function of the Dummy variables and to adapt the model to the new CPI methodology proposed by DANE for 2019.
E31|Determinantes del ahorro interno en Colombia: un acercamiento desde las Cuentas Nacionales Trimestrales para el período 1994-2017|Resumen: El presente trabajo es un intento, en primer lugar, para convalidar con información del Sistema de Cuentas Nacionales Trimestrales, algunos de los hallazgos de estudios nacionales e internacionales sobre los determinantes de la tasa de ahorro domestico o del componente cíclico de la tasa de ahorro doméstico que usan fundamentalmente información procedente del Sistema de Cuentas Nacionales Anuales (de agregados macroeconómicos y por agentes). Un problema crucial en el uso de las cuentas nacionales anuales consiste en que ellas no miden el ahorro consistentemente con definiciones teóricas; los investigadores del ahorro han tenido que realizar cálculos propios, tomando las cuentas nacionales anuales como materia prima y ajustándola con información suministrada por otras instituciones públicas y privadas, para tratar de obtener medidas más próximas a las nociones conceptuales. En ésta investigación no se realiza ninguna transformación de la información trimestral, pero si se usa la evidencia hallada en los estudios anuales. En segundo lugar, se trata de obtener evidencia sobre otro grupo de posibles determinantes del componente transitorio de la tasa de ahorro en el caso de la economía colombiana. Para los propósitos anteriores, se estimó una ecuación reducida por mínimos cuadrados para el componente cíclico de la tasa ahorro interno y como variables independientes a los componentes transitorios de: el crecimiento del PIB real, la profundización financiara (medida por el agregado monetario M2), de los impuestos, de la tasa de dependencia (aproximada por la proporción entre la tasa de ocupación y la tasa de desempleo), la tasa de inflación; las variables anteriores son comunes, aunque cuantitativamente medidas de forma diferente, en los estudios sobre el ahorro; las variables que adicionalmente se incluyen en la estimación son los componentes cíclicos de la tasa de interés de política monetaria, del precio internacional del petróleo, de la tasa de interés externa y de la tasa de cambio nominal. Los resultados son favorables para todas las variables (aunque los coeficientes para el precio internacional del petróleo y la tasa de cambio nominal son pequeños) y son robustos con R2 tendiendo a 1; no hay autocorrelación ni correlación serial, la especificación lineal del modelo es correcta según el test de Ramsey, los test cusum y cusum cuadrado indican estabilidad de los coeficientes, ausencia de multicolinealidad o ésta es moderada (ICJ=3.6), el test de Haussman (la versión de Davidson and MacKinnon (1989,1993) para la endogeneidad indica que ésta no existe o es débil. Igualmente, se destaca el rechazo a la hipótesis del ingreso permanente. / Abstract : The present work is an attempt to, firstly, to validate with information from the system of quarterly national accounts, some of the findings of national and international studies on the determinants of the rate of domestic savings or component cyclic rate of domestic savings, mainly using information from the system of annual national accounts (of macroeconomic aggregates and agents). A crucial problem in the use of annual national accounts is that they do not measure saving consistently with theoretical definitions; saving researchers have had to own calculations, taking the national accounts as raw and adjusting it with information provided by other public and private institutions, to try to obtain measurements closer to the conceptual notions. In this research there is no transformation of the quarterly information, but if used the evidence found in annual studies. Secondly, it is to obtain evidence about another group of possible determinants of the transitory component of the rate of savings in the case of the Colombian economy. For the above purposes, a reduced by least squares equation was estimated for the cyclical component of the rate saving internal and as independent variables to transient components of: the growth of real GDP, the deepening financial) as measured by the monetary aggregate M2), taxes, the dependency ratio (approximated by the ratio between the rate of occupation and the unemployment rate), the rate of inflation; the previous variables are common, although quantitatively measured differently, in studies on saving; the variables that are additionally included in the estimate are the cyclical components of interest rate in monetary policy, the international price of oil, the foreign interest rate and the nominal exchange rate. The results are favorable for all variables (although the coefficients for the international price of oil and the nominal exchange rate are small) and are robust with R2 tending to 1; There is no autocorrelation or serial correlation, the linear specification of the model is correct according to the Ramsey test, the test cusum and Cusum square indicate stability of the coefficients, absence of multicolinearity or this is moderate (ICJ = 3.6), the test of Haussman (the version of Davidson and MacKinnon (1989.1993) for endogeneity indicates that it does not exist or is weak. The rejection of the permanent income hypothesis is also highlighted.
E31|Algebra de un modelo simple IS-MR-AD-AS: Notas de clase|Resumen: Este documento ilustra la derivación matemática de una versión simple de un modelo Nuevo Keynesiano presentado en el texto de Macroeconomía de Jones (2013) que explica el ajuste de una economía cuando se enfrenta a choques exógenos. En este sentido, la configuración del modelo utiliza tres ecuaciones que representan la curva IS, la oferta agregada y la regla de política monetaria y describe el comportamiento dinámico de tres variables: producción agregada, inflación y tasa de interés real. Además, se discute la formación de expectativas por parte de los agentes económicos, las diferencias entre las expectativas racionales y las adaptativas, y el camino seguido por las variables si una de ellas se introduce en el modelo. Finalmente, se muestra cómo cambian las tres variables cuando se presentan tres tipos de choques. Primero, un choque de oferta relacionado con una disminución de la productividad o un aumento de los costos. Segundo, un shock de demanda, que se asocia con un aumento en el componente de gasto autónomo de la demanda agregada, como las compras del gobierno. Tercero, una variación en la meta de inflación, que es la forma de introducir la política monetaria en este modelo. / Abstract : This document illustrates the mathematical derivation of a simple version of a New Keynesian model presented in textbook of Macroeconomics of Jones (2013), that explains the adjustment of an economy when it faces exogenous shocks. In this sense, the model's set up uses three equations that represent IS curve, aggregate supply and monetary policy rule, which allow to describe the dynamic behavior of three variables: aggregate output, inflation and real interest rate. Moreover, expectations formation by economic agents is discussed, the differences between rational and adaptive expectations, and what is the path followed by the variables if one of them is introduced in the model. Finally, it shows how the three variables change when are presented three types of shocks. First, a supply shock related to a decrease in productivity or an increase in costs. Second, a demand shock, which is associated to an increase in autonomous expenditure component of aggregate demand, like government purchases. Third, a variation in inflation targeting, that is the way to introduce monetary policy in this model.
E31|The Fiscal Theory of the Price Level in Overlapping Generations Models|We demonstrate that the Fiscal Theory of the Price Level (FTPL) cannot be used to determine the price level uniquely in the overlapping generations (OLG) model. We provide two examples of OLG models, one with 3-period lives and one with 62-period lives. Both examples are calibrated to an income profile chosen to match the life-cycle earnings process in U.S. data estimated by Guvenen et al. (2015). In both examples, there exist multiple steady-state equilibria. Our findings challenge established views about what constitutes a good combination of fiscal and monetary policies. As long as the primary deficit or the primary surplus is not too large, the fiscal authority can conduct policies that are unresponsive to endogenous changes in the level of its outstanding debt. Monetary and fiscal policy can both be active at the same time.
E31|Has the U.S. Wage Phillips Curve Flattened? A Semi-Structural Exploration|Unconditional reduced form estimates of a conventional wage Phillips curve for the U.S. economy point to a decline in its slope coefficient in recent years, as well as a shrinking role of lagged price inflation in the determination of wage inflation. We provide estimates of a conditional wage Phillips curve, based on a structural decomposition of wage, price and unemployment data generated by a VAR with time varying coefficients, identified by a combination of long-run and sign restrictions. Our estimates show that the key qualitative findings from the unconditional reduced form regressions also emerge in the conditional evidence, suggesting that they are not entirely driven by endogeneity problems or possible changes over time in the importance of of wage markup shocks. The conditional evidence, however, suggests that actual changes in the slope of the wage Phillips curve may not have been as large as implied by the unconditional estimates.
E31|The global component of inflation volatility|Global developments play an important role in domestic inflation rates. Previous literature has found that a substantial amount of the variation in a large set of national inflation rates can be explained by a single global factor. However, inflation volatility has been typically neglected, while it is clearly relevant both from a policy point of view and for structural analysis and forecasting purposes. We study the evolution of inflation rates in several countries, using a novel model that allows for commonality in both levels and volatilities, in addition to country-specific components. We find that inflation stochastic volatility is indeed important, and a substantial share of it can be attributed to a global factor that also drives the levels and persistence of inflation. While various phenomena may contribute to global inflation dynamics, it turns out that since the early 1990s, the estimated global factor is correlated with China’s PPI and with oil inflation levels and volatilities. The extent of commonality among core inflation rates and volatilities is substantially smaller than for overall inflation, which leaves scope for national monetary policies.
E31|Global inflation synchronization|We study the extent of global inflation synchronization using a dynamic factor model in a large set of countries over a half century. Our methodology allows us to account for differences across groups of countries (advanced economies and emerging market and developing economies) and to analyze commonalities in inflation synchronization across a wide range of inflation measures. We report three major results. First, inflation movements have become increasingly synchronized internationally over time: a common global factor has accounted for about 22 percent of variation in national inflation rates since 2001. Second, inflation synchronization has also become more broad-based: while it was previously much more pronounced among advanced economies than among emerging market and developing economies, it has become substantial in both groups over the past two decades. In addition, inflation synchronization has become significant across all inflation measures since 2001, whereas it was previously prominent only for inflation measures that included mostly tradable goods.
E31|Bad Jobs and Low Inflation|Since 2014 the U.S. economy has been characterized by (i) a tight labor market with a record-low unemployment rate and very high job finding rates, (ii) disappointing labor productivity growth, and (iii) low inflation. We propose a model with the job ladder that can reconcile these three facts. In the model inflation picks up only when most jobs are concentrated at the high rung of the ladder: as firms compete for efficiently allocated employed workers, outside offers are declined and matched, triggering an increase in production costs that is not backed by an increase in productivity. The model is estimated using unemployment and quit rates, which allow the model to precisely identify the distribution of the quality of jobs. After the Great Recession, the observed structural drop in the job-to-job rate has slowed down the pace at which the U.S. labor market turns bad jobs into good jobs. As a result, inflation has not escalated even though the labor market appears to be very tight. Furthermore, the model predicts that labor productivity persistently fell by up to 70 bps in the post-Great Recession recovery owing to this protracted misallocation in the labor market.
E31|Resolving the Missing Deflation Puzzle|We propose a resolution of the missing deflation puzzle. Our resolution stresses the importance of nonlinearities in price- and wage-setting when the economy is exposed to large shocks. We show that a nonlinear macroeconomic model with real rigidities resolves the missing deflation puzzle, while a linearized version of the same underlying nonlinear model fails to do so. In addition, our nonlinear model reproduces the skewness of inflation and other macroeconomic variables observed in post-war U.S. data. All told, our results caution against the common practice of using linearized models to study inflation and output dynamics.
E31|Implications of the permanent-transitory confusion for New-Keynesian modeling, inflation forecasts and the post-crisis era|Decisions about consumption, work, leisure, pricing, investment and other private and public policy decisions rely on forecasts of the future. The permanent-transitory confusion (PTC) refers to the fact that even when they know all past and current information individuals are uncertain about the persistence of the current state. This all pervasive informational limitation makes it optimal, in general, to use all past information when forecasting the future even under rational expectations. The objective of this paper is to remind the profession of this basic fact and point out some of its implications by showing at both the theoretical and the empirical levels that forecasts of the future are generally adaptive in the sense that they depend on available past information even when information is utilized efficiently. This is done along the following dimensions. First by briefly surveying the literature on rational-adaptive expectations from Muth (1960) to Coibion-Gorodnichenko (2015). Second, by showing that the PTC injects the past even into purely forward looking New-Keynesian such as that of Clarida, Gali & Gertler (1999). Third, by showing empirically that inflationary expectations in the US Survey of Professional Forecasters rely on past inflation. The paper concludes with reflections on the persistence of economic and policy changes induced by the global financial crisis.
E31|The Primary Cause of European Inflation in 1500-1700: Precious Metals or Population? The English Evidence|"We perform the first econometric test to date of the influences of inflows of precious metals and population growth on the ""Great Inflation"" in Europe following the discov-ery of the New World. The English evidence strongly supports the near-equivalent im-portance of both influences. For 1500-1700, silver is the only relevant precious metal in the estimates. The study controls for urbanization, government spending, mortality crises and climatic changes. The series for inflows of the precious metals into Europe from America and European mining are newly constructed based on the secondary sources."
E31|When the U.S. catches a cold, Canada sneezes: a lower-bound tale told by deep learning|"The Canadian economy was not initially hit by the 2007-2009 Great Recession but ended up having a prolonged episode of the effective lower bound (ELB) on nominal interest rates. To investigate the Canadian ELB experience, we build a ""baby"" ToTEM model -- a scaled-down version of the Terms of Trade Economic Model (ToTEM) of the Bank of Canada. Our model includes 49 nonlinear equations and 21 state variables. To solve such a high-dimensional model, we develop a projection deep learning algorithm -- a combination of unsupervised and supervised (deep) machine learning techniques. Our findings are as follows: The Canadian ELB episode was contaminated from abroad via large foreign demand shocks. Prolonged ELB episodes are easy to generate in open-economy models, unlike in closed-economy models. Nonlinearities associated with the ELB constraint have virtually no impact on the Canadian economy but other nonlinearities do, in particular, the degree of uncertainty and specific closing condition used to induce the model's stationarity."
E31|Monetary policy for commodity booms and busts|Macroeconomic volatility in commodity-exporting economies is closely tied to fluctuations in international commodity prices. Commodity booms improve exporters' terms of trade and loosen their borrowing conditions, while busts lead to the reverse. This paper studies optimal monetary policy for commodity exporters in a small open economy framework that includes a key role for financial conditions. We incorporate the interaction between the commodity and financial cycles via a working capital constraint for commodity producers, which loosens as commodity prices increase. A rise in global commodity prices causes an inefficient reallocation towards the commodity sector, which expands and increases its demand for inputs. The real exchange-rate appreciates, but because domestic fims do not internalize that the appreciation reduces the scale of the reallocation, they do not raise prices enough. An inefficient boom takes place, with inflation rising and output increasing relative to its welfare-maximizing level. Returning inflation to target is not sufficient to close the output gap, leaving the policymaker facing a stabilization tradeoff. The optimal policy lets the exchange rate appreciate and raises interest rates, with a larger rate rise required the greater the loosening in borrowing conditions. The paper compares alternative policy rules and discusses a key practical challenge for emerging and developing economies: how to transition to a stable path from initial conditions of high and persistent inflation.
E31|Helicopter Drops of Money under Secular Stagnation|What are the effects of helicopter drops of money under secular stagnation? This paper shows that, if the government cannot sustain a Ponzi debt scheme under full employment, then helicopter drops of money cannot transfer real wealth to households under secular stagnation. In that case, despite being in a permanent liquidity trap, a one-off helicopter drop triggers an upward jump in the price level, without any real effect on the economy. Conversely, if a Ponzi scheme can be sustained, then the helicopter drop can stimulate aggregate demand by raising household wealth. If the stagnation real interest rate is larger than the economic growth rate, the economy converges to full employment and a sustainable Ponzi scheme and, otherwise, it gradually reverts back to stagnation. Finally, continuous helicopter drops of money under stagnation must induce the economy to reach a full employment steady state, with or without a Ponzi scheme.
E31|The Primary Cause of European Inflation in 1500-1700: Precious Metals or Population? The English Evidence|We perform the first econometric test to date of the influences of inflows of precious metals and population growth on the “Great Inflation” in Europe following the discovery of the New World. The English evidence strongly supports the near-equivalent importance of both influences. For 1500-1700, silver is the only relevant precious metal in the estimates. The study controls for urbanization, government spending, mortality crises and climatic changes. The series for inflows of the precious metals into Europe from America and European mining are newly constructed based on the secondary sources.
E31|Uncertainty, Financial Markets, and Monetary Policy over the Last Century|What has been the effect of uncertainty shocks in the U.S. economy over the last century? What are the historical roles of the financial channel and monetary policy channel in propagating uncertainty shocks? Our empirical strategies enable us to distinguish between the effects of uncertainty shocks on key macroeconomic and financial variables transmitted through each channel. A hundred years of data further allow us to answer these questions from a novel historical perspective. This paper finds robust evidence that financial conditions have played a crucial role in propagating uncertainty shocks over the last century, supporting many theoretical and empirical studies emphasizing the role of financial frictions in understanding uncertainty shocks. However, heightened uncertainty does not amplify the adverse effect of financial shocks, suggesting an asymmetric interaction between uncertainty and financial shocks Interestingly, the stance of monetary policy seems to play only a minor role in propagating uncertainty shocks, which is in sharp contrast to the recent claim that binding zero-lower-bound amplifies the negative effect of uncertainty shocks. We argue that the contribution of constrained monetary policy to amplifying uncertainty shocks is largely masked by the joint concurrence of binding zero-lower-bound and tightened financial conditions.
E31|Revisiting the accuracy of inflation forecasts in Nigeria: the oil price â€“exchange rate perspectives|Motivated by the dual characteristic of the Nigeria economy as exporter and importer of oil, we extend the Tule et al. (2018) oil price â€“based predictive model to include the role of exchange rates in the predictability of inflation in Nigeria. Using the FQGLS estimator developed by Westerlund and Narayan (2012, 2015), we account for endogeneity, persistence and conditional heterosecedatcity effects in the forecasting analyses of inflation in Nigeria. We use both the single and pairwise measures to compare the forecast results of oil prices and/or exchange rates based augmented Phillips curve with the variant that contain them both simultaneously. The result suggests that augmenting the Phillips curve with oil prices and exchange rates in the same model set up is the more accurate to forecasting inflation in Nigeria relative to having them individually in a predictive model. More so, the augmented Phillips curve with oil prices and exchange rate consistently outperforms time series models such as ARMA and ARFIMA. However, we find that accounting for structural breaks will largely improve the accuracy of CMB-APC for forecasting inflation in Nigeria. We find the robustness of these findings evident for in-sample and out-of-sample forecasts.
E31|Makroökonomie: Blind Spot Gender: Erweiterung makroökonomischer Indikatoren durch eine Gender-Komponente am Beispiel der empirischen Phillips-Kurve|Dieser Beitrag möchte einen Impuls zur stärkeren Berücksichtigung von Genderaspekten in makroökonomischen Modellen geben. Am Beispiel der Philipps-Kurve geht es um die Frage, ob sich das Erwerbsverhalten von Frauen und Männern so stark voneinander unterscheidet, dass sich dies im Verlauf des Zusammenhangs von Inflation und Arbeitslosigkeit niederschlägt. Erste Hinweise dafür werden in deskriptiven Analysen für die Beobachtungszeiträume 1971 bis 1990 und 1991 bis 2017 gefunden. Die Studie bezieht sich auf die klassische Phillips-Kurve, die den empirischen Zusammenhang zwischen Inflation und Arbeitslosigkeit untersucht. Von einer Modellierung nach neukeynesianschem Vorbild wird zunächst abgesehen. Die Phillips-Kurve büßte in dieser Zeit erheblich an Erklärungskraft ein. Aus dem teilweise gegensätzlichen Verlauf der Philipps-Kurve unter Verwendung geschlechterspezifischer Erwerbslosenquoten wird abgeleitet, dass sich diese Entwicklung im Zuge der stark gestiegenen Erwerbsbeteiligung von Frauen noch beschleunigt hat. Die geschlechterspezifischen Unterschiede im Verlauf der Philipps-Kurve werden besonders deutlich unter Verwendung der von konjunkturellen Schwankungen weitgehend befreiten Erwerbslosenquote. Dies wird als Indiz für strukturelle Unterschiede im Erwerbsverhalten von Frauen und Männern gewertet. Das Ergebnis stärkt damit die Argumentation nach einer stärkeren Berücksichtigung von Genderaspekten in makroökonomischen Modellen. Weitere Forschungsarbeiten sind notwendig, um Aussagen über kausale Zusammenhänge treffen zu können.
E31|How Does Consumption Respond to News about Inflation? Field Evidence from a Randomized Control Trial|We implement a survey of Dutch households in which random subsets of respondents receive information about inflation. The resulting exogenously generated variation in inflation expectations is used to assess how expectations affect subsequent monthly consumption decisions relative to those in a control group. The causal effects of elevated inflation expectations on non-durable spending are imprecisely estimated but there is a sharp negative effect on durable spending. We provide evidence that this is likely driven by the fact that Dutch households seem to become more pessimistic about their real income as well as aggregate spending when they increase their inflation expectations. There is little evidence to support the idea that the degree to which respondents change their beliefs or their spending in response to information treatments depends on their level of cognitive or financial constraints.
