E37|Bayesian MIDAS penalized regressions: estimation, selection, and prediction|We propose a new approach to mixed-frequency regressions in a high-dimensional environment that resorts to Group Lasso penalization and Bayesian techniques for estimation and inference. To improve the sparse recovery ability of the model, we also consider a Group Lasso with a spike-and-slab prior. Penalty hyper-parameters governing the model shrinkage are automatically tuned via an adaptive MCMC algorithm. Simulations show that the proposed models have good selection and forecasting performance, even when the design matrix presents high cross-correlation. When applied to U.S. GDP data, the results suggest that financial variables may have some, although limited, short-term predictive content.
E37|Search Complementarities, Aggregate Fluctuations, and Fiscal Policy|We develop a quantitative business cycle model with search complementarities in the inter-firm matching process that entails a multiplicity of equilibria. An active static equilibrium with strong joint venture formation, large output, and low unemployment can coexist with a passive static equilibrium with low joint venture formation, low output, and high unemployment. Changes in fundamentals move the system between the two static equilibria, generating large and persistent business cycle fluctuations. The volatility of shocks is important for the selection and duration of each static equilibrium. Sufficiently adverse shocks in periods of low macroeconomic volatility trigger severe and protracted downturns. The magnitude of government intervention is critical to foster economic recovery in the passive static equilibrium, while it plays a limited role in the active static equilibrium.
E37|How Oil Supply Shocks Affect the Global Economy: Evidence from Local Projections|We provide empirical evidence on the impact of oil supply shocks on global aggregates. To do this, we first extract structural oil supply shocks from a standard oil-price determination model found in the literature. Impulse response functions are then estimated using local projections. This technique has recently been used to estimate the effect of monetary policy and government spending shocks. To our knowledge, however, this is the first time it is used to analyze the effect of oil supply shocks on global aggregates. While there is a high level of uncertainty around our estimates, results can be summarized with three main takeaways. Following a supply-driven decline in oil prices: (1) US business investment usually decreases, highlighting the importance of the shale oil industry, while the reaction of US gross domestic product (GDP) is often not statistically significant; (2) domestic demand in the euro area usually increases strongly; and (3) GDP among commodity exporters declines in the short term, reflecting the importance of the terms-of-trade channel, but increases in the longer term, reflecting the aggregate benefits of increased oil production.
E37|Potential Output in Canada: 2019 Reassessment|Potential output is expected to grow on average at 1.8 per cent over 2019–21 and at 1.9 per cent in 2022. While the contribution of trend labour input to potential output growth is expected to decrease between 2019 and 2022, the contribution of trend labour productivity is projected to increase. Relative to the April 2018 reassessment, the profile for potential output growth rates is similar, albeit revised slightly down in 2020 and 2021. Underlying this new profile are negative revisions to the business investment outlook relative to April 2018 that are mostly offset by stronger projections for population growth. Based on various alternative scenarios, the range for potential output growth estimates widens from 1.5 to 2.1 per cent in 2019 to 1.3 to 2.5 per cent in 2022.
E37|Production potentielle au Canada : réévaluation de 2019|La production potentielle devrait afficher une croissance moyenne de 1,8 % de 2019 à 2021 et de 1,9 % en 2022. Même si l’apport du facteur travail tendanciel à la croissance de la production potentielle devrait diminuer entre 2019 et 2022, celui de la productivité tendancielle du travail devrait augmenter. Le profil des taux de croissance de la production potentielle est similaire à celui établi lors de la réévaluation d’avril 2018, malgré une légère révision à la baisse pour 2020 et 2021. Ce nouveau profil tient compte d’un assombrissement des perspectives d’investissement des entreprises, en grande partie contrebalancé par des projections à la hausse pour ce qui est de la croissance démographique. Selon les divers scénarios étudiés, la fourchette des estimations de croissance de la production potentielle s’élargit, allant de 1,5 à 2,1 % en 2019 et de 1,3 à 2,5 % en 2022.
E37|Assessing the Resilience of the Canadian Banking System|The stability of the Canadian financial system, as well as its ability to support the Canadian economy, depends on the ability of financial institutions to absorb and manage major shocks. This is especially true for large banks, which perform services essential to the Canadian economy.
E37|Évaluer la résilience du système bancaire canadien|La stabilité du système financier canadien et son rôle de pilier de l’économie du pays tiennent à la capacité des institutions financières à absorber et à gérer les chocs majeurs. Cela est particulièrement vrai pour les grandes banques, dont les services sont essentiels à l’économie canadienne.
E37|An application of dynamic factor models to nowcast regional economic activity in Spain|The goal of this paper is to propose a model to produce nowcasts of GDP growth of Spanish regions, by means of dynamic factor models. This framework is capable to incorporate in a parsimonious way the relevant information available at the time that each forecast is made. We employ a Bayesian perspective to provide robust estimation of all the ingredients involved in the model. Accordingly, we introduce the Bayesian Factor model for Regions (BayFaR), which allows for the inclusion of missing data and combines quarterly data on regional real output growth (taken from the database of the AIReF and from the individual regional statistics institutes, when available) and monthly information associated to indicators of regional real activity. We apply the BayFaR to nowcast the GDP growth of the four largest regions of Spain, and illustrate the real-time nowcasting performance of the proposed framework for each case. We also apply the model to nowcast Spanish GDP in order to be able to assess the relative growth of each region.
E37|El índice de precios de consumo: usos y posibles vías de mejora|En este documento se presentan de forma breve los principales usos de las estadísticas de precios de consumo, prestando especial atención a la predicción de la inflación mediante modelos econométricos. También se realizan algunas propuestas de cara a aumentar la utilidad del índice de precios de consumo para los usuarios finales.
E37|The euro-area output gap through the lens of a DSGE model|The paper provides estimates of the euro-area output gap, based on a relatively standard medium scale DSGE model estimated recursively with Bayesian techniques over the period 1985-2016. The main findings can be summarized as follows. First, our measure of output gap identifies episodes of expansion and recession generally in line with the official business cycle dating of the CEPR. Second, unlike measures of output gap obtained by means of statistical filtering techniques, real-time DSGE-based estimates are remarkably stable and hence are less prone to ex-post revisions. According to our results, the euro-area output gap was -3.4% in 2016, more negative than assessed by most economic analysts and institutions (spanning a range between from 0 and to -2%), but arguably more consistent with the still weak dynamics of both labour costs and core inflation.
E37|The natural interest rate in Latin America|The natural interest rate is a critical building block in the evaluation of a monetary policy stance. We estimate the natural interest rate for the five largest Latin American economies. We follow the method in Laubach and Williams (2003), complemented with rational and survey inflation expectations and adapted to Bayesian maximum likelihood estimation. The model is the standard neo-Keynesian model, complemented with equations for the natural interest rate in nominal terms and the rational inflation expectations. We find that in real terms the natural interest rate trends down and remains above zero in the larger economies (Brazil, Mexico and Colombia), while it remains without a noticeable trend although closer to zero in the smaller economies (Chile and Peru). We also find that in nominal terms, the natural rate trends down, in most economies a consequence of the drop in inflation and inflation expectations. Regarding the policy implications, the natural interest rate still does not pose a critical challenge for monetary policy in Latin America, as it does in advanced economies (Ball 2014). Nonetheless, in Chile and Peru the natural rate in nominal terms is just above 2 and 3 percent, respectively, offering narrow room for expansionary monetary policy. **** RESUMEN: La tasa de interés natural es un elemento crítico en la evaluación de la postura de la política monetaria. El artículo presenta la estimación de la tasa de interés natural en las 5 economías más grandes de América Latina. Seguimos el método de Laubach y Williams (2003), complementado con expectativas racionales y de encuestas, y adaptado a la estimación de máxima verosimilitud bayesina. El modelo es el neo-keynesiano estándar, complementado con ecuaciones para la tasa de interés natural en términos nominales y para las expectativas de inflación racionales. Encontramos que en términos reales la tasa de interés natural muestra una tendencia decreciente y permanece por encima de cero en las economías más grandes (Brasil, México y Colombia), mientras que permanece sin tendencia discernible aunque más cerca de cero en las economías más pequeñas (Chile y Perú). También encontramos que en términos nominales la tasa natural muestra una tendencia decreciente, en la mayoría de las economías como consecuencia de la caída en la inflación y en las expectativas de inflación. En cuanto a las implicaciones de política, la tasa de interés natural aún no representa un desafío crítico para la política monetaria en América Latina, como es el caso en las economías avanzadas (Ball 2014). Sin embargo, en Chile y Perú la tasa de interés natural en términos nominales se encuentra apenas por encima de 2 y 3 por ciento, respectivamente, ofreciendo un margen estrecho para una política monetaria expansiva.
E37|Bayesian MIDAS Penalized Regressions: Estimation, Selection, and Prediction|We propose a new approach to mixed-frequency regressions in a high-dimensional environment that resorts to Group Lasso penalization and Bayesian techniques for estimation and inference. To improve the sparse recovery ability of the model, we also consider a Group Lasso with a spike-and-slab prior. Penalty hyper-parameters governing the model shrinkage are automatically tuned via an adaptive MCMC algorithm. Simulations show that the proposed models have good selection and forecasting performance, even when the design matrix presents high cross-correlation. When applied to U.S. GDP data, the results suggest that financial variables may have some, although limited, short-term predictive content.
E37|When are Google data useful to nowcast GDP? An approach via pre-selection and shrinkage|Nowcasting GDP growth is extremely useful for policy-makers to assess macroe-conomic conditions in real-time. In this paper, we aim at nowcasting euro area GDP with a large database of Google search data. Our objective is to check whether this specific type of information can be useful to increase GDP nowcasting accuracy, and when, once we control for official variables. In this respect, we estimate shrunk bridge regressions that integrate Google data optimally screened through a targeting method, and we empirically show that this approach provides some gain in pseudo-real-time nowcasting of euro area GDP quarterly growth. Especially, we get that Google data bring useful information for GDP nowcasting for the four first weeks of the quarter when macroeconomic information is lacking. However, as soon as official data become available, their relative nowcasting power vanishes. In addition, a true real-time anal-ysis confirms that Google data constitute a reliable alternative when official data are lacking.
E37|Inflation and Deflationary Biases in Inflation Expectations|We explore the consequences of losing confidence in the price-stability objective of central banks by quantifying the inflation and deflationary biases in inflation expectations. In a model with an occasionally binding zero-lower-bound constraint, we show that both inflation bias and deflationary bias can exist as a steady-state outcome. We assess the predictions of this model using unique individual-level inflation expectations data across nine countries that allow for a direct identification of these biases. Both inflation and deflationary biases are present and sizable, but different across countries. Even among the euro-area countries, perceptions of the European Central Bank’s objectives are very distinct.
E37|Has globalization changed the inflation process?|The relationship central to most inflation models, between slack and inflation, seems to have weakened. Do we need a new framework? This paper uses three very different approaches - principal components, a Phillips curve model, and trend-cycle decomposition - to show that inflation models should more explicitly and comprehensively control for changes in the global economy and allow for key parameters to adjust over time. Global factors, such as global commodity prices, global slack, exchange rates, and producer price competition can all significantly affect inflation, even after controlling for the standard domestic variables. The role of these global factors has changed over the last decade, especially the relationship between global slack, commodity prices, and producer price dispersion with CPI inflation and the cyclical component of inflation. The role of different global and domestic factors varies across countries, but as the world has become more integrated through trade and supply chains, global factors should no longer play an ancillary role in models of inflation dynamics.
E37|Boom de crédito en Uruguay: Identificación y Anticipación|In this paper we review the most used methodologies for the identification of credit boom episodes as ex post identification threshold techniques that can be used to identify episodes in Uruguay between 1985 and 2018. We estimate a Bayesian Model Average (BMA) that allows the identification and early prediction of credit booms based on the interrelation between these episodes and the macroeconomic aggregates. Considering the evolution of GDP, private consumption, investment, public spending, imports, exports, the exchange rate, the terms of trade, the current account and the capital account and financial information as a percentage of GDP, it is possible to determine the probability of being in an episode of credit boom up to two quarters in advance. Following this methodology, 3 episodes are identified, from the second quarter of 2000 to the first quarter of 2003, from the fourth quarter of 2008 to the second quarter of 2010 and from the second quarter of 2012 to the third quarter of 2015.
E37|Multivariate Bayesian Predictive Synthesis in Macroeconomic Forecasting|We present new methodology and a case study in use of a class of Bayesian predictive synthesis (BPS) models for multivariate time series forecasting. This extends the foundational BPS framework to the multivariate setting, with detailed application in the topical and challenging context of multi-step macroeconomic forecasting in a monetary policy setting. BPS evaluates– sequentially and adaptively over time– varying forecast biases and facets of miscalibration of individual forecast densities for multiple time series, and– critically– their time-varying interdependencies. We define BPS methodology for a new class of dynamic multivariate latent factor models implied by BPS theory. Structured dynamic latent factor BPS is here motivated by the application context– sequential forecasting of multiple US macroeconomic time series with forecasts generated from several traditional econometric time series models. The case study highlights the potential of BPS to improve of forecasts of multiple series at multiple forecast horizons, and its use in learning dynamic relationships among forecasting models or agents.
E37|News-driven inflation expectations and information rigidities|We investigate the role played by the media in the expectations formation process of households. Using a news-topic-based approach we show that news types the media choose to report on, e.g., (Internet) technology, health, and politics, are good predictors of households' stated in ation expectations. In turn, in a noisy information model setting, augmented with a simple media channel, we document that the underlying time series properties of relevant news topics explain the timevarying information rigidity among households. As such, we not only provide a novel estimate showing the degree to which information rigidities among households vary across time, but also provide, using a large news corpus and machine learning algorithms, robust and new evidence highlighting the role of the media for understanding infl ation expectations and information rigidities.
E37|Multivariate Bayesian Predictive Synthesis in Macroeconomic Forecasting|We present new methodology and a case study in use of a class of Bayesian predictive synthesis (BPS) models for multivariate time series forecasting. This extends the foundational BPS framework to the multivariate setting, with detailed application in the topical and challenging context of multi-step macroeconomic forecasting in a monetary policy setting. BPS evaluates - sequentially and adaptively over time – varying forecast biases and facets of miscalibration of individual forecast densities for multiple time series, and – critically – their time-varying interdependencies. We define BPS methodology for a new class of dynamic multivariate latent factor models implied by BPS theory. Structured dynamic latent factor BPS is here motivated by the application context–sequential forecasting of multiple US macroeconomic time series with forecasts generated from several traditional econometric time series models. The case study highlights the potential of BPS to improve of forecasts of multiple series at multiple forecast horizons, and its use in learning dynamic relationships among forecasting models or agents.
E37|News-driven inflation expectations and information rigidities|We investigate the role played by the media in the expectations formation process of households. Using a novel news-topic-based approach we show that news types the media choose to report on, e.g., fiscal policy, health, and politics, are good predictors of households' stated inflation expectations. In turn, in a noisy information model setting, augmented with a simple media channel, we document that the underlying time series properties of relevant news topics explain the time-varying information rigidity among households. As such, we not only provide a novel estimate showing the degree to which information rigidities among households varies across time, but also provide, using a large news corpus and machine learning algorithms, robust and new evidence highlighting the role of the media for understanding inflation expectations and information rigidities.
E37|Should we care? : The economic effects of financial sanctions on the Russian economy|We employ a Bayesian VAR model to estimate the economic effects on the Russian economy from Western financial sanctions imposed in 2014. Sanctions caused a decrease in the amount of out-standing Russian corporate external debt, but it occurred during an episode of falling oil prices. We disentangle the effects of sanctions and oil prices by computing out-of-sample projections of key Russian macroeconomic variables conditioned solely on the oil price drop and on both the oil price drop and external debt deleveraging. Declining oil prices alone do not explain the depth of economic crisis in Russia, but we get rather accurate conditional forecasts when the actual path of external debt deleveraging is added. We treat the difference between these two projections as the effect of sanctions against Russia. The effect is modest, yet significant, for most of the variables discussed. While our estimate of the impact of sanctions on GDP growth has large uncertainty, over two-thirds of the density lies in the negative area.
E37|Measuring household uncertainty in EU countries|I provide a measure of household uncertainty available for European Union (EU) countries. The measure draws from the same consumer survey data used to construct widely-used consumer sentiment indices. I find that increases in household uncertainty are followed by declines in consumer sentiment and household financial conditions. Using Euro Area-wide indices, I also find that the effects of increases in household uncertainty differ from increases in uncertainty from other sources such as financial markets and economic policy. Notably, household uncertainty shocks are inflationary. These results challenge the notion that (household) uncertainty shocks act like negative demand shocks.
E37|Optimal monetary policy under bounded rationality|Optimal monetary policy under discretion, commitment, and optimal simple rules regimes is analyzed through a behavioral New Keynesian model. Flexible price level targeting dominates under discretion; flexible inflation targeting dominates under commitment; and strict price level targeting dominates when using optimal simple rules. The optimality of a particular regime is found to be independent of bounded rationality and only regime 's stabilizing properties condition its hierarchy. For every targeting regime, the policymaker 's knowledge of agents' myopia is decisive in terms of policy reactions. Welfare evaluation of different targeting regimes reveals that bounded rationality is not necessarily associated with decreased welfare. Several forms of economic inattention can increase welfare.
E37|Forecast Performance in Times of Terrorism|Governments, central banks, and private companies make extensive use of expert and market-based forecasts in their decision-making processes. These forecasts can be affected by terrorism, which should be considered by decision makers. We focus on terrorism, as a mostly endogenously driven form of political uncertainty, and use new econometric tests to assess the forecasting performance of market and professional inflation and exchange-rate forecasts in Israel. We show that expert forecasts are better than market-based forecasts, particularly during periods of terrorism. However, forecasting performance and abilities of both market-based and expert forecasts are significantly reduced during such periods. Thus, policymakers should be particularly attentive to terrorism when considering inflation and exchange-rate forecasts.
E37|Tracking the Course of the Economy (Nowcasting of basic macroeconomic indicators of Slovakia)|Real GDP and its structure are available within 70 days after the end of the reference quarter. By using leading indicators of higher frequency, it is possible to nowcast GDP in real-time. With an assumption of unobserved factor driving the business cycle we estimate dynamic factor models for real GDP, its demand components, inflation, wages and employment using statistically significant domestic and foreign indicators. To ensure the consistency of out-of-sample forecasts for GDP and its components, past forecast deviations and correlation coefficients are used to adjust the forecast, which helps to reduce the bias of individual models. Forecasts using real-time database are carried out since the 1st January of 2017 using daily data vintages. Real-time forecasts display a reduction of forecasting error with the arrival of new data in the last month of the quarter until the official publication. The main role of nowcasting in CBR is to track the actual positive and negative macroeconomic risks of the Slovak economy in relation to the latest official national macroeconomic forecast by the Macroeconomic Forecasting Committee. Additionally, the nowcast models help to improve precision of estimates of initial conditions of the economy by bridging the short-term forecast and mid-term forecast.
E37|Inflation, Inflation Expectations, and the Phillips Curve: Working Paper 2019-07|This paper studies the current state of inflation dynamics using a Phillips curve model, assesses the degree of anchoring of inflation expectations, and analyzes the sensitivity of inflation to cyclical fluctuations of economic conditions.
E37|The Macroeconomic Projections of the German Government: A Comparison to an Independent Forecasting Institution|This paper investigates the macroeconomic projections of the German government since the 1970s and compares it those of the Joint Economic Forecast, which is an in-dependent forecasting institution in Germany. Our results indicate that nominal GDP projections are upward biased for longer forecast horizons, which seems to be driven by a false assessment of the decline in Germany’s trend growth and a systematic failure to correctly anticipate recessions. We show that the German government also deviates from the projections of the Joint Economic Forecast, which in fact worsened the forecast accuracy. Finally, we find evidence that these deviations are driven by political motives.
E37|Estimating macroeconomic uncertainty and discord using info-metrics|We apply generalized beta and triangular distributions to histograms from the Survey of Professional Forecasters (SPF) to estimate forecast uncertainty, shocks and discord using information framework, and compare these with moment-based estimates. We find these two approaches to produce analogous results, except in cases where the underlying densities deviate significantly from normality. Even though the Shannon entropy is more inclusive of different facets of a forecast density, we find that with SPF forecasts it is largely driven by the variance of the densities. We use Jenson-Shannon Information to measure ex ante “news” or “uncertainty shocks” in real time, and find that this ‘news’ is closely related to revisions in forecast means, countercyclical, and raises uncertainty. Using standard vector auto-regression analysis, we confirm that uncertainty affects the economy negatively.
E37|Forecasting GDP all over the World: Evidence from Comprehensive Survey Data|Comprehensive and international comparable leading indicators across countries and continents are rare. In this paper, we use a free and fast available source of leading indicators, the World Economic Survey (WES) conducted by the ifo Institute, to forecast growth of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 44 countries and three country aggregates separately. We come up with three major results. First, for 35 countries as well as the three aggregates a model containing one of the major WES indicators produces on average lower forecast errors compared to an autoregressive benchmark model. Second, the most important WES indicators are either the economic climate or the expectations on future economic development for the next six months. And last, 70% of all country-specific models contain WES information from at least one of the main trading partners. Thus, by allowing WES indicators from economic important partners to forecast GDP of the country under consideration, increases forecast accuracy.
E37|Efectos de las variaciones del IPC en las decisiones financieras|En este documento se desarrolló un análisis de mercado que derivó en un modelo econométrico con miras a determinar el comportamiento del Índice de Precios al Consumidor en un horizonte de tiempo de 2 años, para dar apoyo a la toma de decisiones financieras de inversión y financiamiento. En el análisis se tuvieron en cuenta las Encuestas a expertos y los Pronósticos a entidades financieras. Sin embargo, al enfrentar dicha información con el IPC observado, se concluyó que los pronósticos y encuestas mencionadas no tenían una capacidad de predicción a dos años confiable. Debido a que el mercado no permitió cumplir con el objetivo propuesto, fue necesario desarrollar un modelo econométrico de tipo ARIMA con datos mensuales desde entre enero de 2010 y diciembre de 2018. En la construcción del modelo se determinó que la volatilidad del IPC estaba fuertemente influida por el precio de los alimentos, y por ende serían el fenómeno del niño y los paros de transporte las variables idóneas en la conformación del modelo. Como resultado, se obtuvo una proyección del IPC a dos años. No obstante, el pronóstico presentó una desviación estándar considerable y creciente en el tiempo que redujo la efectividad del modelo a un año. En el desarrollo del modelo como paso a seguir, se plantea necesario realizar una función impulso respuesta de las variables Dummy y adaptar el modelo a la nueva metodología del IPC propuesta por el DANE para 2019. *** In this document, a market analysis was developed which derived in an econometric model with a view to determining the behaviour of the Consumer Price Index in a time horizon of 2 years, to give support to the financial decision making of investment and financing. The analysis took into account the Surveys to experts and the Forecasts to financial entities. However, when facing said information with the observed CPI, it was concluded that the forecasts and surveys mentioned did not have a reliable two-year prediction capacity. Since the market did not comply with the proposed objective, it was necessary to develop an ARIMA-type econometric model with monthly data from January 2010 to December 2018. In the construction of the model, it was determined that the volatility of the CPI was strongly influenced by the food price, and therefore the El Niño phenomenon and transport stoppages would be the ideal variables in shaping the model. As a result, a two-year CPI projection was obtained. However, the forecast presented a considerable and increasing standard deviation over time that reduced the effectiveness of the model to one year. In the development of the model as a step to follow, it is necessary to carry out a response impulse function of the Dummy variables and to adapt the model to the new CPI methodology proposed by DANE for 2019.
E37|The global component of inflation volatility|Global developments play an important role in domestic inflation rates. Previous literature has found that a substantial amount of the variation in a large set of national inflation rates can be explained by a single global factor. However, inflation volatility has been typically neglected, while it is clearly relevant both from a policy point of view and for structural analysis and forecasting purposes. We study the evolution of inflation rates in several countries, using a novel model that allows for commonality in both levels and volatilities, in addition to country-specific components. We find that inflation stochastic volatility is indeed important, and a substantial share of it can be attributed to a global factor that also drives the levels and persistence of inflation. While various phenomena may contribute to global inflation dynamics, it turns out that since the early 1990s, the estimated global factor is correlated with China’s PPI and with oil inflation levels and volatilities. The extent of commonality among core inflation rates and volatilities is substantially smaller than for overall inflation, which leaves scope for national monetary policies.
E37|Changing Business Cycles: The Role of Women's Employment|This paper studies the impact of changing trends in female labor supply on productivity, TFP growth and aggregate business cycles. We find that the growth in women’s labor supply and relative productivity added substantially to TFP growth from the early 1980s, even if it depressed average labor productivity growth, contributing to the 1970s productivity slowdown. We also show that the lower cyclicality of female hours and their growing share can account for a large fraction of the reduced cyclicality of aggregate hours during the great moderation, as well as the decline in the correlation between average labor productivity and hours. Finally, we show that the discontinued growth in female labor supply starting in the 1990s played a substantial role in the jobless recoveries following the 1990-1991, 2001 and 2007-2009 recessions. Moreover, it depressed aggregate hours, output growth and male wages during the late 1990s and mid 2000s expansions. These results suggest that continued growth in female employment since the early 1990s would have significantly improved economic performance in the United States.
E37|Inflation Expectations: Review and Evidence|This paper presents a comprehensive examination of the determination and evolution of inflation expectations, with a focus on emerging market and developing economies (EMDEs). The results suggest that long-term inflation expectations in EMDEs are not as well anchored as those in advanced economies, despite notable improvements over the past two decades. Indeed, in EMDEs, long-term inflation expectations are more sensitive to both domestic and global inflation shocks. However, EMDEs tend to be more successful in anchoring inflation expectations in the presence of an inflation targeting regime, high central bank transparency, strong trade integration, and a low level of public debt.
E37|Incentive-driven Inattention|This paper establishes a link between incentives and limited attention in economic decision-making. We explore how agents' attention reacts to incentives versus the arrival of information and how each factor affects the quality of decisions. We analyze a unique survey dataset where professional forecasters decide when to update a forecast and there is a formal incentive in the form of a contest rewarding forecast accuracy. There is also a major piece of information arriving right after the contest. We empirically establish that the contest is the primary driver of updating decisions and accuracy improvements. Then, we develop and structurally estimate a rational inattention model where agents choose how much attention to allocate to updating. The estimated model fits the data and allows us to perform counterfactuals to quantify the value of the contest and how it affects updates and accuracy, as well as to establish the optimal timing of the contest.
E37|Resolving the Missing Deflation Puzzle|We propose a resolution of the missing deflation puzzle. Our resolution stresses the importance of nonlinearities in price- and wage-setting when the economy is exposed to large shocks. We show that a nonlinear macroeconomic model with real rigidities resolves the missing deflation puzzle, while a linearized version of the same underlying nonlinear model fails to do so. In addition, our nonlinear model reproduces the skewness of inflation and other macroeconomic variables observed in post-war U.S. data. All told, our results caution against the common practice of using linearized models to study inflation and output dynamics.
E37|Search Complementarities, Aggregate Fluctuations, and Fiscal Policy|We develop a quantitative business cycle model with search complementarities in the inter-firm matching process that entails a multiplicity of equilibria. An active static equilibrium with strong joint venture formation, large output, and low unemployment can coexist with a passive static equilibrium with low joint venture formation, low output, and high unemployment. Changes in fundamentals move the system between the two static equilibria, generating large and persistent business cycle fluctuations. The volatility of shocks is important for the selection and duration of each static equilibrium. Sufficiently adverse shocks in periods of low macroeconomic volatility trigger severe and protracted downturns. The magnitude of government intervention is critical to foster economic recovery in the passive static equilibrium, while it plays a limited role in the active static equilibrium.
E37|When are Google data useful to nowcast GDP? An approach via pre-selection and shrinkage|Nowcasting GDP growth is extremely useful for policy-makers to assess macroeconomic conditions in real-time. In this paper, we aim at nowcasting euro area GDP with a large database of Google search data. Our objective is to check whether this specific type of information can be useful to increase GDP nowcasting accuracy, and when, once we control for official variables. In this respect, we estimate shrunk bridge regressions that integrate Google data optimally screened through a targeting method, and we empirically show that this approach provides some gain in pseudo-real-time nowcasting of euro area GDP quarterly growth. Especially, we get that Google data bring useful information for GDP nowcasting for the four first weeks of the quarter when macroeconomic information is lacking. However, as soon as official data become available, their relative nowcasting power vanishes. In addition, a true real-time analysis confirms that Google data constitute a reliable alternative when official data are lacking.
E37|Revisiting the accuracy of inflation forecasts in Nigeria: the oil price â€“exchange rate perspectives|Motivated by the dual characteristic of the Nigeria economy as exporter and importer of oil, we extend the Tule et al. (2018) oil price â€“based predictive model to include the role of exchange rates in the predictability of inflation in Nigeria. Using the FQGLS estimator developed by Westerlund and Narayan (2012, 2015), we account for endogeneity, persistence and conditional heterosecedatcity effects in the forecasting analyses of inflation in Nigeria. We use both the single and pairwise measures to compare the forecast results of oil prices and/or exchange rates based augmented Phillips curve with the variant that contain them both simultaneously. The result suggests that augmenting the Phillips curve with oil prices and exchange rates in the same model set up is the more accurate to forecasting inflation in Nigeria relative to having them individually in a predictive model. More so, the augmented Phillips curve with oil prices and exchange rate consistently outperforms time series models such as ARMA and ARFIMA. However, we find that accounting for structural breaks will largely improve the accuracy of CMB-APC for forecasting inflation in Nigeria. We find the robustness of these findings evident for in-sample and out-of-sample forecasts.
E37|Macroprudential stress test of the euro area banking system JEL Classification: E37, E58, G21, G28|No abstract is available for this item.
E37|Macroprudential policy at the ECB: Institutional framework, strategy, analytical tools and policies|This occasional paper describes how the financial stability and macroprudential policy functions are organised at the ECB. Financial stability has been a key policy function of the ECB since its inception. Macroprudential policy tasks were later conferred on the ECB by the Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM) Regulation. The paper describes the ECB’s macroprudential governance framework in the new institutional set-up. After reviewing the concept and origins of systemic risk, it reflects on the emergence of macroprudential policy in the aftermath of the financial crisis, its objectives and instruments, as well as specific aspects of this policy area in a monetary union such as the euro area. The ECB’s responsibilities required new tools to be developed to measure systemic risk at financial institution, country and system-wide level. The paper discusses selected analytical tools supporting financial stability surveillance and assessment work, as well as macroprudential policy analysis at the ECB. The tools are grouped into three broad areas: (i) methods to gauge the state of financial instability or prospects of near-term systemic stress, (ii) measures to capture the build-up of systemic risk focused on country-level financial cycle measurement and early warning methods, and (iii) the ECB stress testing framework for macroprudential purposes. JEL Classification: E37, F36, G20, G28, K23
E37|Mind the gap: a multi-country BVAR benchmark for the Eurosystem projections|The Eurosystem staff forecasts are conditional on the financial markets, the global economy and fiscal policy outlook, and include expert judgement. We develop a multi-country BVAR for the four largest countries of the euro area and we show that it provides accurate conditional forecasts of policy relevant variables such as, for example, consumer prices and GDP. The forecasting accuracy and the ability to mimic the path of the Eurosystem projections suggest that the model is a valid benchmark to assess the consistency of the projections with the conditional assumptions. As such, the BVAR can be used to identify possible sources of judgement, based on the gaps between the Eurosystem projections and the historical regularities captured by the model. JEL Classification: C52, C53, E37
E37|An analysis of the Eurosystem/ECB projections|The Eurosystem/ECB staff macroeconomic projection exercises constitute an important input to the ECB's monetary policy. This work marks a thorough analysis of the Eurosystem/ECB projection errors by looking at criteria of optimality and rationality using techniques widely employed in the applied literature of forecast evaluation. In general, the results are encouraging and suggest that Eurosystem/ECB staff projections abide to the main characteristics that constitute them reliable as a policy input. Projections of GDP - up to one year - and inflation are optimal - in the case of inflation they are also rational. A main finding is that GDP forecasts can be substantially improved, especially at long horizons. JEL Classification: C53, E37, E58
E37|Disentangling the role of the exchange rate in oil-related scenarios for the European stock market|Until now, stock market responses to a distress scenario for oil prices have been analysed considering prices in domestic currency. This assumption implies merging the commodity risk with the exchange rate risk when oil and stocks are traded in different currencies. This article proposes incorporating explicitly the exchange rate, using the convolution concept, to assess how could change the stock market response depending on the source of risk that moves oil prices. I apply this framework to study the change in the 10th lowest percentile of the European stock market under an oil-related stress scenario, without overlooking the role of the exchange rate. The empirical exercise shows that the same stress oil-related scenario in euros could generate an opposite impact in the European stock market depending on the source of risk. The source of risk is not incorporated when performing a bivariate analysis, which suggests ambiguous estimates of the stock response. This framework can improve our understanding of how the exchange rate interacts in global markets. Also, it contributes to reduce the inaccuracy in the impact assessment of foreign shocks where the exchange rate plays a relevant role. JEL Classification: E30, E37, E44, G10
E37|A macroeconomic vulnerability model for the euro area|Macroeconomic imbalances increase the vulnerability of an economy to adverse shocks, which in turn can lead to crises with severe economic and social costs. We propose an early warning model that predicts such crises. We identify a set of macroeconomic indicators capturing domestic and external imbalances that jointly predict severe recessions (i.e. growth crises) in a multivariate discrete choice framework. The approach allows us to quantify an economy's macroeconomic vulnerabilities at any point in time. In particular, the model would have pointed early on to emerging vulnerabilities in all the euro area countries that registered severe recessions in the years after 2007. We also show that the model can be applied beyond the euro area crisis in that its main results remain robust to changes in assumptions and sample composition. JEL Classification: E37, E44, F47, O52
E37|Changing Business Cycles: The Role of Women's Employment|This paper studies the impact of changing trends in female labor supply on productivity,TFP growth and aggregate business cycles. We find that the growth in womenâ€™s labor supplyand relative productivity added substantially to TFP growth from the early 1980s, even if itdepressed average labor productivity growth, contributing to the 1970s productivity slowdown.We also show that the lower cyclicality of female hours and their growing share can account fora large fraction of the reduced cyclicality of aggregate hours during the great moderation, as wellas the decline in the correlation between average labor productivity and hours. Finally, we showthat the discontinued growth in female labor supply starting in the 1990s played a substantialrole in the jobless recoveries following the 1990-1991, 2001 and 2007-2009 recessions. Moreover,it depressed aggregate hours, output growth and male wages during the late 1990s and mid2000s expansions. These results suggest that continued growth in female employment since theearly 1990s would have significantly improved economic performance in the United States.
E37|Long-term inflation expectations and inflation dynamics|After rising sharply following the Global Financial Crisis, inflation in Iceland has been low and stable in recent years despite a strong cyclical recovery. This not only reflects favourable external conditions but also coincides with a significant decline in long-term inflation expectations in financial markets. It is argued, however, that this market-based measure of inflation expectations actually underestimates the true decline in long-term inflation expectations of price setters. To extract this unobserved wedge between inflation expectations of price setters and financial agents, we estimate a time-varying parameter Phillips curve model for the inflation-targeting period since 2001, adjusting also for an unobserved risk premium in market-based inflation expectations. The empirical results suggest that the expectations wedge was significantly positive until early 2012, after which it starts to gradually decline towards zero. The true decline in long-term inflation expectations of actual price setters is therefore much steeper than is captured by the market-based measure and taking this into account results in a stable and plausible specification of the Phillips curve that can explain key features of the recent inflation developments in Iceland.
E37|Institutional Responses to Aging Populations and Economic Growth: A Panel Data Approach|Will an aging population lower economic growth? Economists are generally concerned that the increase in life expectancy could lower economic growth, however, theory does not make a prediction. As life expectancy increases, so should household savings, which results in more physical capital per worker. This will stimulate economic growth. However, as the retired population share increases, this may reduce spending on children as more resources are transferred to the elderly. This will likely reduce human capital accumulation and lower growth. The net effect of these competing influences is an empirical question. This paper constructs a stylized endogenous growth model that includes both human capital and government transfers to the elderly. The model is mapped into a linear statistical framework that allows us to estimate each of these potential responses using panel data for a set of OECD countries during the period 1975-2014. We find evidence that households do in fact increase savings in response to a longer retirement period and this effect is associated with a higher realized rate of growth per worker. However, we also find evidence that an aging population reduces spending on children (or other productive investments) placing a drag on growth. These results suggest it is the institutional response to population aging that will determine whether or not an aging population will place a drag on future growth, not population aging itself.
E37|Predicting Ordinary and Severe Recessions with a Three-State Markov-Switching Dynamic Factor Model|We estimate a Markow-switching dynamic factor model with three states based on six leading business cycle indicators for Germany preselected from a broader set using the Elastic Net soft-thresholding rule. The three states represent expansions, normal recessions and severe recessions. We show that a two-state model is not sensitive enough to reliably detect relatively mild recessions when the Great Recession of 2008/2009 is included in the sample. Adding a third state helps to clearly distinguish normal and severe recessions, so that the model identifies reliably all business cycle turning points in our sample. In a real-time exercise the model detects recessions timely. Combining the estimated factor and the recession probabilities with a simple GDP forecasting model yields an accurate nowcast for the steepest decline in GDP in 2009Q1 and a correct prediction of the timing of the Great Recession and its recovery one quarter in advance.
E37|Inflation Expectations: Review and Evidence|This paper presents a comprehensive examination of the determination and evolution of inflation expectations, with a focus on emerging market and developing economies (EMDEs). The results suggest that long-term inflation expectations in EMDEs are not as well anchored as those in advanced economies, despite notable improvements over the past two decades. Indeed, in EMDEs, long-term inflation expectations are more sensitive to both domestic and global inflation shocks. However, EMDEs tend to be more successful in anchoring inflation expectations in the presence of an inflation targeting regime, high central bank transparency, strong trade integration, and a low level of public debt.
E37|Modeling of Economic and Financial Conditions for Nowcasting and Forecasting Recessions: A Unified Approach|This paper puts forward a unified framework for the joint estimation of the indexes that can broadly capture economic and financiall conditions together with their cyclical regimes of recession and expansion. We do this by utilizing a dynamic factor model together with Markov regime switching dynamics of model parameters that specifically exploit the temporal link between the cyclical behavior of economic and financial factors. This is achieved by constructing the cycle in the financial factor using the cycle in the economic factor together with phase shifts. The resulting framework allows the financial cycle to potentially lead/lag the business cycle in a systematic manner and exploits the information in economic and financial variables for estimation of both economic and financial conditions as well as their cyclical behavior in an efficient way. We examine the potential of the model using a mixed frequency and mixed time span ragged-edge dataset for Turkey. Comparison of our framework with more conventional polar cases imposing a single common cyclical dynamics as well as independent cyclical dynamics for economic and financial conditions reveal that the proposedspecification provides precise estimates of economic and financial conditions and it delivers quite accurate probabilities of recessions that match with stylized facts. We further conduct a recursive real-time exercise of nowcasting and forecasting business cycle turning points. The results show convincing evidence of superior predictive power of our specification by signaling oncoming recessions (expansions) as early as 3.5 (3.4) months ahead of the actual realization.
E37|Sectoral Production and Diffusion Index Forecasts for Output in Lithuania|In this paper, we develop and describe quarterly data on disaggregated sectors in Lithuania which covers the period 1998-2018. The data is useful for empirical studies requiring panels with a large number of time observations and a large number of cross-sectional units. We follow the NACE2 level of disaggregation in developing our data, thus allowing us to combine the data with world input-output tables which we in turn use to identify the hubs and the main importing and exporting sectors within the economy. The data is then used for forecasting the growth rate of GDP. There is a substantial increase in the degree of covariation among sectoral production growth rates, which is observed using a split sample around 2008. When we apply factor methods, we find that this strong covariation can be explained by a few factors which are closely correlated to the growth of the retail and wholesale sectors. For GDP growth, the forecasts we consider are the diffusion index forecasts produced using a few indexes that summarize sectoral data, and the forecasts produced using the production growth of selected hubs and importing and exporting sectors. We find that the diffusion indexes and the production growth of sectors that make heavy use of imported inputs in their production have interesting forecasting power for the growth rate of GDP in the 2006-2011 and 2012-2018 periods.
E37|Food inflation nowcasting with web scraped data|In this paper we evaluate the ability of web scraped data to improve nowcasts of Polish food inflation. The nowcasting performance of online price indices is compared with aggregated and disaggregated benchmark models in a pseudo realtime experiment. We also explore product selection and classification problems, their importance in constructing web price indices and other limitations of online datasets. Therefore, we experiment not only with raw indices, but also with several approaches to include them into model-based forecasts. Our findings indicate that the optimal way to incorporate web scraped data into regular forecasting is to include them in simple distributed-lag models at the lowest aggregation level, combine the forecasts and aggregate them using statistical office methodology. We find this approach superior to other benchmark models which do not take online information into account.
E37|Changing Business Cycles: The Role of Women's Employment|This paper builds a real DSGE model with gender differences in labor supply and productivity. The model is used to assess the impact of changing trends in female labor supply on productivity and TFP growth and aggregate business cycles. We find that the growth in women's labor supply and relative productivity contributed substantially to TFP growth starting from the early 1980s, even if it depressed average labor productivity growth, contributing to the 1970s productivity slowdown. We also show that the lower cyclicality of female hours and their growing share in aggregate hours is able to account for a large fraction of the decline in the cyclicality of aggregate hours during the great moderation, as well as the decline in the correlation between average labor productivity and hours. Finally, we show that the discontinued growth in female labor supply after the 1990s played a substantial role in the jobless recoveries following the 2001 and 2007-2009 recession. Moreover, it also depressed aggregate hours and output growth during the late 1990s and mid 2000s expansions and it reduced male wages. These results suggest that continued growth in female hours since the early 1990s would have significantly improved economic performance in the United States.
E37|Housing markets and macroeconomic risks|Housing markets are large and highly volatile: they can thus create large macroeconomic risks. The current paper provides a bird’s eye view of where the housing markets of major OECD economies currently stand. It then uses the results of recently developed models to provide indications of where macroeconomic risks exist. Finally, the paper draws on recent empirical analyses to suggest how economic policies can enhance economic resilience by reducing housing-related risks through macroprudential measures and housing market reforms (such as changes in rent regulation, taxation and land use policies).
E37|Empirical links between housing markets and economic resilience|Housing markets, which are large and subject to sharp swings, shape to a great extent countries’ exposure to economic crises and their capacity to recover from them. This paper analyses the transmission of housing-related shocks to the real economy: it investigates the role that policy plays in (a) mitigating or amplifying shocks and (b) facilitating or hampering a recovery. It considers macroprudential measures, rental regulation, taxation and land use restrictions. The aim is to investigate, which housing policy-related reforms can foster greater economic resilience. Among other results, it finds that a tighter macroprudential stance is generally linked to a lower likelihood of economic crisis and that higher effective rates of housing taxation are associated with smoother housing cycles.
E37|Online Estimation of DSGE Models|This paper illustrates the usefulness of sequential Monte Carlo (SMC) methods in approximating DSGE model posterior distributions. We show how the tempering schedule can be chosen adaptively, explore the benefits of an SMC variant we call generalized tempering for “online” estimation, and provide examples of multimodal posteriors that are well captured by SMC methods. We then use the online estimation of the DSGE model to compute pseudo-out-of-sample density forecasts of DSGE models with and without financial frictions and document the benefits of conditioning DSGE model forecasts on nowcasts of macroeconomic variables and interest rate expectations. We also study whether the predictive ability of DSGE models changes when we use priors that are substantially looser than those commonly adopted in the literature.
E37|Search Complementarities, Aggregate Fluctuations, and Fiscal Policy|We develop a quantitative business cycle model with search complementarities in the inter-?rm matching process that entails a multiplicity of equilibria. An active static equilibrium with strong joint venture formation, large output, and low unemployment can coexist with a passive static equilibrium with low joint venture formation, low output, and high unemployment. Changes in fundamentals move the system between the two static equilibria, generating large and persistent business cycle ?uctuations. The volatility of shocks is important for the selection and duration of each static equilibrium. Su?ciently adverse shocks in periods of low macroeconomic volatility trigger severe and protracted downturns. The magnitude of government intervention is critical to foster economic recovery in the passive static equilibrium, while it plays a limited role in the active static equilibrium.
E37|Is the United States of America (USA) really being made great again? witty insights from the Box-Jenkins ARIMA approach|Using annual time series data on GDP per capita in the United States of America (USA) from 1960 to 2017, I model and forecast GDP per capita using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. My diagnostic tests such as the ADF tests show that US GDP per capita data is I (2). Based on the AIC, the study presents the ARIMA (0, 2, 2) model. The diagnostic tests further indicate that the presented model is stable and hence reliable. The results of the study reveal that living standards in the US are likely to sky-rocket over the next decade, especially if the current economic policy stance is to be at least maintained. Indeed, America is being made great again!!!
E37|Where is Kenya being headed to? Empirical evidence from the Box-Jenkins ARIMA approach|Using annual time series data on GDP per capita in Kenya from 1960 to 2017, the study analyzes GDP per capita using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. The diagnostic tests such as the ADF tests show that Kenyan GDP per capita data is I (2). Based on the AIC, the study presents the ARIMA (3, 2, 1) model. The diagnostic tests further show that the presented parsimonious model is stable and reliable. The results of the study indicate that living standards in Kenya will improve over the next decade, as long as the prudent macroeconomic management continues in Kenya. Indeed, Kenya’s economy is growing. The study offers 3 policy prescriptions in an effort to help policy makers in Kenya on how to promote and maintain the much needed growth.
E37|Is Nigeria's economy progressing or backsliding? Implications from ARIMA models|Using annual time series data on GDP per capita in Nigeria from 1960 to 2017, I model and forecast GDP per capita using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. My diagnostic tests such as the ADF tests show that Nigerian GDP per capita data is I (1). Based on the AIC, the study presents the ARIMA (2, 1, 0) model. The diagnostic tests further reveal that the presented optimal model is stable and hence reliable. The results of the study indicate that living standards in Nigeria will tumble over the next decade, as long as the current economic policy stance is not reviewed. Indeed, Nigeria’s economy is backsliding again!!! In order to improve the living standards of an ordinary Nigerian, this study has put forward four-fold policy prescriptions.
E37|Time series modeling and forecasting of the consumer price index in Japan|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in Japan from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the X series is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 0) model for predicting CPI in Japan. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is actually stable and acceptable. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Japan is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study basically encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Japan.
E37|Forecasting UK consumer price index using Box-Jenkins ARIMA models|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in the UK from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the K series is I (2). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 2, 1) model for predicting CPI in the UK. The diagnostic tests further indicate that the presented optimal model is actually stable and acceptable. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in the UK is likely to continue on a sharp upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study basically encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in the UK.
E37|Forecasting consumer price index in Norway: An application of Box-Jenkins ARIMA models|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in Norway from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the N series is I (2). The study presents the ARIMA (2, 2, 2) model for predicting CPI in Norway. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is actually stable. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Norway is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study basically encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Norway.
E37|Forecasting Australian CPI using ARIMA models|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in Australia from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the A series is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 0) model for predicting CPI in Australia. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is stable and acceptable. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Australia is likely to continue on an upwards trend in the next decade. The study basically encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Australia.
E37|Predicting CPI in Singapore: An application of the Box-Jenkins methodology|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in Singapore from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the S series is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 2) model for predicting CPI in Singapore. The diagnostic tests further show that the presented optimal model is actually stable and acceptable. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Singapore is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study basically encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Singapore.
E37|Time series modeling and forecasting of the consumer price index in Belgium|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in Belgium from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the B series is I (2). The study presents the ARIMA (0, 2, 1) model for predicting CPI in Belgium. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is apparently stable and acceptable. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Belgium is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study basically encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Belgium.
E37|Understanding CPI dynamics in Canada|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in Canada from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the C series is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 1) model for predicting CPI in Canada. The diagnostic tests further show that the presented parsimonious model is stable. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Canada is likely to continue on a sharp upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Canada.
E37|Predicting CPI in France|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in France from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the F series is I (2). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 2, 0) model for predicting CPI in France. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented model is stable and acceptable for predicting CPI in France. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in France is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next ten years. The study encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in France.
E37|Forecasting CPI in Sweden|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in Sweden from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the W series is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 0) model for predicting CPI in Sweden. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is stable as expected. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Sweden is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next ten years. The study encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Sweden.
E37|Predicting CPI in Panama|This study uses annual time series data on CPI in Panama from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the P series is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 0) model for predicting CPI in Panama. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is actually stable and acceptable for forecasting CPI in Panama. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Panama is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next 10 years. The study encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to deal with inflation in Panama.
E37|Modeling and forecasting CPI in Myanmar: An application of ARIMA models|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in Myanmar from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the M series is I (2). The study presents the ARIMA (2, 2, 1) model for predicting CPI in Myanmar. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is stable and acceptable in modeling CPI in Myanmar. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Myanmar is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to deal with inflation in Myanmar.
E37|Analyzing CPI dynamics in Italy|This research uses annual time series data on CPI in Italy from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the T series is I (2). The study presents the ARIMA (0, 2, 1) model for predicting CPI in Italy. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is actually stable and acceptable for predicting CPI in Italy over the period under study. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Italy is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study basically encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Italy.
E37|Predicting consumer price index in Saudi Arabia|This paper uses annual time series data on CPI in Japan from 1963 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the Y series is I (2). The study presents the ARIMA (0, 2, 1) model for predicting CPI in Saudi Arabia. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is actually stable and acceptable for predicting CPI in Saudi Arabia. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Saudi Arabia is likely to be relatively high in the next decade. The study encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to deal with inflation in Saudi Arabia.
E37|Modeling and forecasting CPI in Mauritius|This paper uses annual time series data on CPI in Mauritius from 1963 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the Z series is I (2). The study presents the ARIMA (0, 2, 3) model for predicting CPI in Mauritius. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is actually stable and acceptable for predicting CPI in Mauritius. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Mauritius is likely to continue on a very sharp upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study basically encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Mauritius.
E37|Prediction of Inflation in Algeria using ARIMA models|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Algeria from 1970 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARIMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that A is I(1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 1). The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARIMA (1, 1, 1) model is stable and acceptable for predicting inflation in Algeria. The results of the study apparently show that A will ranging between 4.9% and 5.2% over the out-of-sample period. Monetary authorities in Algeria are expected to tighten Algeria’s monetary policy in order to maintain price stability.
E37|Understanding inflation trends in Israel: A univariate approach|This paper uses annual time series data on inflation in Israel from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that Q is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 2) model for predicting inflation in Israel. The diagnostic tests further show that the presented parsimonious model is stable and acceptable for predicting inflation in Israel. The results of the study apparently show that inflation in Israel is likely to be hovering around 1.6% over the next decade. Basically, the study encourages the Bank of Israel to continue being transparent and independent in order to retain credibility and boost its ability to engineer successful macroeconomic policy actions.
E37|Modeling and forecasting inflation in Lesotho using Box-Jenkins ARIMA models|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Lesotho from 1974 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARIMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that L is I(1). The study presents the ARIMA (0, 1, 2). The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARIMA (0, 1, 2) model is stable and acceptable for predicting inflation in Lesotho. The results of the study apparently show that L will be approximately 5.2% over the out-of-sample forecast period. The CBL is expected to tighten Lesotho’s monetary policy in order to maintain price stability.
E37|Modeling and forecasting inflation in Philippines using ARIMA models|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in the Philippines from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARIMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that P is I(1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 3). The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARIMA (1, 1, 3) model is stable and acceptable for predicting inflation in the Philippines. The results of the study apparently show that P will fall down from 5.6% in 2018 to approximately 0.3% in 2027. The Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas is expected to continue implementing it inflation targeting policy framework since it proves to work well for the economy.
E37|Predicting inflation in Senegal: An ARMA approach|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Senegal from 1968 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that the inflation rate series is I(0). The study presents the ARMA (1, 0, 0) model, which is equivalent to an AR (1) model. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARMA (1, 0, 0) model is stable and acceptable for forecasting inflation rates in Senegal. The results of the study apparently show that inflation will be approximately 4.7% by 2020. Policy makers and the business community in Senegal are expected to take advantage of the anticipated stable inflation rates over the next decade.
E37|Predicting inflation in Sri Lanka using ARMA models|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Sri Lanka from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that S is I(0). The study presents the ARMA model (1, 0, 0) [or simply AR (1) process] for forecasting inflation rates in Sri Lanka. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARMA (1, 0, 0) model is not only stable but also suitable. The results of the study apparently show that S will be approximately 8.17% by 2020. Policy makers and the business community in Sri Lanka are expected to take advantage of the anticipated stable inflation rates over the next decade.
E37|Is South Africa the South Africa we all desire? Insights from the Box-Jenkins ARIMA approach|Using annual time series data on GDP per capita in South Africa from 1960 to 2017, the study investigates GDP per capita using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. The diagnostic tests such as the ADF tests show that South African GDP per capita data is I (1). Based on the AIC, the study presents the ARIMA (0, 1, 1) model. The diagnostic tests further show that the presented parsimonious model is indeed stable and quite reliable. The results of the study indicate that living standards in South Africa may improve but very slowly over the next decade, unless prudent macroeconomic management practices are exercised. The paper offers 5 main policy prescriptions in an effort to help policy makers in South Africa on how to promote and maintain the much awaited growth and development.
E37|ARIMA modeling and forecasting of Consumer Price Index (CPI) in Germany|This paper uses annual time series data on CPI in Germany from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the GC series is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 1) model for predicting CPI in Germany. The diagnostic tests further show that the presented parsimonious model is stable and acceptable for predicting CPI in Germany. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Germany is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to deal with inflation in Germany.
E37|Forecasting inflation in Burkina Faso using ARMA models|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Burkina Faso from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that B is I(0). The study presents the ARMA (2, 0, 0) model, which is nothing but an AR (2) model. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARMA (2, 0, 0) model is stable and acceptable. The results of the study apparently show that W will be approximately 4% by 2020. Policy makers and the business community in Burkina Faso are expected to take advantage of the anticipated stable inflation rates over the next decade.
E37|Modeling and forecasting inflation in Burundi using ARIMA models|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Burundi from 1966 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARIMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that B is I(1). The study presents the ARIMA (0, 1, 1). The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARIMA (0, 1, 1) model is stable and acceptable for predicting inflation in Burundi. The results of the study apparently show that B will be approximately 9.4% by 2020. Policy makers, particulary, monetary authorities in Burundi are expected to tighten Burundi’s monetary policy in order to restore price stability.
E37|ARIMA modeling and forecasting of inflation in Egypt (1960-2017)|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Egypt from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARIMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that E is I(1). The study presents the ARIMA (0, 1, 1). The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARIMA (0, 1, 1) model is stable and acceptable for predicting inflation in Egypt. The results of the study apparently show that E will be approximately 23.3% over the out-of-sample forecast period. The CBE is expected to continue tightening Egypt’s monetary policy in order to restore price stability.
E37|Understanding inflation trends in Finland: A univariate approach|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Finland from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARIMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that F is I(1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 3) model. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARIMA (1, 1, 3) model is stable and acceptable in predicting Finnish inflation. The results of the study apparently show that F will be hovering around 1% over the next 10 years. Policy makers and the business community in Finland are expected to take advantage of the anticipated stable inflation rates over the next decade.
E37|Inflation dynamics in Jamaica: Evidence from the ARMA methodology|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Jamaica from 1968 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that JINF is I(0). The study presents the ARMA (1, 0, 0) model, which is the same as an AR (1) process. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARMA (1, 0, 0) model is stable and acceptable for forecasting inflation rates in Jamaica. The results of the study apparently show that JINF will be approximately 11.42% by 2020. Policy makers in Jamaica are expected to the take the necessary action with regards to maintaining a low and stable inflation rate over the next decade and even beyond.
E37|Inflation dynamics in Niger unlocked: An ARMA approach|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Niger from 1964 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that N is I(0). The study presents the ARMA (1, 0, 0) model, which is simply an AR (1) model. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARMA (1, 0, 0) model is stable. The results of the study apparently show that N will be approximately 4.3% by 2020. Policy makers and the business community in Niger are expected to take advantage of the anticipated stable inflation rates over the next decade.
E37|Understanding inflation patterns in Thailand: An ARMA approach|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Thailand from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that T is I(0). The study presents the ARMA (0, 0, 1) model, which is nothing but an MA (1) process. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARMA (0, 0, 1) model is stable and acceptable. The results of the study apparently show that T will be approximately 4.2% by 2020. Policy makers and the business community in Thailand are expected to take advantage of the anticipated stable inflation rates over the next decade.
E37|Predicting inflation in the Kingdom of Bahrain using ARIMA models|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in the Kingdom of Bahrain from 1966 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARIMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that Bahrain inflation series is I(1). The study presents the ARIMA (0, 1, 1). The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARIMA (0, 1, 1) model is stable and acceptable for predicting inflation in the Kingdom of Bahrain. The results of the study apparently show that predicted inflation will be approximately 1.5% by 2020. Policy makers and the business community in the Kingdom of Bahrain are expected to take advantage of the anticipated stable inflation rates over the next decade.
E37|Modeling and forecasting CPI in Iran: A univariate analysis|This paper uses annual time series data on CPI in Iran from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CPI using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the I series is I (2). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 2, 1) model for predicting CPI in Iran. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is actually stable and acceptable for predicting CPI in Iran. The results of the study apparently show that CPI in Iran is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next ten years. The study basically encourages Iranian policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Iran.
E37|Uncovering inflation dynamics in Morocco: An ARIMA approach|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Morocco from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using ARIMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that M is I(1). The study presents the ARIMA (0, 1, 1) model. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARIMA (0, 1, 1) model is stable and acceptable in forecasting inflation in Morocco. The results of the study apparently show that M will be hovering somewhere around 1.1% over the next decade. Policy makers and the business community in Morocco are expected to take advantage of the anticipated stable inflation rates over the next decade.
E37|Modeling and forecasting inflation in Tanzania using ARIMA models|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Tanzania from 1966 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the T series is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 2) model for predicting inflation in Tanzania. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is actually stable and acceptable for predicting inflation in Tanzania. The results of the study apparently show that inflation in Tanzania is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study basically encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in Tanzania.
E37|Understanding inflation dynamics in the United States of America (USA): A univariate approach|This paper uses annual time series data on inflation rates in the USA from 1960 to 2016, to model and forecast inflation using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the US inflation series is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (2, 1, 1) model for predicting inflation in the US. The diagnostic tests further show that the presented parsimonious model is stable and acceptable for predicting annual inflation rates in the US. The results of the study apparently show that inflation in the US is likely to be less than 2% over the out-of-sample forecast period (i.e 10 years). The study encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary policy measures in order to maintain price stability in the US.
E37|Exchange Rate Pass-through to Prices : Bayesian VAR Evidence for Ghana|Using quarterly data from 2006q3 to 2017q4, this paper employed sign restrictions with rejection method in a Vector Autoregression to estimate the pass-through of exchange rate dynamics to domestic prices in Ghana. The priors of the model belongs to the flat Normal inverted-Wishart family. Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) is used to collect 1000 draws from the posterior distribution of the SVAR parameters that satisfy the sign restrictions. The model specification included some idiosyncratic features of the Ghanaian economy such as the dependence on primary export commodities for foreign exchange revenue and the dependence on foreign aid. Impulse response functions was used to analyze exchange rate pass-through whilst variance decomposition was used to explain the most dominant source of inflation in the study sample. The impulse response showed a fairly large but not unitary pass-through of exchange rate dynamics to domestic prices. The implication herein is that exchange rate depreciation led to upsurge in prices in Ghana albeit, the impact is incomplete. Results from the variance decomposition indicated a monetary expansion was most dominant in explaining inflationary pressures in Ghana. For inflation to be lowered, policy directives should be geared towards exchange rate stability as well as ensuring a stable interest rate environment.
E37|An attitude of complexity: thirteen essays on the nature and construction of reality under the challenge of Zeno's Paradox|This book is about the construction of reality. The central aim of this study is to understand how gravity works and how it may be focused and manipulated. While I do not have an answer to this question, the discoveries along the way have been worth collecting into a single volume for future reference.
E37|Understanding inflation dynamics in the Kingdom of Eswatini: a univariate approach|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in the Kingdom of Eswatini from 1966 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests indicate that the H series is I (1). The study presents the ARIMA (0, 1, 1) model for predicting inflation in the Kingdom of Eswatini. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal model is actually stable and acceptable for predicting inflation in the Kingdom of Eswatini. The results of the study apparently show that inflation in the Kingdom of Eswatini is likely to continue on an upwards trajectory in the next decade. The study basically encourages policy makers to make use of tight monetary and fiscal policy measures in order to control inflation in the Kingdom of Eswatini.
E37|Modeling and forecasting inflation in The Gambia: an ARMA approach|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in The Gambia from 1962 to 2016, to model and forecast inflation using ARMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that G is I(0). The study presents the ARMA (1, 0, 0) model [which is nothing but an AR (1) model]. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARMA (1, 0, 0) model is stable and indeed acceptable. The results of the study apparently show that G will be approximately 7.88% by 2020. Policy makers and the business community in The Gambia are expected to take advantage of the anticipated stable inflation rates over the next decade.
E37|Modeling the long-run relationship between inflation and economic growth in Zimbabwe: a bi-variate cointegration (Engle-Granger Two-Step) approach|The debate on the nexus between economic growth and inflation is generally inconclusive and yet inevitably interesting. This study makes a contribution to the existing debate by empirically investigating the relationship between inflation and economic growth in the context of Zimbabwe. Using time series data spanning from 1960 up to 2017, the study employs the Engle – Granger Two Step modeling technique in order to analyze the relationship between inflation and economic growth in Zimbabwe. Our findings indicate that there is a negative and statistically significant relationship between inflation and economic growth both in the short – run and long – run. The speed of adjustment to equilibrium is approximately 62% annually when the variables wander away from their equilibrium values. Amongst other policy prescriptions, the study recommends inflation targeting policy in order to stimulate growth while maintaining price stability in Zimbabwe.
E37|Demystifying inflation dynamics in Rwanda: an ARMA approach|This research uses annual time series data on inflation rates in Rwanda from 1967 to 2017, to model and forecast inflation over the next decade using ARMA models. Diagnostic tests indicate that W is I(0). The study presents the ARMA (3, 0, 0) model [which is nothing but an AR (3) model]. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented optimal ARMA (3, 0, 0) model is stable and acceptable. The results of the study apparently show that W will be approximately 7.45% by 2020. Policy makers and the business community in Rwanda are expected to take advantage of the anticipated stable inflation rates over the next decade.
E37|Modeling and forecasting Botswana's Growth Domestic Product (GDP) per capita|Using annual time series data on GDP per capita in Botswana from 1960 to 2017, the study analyzes GDP per capita using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA methodology. The diagnostic tests such as the ADF tests show that Botswana GDP per capita data is I (1). Based on the AIC, the study presents the ARIMA (3, 2, 3) model. The diagnostic tests further show that the presented model is not only stable but also suitable. The results of the study indicate that living standards in Botswana will definitely continue to improve over the next decade. Indeed, Botswana’s success story is a reality. The study offers 4 policy recommendations in an effort to help policy makers in Botswana on how to promote and maintain the much needed better living standards for all Batswana.
E37|The wage growth puzzle and the Philips Curve explained: recent developments|"Is the Philips Curve Still Applicable in Today’s Financial Environment? The relationship between wage inflation and unemployment, is not only considered by Gali and Gambetti (2018:2) to be a “a key link of the relation between prices and economic activity” but also regarded as the focus of Phillips (1958) original work, is widely perceived to be at the heart of the ""twin puzzle.” Further they add that, “the failure of wage inflation to respond sufficiently to the tightening of the labor market in recent years is generally viewed as one of the main factors behind the extremely accommodating monetary policies” at central banks like the Federal Reserve or the ECB.” Why can some economic indicators still be considered to be applicable and relevant – even in an environment where so many advancements and financial instruments have significantly altered the financial landscape which existed over the years? In particular, why can the Philips Curve still be considered applicable and relevant – with reference to wage inflation and productivity? More importantly, what economic indicators can serve to provide more reliable indicators of inflationary levels once more temporary elements, as induced by import prices, have diminished?"
E37|A Bivariate Forecasting Model For Russian GDP Under Structural Changes In Monetary Policy and Long-Term Growth|This paper estimates a bivariate econometric model to describe Russia’s real GDP while taking account of the Russian economy’s high dependence on oil prices, monetary policy regime change, and economic growth slowdown. We follow the theory of long-run neutrality of monetary policy and assume that the Bank of Russia’s monetary policy regime change in late 2014 has influenced only the short-run relationship between Russia’s GDP and oil prices, but long-run multiplier is invariant to monetary policy. The paper also attempts to take account of the economic growth slowdown in last decade. The model has demonstrated good forecasting performance.
E37|Forecasting with many predictors using message passing algorithms|Machine learning methods are becoming increasingly popular in economics, due to the increased availability of large datasets. In this paper I evaluate a recently proposed algorithm called Generalized Approximate Message Passing (GAMP) , which has been very popular in signal processing and compressive sensing. I show how this algorithm can be combined with Bayesian hierarchical shrinkage priors typically used in economic forecasting, resulting in computationally efficient schemes for estimating high-dimensional regression models. Using Monte Carlo simulations I establish that in certain scenarios GAMP can achieve estimation accuracy comparable to traditional Markov chain Monte Carlo methods, at a tiny fraction of the computing time. In a forecasting exercise involving a large set of orthogonal macroeconomic predictors, I show that Bayesian shrinkage estimators based on GAMP perform very well compared to a large set of alternatives.
E37|Search Complementarities, Aggregate Fluctuations and Fiscal Policy|This paper develops a model with search complementarities in the inter-firm matching process that entails two steady-state equilibria. An active equilibrium with strong partnership formation, large production, and low unemployment and a passive equilibrium with low partnership formation, low production, and high unemployment. Changes in fundamentals move the system between the two equilibria, generating large and persistent business cycle fluctuations. Suciently adverse shocks in periods of low macroeconomic volatility trigger severe and protracted downturns. The magnitude of government intervention is critical to foster economic recovery in the passive equilibrium while it plays a limited role in the active equilibrium. Fiscal policy has a non-monotonic effect on output in the passive equilibrium and the scal multiplier depends on the interplay between macroeconomic volatility and the magnitude of government spending.
E37|Asian Development Outlook Forecast Accuracy 2007–2016|This paper assesses the accuracy of Asian Development Outlook growth and inflation forecasts for 43 Asian economies from 2007 to 2016, against the benchmark of World Economic Outlook projections by the International Monetary Fund. They are found to overlap quite closely, notwithstanding much heterogeneity across countries and years. Forecast accuracy sharpens over time as additional data and evidence become available and get incorporated during quarterly revisions. However, errors widen during crisis years as forecasters struggle to reflect such events in their projections.
E37|Implications of partial information for econometric modeling of macroeconomic systems|Representative models of the macroeconomy (RMs), such as DSGE models, frequently contain unobserved variables. A finite-order VAR representation in the observed variables may not exist, and therefore the impulse responses of the RMs and SVAR models may differ. We demonstrate this divergence often is: (i) not substantial; (ii) reflects the omission of stock variables from the VAR; and (iii) when the RM features I (1) variables can be ameliorated by estimating a latent-variable VECM. We show that DSGE models utilize identifying restrictions stemming from common factor dynamics reflecting statistical, not economic, assumptions. We analyze the use of measurement error, and demonstrate that it may result in unintended consequences, particularly in models featuring I (1) variables.
E37|An automated prior robustness analysis in Bayesian model comparison|The marginal likelihood is the gold standard for Bayesian model comparison although it is well-known that the value of marginal likelihood could be sensitive to the choice of prior hyperparameters. Most models require computationally intense simulation-based methods to evaluate the typically high-dimensional integral of the marginal likelihood expression. Hence, despite the recognition that prior sensitivity analysis is important in this context, it is rarely done in practice. In this paper we develop efficient and feasible methods to compute the sensitivities of marginal likelihood, obtained via two common simulation-based methods, with respect to any prior hyperparameter alongside the MCMC estimation algorithm. Our approach builds on Automatic Differentiation (AD), which has only recently been introduced to the more computationally intensive setting of Markov chain Monte Carlo simulation. We illustrate our approach with two empirical applications in the context of widely used multivariate time series models.
E37|Efficient selection of hyperparameters in large Bayesian VARs using automatic differentiation|Large Bayesian VARs with the natural conjugate prior are now routinely used for forecasting and structural analysis. It has been shown that selecting the prior hyperparameters in a data-driven manner can often substantially improve forecast performance. We propose a computationally efficient method to obtain the optimal hyperparameters based on Automatic Differentiation, which is an efficient way to compute derivatives. Using a large US dataset, we show that using the optimal hyperparameter values leads to substantially better forecast performance. Moreover, the proposed method is much faster than the conventional grid-search approach, and is applicable in high-dimensional optimization problems. The new method thus provides a practical and systematic way to develop better shrinkage priors for forecasting in a data-rich environment.
E37|Asymmetric conjugate priors for large Bayesian VARs|Large Bayesian VARs are now widely used in empirical macroeconomics. One popular shrinkage prior in this setting is the natural conjugate prior as it facilitates posterior simulation and leads to a range of useful analytical results. This is, however, at the expense of modelling exibility, as it rules out cross-variable shrinkage – i.e. shrinking coefficients on lags of other variables more aggressively than those on own lags. We develop a prior that has the best of both worlds: it can accommodate cross-variable shrinkage, while maintaining many useful analytical results, such as a closed-form expression of the marginal likelihood. This new prior also leads to fast posterior simulation - for a BVAR with 100 variables and 4 lags, obtaining 10,000 posterior draws takes less than half a minute on a standard desktop. In a forecasting exercise, we show that a data-driven asymmetric prior outperforms two useful benchmarks: a data-driven symmetric prior and a subjective asymmetric prior.
E37|Minnesota-type adaptive hierarchical priors for large Bayesian VARs|Large Bayesian VARs with stochastic volatility are increasingly used in empirical macroeconomics. The key to make these highly parameterized VARs useful is the use of shrinkage priors. We develop a family of priors that captures the best features of two prominent classes of shrinkage priors: adaptive hierarchical priors and Minnesota priors. Like the adaptive hierarchical priors, these new priors ensure that only ‘small’ coefficients are strongly shrunk to zero, while ‘large’ coefficients remain intact. At the same time, these new priors can also incorporate many useful features of the Minnesota priors, such as cross-variable shrinkage and shrinking coefficients on higher lags more aggressively. We introduce a fast posterior sampler to estimate BVARs with this family of priors - for a BVAR with 25 variables and 4 lags, obtaining 10,000 posterior draws takes about 3 minutes on a standard desktop. In a forecasting exercise, we show that these new priors outperform both adaptive hierarchical priors and Minnesota priors.
E37|US monetary policy since the 1950s and the changing content of FOMC minutes|Content analysis is used to analyze 60 years of FOMC minutes. Since there is no unique algorithm to quantify content two different algorithms are applied. Wordscores compares content relative to a chosen benchmark while DICTION is an alternative algorithm that is specifically designed to capture various elements that capture the sentiment or tone conveyed in a text. The resulting indicators are then incorporated into a VAR. The content of FOMC minutes is found to be significantly related to the state of the economy, notably real GDP growth and changes in the fed funds rate. However, the relationship between content and macroeconomic conditions changes after 1993 when minutes are made public with a lag. Both content indicators also suggest substantive changes in the content of FOMC minutes since the 1950s in terms of the FOMC’s dovishness or hawkishness.
E37|Temporal disaggregation of short time series with structural breaks: Estimating quarterly data from yearly emerging economies data| This article develops a methodology to compute up-to-date quarterly macroeconomic data for emerging countries by adapting a well known method of temporal disaggregation to time series with small sample size and instable relationships between them. By incorporating di erent procedures of structural break detection, the prediction of higher-frequency estimations of yearly official data can be improved. A methodology with a model selection procedure and disaggregation formulas is proposed. Its predictive performance is assessed by using empirical advanced countries data and simulated time series. An application to the Chinese national accounts allows the estimation of the cyclical components of the Chinese expenditure accounts and shows the Chinese economy to have second order moments more in line with emerging countries than advanced economies like the United States.
E37|Professional Forecasters and January|Each month various professional forecasters give forecasts for next year's real GDP growth and many other variables. In terms of forecast updates, January is a special month, as then the forecast horizon moves to the following calendar year, and as such the observation is not a revision. Instead of deleting the January data when analyzing forecast updates, this paper proposes a periodic version of an often considered test regression, to explicitly include and model the January data. An application of this periodic model for many forecasts across a range of countries learns that apparently there is a January optimism effect. In fact, in January, GDP forecast updates are suddenly positive, and at the same time the forecast updates for unemployment are likewise negative. This optimism about the new year of the professional forecasters is however found to be detrimental to forecast accuracy. The main conclusion is that forecasts created in January for the next year need to be treated with care.
E37|Inflation and deflationary biases in inflation expectations|We explore the consequences of losing confidence in the price-stability objective of central banks by quantifying the inflation and deflationary biases in inflation expectations. In a model with an occasionally binding zero-lower-bound constraint, we show that both inflation bias and deflationary bias can exist as a steady-state outcome. We assess the predictions of this model using unique individual-level inflation expectations data across nine countries that allow for a direct identification of these biases. Both inflation and deflationary biases are present and sizable, but different across countries. Even among the euro-area countries, perceptions of the European Central Bank's objectives are very distinct.
E37|Thinking Outside the Box: Do SPF Respondents Have Anchored Inflation Expectations?|Despite the stability of the median 10-year inflation expectations in the Survey of Professional Forecasters (SPF) near 2 percent, we show that not a single SPF respondent’s expectations have been anchored at the target since the Federal Open Market Committee’s (FOMC) enactment of an inflation target in January 2012, or even since 2015. However, we find significant evidence for “delayed anchoring,” or a move toward being anchored, particularly after the federal funds rate lifted off in December 2015.
E37|Two Measures of Core Inflation: A Comparison|Trimmed-mean Personal Consumption Expenditure (PCE) inflation does not clearly dominate ex-food-and-energy PCE inflation in real-time forecasting of headline PCE inflation. However, trimmed-mean inflation is the superior communications and policy tool because it is a less-biased real-time estimator of headline inflation and because it more successfully filters out headline inflation’s transitory variation, leaving only cyclical and trend components.
E37|Stress Testing Household Debt|"We estimate a county-level model of household delinquency and use it to conduct ""stress tests"" of household debt. Applying house price and unemployment rate shocks from Comprehensive Capital Analysis Review (CCAR) stress tests, we find that forecasted delinquency rates for the recent stock of debt are moderately lower than for the stock of debt before the 2007-09 financial crisis, given the same set of shocks. This decline in expected delinquency rates under stress reflects an improvement in debt-to-income ratios and an increase in the share of debt held by borrowers with relatively high credit scores. Under an alternative scenario where the size of house price shocks depends on housing valuations, we forecast a much lower delinquency rate than occurred during the crisis, reflecting more reasonable housing valuations than pre-crisis. Stress tests using other scenarios for the path of house prices and unemployment also support the conclusion that household debt curren tly poses a lower risk to financial stability than before the financial crisis."
E37|Assessing Macroeconomic Tail Risk|What drives macroeconomic tail risk? To answer this question, we borrow a definition of macroeconomic risk from Adrian et al. (2019) by studying (left-tail) percentiles of the forecast distribution of GDP growth. We use local projections (Jordà, 2005) to assess how this measure of risk moves in response to economic shocks to the level of technology, monetary policy, and financial conditions. Furthermore, by studying various percentiles jointly, we study how the overall economic outlook-as characterized by the entire forecast distribution of GDP growth-shifts in response to shocks. We find that contractionary shocks disproportionately increase downside risk, independently of what shock we look at.
E37|Online Estimation of DSGE Models|"This paper illustrates the usefulness of sequential Monte Carlo (SMC) methods in approximating DSGE model posterior distributions. We show how the tempering schedule can be chosen adaptively, explore the benefits of an SMC variant we call generalized tempering for \online"" estimation, and provide examples of multimodal posteriors that are well captured by SMC methods. We then use the online estimation of the DSGE model to compute pseudo-out-of-sample density forecasts of DSGE models with and without financial frictions and document the benefits of conditioning DSGE model forecasts on nowcasts of macroeconomic variables and interest rate expectations. We also study whether the predictive ability of DSGE models changes when we use priors that are substantially looser than those that are commonly adopted in the literature."
E37|Assessing Macroeconomic Tail Risk|What drives macroeconomic tail risk? To answer this question, we borrow a definition of macroeconomic risk from Adrian et al. (2019) by studying (left-tail) percentiles of the forecast distribution of GDP growth. We use local projections (Jordà, 2005) to assess how this measure of risk moves in response to economic shocks to the level of technology, monetary policy, and financial conditions. Furthermore, by studying various percentiles jointly, we study how the overall economic outlook—as characterized by the entire forecast distribution of GDP growth—shifts in response to shocks. We find that contractionary shocks disproportionately increase downside risk, independently of what shock we look at.
E37|Russian industrial sector in 2018: slowdown of exiting from stagnation of 2012–2016 (on business surveys’ findings)|Prolonged period of industrial business surveys conducted by the Gaidar Institute and representative range of indicators permit to resolve the first task – analyze the situation in the sector in 2018 – determine the place for the year 2018 in all the 27 years since the IET launched and carried out business surveys between 1992–2018. For this purpose, we will use aggregate indicators. The latter are usually calculated on a monthly basis on the findings obtained from monthly surveys. They became widely popular owing to promptness of the findings and shortage of data released on the Russian industrial sector. However, this approach to present surveys’ findings complicates assessment of each year as a whole. That is why we analyze all consolidated indicators in a year-on-year basis
E37|Government support of small and medium sized entrepreneurship in Russia|Support of the small and medium sized entrepreneurship (SME) sector is recognized to be one of Russia’s economic policy priorities2,3. It is customary to speak of that sector’s low level of development compared with other countries. However, when comparable estimates are applied, the gap does not appear to be catastrophic. The relative share of SMEs in the value added produced by Russia’s business sector amounts to about 44 percent, in the developed countries – OECD member states it amounts on average to 55 percent, in the USA – to 48 percent, and in Canada – to 30 percent. The problems faced by Russian SMEs, in qualitative terms, are as follows: the percentage of exporters and technological startups is low, and a greater part of that sector is unregulated; in 2018, the relative share of medium sized firms and the number of technological startups shrank even further. The conditions for and specific features of the SME sector’s development vary across Russia’s regions, and this fact is completely overlooked by prevailing legislation. According to our estimations, entrepreneurial activity in the regions does not depend on government support, instead responding to macroeconomic and institutional changes. In 2018, in a majority of Russian regions, the number of SME subjects and their turnover declined in response to shrinking personal income, especially in the regions with a high relative share taken up by the shadow sector, while the same indices increased in those regions that hosted the FIFA World Cup events.
E37|Continuities and Discontinuities in Economic Forecasting|Throughout the history of macroeconomic forecasting, several major themes have remained surprisingly consistent. The failure to forecast economic downturns ahead of time is perhaps the most significant of these. Forecasting approaches have changed, but forecasts for recessions have not improved. What can we learn from past evaluations of macroeconomic forecasts? Is it possible to predict major economic shocks or is it a fool’s errand? This chapter discusses how forecasting techniques have evolved over time and yet the record on forecasting recessions remains dismal. There are several competing hypotheses for why forecasters fail to foresee recessions, but little evidence any of them are going to be addressed before the next recession occurs. This suggests planners and policymakers should expect to be surprised by the arrival of downturns and develop ways to be prepared for recessions without having clear warning of their coming.
E37|The Relation between Minimum Wage and Unemployment across the Economic Cycle in Countries of the Visegrad Group|The aim of the present article is to clarify existence and nature of the relation between minimum wage and selected unemployment indicators in countries of the Visegrad group, with the use of an empirical analysis. The obtained figures of correlation coefficients related to the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland showed that the positive influence was predominant over the negative one, meaning rise of the minimum wage was followed by unemployment growth. In accordance with similar studies in the world we have proved that a contradictory effect of the relationship between minimum wage changes and selected unemployment indicators was also relevant for V4 countries.
E37|Churn on the labor market in the Czech Republic|The aim of this article is to present the differences between the different flows on the labor market in the Czech Republic. The problem is significant economically, socially and politically. The empirical part of the study focuses on the quantification of so-called churn. The specific features of the Czech Republic's churn include the fact that the overall churn has an anti-cyclical character in the Czech Republic, and that in the period of growth of the total churn, the share of wages and salaries in total in GDP at current prices has increased, which is both contrary to the conclusions of world research. The revival of the economy is accompanied by an increase in total churn, but it does not lead to an increase in wages and salaries resulting from company-to-business movements, as would be the case with economic theory.
E37|Can production of alcohol beverages predict recessions?|Periods before the start of recessions are characterized by increased uncertainty and stress which are manifested by increase in alcohol consumption. The main idea behind this paper is that increased alcohol production follows this increase in consumption and thereby can be used as early warning indicator. The data was analysed through signal extraction approach that tests if specific indicator deviates significantly from its ?normal? values and by doing so issues a warning signal about possible future recession. Analysis on production of three main alcohol types in four European countries shows good accuracy of indicators based on alcohol production but with significant inconsistency between countries. Inconsistency can be explained by alcoholic preference of specific country with indicators being far less precise in predicting recessions if they are based on least consumed alcohol type. Received results expand existing early warning methodology and give potential for further development by putting larger focus on human behaviour in predicting recessions. Also, these findings have important policy implications since early recognition of upcoming recession significantly aids in reducing its effects and duration.
E37|Measuring inflation uncertainty in Turkey|Measuring and monitoring inflation uncertainty is an essential ingredient of monetary policy analysis. This study constructs survey measures of inflation uncertainty for the Turkish economy. Using density and point inflation forecasts in the CBRT Survey of Expectations, we derive various uncertainty measures through standard deviation, entropy, and disagreement among forecasters. Our results suggest that survey-based inflation uncertainty measures are broadly consistent with market-implied indicators of inflation risk. Moreover, we find that an increase in observed inflation is associated with higher inflation uncertainty across all empirical specifications.
E37|A Bayesian VAR Approach to Short-Term Inflation Forecasting|In this paper, we discuss the forecasting performance of Bayesian vector autoregression (BVAR) models for inflation under alternative specifications. In particular, we consider modelling in levels or in differences; choice of tightness; estimating BVARs of different model sizes and the accuracy of conditional and unconditional forecasts. Our empirical results point out that BVAR forecasts using variables in log-difference form outperform the ones using log-levels of the data. When we evaluate forecast performance in terms of model size, the lowest forecast errors belong to the models having relatively small number of variables, though we find only small difference in forecast accuracy among models of various sizes up to two quarter ahead. Finally, the conditioning seems to help to forecast inflation. Overall, pseudo evaluation findings suggest that small to medium size BVAR models having wisely selected variables in difference form and conditioning on the future paths of some variables appear to be a good choice to forecast inflation in Turkey.
E37|Regional resilience in China: The response of the provinces to the growth slowdown|Since 2007 China’s real GDP growth rate has slowed from a level of over 10% per annum to below 7%. Given China’s regional diversity, an important aspect of the slowdown is the possible spatial variation in its experience. This is the issue we consider in this paper and we analyse this question in the context of the regional economic resilience framework. We proceed in two stages. In the first we analyse a measure of provincial slowdown (a sensitivity index) based just on growth rates and use cross-section regressions to investigate the determinants of this index, using a range of provincial characteristics common in the resilience literature. We find that economic structure, demographic factors and education all play a role, although with signs that are often at odds with the existing literature. In the second stage we decompose regional growth rates into national and province-specific components using a VAR model and argue that since resilience concerns the response of provinces to a national shock, it is properly analysed using just the national component of the growth rate rather than the growth rate as such. We therefore analyse a sensitivity index based just on the national component of growth and find many differences between the two sets of results. Using the second index matters for the determinants which are significant as well as for the magnitude of their coefficients. It appears that some of the influences found to be significant in the first stage are there only because of their influence on growth via the province-specific component of the growth rate and in this sense are spurious.
E37|The Shape of Eurozone’s Uncertainty: Its Impact and Predictive Value on GDP|This paper examines the role of uncertainty in the context of the business cycle in the Eurozone. To gain a more granular perspective on uncertainty, the paper decomposes uncertainty along two dimensions: First, we construct the four different moments of uncertainty, including the point estimate, the standard deviation, the skewness and the kurtosis. The second dimension of uncertainty spans along three distinct groups of economic agents, including consumers, corporates and financial markets. Based on this taxonomy, we construct uncertainty indices and assess the impact on real GDP via impulse response functions and further investigate their informational value in rolling out-of-sample GDP forecasts. The analysis lends evidence to the hypothesis that higher uncertainty expressed through the point estimate, a larger standard deviation among confidence estimates, positive skewness and a higher kurtosis are all negatively correlated with the business cycle. The impulse response functions reveal that in particular the first and the second moment of uncertainty cause a permanent effect on GDP with an initial decline and a subsequent overshoot. We find uncertainty in the corporate sector to be the main driver behind this observation, followed by financial markets’ uncertainty whose initial effect on GDP is comparable but receding much faster. While the first two moments of uncertainty improve GDP forecasts significantly, both the skewness and the kurtosis do not augment the forecast quality any further.
E37|Regional Output Growth in the United Kingdom: More Timely and Higher Frequency Estimates, 1970-2017|Output growth estimates for the regions of the UK are currently published at the annual frequency only and are released with a long delay. Regional economists and policymakers would benefit from having higher frequency and more timely estimates. In this paper we develop a mixed frequency Vector Autoregressive (MF-VAR) model and use it to produce estimates of quarterly regional output growth. Temporal and cross-sectional restrictions are imposed in the model to ensure that our quarterly regional estimates are consistent with the annual regional observations and the observed quarterly UK totals. We use a machine learning method based on the hierarchical Dirichlet-Laplace prior to ensure optimal shrinkage and parsimony in our over-parameterised MF-VAR. Thus,this paper presents a new, regional quarterly database of nominal and real Gross Value Added dating back to 1970. We describe how we update and evaluate these estimates on an ongoing, quarterly basis to publish online (at www.escoe.ac.uk/regionalnowcasting) more timely estimates of regional economic growth. We illustrate how the new quarterly data can be used to contribute to our historical understanding of business cycle dynamics and connectedness between regions.
E37|Commodity Prices and Inflation Risk|This paper investigates the role of commodity price information when evaluating inflation risk. Using a model averaging approach, we provide strong evidence of in-sample and out-of-sample predictive ability from commodity prices and convenience yields to inflation, establishing clear point and density forecast performance gains when incorporating disaggregated commodities price information. The resulting forecast densities are used to calculate the (ex-ante) risk of inflation breaching deﬁned thresholds that broadly characterise periods of high and low inflation. We find that information in commodity prices significantly enhances our ability to pick out tail inflation events and to characterise the level of risks associated with periods of high volatility in commodity prices.
E37|A novel housing price misalignment indicator for Germany|From 2014 until present, housing prices in Germany have been rising faster than consumer prices in all quarters except one, raising concerns about an excessive over-heating of the housing market. To assess the vulnerability of the German housing market to a future realignment of prices or even a housing bust, this paper develops a housing price misalignment indicator that is composed of seven indicators, which are commonly associated with the fundamental value of residential property. An empirical application to the most recent data suggests that the German housing market exhibits an overvaluation of approximately 11%, where interest rate risk and a relatively advanced stage of the housing cycle are identified as the main factors fueling these imbalances, while a rather solid debt-servicing capacity mitigates these imbalances since end-2009.
E37|Reliable real-time output gap estimates based on a modified Hamilton filter|The authors contribute to the debate regarding the reliability of output gap estimates. As an alternative to the Hodrick-Prescott (HP) filter, they propose a simple modification of the filter proposed by Hamilton in 2018 that shares its favorable real-time properties, but leads to a more even coverage of typical business cycle frequencies. Based on output growth and inflation forecasts and a comparison to revised output gap estimates from policy institutions, they find that real-time output gaps based on the modified Hamilton filter are economically much more meaningful measures of the business cycle than those based on other simple statistical trend-cycle decomposition techniques such as the HP or the Bandpass filter.
E37|Cognitive Abilities and Inflation Expectations|Cognitive abilities help explain the large cross-sectional variation in inflation expectations at the household level. But which type of cognitive abilities are important? We find that not only quantitative abilities but also logical and verbal abilities are important to explain the accuracy and plausibility of households' inflation expectations. We discuss the channels through which different forms of cognition might shape households' abilities to forecast future macroeconomic variables. We also draw implications for the effectiveness of policies that aim to manage households' expectations.
E37|Theories, Techniques and the Formation of German Business Cycle Forecasts : Evidence from a survey of professional forecasters|We report results of a survey among active forecasters of the German business cycle. Using data for 82 respondents from 37 different institutions, we investigate what models and theories forecasters subscribe to and find that they are pronounced conservative in the sense that they overwhelmingly rely on methods and theories that have been well-established for a long time, while more recent approaches are relatively unimportant for the practice of business cycle forecasting. DSGE models are mostly used in public institutions. In line with findings in the literature there are tendencies of “leaning towards consensus” (especially for public institutions) and “sticky adjustment of forecasts” with regard to new information. A stable relationship between preferred theories and methods and forecast accuracy cannot be established.
E37|Indicator-based estimates of the output gap in the euro area|The output gap is a key variable of business cycle analysis and policy. Obtaining reliable estimates for it, is very difficult, though. Most real-time estimates are frequently revised over time. The idea of this paper is to use various indicators, for example from business surveys, that (i) were highly correlated with the output gap in the past and (ii) that are ideally not subject to revisions. According to a real-time analysis, indicator-based estimates prove to be more reliable than estimates from international institutions. Currently, estimates point to positive output gaps in the euro area.
E37|Price Points and Price Dynamics|This paper proposes a macroeconomic model with positive trend inflation that involves an important role for price points as well as sticky information. We argue that, in particular, a variant of our model that allows for a general distribution of price points is more successful in explaining several stylized facts of individual price setting than a benchmark model that is based on Calvo price-setting. More specifically, it makes empirically reasonable predictions with regard to the duration of price spells, the sizes of price increases and decreases, the shape of the hazard function, the fraction of price changes that are price increases, and the relationship between price changes and inflation. Moreover, our model implies plausible aggregate effects of monetary policy in contrast with a model with a prominent role for price points but no information rigidities.
E37|Has Macroeconomic Forecasting changed after the Great Recession? - Panel-based Evidence on Accuracy and Forecaster Behaviour from Germany|Based on a panel of annual data for 17 growth and inflation forecasts from 14 institutions for Germany, we analyse forecast accuracy for the periods before and after the Great Recession, including measures of directional change accuracy based on Receiver Operating Curves (ROC). We find only small differences on forecast accuracy between both time periods. We test whether the conditions for forecast rationality hold in both time periods. We document an increased cross-sectional variance of forecasts and a changed correlation between inflation and growth forecast errors after the crisis, which might hint to changed forecaster behaviour. This is also supported by estimated loss functions before and after the crisis, which suggest a stronger incentive to avoid overestimations (growth) and underestimations (inflation) after the crisis. Estimating loss functions for a 10-year rolling window also reveals shifts in the level and direction of loss asymmetry and strengthens the impression of a changed forecaster behaviour after the Great Recession.
E37|Deciphering Professional Forecasters’ Stories - Analyzing a Corpus of Textual Predictions for the German Economy|We analyze a corpus of 564 business cycle forecast reports for the German economy. The dataset covers nine institutions and 27 years. From the entire reports we select the parts that refer exclusively to the forecast of the German economy. Sentiment and frequency analysis confirm that the mode of the textual expressions varies with the business cycle in line with the hypothesis of adaptive expectations. A calculated 'uncertainty index' based on the occurrence of modal words matches with the economic policy uncertainty index by Baker et al. (2016). The latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA) model and the structural topic model (STM) indicate that topics are significantly state- and time-dependent and different across institutions. Positive or negative forecast 'surprises' experienced in the previous year have an impact on the content of topics.
E37|Is the US Phillips Curve Stable? Evidence from Bayesian VARs|Inflation did not fall as much as many economists expected as the Great Recession hit the US economy. One explanation suggested for this phenomenon is that the Phillips curve has become flatter. In this paper we investigate the stability of the US Phillips curve, employing Bayesian VARs to quarterly data from 1990Q1 to 2017Q3. We estimate bivariate models for PCE inflation and the unemployment rate under a number of different assumptions concerning the dynamics and covariance matrix. Specifically, we assess the importance of time-varying parameters and stochastic volatility. Using new tools for model selection, we find support for both time-varying parameters and stochastic volatility. Interpreting the Phillips curve as the inflation equation of our Bayesian VAR, we conclude that the US Phillips curve has been unstable. Our results also indicate that the Phillips curve may have been somewhat flatter between 2005 and 2013 than in the decade preceding that period. However, while the dynamic relations of the model appear to be subject to time variation, we note that the effect of a shock to the unemployment rate on inflation is not fundamentally different over time. Finally, a conditional forecasting exercise suggests that as far as the models are concerned, inflation may not have been unexpectedly high around the Great Recession.
E37|Quarterly Projection Model for Croatia|This paper provides the documentation for a Quarterly Projection Model (QPM) used in regular forecasting exercises in the Croatian National Bank. The proposed model is a reduced-form representation of an Open Economy New Keynesian general equilibrium model, expanded with some ad hoc features in order to capture empirical evidence about the Croatian economy. Special attention is paid to open economy features of the model, financial stability issues related to the high degree of credit euroization and monetary policy modeling. The main contribution to the existing literature is the monetary policy rule, which is represented by an exchange rate reaction function with a slow-moving exchange rate target. The simulation and forecasting exercises conducted in this paper show that the model is able to produce precise forecasts of the main macroeconomic variables and to explain important relationships and the transmission mechanisms of the Croatian economy.
E37|MIDAS Modeling for Core Inflation Forecasting|This paper presents a forecasting exercise that assesses the predictive potential of a daily price index based on online prices. Prices are compiled using web scrapping services provided by the private company PriceStats in cooperation with a finance research corporation, State Street Global Markets. This online price index is tested as a predictor of the monthly core inflation rate in Argentina, known as “resto IPCBA” and published by the Statistics Office of the City of Buenos Aires. Mixed frequency regression models offer a convenient arrangement to accommodate variables sampled at different frequencies and hence many specifications are evaluated. Different classes of these models are found to produce a slight boost in out-of-sample predictive performance at immediate horizons when compared to benchmark naïve models and estimators. Additionally, an analysis of intra-period forecasts, reveals a slight trend towards increased forecast accuracy as the daily variable approaches one full month for certain horizons.
E37|Models, Inattention and Bayesian Updates|We formulate a theory of expectations updating that fits the dynamics of accuracy and disagreement in a new survey dataset where agents can update at any time while observing each other’s expectations. Agents use heterogeneous models and can be inattentive but, when updating, they follow Bayes’ rule and assign homogeneous weights to public information. Our empirical findings suggest that agents do not herd and, despite disagreement, they place high faith in their models, whereas during a crisis they lose this faith and undergo a paradigm shift. Bayesian updating fits the data well, but only in non-crisis years. Furthermore, we empirically evaluate this theory’s relative strengths and weaknesses in both crisis- and non-crisis years vis-a-vis several leading alternatives and find that it fits better on average and in non-crisis years.
E37|Price Points and Price Dynamics|This paper proposes a macroeconomic model with positive trend inflation that involves an important role for price points as well as sticky information. We argue that, in particular, a variant of our model that allows for a general distribution of price points is more successful in explaining several stylized facts of individual price setting than a benchmark model that is based on Calvo price-setting. More specifically, it makes empirically reasonable predictions with regard to the duration of price spells, the sizes of price increases and decreases, the shape of the hazard function, the fraction of price changes that are price increases, and the relationship between price changes and inflation. Moreover, our model implies plausible aggregate effects of monetary policy in contrast with a model with a prominent role for price points but no information rigidities.
E37|Measuring Real-Financial Connectedness in the U.S. Economy|We analyze connectedness between the real and financial sectors of the U.S. economy. Using the weekly ADS index of the Philadelphia FED (the widely used business conditions indicator) to represent the real side, we find that during times of financial distress and/or business cycle turning points the direction of connectedness runs from the real sector to financial markets. The ADS index is derived from a model containing a measure of term structure along with real variables, therefore, it might not be the best representative of the real activity to be used in the connectedness analysis. As an alternative, we derive a real activity index (RAI) from a dynamic factor model of the real sector variables only. The behavior of RAI over time is quite similar to that of the ADS index. When we include RAI to represent the real side of the economy in the connectedness analysis, the direction of net connectedness reverses: financial markets generate positive net connectedness to the real side of the economy.
E37|Nowcasting real GDP growth with business tendency surveys data: A cross country analysis|We use nowcasting methodology to forecast the dynamics of the real GDP growth in real time based on the business tendency surveys data. Nowcasting is important because key macroeconomic variables on the current state of the economy are available only with a certain lag. This is particularly true for those variables that are collected on a quarterly basis. To conduct out‐of‐sample forecast evaluation we use business tendency surveys data for 22 European countries. Based on the different dataset and using outof‐sample recursive regression scheme we conclude that nowcasting model outperforms several alternative short‐term forecasting statistical models, even when the volatility of the real GDP growth is increasing both in time and across different countries. Based on the Diebold‐Mariano test statistics, we conclude that nowcasting strongly outperforms BVAR and BFAVAR models, but comparison with AR, FAAR and FAVAR does not produce sufficient evidence to prefer one over another.
E37|Slicing up inflation: analysis and forecasting of Lithuanian inflation components|In this paper we model five Lithuanian HICP subcomponents in a medium scale Bayesian VAR framework. We deal with the parameter proliferation problem by setting the appropriate amount of shrinkage determined in the out-of-sample forecasting exercise. The main body of the paper consists of displaying the model’s performance in two applications: forecasting and analysis of inflation determinants. We ﬁnd the model’s forecasts to be competitive against the univariate statistical models, particularly in the cases of predicting processed food and energy goods inflation. What is more, exercises based on conditional forecasting show that these two indices make the best use of accurate conditional information in terms of improving predicting accuracy. In the decomposition of the drivers of HICP components, we demonstrate that both, domestic and foreign factors can be prevalent inflation determinants in certain time periods. We also find some evidence on employees’ bargaining power playing a role in determining the Lithuanian consumer price inflation.
E37|Inflation Decomposition Model: Application to Macedonian inflation|The purpose of the paper is to introduce the framework for decomposing the forecast of headline inflation, obtained by macroeconomic model of NBRM for monetary policy analysis and medium term projections (MAKPAM), into its components: food, energy and core inflation. The model for inflation decomposition is a small structural model, set up in state space framework. Kalman filter procedure is applied to filter the future paths of CPI components, given projected headline inflation obtained by MAKPAM model and exogenous determinants, such as output gap, world commodity prices, and foreign effective inflation. The results of the model’s forecasting performance suggest that this model can be a useful analytical tool in the process of inflation forecast, with relatively good fit of equations for food and domestic oil prices. This model serves as satellite model to MAKPAM and enriches the set of tools for forecasting and monetary policy analysis in NBRM. In this paper we highlight its most important equations, results and model performances.
E37|Measuring monetary policy deviations from the Taylor rule|We estimate deviations of the federal funds rate from the Taylor rule by taking into account the endogeneity of output and inflation to changes in interest rates. We do this by simulating the paths of these variables through a DSGE model using the estimated time series for the exogenous processes except for monetary shocks. We then show that taking the endogeneity of output and inflation into account can make a significant quantitative difference (which can exceed 40 basis points) when calculating the appropriate value of interest rates according to the Taylor rule.
E37|Limited Asset Market Participation And The Euro Area Crisis: An Empirical Dsge Model|We estimate a medium‐scale dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model for the Euro area with limited asset market participation (LAMP). Our results suggest that in the recent European Monetary Union years LAMP is particularly sizable (39% during 1993–2012) and important to understand business cycle features. The Bayes factor and the forecasting performance show that the LAMP model is preferred to its representative household counterpart. In the representative agent model the risk premium shock is the main driver of output volatility in order to match consumption correlation with output. In the LAMP model this role is played by the investment‐specific shock, because non‐Ricardian households introduce a Keynesian multiplier effect and raise the correlation between consumption and investments. We also detect the contractionary role of monetary policy shocks during the post‐2007 years. In this period consumption of non‐Ricardian households fell dramatically, but this outcome might have been avoided by a more aggressive policy stance. (JEL C11, C13, C32, E21, E32, E37)
E37|The Forcasting Performance of Dynamic Factor Models with Vintage Data|"We present a comparative analysis of the forecasting performance of two dynamic factor models, the Stock and Watson (2002a, b) model and the Forni, Hallin, Lippi and Reichlin (2005) model, based on vintage data. Our dataset contains 107 monthly US ""first release"" macroeconomic and financial vintage time series, spanning the 1996:12 to 2017:6 period with monthly periodicity, extracted from the Bloomberg database. We compute real-time one-month-ahead forecasts with both models for four key macroeconomic variables: the month-on-month change in industrial production, the unemployment rate, the core consumer price index and the ISM Purchasing Managers' Index. First, we find that both the Stock and Watson and the Forni, Hallin, Lippi and Reichlin models outperform simple autoregressions for industrial production, unemployment rate and consumer prices, but that only the first model does so for the PMI. Second, we find that neither models always outperform the other. While Forni, Hallin, Lippi and Reichlin's beats Stock and Watson's in forecasting industrial production and consumer prices, the opposite happens for the unemployment rate and the PMI."
E37|Can in?ation expectations in business or consumer surveys improve in?ation forecasts?|In this paper we develop a new model that incorporates inflation expectations and can be used for the structural analysis of inflation, as well as for forecasting. In this latter connection, we specifically look into the usefulness of real-time survey data for inflation projections. We contribute to the literature in two ways. First, our model extracts the inflation trend and its cycle, which is linked to real economic activity, by exploiting a much larger information set than typically seen in this class of models and without the need to resort to Bayesian techniques. The reason is that we use variables reflecting inflation expectations from consumers and firms under the assumption that they are consistent with the expectations derived from the model. Thus, our approach represents an alternative way to shrink the model parameters and to restrict the future evolution of the factors. Second, the inflation expectations that we use are derived from the qualitative questions on expected price developments in both the consumer and the business surveys. This latter source, in particular, is mostly neglected in the empirical literature. Our empirical results suggest that overall, inflation expectations in surveys provide useful information for inflation forecasts. In particular for the most recent period, models that include survey expectations on prices tend to outperform similar models that do not, both for Belgium and the euro area. Furthermore, we find that the business survey, i.e. the survey replies by the price-setters themselves, contributes most to these forecast improvements
E37|Quantile-based Inﬂation Risk Models|This paper proposes a new approach to extract quantile-based in ation risk mea- sures using Quantile Autoregressive Distributed Lag Mixed-Frequency Data Sampling (QADL-MIDAS) regression models. We compare our models to a standard Quantile Auto-Regression (QAR) model and show that it delivers better quantile forecasts at several forecasting horizons. We use the QADL-MIDAS model to construct in ation risk measures proxying for uncertainty, third-moment dynamics and the risk of ex- treme in ation realizations. We nd that these risk measures are linked to the future evolution of in ation and changes in the e ective federal funds rate.
E37|Dominant currencies How firms choose currency invoicing and why it matters|Large movements in exchange rates have small eects on the prices of internationally traded goods. Using a new dataset on currency invoicing of Belgian rms, we study how the currency of invoicing interacts with rm characteristics in shaping the extent of exchange rate pass-through at dierent time horizons. The US dollar and the Euro are the dominant currencies in both Belgium’s exports and imports, with substantial variation in currency choice across rms and products even within narrowly dened manufacturing industries. We nd that smaller, nonimport-intensive rms tend to denominate their exports in euros (producer currency pricing) and exhibit nearly complete exchange-rate pass-through into destination currency prices at all horizons. In contrast, the largest most import-intensive rms, and in particular with imports denominated in US dollars, tend to also denominate their exports in US dollars (dominant currency pricing) and exhibit very low passthrough in the short run, which gradually increases to 40–50% pass-through at the annual horizon. We show that these empirical patterns are in line with the predictions of a theoretical framework featuring heterogeneous rms with variable markups, endogenous international input sourcing and staggered price setting with endogenous currency choice. We plan to use a variant of a such model, disciplined with the Belgian rm-level data, for counterfactual analysis of the gradual increase in the use of the euro in international trade flows.
E37|Is Fertility a Leading Economic Indicator?|Many papers show that aggregate fertility is pro-cyclical over the business cycle. In this paper we do something else: using data on more than 100 million births and focusing on within-year changes in fertility, we show that for recent recessions in the United States, the growth rate for conceptions begins to fall several quarters prior to economic decline. Our findings suggest that fertility behavior is more forward-looking and sensitive to changes in short-run expectations about the economy than previously thought.
E37|A Practical Guide to Parallelization in Economics|This guide provides a practical introduction to parallel computing in economics. After a brief introduction to the basic ideas of parallelization, we show how to parallelize a prototypical application in economics using, on CPUs, Julia, Matlab, R, Python, C++ - OpenMP, Rcpp - OpenMP, and C++ - MPI, and, on GPUs, CUDA and OpenACC. We provide code that the user can download and fork, present comparative results, and explain the strengths and weaknesses of each approach. We conclude with some additional remarks about alternative approaches.
E37|Over-reaction in Macroeconomic Expectations|We study the rationality of individual and consensus professional forecasts of macroeconomic and financial variables using the methodology of Coibion and Gorodnichenko (2015), which examines predictability of forecast errors from forecast revisions. We report two key findings: forecasters typically over-react to their individual news, while consensus forecasts under-react to average forecaster news. To reconcile these findings, we combine the diagnostic expectations model of belief formation from Bordalo, Gennaioli, and Shleifer (2018) with Woodford’s (2003) noisy information model of belief dispersion. The forward looking nature of diagnostic expectations yields additional implications, which we also test and confirm. A structural estimation exercise indicates that our model captures important variation in the data, yielding a value for the belief distortion parameter similar to estimates obtained in other settings
E37|Índice de Precios de Inmuebles: Un Enfoque Hedónico|El objetivo del documento es estimar un índice de precios de departamentos para Lima Metropolitana utilizando la metodología de precios hedónicos. Para este propósito se utilizan tres variantes de la metodología (método de variables binarias de tiempo, método de características y método de imputación). Los índices calculados por estos tres métodos presentan resultados similares. Se muestra, además, que no ha habido una gran variación de las características de los departamentos ni de las valoraciones de estas características. Las características con mayor valoración de los compradores son el número de cocheras y el número de baños. Finalmente, se encuentra similitud de los índices calculados en base a regresiones hedónicas y el índice de medianas calculado y publicado actualmente por el BCRP.
E37|Mortgage Credit: Lending and Borrowing Constraints in a DSGE Model|This paper develops a Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium (DSGE) model that evaluates the relative importance of the easing of lending and borrowing constraints in mortgage credit markets for business cycle fluctuations in a small open emerging economy. Credit markets are characterized by partial dollarization and are subject to demand shocks, innovations to stochastic loan-to-value ratios (borrowing constraints) imposed on borrowers, and supply shocks, innovations to stochastic bank capital-to-asset ratios (lending constraints) imposed on financial intermediaries. In addition, the model features a set of real and nominal domestic shocks to demand, productivity, and fiscal and monetary policy, as well as foreign shocks. A historical decomposition conducted on household leverage ratios reveals that these variables’ cyclical dynamics were mainly driven by borrowing constraint shocks or credit demand shifts, while lending constraint shocks played a residual role.
E37|R2 bounds for predictive models: what univariate properties tell us about multivariate predictability|A longstanding puzzle in macroeconomic forecasting has been that a wide variety of multivariate models have struggled to out-predict univariate models consistently. We seek an explanation for this puzzle in terms of population properties. We derive bounds for the predictive R2 of the true, but unknown, multivariate model from univariate ARMA parameters alone. These bounds can be quite tight, implying little forecasting gain even if we knew the true multivariate model. We illustrate using CPI inflation data and the Eurozone in a specification motivated by a preferred-habitat model to test for monetary policy transmission domestically and internationally. Our findings suggest an impact of monetary policy on variance processes only and provides evidence for an international channel of monetary transmission on both money and capital markets. This is, to our knowledge, the first attempt to use search-engine data in the context of monetary policy.
E37|Nowcasting Canadian Economic Activity in an Uncertain Environment|This paper studies short-term forecasting of Canadian real GDP and its expenditure components using combinations of nowcasts from different models. Starting with a medium-sized data set, we use a suite of common nowcasting tools for quarterly real GDP and its expenditure components. Using a two-step combination procedure, the nowcasts are first combined within model classes and then merged into a single point forecast using simple performance-based weighting methods. We find that no single model clearly dominates over all forecast horizons, subsamples and target variables. This highlights that when operating in an uncertain environment, where the choice of model is not clear, combining forecasts is a prudent strategy.
E37|The Framework for Risk Identification and Assessment|Risk assessment models are an important component of the Bank’s analytical tool kit for assessing the resilience of the financial system. We describe the Framework for Risk Identification and Assessment (FRIDA), a suite of models developed at the Bank of Canada to quantify the impact of financial stability risks to the broader economy and a range of financial system participants (households, businesses and banks). These risks are tail-risk events that are rare and severe but plausible. FRIDA combines models that quantify the impact of risks on both aggregate macrofinancial variables and different types of financial system participants, thus allowing us to understand the channels through which severe shocks could be transmitted and amplified within the financial system. By including sectoral models, FRIDA can consider the rich institutional features and heterogeneity that characterize different parts of the financial system and capture the various channels through which they can be affected by shocks. Like any model, FRIDA faces model uncertainty. Consequently, results from FRIDA are used in combination with expert judgment to form an overall assessment of financial stability risks.
E37|Dismiss the Gap? A Real-Time Assessment of the Usefulness of Canadian Output Gaps in Forecasting Inflation|We use a new real-time database for Canada to study various output gap measures. This includes recently developed measures based on models incorporating many variables as inputs (and therefore requiring real-time data for many variables). We analyze output gap revisions and assess the usefulness of these gaps in forecasting total CPI inflation and three newly developed measures of core CPI inflation: CPI-median, CPI-trim and CPI-common. We also study whether labour-input gaps, projected output gaps, and simple combinations of output gaps can add useful information for forecasting inflation. We find that estimates of excess capacity (the extent to which the economy is below potential) were probably too large around the 2008-2009 recession, as they subsequently tended to be revised down. In addition, we find that, when forecasting CPI-common and CPI-trim, some gaps appear to provide information that reduces forecast errors when compared with models that use only lags of inflation. However, forecast improvements are rarely statistically significant. In addition, we find little evidence of the usefulness of output gaps for forecasting inflation measured by total CPI and CPI-median.
E37|Could a higher inflation target enhance macroeconomic stability?|Recent international experience with the effective lower bound on nominal interest rates has rekindled interest in the benefits of inflation targets above 2%. We evaluate whether an increase in the inflation target to 3% or 4% could improve macroeconomic stability in the Canadian economy. We find that the magnitude of the benefits hinges critically on two elements: (i) the availability and effectiveness of unconventional monetary policy (UMP) tools at the effective lower bound and (ii) the level of the real neutral interest rate. In particular, we show that when the real neutral rate is in line with the central tendency of estimates, raising the inflation target yields some improvement in macroeconomic outcomes. There are only modest gains if effective UMP tools are available. In contrast, with a deeply negative real neutral rate, a higher inflation target substantially improves macroeconomic stability regardless of UMP.
E37|How Do Central Bank Projections and Forward Guidance Influence Private-Sector Forecasts?|We construct a 23-country panel data set to consider the effect of central bank projections and forward guidance on private-sector forecast disagreement. We find that central bank projections and forward guidance matter mainly for private-sector forecast disagreement surrounding upcoming policy rate decisions and matter less for private-sector macroeconomic forecasts. Further, neither central banks’ provision of policy rate path projections nor their choice of policy rate assumption used in their macroeconomic projections appear to matter much for private-sector forecast disagreement.
E37|On the Evolution of the United Kingdom Price Distributions|We propose a functional principal components method that accounts for stratified random sample weighting and time dependence in the observations to understand the evolution of distributions of monthly micro-level consumer prices for the United Kingdom (UK). We apply the method to publicly available monthly data on individual-good prices collected in retail stores by the UK Office for National Statistics for the construction of the UK Consumer Price Index from March 1996 to September 2015. In addition, we conduct Monte Carlo simulations to demonstrate the effectiveness of our methodology. Our method allows us to visualize the dynamics of the price distribution and uncovers interesting patterns during the sample period. Further, we demonstrate the efficacy of our methodology with an out-of-sample forecasting algorithm that exploits the time dependence of distributions. Our out-of-sample forecast compares favorably with the random walk forecast.
E37|Sluggish Forecasts|Given the influence that agents’ expectations have on key macroeconomic variables, it is surprising that very few papers have tried to extrapolate agents’ “true” expectations directly from the data. This paper presents one such approach, starting with the hypothesis that there is sluggishness in inflation and real GDP growth forecasts. Using individual-level data on 29 U.S. professional forecasters from the Survey of Professional Forecasters, I find that some degree of sluggishness is present in about 40% of inflation forecasts and in 60% of real GDP growth forecasts. The estimates of sluggishness are then used to recover a series of sluggishness-adjusted expectations that are more volatile and, at times, more accurate than the raw survey forecasts.
E37|Evaluating the Bank of Canada Staff Economic Projections Using a New Database of Real-Time Data and Forecasts|We present a novel database of real-time data and forecasts from the Bank of Canada’s staff economic projections. We then provide a forecast evaluation for GDP growth and CPI inflation since 1982: we compare the staff forecasts with those from commonly used time-series models estimated with real-time data and with forecasts from other professional forecasters and provide standard bias tests. Finally, we study changes in the predictability of the Canadian economy following the announcement of the inflation-targeting regime in 1991. Our database is unprecedented outside the United States, and our evidence is particularly interesting, as it includes over 30 years of staff forecasts, two severe recessions and different monetary policy regimes. The database will be made available publicly and updated annually.
E37|Potential Output in Canada: 2018 Reassessment|This note summarizes the reassessment of potential output, conducted by the Bank of Canada for the April 2018 Monetary Policy Report. Overall, the profile for potential output growth is expected to remain flat at 1.8 per cent between 2018 and 2020 and 1.9 per cent in 2021. While population aging will continue to be a drag on potential output growth, this drag is expected to be offset by a pickup in trend labour productivity. This year’s profile represents a substantial revision relative to the April 2017 reassessment. This is mostly a result of the historical revisions to the levels of business investment and capital stock released in November 2017 by Statistics Canada, strong employment gains in 2017 and a slightly more optimistic outlook for investment over the projection horizon. An analysis of alternative scenarios suggests a range for potential output growth from ±0.3 percentage points in 2018 to ±0.6 percentage points in 2021.
E37|Modelling the Macrofinancial Effects of a House Price Correction in Canada|We use a suite of risk-assessment models to examine the possible impact of a hypothetical house price correction, centred in the Toronto and Vancouver areas. We also assume financial stress significantly amplifies the macroeconomic impact of the house price decline. The rates of arrears rise for households and businesses, which puts some pressure on banks. But the large banks remain resilient through the risk scenario, supported by their international diversification and their ability to replenish capital with retained earnings. As with any simulation exercise, the results are subject to significant uncertainty and depend on the specifics of the scenario being considered.
E37|Asymmetric Risks to the Economic Outlook Arising from Financial System Vulnerabilities|When financial system vulnerabilities are elevated, they can give rise to asymmetric risks to the economic outlook. To illustrate this, I consider the economic outlook presented in the Bank of Canada’s October 2017 Monetary Policy Report in the context of two key financial system vulnerabilities: high levels of household indebtedness and housing market imbalances. Uncertainty on the profile of consumption by indebted households—and, therefore, risks to growth in gross domestic product (GDP)—arises from higher interest rates and from recent changes to the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions’ B-20 mortgage underwriting guideline. I use non-linear Bayesian techniques to capture the potential amplification of negative shocks in a vulnerable environment. I find that the materialization of larger-than-expected impacts on consumption from higher interest rates and/or the tighter mortgage qualifying criteria would imply asymmetric risks to GDP growth.
E37|LU-EAGLE: A DSGE model for Luxembourg within the euro area and global economy|We describe LU-EAGLE, a DSGE model developed at the Banque centrale du Luxembourg. LU-EAGLE borrows its general structure from the Euro Area and GLobal Economy (EAGLE) model developed by the European System of Central Banks and also embeds specific features to capture some important characteristics of Luxembourg's economy. In particular, the model reproduces the high levels of exports and imports relative to GDP, as well as the significant share of cross-border workers in Luxembourg's labor market. We calibrate LU-EAGLE and discuss simulation results describing the effects of a set of standard shocks, originating both in Luxembourg and abroad. The model suggests that international spillovers make Luxembourg more responsive to monetary policy shocks and less responsive to fiscal policy shocks. Moreover, it highlights how fluctuations in foreign demand have a significant impact on domestic developments.
E37|Forecasting house prices in Italy|Forecasting house prices is a difficult task given the strong relationship between real estate markets, economic activity and financial stability, but it is an important one. This paper evaluates the out-of-sample forecasting performance of various models of house prices in a quasi-real time setting. Focusing on Italy, we consider two structural models (using simultaneous equations) and a Bayesian VAR and compute both conditional and unconditional forecasts. We find that the models perform better than a simple autoregressive benchmark; however, the relative forecast accuracy depends on the forecast horizon and also changes over time. For the full sample period the simultaneous equation model, which takes into account credit supply restrictions and real estate taxation, shows the best performance measured in terms of root mean squared forecasting error (RMSFE). In the first part of the sample (2005-2010), medium-term forecasts of house prices greatly benefit from conditioning on the evolution of households’ disposable income, whereas from 2010 onwards the path of the stock of mortgages becomes important.
E37|Short‐term forecasts of economic activity: Are fortnightly factors useful?|A short‐term mixed‐frequency model is proposed to estimate and forecast Italian economic activity fortnightly. We introduce a dynamic one‐factor model with three frequencies (quarterly, monthly, and fortnightly) by selecting indicators that show significant coincident and leading properties and are representative of both demand and supply. We conduct an out‐of‐sample forecasting exercise and compare the prediction errors of our model with those of alternative models that do not include fortnightly indicators. We find that high‐frequency indicators significantly improve the real‐time forecasts of Italian gross domestic product (GDP); this result suggests that models exploiting the information available at different lags and frequencies provide forecasting gains beyond those based on monthly variables alone. Moreover, the model provides a new fortnightly indicator of GDP, consistent with the official quarterly series.
E37|State-dependent Forward Guidance and the Problem of Inconsistent Announcements|Florez-Jimenez and Parra-Polania (2016) show that unconditional forward guidance (FG) performs poorly except in the most extreme zero lower-bound (ZLB) events and that for any ZLB situation it is better to resort to state-dependent (threshold-based) FG. The model of that paper is solved under the assumption that the threshold (to revert to the optimal discretionary policy) is announced in terms of an exogenous variable (the demand shock). The present paper shows that, when consistency of announcements is not considered, the solution does not change when the threshold is announced in terms of an endogenous variable (output or inflation). However, the paper also illustrates the fact that an endogenous-variable threshold gives rise to inconsistency: the action taken may not conform to the central bank announcement. Consistency imposes limits on the policy rate that can be set since reverting to the optimal discretionary rate can be incompatible with exceeding the threshold.
E37|A well-timed raise in inflation targets|A raise in inflation targets would be viable if implemented strategically, that is, at the time of a pickup in demand. Policy interest rates would not be constrained by the zero-bound as the result of a balance between two forces: first, policy interest rates must drop under a raise in the inflation target; and second, policy interest rates must rise under a pickup in demand. We use a simple new-Keynesian, semi-structural model to find the natural rate as well as other non observables, including inflation expectations, for a group of advanced economies. We also use the model to explain the role of demand and monetary policy in the evolution of inflation and the output gap. The document shows how a sizable drop in the natural rate pushed policy interest rates against the zero-bound. **** Un aumento en las metas de inflación es viable, si se implementa estratégicamente, es decir, durante un repunte de la demanda. Las tasas de interés no estarían restringidas por el límite cero como resultado de un balance entre dos fuerzas: primero, las tasas de política deben caer bajo un aumento en la meta de inflación; y segundo, deben aumentar ante un aumento en la demanda. Utilizamos un modelo sencillo, neo keynesiano y semi estructural para encontrar la tasa natural así como otros no observables, incluidas las expectativas de inflación, para un grupo de economías avanzadas. También utilizamos el modelo para estudiar el papel de la demanda y la política monetaria en la evolución de la inflación y la brecha del producto. El documento muestra cómo una considerable caída en la tasa natural empujó las tasas de interés de política contra el límite cero.
E37|Explaining and Forecasting Euro Area Inflation: the Role of Domestic and Global Factors|In this paper, we study the fit and the predictive performance of the Phillips curve for euro area inflation with regard to different inflation series, time periods and predictor variables, notably different global factors. We compare the relative performance of a large set of alternative global factors in the Phillips curve, such as commodity prices, import prices, global consumer inflation, global economic slack and foreign demand. We find that traditional global indicators such as oil prices and import prices provide more accurate information for euro area headline inflation than global slack measures. In what regards the forecast ability of the Phillips curve for headline inflation, we show that it is unstable and depends strongly on the time period. Global factors provide only limited additional information for forecasting. In addition, we explore whether domestic demand and global factors are useful for analysing the entire conditional distribution of euro area inflation. We find that their impact varies across inflation quantiles (low vs. high inflation) and that inflation is more persistent at the low end of the distribution. We provide evidence that quantile information can lead to more accurate forecasts in periods of persistently low inflation.
E37|Residential investment and economic activity: evidence from the past five decades|We analyse the evolution and main drivers of residential investment, using a panel with quarterly data for 15 advanced economies since the 1970s. Residential investment is a notably volatile component of real GDP in all countries in the sample. We find real house price growth, net migration inflows and the size of the existing housing stock to be significant drivers of residential investment across various model specifications. We also detect important asymmetries: interest rate increases affect residential investment more than interest rate cuts, and interest rate changes have larger effects on residential investment when its share in overall GDP is rising. Finally, we show that adding information on residential investment significantly improves the performance of standard recession prediction models.
E37|The Likelihood of Effective Lower Bound Events|This paper provides estimates of the probability of an economy hitting its effective lower bound (ELB) on the nominal interest rate and of the expected duration of such an event for eight advanced economies. To that end, a mean-adjusted panel vector autoregression with static interdependencies and the possibility of regime change is estimated. The simulation procedure produces ELB risk estimates for both the short term, where the current phase of the business cycle plays an important role, and the medium term, where the occurrence of an ELB situation is determined mainly by the equilibrium values of macroeconomic variables. The paper also discusses the ELB event probability estimates with respect to previous approaches used in the literature.
E37|When are credit gap estimates reliable?|We evaluate the reliability of credit gap measures estimated over time samples of different lengths. We augment our empirical analysis (which turned out to be somewhat inconclusive) with Monte Carlo experiments. For this purpose we build an agent-based model that realistically reproduces credit cycles and use it to generate the artificial data set. We found that 12-15 years of available data is sufficient for the estimation of reliable credit gaps (i.e. the reliability of credit gap estimates will not improve substantially as more data are added to the sample).
E37|Forecasting inflation in Russia by Dynamic Model Averaging|In this study, I forecast CPI inflation in Russia by the method of Dynamic Model Averaging (Raftery et al., 2010; Koop and Korobilis, 2012) pseudo out-of-sample on historical data. This method can be viewed as an extension of the Bayesian Model Averaging where the identity of a model that generates data and model parameters are allowed to change over time. The DMA is shown not to produce forecasts superior to simpler benchmarks even if a subset of individual predictors is pre-selected “with the benefit of hindsight” on the full sample. The two groups of predictors that feature the highest average values of the posterior inclusion probability are loans to non-financial firms and individuals along with actual and anticipated wages.
E37|Monetary Policy Lessons from the Greenbook|From 1987 through 2012, the Federal Open Market Committee appears to have set its federal funds rate target with reference to Greenbook forecasts of the output gap and inflation and to have made further adjustments to the funds rate as those forecasts were revised. If viewed in the context of the Taylor (1993) Rule, discretionary departures from the settings prescribed by a Greenbook forecast-based version of the rule consistently presage business cycle turning points. Similarly, estimates from an interest rate rule with time-varying parameters imply that, around such turning points, the FOMC responds less vigorously to information contained in Greenbook forecasts about the changing state of the economy. These results suggest possible gains from closer adherence to a rule with constant parameters. Other statistical properties of Greenbook forecasts also point to an overlooked role for monetary aggregates, particularly Divisia monetary aggregates, in the Federal Reserve's forecasting process and subsequent monetary policy decisions made by the FOMC.
E37|Developing an underlying inflation gauge for China|The headline consumer price inflation (CPI) is often considered too noisy, narrowly defined, and/or slowly available for policymaking. On the other hand, traditional core inflation measures may reduce volatility but do not address other issues and may even exclude important information. This paper develops a new underlying inflation gauge (UIG) for China which differentiates between trend and noise, is available daily and uses a broad set of variables that potentially influence inflation. Its construction follows the works at other major central banks, adopts the methodology of a dynamic factor model that extracts the lower frequency components as developed by Forni et al. (2000) and draws on the experience of the People's Bank of China in modelling inflation. The paper is the first application of this type of dynamic factor model for inflation to any large emerging market economy. Our UIG for China is less noisy but still closely tracks the headline CPI. It does not suffer from the excess volatility reduction that plagues traditional core inflation measures and instead provides additional information. Finally, when forecasting the headline CPI, our UIG for China outperforms traditional core measures over different samples.
E37|Optimal Monetary Policy Under Bounded Rationality|Optimal monetary policy under discretion, commitment, and optimal simple rules regimes is analyzed through a behavioral New Keynesian model. Flexible price level targeting dominates under discretion; flexible inflation targeting dominates under commitment; and strict price level targeting dominates when using optimal simple rules. Stabilizing properties and bounded rationality-independence generally affect the regime's optimality. The policymaker's knowledge of an agent's myopia is decisive, whereas bounded rationality is not necessarily associated with decreased welfare. Several forms of economic inattention can be welfare increasing.
E37|New Facts about Firms' Inflation Expectations: Simple Tests for a Sticky Information Model|In this paper, we use a large dataset based on firm-level micro-data from the Tankan survey to examine firms' inflation expectations. We first present two basic findings: (i) firms' inflation expectations are downwardly rigid at zero, and (ii) differences in firms' inflation expectations are larger across firm sizes than across sectors. We then report three findings which are in line with predictions of the simple sticky information model proposed by Mankiw and Reis (2002). First, in each period, a number of firms do not revise their expectations. Second, the frequency of forecast revisions is constant over time. Third, our estimates of the frequency of forecast revisions based on the Tankan survey are much smaller than those in previous studies and are much closer to the value that Mankiw and Reis (2002) assumed in their simulation exercises.
E37|Why is it So Hard to Reach the EU’s Poverty Target?|Abstract The European Union’s Lisbon strategy goal of tackling poverty was a notable failure, while the Europe 2020 strategy’s poverty target is out of reach. Both strategies were based on variants of the ‘at risk of poverty’ indicator, which has an inappropriate and misleading name. We demonstrate theoretically and empirically by cross-section, time series and panel cointegration evidence that the ‘at risk of poverty’ indicator essentially measures income inequality, not poverty. Our calculations show that even after taking into account the positive impact that expected economic growth should have on material deprivation and low work intensity, the Gini coefficient of income inequality would have to fall by 3.5 points in each EU country if the Europe 2020 poverty target is to be reached, which is implausible. The ‘at risk of poverty’ indicator does not satisfy standard axioms set in the literature, while the huge differences between national poverty thresholds make the EU-wide poverty aggregate pointless. The political agreement between EU member states expressed the goal of reducing poverty, not inequality. There are good reasons to aim for lower income inequality, but a political agreement would be needed to set an inequality goal and corresponding policies.
E37|Does Central Bank Transparency and Communication Affect Financial and Macroeconomic Forecasts?|In a large sample of countries across different geographic regions and over a long period of time, we find limited country- and variable-specific effects of central bank transparency on forecast accuracy and their dispersion among a large set of professional forecasts of financial and macroeconomic variables. More communication even increases forecast errors and dispersion.
E37|Saddle Cycles: Solving Rational Expectations Models Featuring Limit Cycles (or Chaos) Using Perturbation Methods|Unlike their linear counterparts, non-linear models of the business cycle can generate sustained economic fluctuations even in the absence of shocks (e.g., via limit cycles or chaos). A popular approach to solving non-linear models is the use of perturbation methods. I show that, as typically implemented, these methods are generally incapable of finding solutions that feature limit cycles or chaos, a fact that does not appear to be recognized in the existing literature. Standard algorithms only seek solutions that feature converge to the steady state, which is stronger than the standard definitional requirement that a solution simply cannot explode. Because of this, in estimation exercises any parameterization that involves limit cycles would typically (and incorrectly) be discarded. I propose a modification to standard algorithms that does not impose the overly strong requirement that solutions involve convergence.
E37|Intermittent Price Changes in Production Plants: Empirical Evidence Using Monthly Data|The price‐setting behaviour of manufacturing plants is examined using a large panel of monthly surveyed plant‐ and product‐specific prices. The sample shows a high frequency of zero changes, relatively small price changes and a strong seasonal price‐change pattern. The intermittent feature of price changes is modelled with thresholds which are smaller in January, and a quadratic loss function associated with the distance from the target price. The findings show statistically significant pricing thresholds, which are only two‐thirds in January, and partial adjustment parameters implying that 60% of the deviation between the target price and the current price is closed each month.
E37|Assessing the External Demand of the Czech Economy: Nowcasting Foreign GDP Using Bridge Equations|We propose an approach to nowcasting foreign GDP growth rates for the Czech economy. For presentational purposes, we focus on three major trading partners: Germany, Slovakia and France. We opt for a simple method which is very general and which has proved successful in the literature: the method based on bridge equation models. A battery of models is evaluated based on a pseudo-real-time forecasting exercise. The results for Germany and France suggest that the models are more successful at backcasting, nowcasting and forecasting than the naive random walk benchmark model. At the same time, the various models considered are more or less successful depending on the forecast horizon. On the other hand, the results for Slovakia are less convincing, possibly due to the stability of the GDP growth rate over the evaluation period and the weak relationship between GDP growth rates and monthly indicators in the training sample.
E37|Sparse Restricted Perception Equilibrium|In this paper we study model selection under bounded rationality and the impact of monetary policy on the equilibrium choice of forecasting models. We use the concept of sparse rationality (developed recently by Gabaix, 2014), where paying attention to all possible variables is costly and agents can choose to over- or under-emphasize particular variables, even fully excluding some of them. Our main question is whether an initially mis-specified equilibrium (the restricted perceptions equilibrium, or RPE) is compatible with the equilibrium choice of sparse weights describing the allocation of attention to different variables by the agents inhabiting this RPE. In a simple New Keynesian model, we find that the agents stick to their initial mis-specified AR(1) forecasting model choice when monetary policy is less aggressive or inflation is more persistent. We also identify a region in the parameter space where the agents find it advantageous to pay attention to no variable at all.
E37|Monetary policy and structural changes in Colombia, 1990-2016: A Markov Switching approach|This paper analyzes the Colombian economic context between 1990Q1-2014Q4, using a Markov-Switching Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium Model (MS-DSGE) to identify regime switches in the driven mechanisms of the economy. Bayesian methods are applied, allowing for changes in the monetary policy rule, nominal rigidities, and shock volatilities of the model. The results support evidence of shifts in the structural parameters of several equations that define the dynamics of the economy. The best fit specification of the MSDSGE model allows for independent switches in the Taylor rule, parameters, coefficients of the domestic Phillips curve, and changes in volatilities. Estimations from the DSGE model suggest a regime switching in monetary policy from a low to high inflation response, which coincides with the adoption of inflation targeting in 1999Q3, and with a lower Phillips curve slope in the Economy since 1998Q3. Historical decomposition analysis and counterfactual exercises show that regime switches were crucial when the Central Bank adopted an Inflation Targeting regime, and, by themselves, these regime changes could be interpreted as disinflationary shocks. These phenomena are not identifiable when using linear models.
E37|A Practical Guide to Parallelization in Economics|This guide provides a practical introduction to parallel computing in economics. After a brief introduction to the basic ideas of parallelization, we show how to parallelize a prototypical application in economics using, on CPUs, Julia, Matlab, R, Python, C++-OpenMP, Rcpp–OpenMP, and C++-MPI, and, on GPUs, CUDA and OpenACC. We provide code that the user can download and fork, present comparative results, and explain the strengths and weaknesses of each approach. We conclude with some additional remarks about alternative approaches.
E37|Inflation Dynamics and Price Flexibility in the UK|Using microdata underlying the UK consumer price index we study how the capacity of nominal demand shocks to stimulate the rate of inflation has evolved over the last two decades. To this end, we estimate a generalized $Ss$ model of lumpy price adjustment, and document sizeable time variation in the behavior of price flexibility. Most notably, the latter shoots up in the aftermath of the Great Recession and rapidly falls thereafter, with these sharp movements reflecting into increased inflation volatility. These features map into a marked non-linearity of inflation dynamics with respect to the degree of price flexibility, with mean reversion being significantly faster when prices are relatively more flexible. State dependence plays a major role for price setting at the microeconomic level, and more so when inflation is particularly high and volatile. Neglecting these facts may severely bias our understanding of inflation dynamics.
E37|The Forecasting Performance of Dynamic Factor Models with Vintage Data|We present a comparative analysis of the forecasting performance of two dynamic factor models, the Stock and Watson (2002a, b) model and the Forni, Hallin, Lippi and Reichlin (2005) model, based on vintage data. Our dataset that contains 107 monthly US “first release” macroeconomic and financial vintage time series, spanning the 1996:12 to 2017:6 period with monthly periodicity, extracted from the Bloomberg database†. We compute real-time one-month-ahead forecasts with both models for four key macroeconomic variables: the month-on-month change in industrial production, the unemployment rate, the core consumer price index and the ISM Purchasing Managers’ Index. First, we find that both the Stock and Watson and the Forni, Hallin, Lippi and Reichlin models outperform simple autoregressions for industrial production, unemployment rate and consumer prices, but that only the first model does so for the PMI. Second, we find that neither models always outperform the other. While Forni, Hallin, Lippi and Reichlin’s beats Stock and Watson’s in forecasting industrial production and consumer prices, the opposite happens for the unemployment rate and the PMI.
E37|Forecasting with Second-Order Approximations and Markov Switching DSGE Models|This paper compares the out-of-sample forecasting performance of first- and second- order perturbation approximations for DSGE models that incorporate Markov-switching behaviour in the policy reaction function and the volatility of shocks. These results are compared to those of a model that does not incorporate any regime-switching. The results suggest that second-order approximations provide an improved forecasting performance in models that do not allow for regime-switching, while for the MS-DSGE models, a first-order approximation would appear to provide better out-of-sample properties. In addition, we find that over short-horizons, the MS-DSGE models provide superior forecasting results when compared to those models that do not allow for regime-switching (at both perturbation orders).
E37|You are what you eat: The role of oil price in Nigeria inflation forecast|In this study, we propose a supply-side augmented Phillips curve for the Nigerian economy, which significantly enhances its inflation forecasts. We argue for the role of oil price as a good proxy for the supply side of inflation given the structure of the Nigerian economy, which essentially relies on oil revenue. Thus, we compare the forecast results of the oil-based augmented Phillips curve with the traditional variant, as well as time series models such as ARIMA and ARFIMA. We also test for any probable asymmetric response of Nigeria inflation forecast to oil price changes. The forecast analyses are conducted for both in-sample and out-of-sample periods using alternative forecast measures. We also consider alternative estimators such as Lewellen (2004) [LW hereafter] and Westerlund and Narayan (2012, 2015) [WN hereafter] estimators which account for relevant statistical properties of the predictors and their results are compared with the standard OLS estimator. The results suggest that the choice of estimator does matter for accurate inflation forecast for Nigeria, whether for in-sample or out-of-sample forecast and the WN estimator is preferred particularly when compared with OLS estimator. Secondly, the augmented model outperforms its traditional version, as well as time series models for both forecast samples. However, oil price asymmetries become evident when large samples are used. Our results are robust to alternative oil price proxies and forecast measures.
E37|Improving the predictability of commodity prices in US inflation: The role of coffee price|In this paper, we set forth to answer the research question: can coffee price predict US inflation? Motivated by the importance of coffee to Americans and the significance of the coffee subsector to the US economy, we pursue three notable innovations. First, we augment the traditional Phillips curve model with coffee price as a predictor and show that the resulting model outperforms the traditional variant in both in-sample and out-of-sample predictability of US inflation. Second, we justify the need to account for the inherent statistical features in the predictor as well as make a case for the superiority of Westerlund and Narayan (WN) estimator especially in the in-sample predictive model. These answer the research question in the affirmative with strong evidence that coffee price indeed serves as a good predictor, along with economic activity, for US inflation. These further challenge the position of Stock and Watson (1999, 2007, 2008) and establish that economic models can outperform statistical models for forecasting inflation.
