E39|The Macroeconomic Projections of the German Government: A Comparison to an Independent Forecasting Institution|This paper investigates the macroeconomic projections of the German government since the 1970s and compares it those of the Joint Economic Forecast, which is an in-dependent forecasting institution in Germany. Our results indicate that nominal GDP projections are upward biased for longer forecast horizons, which seems to be driven by a false assessment of the decline in Germany’s trend growth and a systematic failure to correctly anticipate recessions. We show that the German government also deviates from the projections of the Joint Economic Forecast, which in fact worsened the forecast accuracy. Finally, we find evidence that these deviations are driven by political motives.
E39|An ARDL Approach on Crude Oil Price and Macroeconomic Variables|Objective – The removal of fuel subsidies by the Malaysian government in 2014 has been implement with the managed float system for fuel prices. Methodology/Technique – This study investigates the impact of the managed floating system of crude oil prices on the Malaysian economy using ARDL approach by looking at macroeconomic variables such as inflation, economic growth and unemployment rates. Findings – The results show that all of the variables have short lived relationship with oil prices whereby inflation and economic growth are positively related to oil prices. However, unemployment rate has a negative relationship with the changes of WTI crude oil prices. Novelty – The major input in the economy of Malaysia contributes to a positive relationship between inflation and oil prices, whilst the contribution of Malaysia being an oil-producing country results in the positive relationship of economic growth and oil price. Likewise, as oil prices are high, the increase in demand results in increase in job opportunities. Lastly, the correlation test shows that inflation and economic growth have a high positive correlation while unemployment rate has a low negative correlation with oil price. Type of Paper: Empirical.
E39|Baltic Integration and the Euro|Which have been the consequences of the euro for integration and economic performance in the Baltic Sea region? After the collapse of the Soviet Union, the three Baltic states and Poland have been rapidly catching-up with Western Europe. The Great Recession became a great setback for the former, while less so for Poland. A difference is the monetary policy: the Polish zloty depreciated in the critical moment of the crisis, while currency boards with the aim of joining the euro bestowed appreciation for the Baltics and Finland. Contrary to the purpose, monetary integration has not fostered integration in trade, and the share of the Eurozone in Baltic trade has stagnated. A comparison with other countries in the Baltic Sea region suggests that the euro provides “the golden fetters” of our time. Emigration, also a kind of integration, has become a safety valve with severe social and economic consequences for the Baltic states.
E39|The transmission of uncertainty shocks on income inequality: State-level evidence from the United States|In this paper, we explore the relationship between state-level household income inequality and macroeconomic uncertainty in the United States. Using a novel large-scale macroeconometric model, we shed light on regional disparities of inequality responses to a national uncertainty shock. The results suggest that income inequality decreases in most states, with a pronounced degree of heterogeneity in terms of shapes and magnitudes of the dynamic responses. By contrast, some few states, mostly located in the West and South census region, display increasing levels of income inequality over time. We find that this directional pattern in responses is mainly driven by the income composition and labor market fundamentals. In addition, forecast error variance decompositions allow for a quantitative assessment of the importance of uncertainty shocks in explaining income inequality. The findings highlight that volatility shocks account for a considerable fraction of forecast error variance for most states considered. Finally, a regression-based analysis sheds light on the driving forces behind differences in state-specific inequality responses.
E39|Fashion in Islamic Perspective|The need clothes that bring benefit serves as a cover nakedness, over the times fashion became an icon for Muslim identity as identity, nation and civilization. Islamhas instilled the values of philosophy as well as being bargading position for Muslims.
E39|The transmission of uncertainty shocks on income inequality: State-level evidence from the United States|In this paper, we explore the relationship between state-level household income inequality and macroeconomic uncertainty in the United States. Using a novel large-scale macroeconometric model, we shed light on regional disparities of inequality responses to a national uncertainty shock. The results suggest that income inequality decreases in most states, with a pronounced degree of heterogeneity in terms of shapes and magnitudes of the dynamic responses. By contrast, some few states, mostly located in the West and South census region, display increasing levels of income inequality over time. We find that this directional pattern in responses is mainly driven by the income composition and labor market fundamentals. In addition, forecast error variance decompositions allow for a quantitative assessment of the importance of uncertainty shocks in explaining income inequality. The findings highlight that volatility shocks account for a considerable fraction of forecast error variance for most states considered. Finally, a regression-based analysis sheds light on the driving forces behind differences in state-specific inequality responses.
E39|The transmission of uncertainty shocks on income inequality: State-level evidence from the United States|In this paper, we explore the relationship between state-level household income inequality and macroeconomic uncertainty in the United States. Using a novel large-scale macroeconometric model, we shed light on regional disparities of inequality responses to a national uncertainty shock. The results suggest that income inequality decreases in most states, with a pronounced degree of heterogeneity in terms of shapes and magnitudes of the dynamic responses. By contrast, some few states, mostly located in the West and South census region, display increasing levels of income inequality over time. We find that this directional pattern in responses is mainly driven by the income composition and labor market fundamentals. In addition, forecast error variance decompositions allow for a quantitative assessment of the importance of uncertainty shocks in explaining income inequality. The findings highlight that volatility shocks account for a considerable fraction of forecast error variance for most states considered. Finally, a regression-based analysis sheds light on the driving forces behind differences in state-specific inequality responses.
E39|Is the debt brake behind Germany's successful fiscal consolidation?|"Both the German federal as well as the general government recorded a surplus for the fourth time in a row in 2017. The fast consolidation after the Great Recession coincided with the transition period for the full introduction of the federal debt brake, which is sometimes interpreted as causality. At the same time Germany's economic performance is better than that of many other countries. For this reason it is nearly impossible to overrate the symbolic power of the debt brake as a seeming success story. In this paper we scrutinise the seeming success story of the debt brake. We carry out a comparative analysis of the ""structural"" consolidation of public finances in Germany for the period from 1991 until 2017 showing that the German debt brake is not the cause of the successful budget consolidation in Germany since 2010. The improvement of the general government finances since 2010 was smaller than in previous consolidation phases and was strongly supported by a favourable macroeconomic environment, and one-off effects. Finally, neither the general government sector nor the federal government would be in such a good fiscal shape, had the economy evolved less favourably since 2010. Without the blessing of a strong upswing Germany would hardly have become the fiscal role model for Europe and the German debt brake would not have become the blueprint for the European Fiscal Compact."
E39|Interest rates and house prices in the United States and around the world|This paper estimates the response of house prices to changes in short- and long-term interest rates in 47 advanced and emerging market economies. We use data that statistical authorities selected as their best house price series, covering almost half a century of quarterly observations for the United States and over 1,000 annual observations for the rest of the sample. We find a surprisingly important role for short-term interest rates as a driver of house prices, especially outside the United States. Our interpretation is that this reflects the importance of the bank lending channel of monetary policy in house price fluctuations, especially in countries where securitisation of home mortgages is less prevalent. In addition, we document substantial inertia in house prices and find that changes in interest rates and other determinants affect house prices gradually rather than on impact. This suggests that modest cuts in policy rates are not likely to rapidly fuel house price increases. Finally, we find that US interest rates seem to affect house prices outside the United States.
E39|¿Es el mercado de metales eficiente?|The prediction of raw material prices is important due to its macroeconomic impact in the nations that depend on their international trade, it is as well financially important to those who negotiate futures in the stock market. This work proposes to evaluate the efficiency hypothesis in the weak sense of the metals market, which argues that an efficient market is not susceptible to price prediction. To carry out this purpose, methods of random walks were put into effect. Persistently inefficient raw materials during the evaluation period from 1992 to 2015 were found, as well as that some raw materials fluctuate between periods of efficiency and inefficiency.
E39|Identifying Speculative Demand Shocks in Commodity Futures Markets through Changes in Volatility|This paper studies the effects of financial speculation on commodity futures returns, using publicly available data from the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission, aggregated by trader groups. We exploit the heteroskedasticity in the weekly data to identify exogenous variation in speculators’ positions. The results suggest that idiosyncratic net long demand shocks of both index investors and hedge funds increase futures returns. They further indicate that these shocks are a relevant driver of returns, especially during periods of high speculative demand volatility. These findings confirm significant price effects of financial investments, complementing existing evidence based on disaggregated and proprietary daily data.
E39|¿Realmente bajan los precios durante el Buen Fin?|Background. The Buen Fin is a commercial annual event consisting of four days of promotions and sales of products and services during the third week of November in Mexico. The event has gradually increased in relevance since its first edition in 2011. However, there is no formal analysis that assess the effect of the event on prices, mainly because of the lack of relevant information. Methods. This article analyzes the pricing policy during the Buen Fin in Mexico for a sample of urban establishments in the country. Using the database “Who’s Who in prices?” of the Federal Consumer Protection Agency, an unbalanced panel of weekly prices for electronic products in 525 establishments during 2010-2015 is built. An event study design is further implemented in order to analyze the effects of the Buen Fin over average and specific prices of products and establishments and over the strategic pricing policies from participating companies. Results. The Buen Fin reduces the average prices of electronics items in 7% when compared with the prices observed in September before the event. Only 52% of the products in the sample effectively reduced their prices during the event. Accounting only for discounted products, an average discount of 15% is observed. There is also evidence of a systematic increase in electronic prices weeks before the event, on average, 2%; some establishments have adopted practices to make discounts more salient for consumers. Conclusions. The Buen Fin cannot be considered as an event of widespread sales and discounts. The discounts offered by different chains have significant differences. In some cases, several establishments have taken strategic practices to make more evident the deals offered during the event.// Antecedentes. El Buen Fin es un evento comercial de periodicidad anual que consiste en cuatro días de promoción y rebajas de productos y servicios durante la tercera semana del mes de noviembre en México. El evento ha incrementado su relevancia desde su primera edición en 2011. Sin embargo, no existe un análisis formal que evalúe el efecto del Buen Fin sobre los precios y las políticas de fijación de precios de las empresas, principalmente debido a la falta de información relevante. Métodos. Este artículo analiza la fijación de precios durante el Buen Fin para una muestra de establecimientos ubicados en áreas urbanas del país. Empleando la base de datos ¿Quién es quién en los precios? de la Procuraduría Federal del Consumidor (Profeco) se construye un panel no balanceado de precios semanales de productos electrónicos para 525 establecimientos durante 2010-2015. Posteriormente, se utiliza la metodología de estudio de eventos para analizar los efectos del Buen Fin en el nivel de precios promedio y en los precios específicos por producto y por cadena. Adicionalmente, se analizan las políticas de fijación estratégica de precios para las empresas participantes. Resultados. El Buen Fin reduce en promedio 7% los precios con respecto al precio observado en septiembre antes del evento. Sólo 52% de los productos analizados reduce efectivamente su precio en el Buen Fin. Restringiendo el análisis a productos descontados, se obtiene un descuento promedio de 15%. El aumento promedio de precios antes del evento es de 2%, evidencia de que algunos establecimientos han adoptado prácticas para hacer más evidentes las ofertas del Buen Fin. Conclusión. El Buen Fin no puede ser considerado como un evento de baja generalizada de precios. Los descuentos ofrecidos por distintas cadenas tienen diferencias considerables. En algunos casos, diversos establecimientos han adoptado prácticas estratégicas que permiten hacer más evidentes las ofertas ofrecidas durante el evento.
E39|Market Structure and Monetary Non-Neutrality|Canonical macroeconomic models of pricing under nominal rigidities assume markets consist of atomistic firms. Most US retail markets are dominated by a few large firms. To bridge this gap, I extend an equilibrium menu cost model to allow for a continuum of sectors with two large firms in each sector. Compared to a model with monopolistically competitive markets, and calibrated to the same good-level data on price adjustment, the duopoly model generates output responses to monetary shocks that are more than twice as large. Firm-level prices respond equally to idiosyncratic shocks, but less to aggregate shocks in the calibrated duopoly model. Under duopoly, the response of low priced firms to an increase in money is dampened: a falling real price at its competitor weakens both the incentive to increase prices, and price conditional on adjustment. The dynamic duopoly model also implies (i) large first order welfare losses from nominal rigidities, (ii) lower menu costs, (iii) a U-shaped relationship between market concentration and price flexibility, forwhich I find strong evidence in the data, (iv) a source of downward bias in markup estimates attained from inverting a static oligopoly model.
E39|The Power of Sunspots: An Experimental Analysis|We present an experiment in which extrinsic information (signals) may generate sunspot equilibria. The underlying coordination game has a unique symmetric non-sunspot equilibrium, which is also risk-dominant. Other equilibria can be ordered according to risk dominance. We introduce salient but extrinsic signals on which subjects may condition their actions. By varying the number of signals and the likelihood that different subjects receive the same signal, we measure how strong these signals affect behavior. Sunspot equilibria emerge naturally if there are salient public signals. Highly correlated private signals may also cause sunspot-driven behavior, even though this is no equilibrium. The higher the correlation of signals and the easier they can be aggregated, the more powerful they are in dragging behavior away from the risk-dominant to risk-dominated strategies. Sunspot-driven behavior may lead to welfare losses and exert negative externalities on agents, who do not receive extrinsic signals.
E39|Market Structure and Monetary Non-neutrality|I propose an equilibrium menu cost model with a continuum of sectors, each consisting of strategically engaged firms. Compared to a model with monopolistically competitive sectors that is calibrated to the same data on good-level price flexibility, the dynamic duopoly model features a smaller inflation response to monetary shocks and output responses that are more than twice as large. The model also implies (i) four times larger welfare losses from nominal rigidities, (ii) smaller menu costs and idiosyncratic shocks are needed to match the data, (iii) a U-shaped relationship between market concentration and price flexibility, for which I find empirical support.
E39|Pre and Post Recession Input Allocation Decisions of Farm Credit System Lending Units|This article estimates and analyzes the technical efficiencies and input allocation decisions of lending associations and their own banks under the U.S. Farm Credit System (FCS) during the period 2005-2011. The sample time period allows for the analysis of the operating decisions of FCS lending units under pre- and post-economic recession conditions. Results indicate that even while FCS lending units were plagued with higher funding costs during the recession, their input allocation decisions revealed fund sourcing strategies that leaned towards using more of the cheaper inputs. Moreover, smaller lending associations were found to have maintained relatively higher levels of technical efficiency.
E39|Long run dynamic volatilities between OPEC and non-OPEC crude oil prices|Understanding the long-run dynamics of OPEC and non-OPEC crude oil prices is important in an era of increased financialization of petroleum markets. Utilizing an ECM within a threshold cointegration and CGARCH errors framework, we provide evidence on the cointegrating relationship and estimate how and to what extent the respective prices adjust to eliminate disequilibrium. Our findings suggest that the adjustment process of OPEC prices to the positive discrepancies is slow which implies that OPEC producers do not prefer moderate oil prices; however, the reverse holds for non-OPEC producers. These results reflect distinct competitive behaviors between OPEC and non-OPEC producers.
E39|The Housing Bubble: Is It Back?|In the last decade, there was an unprecedented run-up in house prices in most parts of the country. It was easy to recognize this run-up as a bubble since there was no remotely corresponding increase in rents, which for the most part just tracked inflation during this period. There was also no evidence of a shortage of housing supply. Housing starts were at near record highs from 2002 to 2005. In addition, the vacancy rate as reported by the Commerce Department was at near record highs through most of this period. With weak job and wage growth throughout most of this period, it was possible to recognize the run-up as a bubble even without knowing anything about the proliferation of bad loans in the mortgage market. The run-up in real house prices in the bubble years was almost completely reversed in the subsequent crash. While the first-time homebuyers’ tax credit temporarily stopped and reversed the decline, house prices continued to fall until the spring of 2012. Since then, the market has recovered much of the lost ground. While it is still 20.1 percent below the bubble peaks of 2006 in real terms, inflation-adjusted house prices are now 37.7 percent above their level in 1996, before the beginnings of the bubble. While these prices may seem somewhat high, there is little basis for concern that the national market has again entered a bubble.
E39|The Global Corn Market: Current Situation And Trends|In the first half of 2016, quotations in the international corn market have recorded an upward trend, in spite of discouraging fundamental market factors. The article examines the main aspects of the relationships between weather conditions, producers, consumers and traders. These factors have led to the defining trend in corn quotations at the most representative agricultural exchange in the world, the one in Chicago. In addition to the analysis of the corn market fundamentals in 2015 and the first half of 2016, the article makes several references to future market developments, as forecasted by experts of the US Department of Agriculture.
E39|Relume: A fractal analysis for the US stock market|This note relumes fractal analysis on macroeconomics. We present a fractal market hypothesis for US stock prices.
E39|The Rebound Effect in Residential Electricity Use: Evidence from a Propensity Score Matching Estimator|By combining the propensity score matching with the difference-in-differences method, we examine the change in household electricity consumption that might be caused by the replacement of air-conditioners. The result suggests that the replacement to energy-efficient air-conditioners might decrease power consumption, especially in spring and summer. Furthermore, based on our estimation result, we calculate the size of the rebound effect monthly. The size of the rebound varies considerably with the seasons. We found positive rebound in summer (8% to 22% in August) and winter (134% to 192% in December and January). On the other hand, negative rebound, implying that the actual power-saving effect is greater than the expected saving effect, was found in mild-climate seasons (?3% to ?129%). The average size of the rebound is positive and ranges between 45% and 58%.
E39|A fractal analysis of US industrial sector stocks|This paper found that most of US industrial sectors are fractal, and therefore have a long autocorrelated dependence.
E39|Effets non linéaires de la persistance des déficits courants sur le cycle économique|This study used method of the Quantile regression to estimate the non-linear effects of dynamics of the deficits of the accounts of current transactions on the economic cycle. In this method, the regression of parameters is determined around the conditional mean in the quadratic form of the persistence of deficits. Empirical analyzes are thus made on six (06) African countries whom horizon of emergence is fixed over the period of 2005Q1-2014Q4. The results of the individual estimates give rise to recommendations of economic policies discussed according that the effects are either procyclical (Côte d'Ivoire and in Democratic Republic of the Congo) or countercyclical (Benin, Mali, Niger, Republic Sao Tome and Principe and the Democratic Republic of the Congo) for the specific quantile regression results.
E39|Digital DNA of economy of scale and scope|The research article aims to create a general fundamental theory on the Digital DNA of the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope. In the frames of our theory, we define the Digital DNA of the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope, making the following theoretical assumptions: 1) Digital DNA exists in the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope; 2) Digital DNA consists of a chain of the knowledge with all the information on the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope; 3) the Digital DNA uniquely identifies and accurately characterizes the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope in the time, scale, frequency domains; 4) the Digital DNA represents a genetic key, which may help us to better understand the generation of the discrete-time digital business cycles with the different amplitudes, frequencies, shapes and powers in the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope in the time, scale, frequency domains. In this innovative advanced research, we investigate the following research problems: 1) the existing damaging mechanisms of the Digital DNA’s complex knowledge base structure in the modern digital creative economies of the scales and scopes in the time, scale, frequency domains; 2) the possible repairing mechanisms of the Digital DNA’s complex knowledge base structure in the modern digital creative economies of the scales and scopes in the time, scale, frequency domains; 3) the specific influences by the damaged/repaired Digital DNA on the discrete-time digital business cycles generation/propagation in the modern digital creative economies of the scales and scopes in the time, scale, frequency domains. In addition, the innovative advanced research aims: 1) to perform the computer modeling on the Digital DNA’s complex knowledge base structure in the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope; 2) to decode the Digital DNA’s complex knowledge base structure in the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope.
E39|Dynamic directed search|Abstract The directed search model (Peters 52(5):1117–1127, 1984) is static; its dynamic extensions typically restrict strategies, often assuming price or match commitments. We lift such restrictions to study equilibrium when search can be directed over time, without constraints and at no cost. In equilibrium, trade frictions arise endogenously, and price commitments, if they do exist, are self-enforcing. In contrast to the typical model, there exists a continuum of equilibria that exhibit trade frictions. These equilibria support any price above the static price, including monopoly pricing in arbitrarily large markets. Dispersion in posted prices can naturally arise as temporary or permanent phenomenon despite the absence of preexisting heterogeneity.
E39|Business cycles in the economy and in economics: an econometric analysis|Abstract It is sometimes pointed out that economic research is prone to move in cycles and react to particular events such as crises and recessions. The present paper analyses this issue through a quantitative analysis by answering the research question of whether or not the economic literature on business cycles is correlated with movements and changes in actual economic activity. To tackle this question, a bibliometric analysis of key terms related to business cycle and crises theory is performed. In a second step, these results are confronted with data on actual economic developments in order to investigate the question of whether or not the theoretical literature follows trends and developments in economic data. To determine the connection between economic activity and developments in the academic literature, a descriptive analysis is scrutinized by econometric tests. In the short run, the VARs with cyclical fluctuations point out multiple cases where economic variables Granger-cause bibliometric ones. In the long run, the fractionally cointegrated VARs suggest that many bibliometric variables respond to economic shocks. In the multivariate framework, the Diebold–Mariano test shows that economic variables significantly improve the quality of the forecast of bibliometric indices. The paper also includes impulse-response function analysis for a quantitative assessment of the effects from economic to bibliometric variables. The results point towards a qualified confirmation of the hypothesis of an effect of business cycles and crises in economic variables on discussions in the literature.
E39|Gauging financial conditions in South Africa|This paper investigates the relevance of financial conditions indices (FCIs) as an additional gauge of South Africa’s economic metabolism. As a starting point, a background is provided on FCIs in terms of evolution, methodologies and uses. In general, FCIs were found to have a very broad definition, are used for different purposes and can be calculated with different statistical techniques. The first step in developing an FCI for South Africa was to identify a purpose for it. From the purpose followed the data selection, sourced from regular updated financial data since 2003. The selection was differentiated from other South Afri-can FCIs by including commodity prices, as well as BER financial survey data. The final selection of indicators was tested for unit roots. The second process was the calculation of weights, in which case the principle components method was used. However, to avoid revising the historical data of the FCI each new month, a real-time principle component series was constructed. This method implies that the weights are recalculated every month, based on a rolling window of 60 months historical data, starting from 2005 onwards. In the third and final step, the real-time principle component series was purged from the real-time nominal GDP growth rate (capturing both output and inflation). The purged real-time principle component series was taken as the final FCI. The impact of the global financial crisis and the drastic monetary policy that followed is clearly visible in the FCI. The periodical divergence between the FCI and the real economy also served as an indication on the effectiveness of monetary policy. This FCI was found, over shorter horizons, to lead economic growth by nine months, and it improved on a naive forecast of GDP growth.
E39|Oil shocks on unemployment in Central and Eastern Europe|The aim of this paper is to shine some light on the effect of oil price movements on unemployment in Central and Eastern Europe. In order to do so, we disentangle oil prices movements by their sign. From there we analyse the separate effect of positive and negative movements of oil prices on unemployment rates. We find that although oil prices and unemployment are not very much correlated in the short run, the effect of oil price shocks on the natural rate of unemployment goes in the same direction, i.e. increases or decreases in oil prices increase or decrease the natural rate of unemployment.
E39|A framework for Open Innovation practices: Typology and characterisation|The research field of Open Innovation (OI) has grown exponentially since Chesbrough coined the term in 2003. However, after more than a decade of research, several essential areas in the OI literature, such as OI practices, are still fragmented and incomplete, as noted in the reviews of OI literature in recent years. The main objective of this research is to conduct a comprehensive literature review of OI practices, which is necessary to clarify the concept and propose more precise terminology. In this study, we develop a theoretical framework that identifies and defines 19 different OI practices typologies, according to three dimensions: direction of resources flow, innovation process stage, and type of relationship. This paper makes a relevant contribution from two perspectives: academic and managerial. From the academic perspective, our work opens the door to future research directions in the OI field that if based in the proposed theoretical framework, could help strengthen the theoretical foundations of this innovation management paradigm. In terms of the managerial view, this new typology of OI practices could help managers select more appropriate practices according to their needs and resources.
E39|How secular is the current economic stagnation?|From the burst of the dotcom bubble in 2000, until the global financial crisis that started in August 2007, the global economy was growing. During that phase, macroeconomics went through an era of general optimism around the idea of having reached a great moderation, with high steady growth and low stable inflation. Central bankers thought they managed to dampen the economic cycles. This era came to an end following the meltdown which started with the global financial crisis of 2007. And as among economic agents, macroeconomists’ general state of mind went from optimism to pessimism. Almost ten years since the beginning of the crisis, growth is not back to its pre-crisis trends. Therefore, macroeconomists are debating the notion of a secular stagnation. Is the economy on a long-term stagnation trend, if so, for what reasons, and how to address this situation? This paper offers a critical review of the debates among macroeconomists around this notion of secular stagnation, a concept which was invented by Alvin Hansen following the global economic crisis of the 1930s, and was brought back into the public debate largely by Lawrence Summers since the end of 2013. This literature review starts with a brief synthesis of the original debate about secular stagnation, launched by Hansen in 1938, and ended in the mid-1950s, since these debates inspired contemporary theorists. The second part highlights the main elements of neoclassical explanations for secular stagnation. The third part focuses on the Minskian idea of the end of a debt super-cycle. The last part offers a contemporary reading of the unleashing of the contradictions of capitalism, and the tendency of mature capitalism to generate oligopolies, as a cause for long stagnation.
E39|Spurious periodicities in cliometric series: Simultaneous testing|In this paper we revisit the methodological aspects of the issue of spurious cycles: using the well-established clinometric data, we apply an empirical strategy to identify spurious periodicities and cross-validate the results. The analysis of cyclical fluctuations involves numerous challenges, including data preparation and detrending. As a result, there is a risk of statistical artifacts to arise: it is known that summation operators and filtering yield a red noise alike spectral signature, amplifying lower frequencies and thus, longer periodicity, whereas detrending using differencing yields a blue noise alike spectral signature, amplifying higher frequencies and thus, shorter periodicity. In our paper we explicitly address this issue. In order to derive the stationary signals to be tested, we perform outlier adjustment, derive cycles from the series with the asymmetric band pass Christiano-Fitzgerald filter using the upper bands of the Kuznets and the Juglar cycles as cut-offs, and obtain detrended prefiltered signals by differencing the series in the absence of fractional integration. Afterwards, we simultaneously test whether the spectral densities of filtered and detrended prefiltered signals are significantly different from the spectral density of the related noise. The periodicities from the Kuznets range were not simultaneously significant, and thus are likely to be spurious; whereas ones of the Juglar and Kitchin ranges were simultaneously significant. The simultaneous significance test helps to identify spurious periodicities and the results, in general, accord with the durations of the business cycles found in other works.
E39|Forecasting the real prices of crude oil under economic and statistical constraints|Forecasting the real oil prices is important but notoriously difficult. In this paper, we apply both economic and statistical restrictions to parameters of predictive regressions of real oil prices. We employ two popular criteria, mean predictive error (MSPE) and success ratio, to evaluate forecasting accuracy. Our out-of-sample results show that the benchmark of no-change model can be significantly outperformed by a model selection strategy with restricted models for longer horizons. The revealed predictability is further demonstrated to be robust to the adjustment of estimation windows and to an alternative benchmark model.
E39|The U.S. housing price bubble: Bernanke versus Taylor|This paper examines the effects of two major macro-economic forces argued by opposing renowned U.S. economists to have contributed most significantly to the U.S. housing price bubble that preceded the recent global financial crisis. The first force examined, as argued by John Taylor, is the Federal Reserve's loose monetary policy stance from 2002 to 2005. The second force examined, as argued by Ben Bernanke, is the substantial global inflow of capital to the U.S. over the same time period. We develop and estimate a reduced form model for U.S. housing prices, and find evidence consistent with both factors’ contributing significantly to the recent macro-housing price behavior in the U.S.
E39|Grains|This paper examines the influences which led to the grains quotes trends (wheat and corn) at The Chicago Board of Trade, identifying characteristics of the international market in 2015 and perspectives for 2016. Also, the article analyzes the fundamentals of the world wheat and corn market, the main producing, consuming, importing and exporting countries in the agricultural season 2015/16.
E39|Grains|This paper examines the influences which led to the grains quotes trends at The Chicago Board of Trade, identifying characteristics of the international market in 2013 and perspectives for 2014. Also, the second section analyzes the fundamentals of the world wheat market, the main producing, consuming, importing and exporting countries in the agricultural seasons.
E39|Grains|This paper examines the influences which led to the grains quotes trends at The Chicago Board of Trade, identifying characteristics of the international market in 2014 and perspectives for 2015. Also, the second section analyzes the fundamentals of the world wheat market, the main producing, consuming, importing and exporting countries in the agricultural seasons.
E39|Grains|This article examines the influences which led to the grains quotes trends (wheat and corn) at The Chicago Board of Trade, identifying characteristics of the international market in 2012 and 2013 short outlook. Also, the article analyzes the fundamentals of the world grains market (wheat and corn), the main producing, consuming, importing and exporting countries in 2012/13 seasons.
E39|Grains|This article examines the influences which led to the grains quotes trends (wheat and corn) at The Chicago Board of Trade, identifying characteristics of the international market in 2011 and 2012 outlook. In addition, the article analyzes the fundamentals of the world grains market (wheat and corn), by the main producing, consuming, importing and exporting countries.
E39|Russian Devaluation in 2014—2015: Falling into the Abyss or Window of Opportunities?|The fall in the oil prices from mid-2014 is causing a decrease in domestic demand and a strong devaluation of the ruble, which in turn promotes the growth of the price competitiveness of Russian producers, stimulates the supply side of the economy (especially in foreign markets, where there is no recession), and thus creates the possibility of offsetting the fall in domestic demand due to the growth of net exports. However, as the analysis of the economic literature, the world experience and current Russian economic trends demonstrates, the joint impact of oil prices and ruble devaluation on the growth rates of the Russian economy, with all its structural problems, can lead to a much more severe recession than the majority of experts, if to judge by average consensus estimates, expect in their forecasts (as of the end of September 2015).
E39|Comovement in Euro area housing prices: A fractional cointegration approach|This paper analyses comovement in housing prices across the Euro area. We use techniques based on the concepts of fractional integration and cointegration. Our results indicate that all the individual log-real price indices display orders of integration which are above one, implying long memory in their corresponding growth rates. Further, looking at the cointegration relationships, we observe that the series for the Euro area is cointegrated with those of Belgium, Germany and France. Focusing on the individual countries, we find cointegration relationships between Belgium and Spain, Belgium and the Netherlands, Germany and Spain, Germany and Ireland, France and Spain, and Ireland and the Netherlands. Other bilateral cointegration relationships can either clearly be rejected or the results are ambiguous. Finally, prices in Germany seem to move in the opposite direction from other countries, which may be related to capital flows associated with current account imbalances.
E39|Are more severe recessions followed by stronger recoveries? Evidence from the Mexican states employment|On the basis of the suggestions of Friedman (1969, 1993) and Moore (1965) and considering the framework proposed by Balke and Wynne (1994, 1995), this paper evaluates whether recoveries growth depends on the characteristics of prior recessions (depth, steepness and duration) in the case of the Mexican states employment during the 2001-2003 and 2008-2009 recessions. The original models are extended to include the effects of external and fiscal shocks, as measured by the annual growth rates of the tradable goods production sector and the federal government expenditure of the year the recoveries start, trying to capture the initial impulses that may have taken the economy out the recession. The recession and recovery periods (turning points, namely peaks and troughs) are identified by using the classical business cycles methodology introduced by Artis, Kontolemis and Osborn (1998) that follows the spirit of Mitchel (1927) and Burns and Mitchel (1946). Recoveries growth is measured as the monthly average growth rate from the end of the prior recession up to 9, 12 and the number of months required to get the prior peak. Conventional linear regression models are estimated for total, permanent and temporary employment. To avoid possible problems of collinearity between depth and duration, on the one hand, and steepness, on the other, these variables were included in two different specification models for each type of employment. The corresponding tests indicate that the estimated models present acceptable specifications, in general. Our main results suggest that depth and steepness of prior recessions (as measured by the percentage accumulated drop and the monthly average growth rate of employment over the recession, respectively) have separated negative effects on subsequent growth recoveries, especially after the 2001 recession. Regarding the effects of other shocks pulling the economy out the recession, our results suggest that the fiscal policy followed by the federal government did not contribute to the recovery from the 2008 recession at state level since the coefficients are negative, which would imply the existence of a pro-cyclical policy at least at the end of the recession period. In turn, in the models of total and permanent employment, the tradable goods sector has robust positive and significant effects that reflect the important role of the external demand in the recovery from the Great Recession. These two variables had no significant effects of the recovery following the 2001 recession. In general, the evidence reported in this paper is consistent with the implications of different models that try to explain the ?bounce-back? effect and provides some support to the hypothesis that deeper or steeper recessions are followed by stronger recoveries in the Mexican states.
E39|Stylized Facts of the Business Cycle: Universal Phenomenon, or Institutionally Determined?|Abstract This paper empirically investigates and theoretically reflects on the generality of some “stylized facts” of business cycles. Using data for 1960–2016 and a sample of OECD countries, the duration of business cycles as well as three models capturing core macroeconomic relations are estimated: the Phillips curve (the inflation-unemployment nexus), Okun’s law (i.e. the relation between output growth and unemployment) and the inflation-output relation. Results are validated by relevant statistical tests. Observed durations vary from 4.2 to 7.4 years, and estimated coefficients differ in signs and magnitudes. An explanation of this heterogeneity is attempted by referring to proxies for various institutional variables. The findings suggest that core coefficients in the relations, such as the slope of the Phillips curve, show significant correlation with some of these variables, but no uniform results are obtained. In the detailed theoretical discussion and interpretation it is thus argued that the notable differences between countries call the universality of the “stylized facts” into question, but also that these variations cannot be explained exhaustively by the institutional proxy variables employed here.
E39|Triangular Relationship between Energy Consumption, Price Index and National Income in Asian Countries: A Pooled Mean Group Approach in Presence of Structural Breaks|Energy consumption is a key factor in economic activity. To ascertain its role in economic growth, this study empirically investigates its role for Asian countries. Price index is also included in analysis as factor of economic growth. We examine and quantify this long run relationship for a sample of selected Asian countries with data on relevant variables for a large time dimension (1970 to 2012). Econometric precision is brought by using pooled mean group (PMG) besides other Pedroni, Kao and Westerlund panel cointegration tests. PMG being heterogeneous panels estimation technique allows the slope and short run parameters to vary across the countries. Structural breaks are also incorporated to observe the impact of shocks that leave permanent effect on national income. Results show the presence of long run relationship between energy consumption and national income. The positive contribution of energy consumption is quantified using Fully Modified OLS and dynamic OLS as well. Policy recommendations are made on the basis of empirical analysis.
E39|Do the global stochastic trends drive the real house prices in OECD countries?|This paper demonstrates that in the long-run the main determinants of the real housing prices for a panel dataset comprising the quarterly observations of 12 OECD countries are the real GDP per capita and the real interest rate along with the global stochastic trends.
E39|Clean energy industries and rare earth materials: Economic and financial issues|In the last few years, rare earth materials (REM) prices have experienced a strong increase due to geopolitical and sustainability issues. Financial markets could already have factored in concerns about shortages of REM supplies into clean energy companies’ valuations. We use a multifactor market model for the period January 2006 to September 2012 to analyze the impact of REM price trends – specifically dysprosium and neodymium – on six clean energy indices (NYSE–BNEF) tracking the world's most important companies in the clean energy sector. The results show that during period of price increase, there is a negative relationships between REM price changes and the stock market performance of some clean energy indices. The European clean energy index is also negatively affected, and this effect could be relevant to policy makers, considering that Europe is implementing some relevant policy actions to support the development of the clean energy industry.
E39|Uniqueness of equilibrium in directed search models|We study a decentralized trading model as in [7], where a finite number of heterogeneous capacity-constrained sellers compete for a finite number of homogeneous buyers, by posting prices. This “directed search” model is known to admit symmetric equilibria; yet, uniqueness has proved elusive. This study makes two contributions: a substantive contribution is to establish uniqueness of symmetric equilibrium; a methodological contribution is to develop a tool based on directional derivatives to characterize equilibrium.
E39|Real exchange rate and productivity in a specific-factor model with skilled and unskilled labour|The present study develops a two-sector specific factor model in which capital is mobile between sectors. We assume that the traded (non-traded) sector uses skilled (unskilled) labour for production. The theoretical model reveals that the real exchange rate (RER) response to a productivity shock depends on the countries’ relative abundance of skilled labour: a rise in traded productivity leads to a higher RER appreciation in a country whose relative skilled labour rate is high. Using panel data, structural break tests confirm that the skilled versus unskilled labour ratio may be a significant splitting variable. In the long run, the relationship between productivity and RER may be positive or negative, as suggested by the theoretical model, depending on the country’s relative abundance of skilled labour.
E39|Relative Sectoral Prices and Population Ageing: A Common Trend|Demographic change raises demand for non-tradable old-age related services relative to tradable commodities. This demand shift increases the relative price of non-tradables and thereby causes real exchange rates to appreciate. We claim that the change in demand affects prices via imperfect intersectoral factor mobility. Using a sample of 15 OECD countries between 1970 and 2009, we estimate a robust increase of relative prices due to population ageing. Further findings confirm the relevance of imperfect factor mobility: Countries with more rigid labour markets experience stronger price effects.
E39|Water, Food, Energy: Searching for the Economic Nexus|Water, food and energy (WFE) are strongly interconnected: each depends on the other for a lot of concerns, spanning from guaranteeing access to services, to environmental, social and ethical impact issues, to price relations. Using daily data spanning from November 2001 to May 2013 we empirically analyze the volatility spillovers and the dynamic conditional correlation between the WFE prices using a multivariate GARCH method. We then apply a multifactor market model based on the theory of Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) with the aim to analyze the impact of agriculture and energy price trends on the share price value of exchange-listed companies that derive a substantial portion of their revenues from the potable and wastewater industry. Results highlight the existences of a financial nexus between WFE that is particular exacerbate during finance turbulence. Understanding price dynamics is relevant both to water, agriculture and energy policy makers and to investors, since it influences information dissemination, price discovery, efficient allocation of resources, hedging and portfolio optimization.
E39|The long-run relationship between money and prices in Mexico: 1969-2010|This paper performs a spectral analysis (univariate and bivariate) of monthly series of growth in money (a narrow and a broad aggregate) and in prices for Mexico. This analysis allows the identification of the most important frequencies for each series, as well as of some measures of association between the series, at different frequencies. In particular, zero frequency measures, typically used for identifying the long-run relationship between money and prices, are obtained. In addition to the analysis of the entire series (1969-2010), a rolling sample analysis for the zero frequency is also carried out to allow for changes in the long-run relationships.
E39|Clean Energy Industries and rare Earth Materials: Economic and Financial Issues| In the last few years Rare Earth Materials (REMs) prices have experienced a strong increase, due to geopolitical policies and sustainability issues. Provided that these materials at risk of supply disruptions are largely employed in the development of new technologies - such as clean energy industries - financial markets may already have included these concerns into clean energy companies evaluation. We use a multifactor market model for the period January 2006-September 2012 to analyse the impact of REMs price changes – specifically Dysprosium and Neodymium - to six clean energy indexes (NYSE-BNEF) tracking the world’s most active quoted companies in the clean energy sector. Results show that during period of price increase there is a negative relation between REMs price changes and the stock market performance of clean energy indexes, specifically wind. The European clean energy index is also negatively affected and this may be relevant to policy makers considering that Europe is putting in place some relevant policy actions to support the development of the clean energy sector.
E39|The Influence of Housing Price Development on the Household Consumption: Empirical Analysis for the Czech Republic| This paper studies how the change of wealth of households represented by housing prices and stock market prices influences households’ consumption. We provide empirical analysis based on the Czech aggregate data from 1998–2009. We analyse the effect of change in households’ wealth on the consumption of both durable and non-durable goods employing the VAR and VEC models on quarterly data. The robustness of results is verified by Dynamic OLS and Fully Modified OLS framework. We find a positive effect of both housing wealth and stock market wealth on both types of consumption. In case of non-durable goods consumption, we estimate the cointegrating vector and conclude that the elasticity of non-durable goods consumption with respect to housing wealth is over three times greater than with respect to stock market wealth.
E39|Buyer’s equilibrium with capacity constraints and restricted mobility: A recursive approach|We study a decentralized trading model as in Peters (1984a), where heterogeneous market participants face a trade-off between price and trade probability. We present a novel proof of existence of a unique demand vector in Nash equilibrium, based on a recursive approach that exploits the monotonicity of matching functions.
E39|Investment expenditure and capital accumulation in an inflationary environment: The case of Turkey|The empirical results of the paper show that the private fixed capital accumulation in Turkey is constrained by the demand constraint and the availability of financial resources. The significance of the liquidity variable clearly points out that credit policy and accommodating monetary policy with the lower rates of interests must be the essential elements of economic policies that revive investment in Turkey. It seems from the empirical results that the cost of capital has a significant but discouraging effect on investment expenditure. With this empirical finding it also becomes evident that fiscal stimuli would work in stimulating private investment, they must be the essential components of an investment programme in Turkey. In regard with the purpose of this paper, the variable, namely the willingness-to-invest, that is expected to capture the perception of investors on investment climate, also appears to be significant factors for the overall sample period. Interestingly, the speed of adjustment of private investment from disequilibrium is fairly slow. This is because there may be some frictions (such as heavy tax burden) and/or some structural constraints (e.g. insufficient infrastructure and inadequate legislative structure) in the economy causing this slow down. In reviving private investment, especially in the long run, one must pay attention to the importance of these factors, and appropriate government actions have to be taken.
E39|Oil Price Shocks and Macroeconomic Performance in Nigeria|This paper examines the macroeconomic implications of symmetric and asymmetric oil price and oil revenue shocks in Nigeria, using the vector autoregressive (VAR) estimation technique. The paper finds that both positive and negative oil price shocks influence real government expenditure only in the long run rather than in the short run, while examining positive and negative shocks to external reserves revealed stronger implications for expenditure in the long run, with positive rather than negative oil price shocks having stronger short and long run effects on real GDP, and therefore triggering inflationary pressure and domestic currency depreciation as importation rises. This implies that the country exhibits the Dutch disease syndrome in the short and long run. However, results obtained show that oil revenue shocks are capable of impeding economic growth only in the long run while raising general price levels marginally in the short run after the initial shocks, with evidence of serious threat to interest rate and the domestic currency in the short and medium term, as the volume of imports increases significantly along with the external reserves. Findings on the asymmetric effects of oil revenue shocks revealed that positive shocks to oil revenue stimulate expansionary fiscal posture in the Nigerian economy in the short run in line with theory, thereby creating inflationary pressure and domestic currency depreciation. The combined implications of these discoveries suggest the need for proper coordination of fiscal and monetary policy for sustainable macroeconomic stability to be achieved.
E39|The Cyclical Characteristics of Universal Social Insurance|This paper examines how a universal social insurance program proposed for Mexico can respond to cyclical variations in revenue while remaining selffinancing. More specifically, it discusses the issues involved in setting up a stabilization fund that can accumulate surpluses when revenue is cyclically high, which can be drawn down when revenue is cyclically low. Attention is also paid to the options available to create a fund with sufficient resources to respond to revenue shocks early it its life, before a significant revenue cushion can be built up. In this connection, it is argued that letting the fund borrow to do this would not compromise the financial independence of the program.
E39|Trends and prospects of international major commodity prices|Trends and prospects of international major commodity prices. In 2012, the international commodity markets have seen declining prices, especially during the first half of the year, with some improvement mainly in the last quarter. On the whole, most of major commodity prices declined, following generally weaker demand and the uncertain global economic situation. The short term outlook shows broad declines of prices for all major commodity groups, including oil and excepting metal prices, which are expected to be sustained by the global economic recovery and increasing demand, mainly in China. This country represents a major player, with a great contribution to the movement of prices on most of international commodity markets, as she has a great role in the world consumption and trade of commodities, as well as in the world production of some of these goods, on the one hand, and enjoys huge financial resources, on the other.
E39|Market Situation for Wheat during the Period 2005 to 2013|Over the 2005-2013 timeframe, the wheat world market has witnessed an upward trend of quotations at the main stock exchanges in the United States and Europe, while all other agricultural raw materials have seen fluctuations in prices, caused by the global economic crisis. An important influence on the evolution of quotations had the fundamental factors (production, consumption, trade) specific to that product. This paper examines the influences which led to the wheat quotes trends at The Chicago Board of Trade, The London International Financial Futures Exchange and MATIF Futures Exchange (Paris), identifying characteristics of the international market in the period 2005-2012 as a whole, but also a thorough approach of the situation in the year 2013. Also, the second section analyzes the fundamentals of the world wheat market, the main producing, consuming, importing and exporting countries in the agricultural seasons. In addition, a distinct point is represented by the analysis of the wheat market in Romania, both from the prices point of view, and fundamental factors.
E39|Market Situation for Wheat during the Period 2005 to 2013|Over the 2005-2013 timeframe, the wheat world market has witnessed an upward trend of quotations at the main stock exchanges in the United States and Europe, while all other agricultural raw materials have seen fluctuations in prices, caused by the global economic crisis. An important influence on the evolution of quotations had the fundamental factors (production, consumption, trade) specific to that product. This paper examines the influences which led to the wheat quotes trends at The Chicago Board of Trade, The London International Financial Futures Exchange and MATIF Futures Exchange (Paris), identifying characteristics of the international market in the period 2005-2012 as a whole, but also a thorough approach of the situation in the year 2013. Also, the second section analyzes the fundamentals of the world wheat market, the main producing, consuming, importing and exporting countries in the agricultural seasons. In addition, a distinct point is represented by the analysis of the wheat market in Romania, both from the prices point of view, and fundamental factors.
E39|Clean Energy Industries and Rare Earth Materials: Economic and Financial Issues|In the last few years Rare Earth Materials (REMs) prices have experienced a strong increase, due to geopolitical policies and sustainability issues. Provided that these materials at risk of supply disruptions are largely employed in the development of new technologies - such as clean energy industries - financial markets may already have included these concerns into clean energy companies evaluation. We use a multifactor market model for the period January 2006-September 2012 to analyse the impact of REMs price changes – specifically Dysprosium and Neodymium - to six clean energy indexes (NYSE-BNEF) tracking the world’s most active quoted companies in the clean energy sector. Results show that during period of price increase there is a negative relation between REMs price changes and the stock market performance of clean energy indexes, specifically wind. The European clean energy index is also negatively affected and this may be relevant to policy makers considering that Europe is putting in place some relevant policy actions to support the development of the clean energy industry.
E39|Influencia de la marca y precio en la decisión de apertura de un establecimiento franquiciado|Este documento de trabajo aborda la elección de una franquicia por un potencial franquiciado que abre un establecimiento por primera vez. El objetivo es analizar la relación entre las señales de la marca y el precio enviadas por el franquiciador y la elección de una enseña por el potencial franquiciado mediante la Teoría de las Señales. Empleando la metodología de datos de panel, concluimos que el valor de marca, los derechos de entrada y la inversión inicial son señales que los franquiciados españoles tuvieron en cuenta para la apertura de un establecimiento de una enseña de franquicia durante el periodo 2002-2008.
E39|Foundations of the economic and social history of the United States: Apologia|This set of three volumes argues that the mind – human consciousness – may be measured by considering mathematically the aggregate of that consciousness, i.e. social history. From this beginning theme of discussion three questions must arise. 1. How might this measurement be made? 2. Of what value is this measurement? and 3. How does this measurement affect our present understanding of the reality in which we live? Each of these three volumes attempts to provide answers to one of these questions.
E39|A simple model of endogenous agricultural commodity price fluctuations with storage|A debate has been raging for centuries regarding the effects of inter-annual storage on commodity prices. Most analysts consider storage to function as a price stabilizer, while others place it at the core of an explanation of intriguing features of commodity price series, such as skewed distributions. Most studies have been developed in the context of the theory of competitive storage where random shocks affect supply or demand. Recently, the endogenous chaotic behavior of markets has become another possible hypothesis regarding the origin of commodity price fluctuations. We develop a nonlinear cobweb model with intra- and inter-annual storage, risk averse agents and adaptive expectations. Like the theory of competitive storage, this nonlinear cobweb model with storage can reproduce some of the stylized facts of agricultural commodity prices (autocorrelation of first rank, low kurtosis and skewness). In addition, the effects of storage on price variation are mixed. In the presence of inter-annual storage, chaotic price series show less variation compared to a situation without inter-annual storage but we find that storage contributes to the endogenous volatility of prices by making chaotic dynamics more likely.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E39|Sincronización en américa latina|La integración económica se encuentra reflejada en los crecientes intercambios de bienes, de capital financiero e inversión extranjera directa, hechos que han ocasionado una mayor sincronización de los ciclos económicos a nivel mundial. El artículo se introduce en el estudio de la sincronicidad económica en América Latina siguiendo la literatura existente con el objeto de acoplar nueva evidencia. El marco de referencia es el Área de Libre Comercio de las Américas (ALCA) debido a su relevancia histórica y sus posibilidades a partir de 2012. Se concluye que aunque se observaron algunas relaciones importantes, no se detecta la existencia de un ciclo común que invite a pensar en la existencia de sincronización plena.
E39|Net foreign assets, productivity and real exchange rates in constrained economies|Empirical evidence suggests that real exchange rates (RER) behave differently in developed and developing countries. We develop an overlapping generations two-sector exogenous growth model in which RER determination may depend on the country's capacity to borrow from international capital markets. The country faces a constraint on capital inflows. With high domestic savings, the RER only depends on the productivity spread between sectors (Balassa–Samuelson effect). If the constraint is too tight and/or domestic savings too low, the RER depends on both net foreign assets (transfer effect) and productivity. We then analyze the empirical implications of the model and find that, in accordance with the theory, the RER is mainly driven by productivity and net foreign assets in constrained countries and by productivity in unconstrained countries.
E39|Students’ understanding of socio-economic phenomena: Conceptions about the free provision of goods and services|Research on conceptual change has paid relatively less attention to the social than to the physical science domain. In particular, research on conceptual change in economic understanding has been fairly sparse and loosely connected. Given the potential significance of citizen’s economic understanding in delimiting government responses to globalisation (Davies, 2006) this topic is worthy of further study. This study paper investigates conceptions about the provision of free goods and services, drawing on evidence from students in different age groups. In contrast to previous work we focus on the question ‘Should this product or service be made available for free?’ We compare the reasoning of students at different ages across a range of products and services and we explore the ways that they attempt to resolve conflicts within their reasoning.
E39|Information acquisition and learning from prices over the business cycle|We study firms' incentives to acquire costly information in booms and recessions to investigate the role of endogenous information in accounting for business cycles. Our model predicts that, for a wide range of parameter values, firms have a stronger incentive to acquire information when the economy has been in a recession and a pessimistic belief about the state of the economy prevails than after a boom when firms share an optimistic belief. The equilibrium price system, which features endogenous information transmission, dampens aggregate fluctuations by discouraging information acquisition. Our welfare analysis reveals that information acquisition in the decentralized economy is not efficient. This is due to inefficient employment dispersion, arising from information heterogeneity in equilibrium. Time series data for the U.S. economy support the model's prediction of wages being more informative about total factor productivity after recessions than following booms.
E39|Vacancy Matching and Labor Market Conditions|This paper studies the probability of filling a vacancy, how it varies with the number of unemployed and number of vacancies in the local labor market, and what impact it has on employment. A greater availability of unemployed workers should make it easier for a firm to fill a vacancy but more vacancies at other firms should make it more difficult, due to the congestion effect. I use monthly panel data for all local labor markets in Sweden from 1992-2011. The results suggest that unemployment has a weak positive effect on the probability of filling a vacancy, while the number of vacancies in the local labor market has a significant and robust negative effect. Simulations of a theoretical model, with parameters based on the estimation, show economically significant effects of shocks to the number of vacancies on employment dynamics, while shocks to the number of unemployed are not very important. Matching frictions are more important for employment during booms than during recessions.
E39|Analyse de la Relation Guerres Civiles et Croissance Économique<BR>[Civil Wars and Economic Growth in DRC]|This paper investigates and tests empirically the relationship between military expenditure, civil wars and economic performance in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DR Congo). Romer – Taylor model is estimated. The Econometric estimates show that there is a positive effect of military expenditure on economic growth and positive relationship in the short term and negative relationship in the long run between the presence of civil wars and economic growth. A new concept was introduced in the analysis to explain the true causes of the civil war in DR Congo, this is the R – GGC.
E39|Problema stabilitatii estimarilor econometrice si metode robuste de regresie ortogonala|No abstract is available for this item.
E39|Modelarea PIB-ului potential. Probleme intampinate in estimare|No abstract is available for this item.
E39|The impact of monetary policy on unemployment hysteresis| This article investigates the hypothesis that the extent to which hysteresis occurs in the aftermath of recessions depends on monetary policy reactions. The degree of hysteresis is explained econometrically by the extent of monetary easing during a recession and by standard variables for labour market institutions in a pooled cross country analysis using quarterly data. The sample includes 40 recessions in 19 Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries for which the required data is available. The time period lasts for the period from 1980 to 2007. This article builds on Ball (1999) and extends the sample of countries, the time period under investigation and the set of control variables.
E39|Studie zu Dispozinsen / Ratenkrediten - Forschungsvorhaben zur Bereitstellung wissenschaftlicher Entscheidungshilfe für das Bundesministerium für Ernährung, Landwirtschaft und Verbraucherschutz (BMELV)|Studie zu Dispozinsen / Ratenkrediten Aktenzeichen: 514-06.01-2810HS034 Laufzeit 8/2011 – 5/2012 - Zusammenfassung – In Deutschland verfügen etwa 80 Prozent der Haushalte über einen Dispositionskredit. Bei beträchtlicher Variation liegt der eingeräumte Kreditrahmen bei knapp dem 3-fachen des Nettoeinkommens. Arbeitslose, Alleinerziehende, Paare mit Kindern und Selbständige nutzen den Dispositionskredit häufiger. Einer Stichprobe unter Banken zufolge wurde bei 29 Prozent der Konten mit Dispositionsrahmen der Kredit zum Befragungstag in Anspruch genommen. Insgesamt werden die Zinssätze für Überziehungskredite von Experten der Verbraucherorganisationen als zu hoch angesehen. Die im Vergleich zu Ratenkrediten höheren Zinsen für Dispositionskredite erscheinen nicht durch höhere Ausfallquoten gerechtfertigt. Das Fortbestehen hoher Zinsen wird dadurch begünstigt, dass Konsumenten ihre Kontenwahl nur in geringem Maße von den Preisen der Dispokredite abhängig machen. Raten- und Abrufkredite sind nach Meinung von Experten der Verbraucherorganisationen und Schuldnerberatung selten als Alternative für einen kurzfristigen Liquiditätsausgleich geeignet. Anders sei dies bei dauerhafter Nutzung des Dispositionskredits als Ersatz für einen Ratenkredit zu beurteilen. Teilweise werden dadurch die Schutzvorschriften des Verzugs ausgehebelt. Die Studie diskutiert die Vor- und Nachteile verschiedener rechtlicher Regelungen, die darauf abzielen, die Höhe der Dispozinsen zu begrenzen und Fehlnutzungen zu vermeiden: hierzu gehören eine klare Wucher- bzw. Preisobergrenze und eine hervorgehobene Preisangabe in der Werbung, Hinweisschreiben bei exzessiver Nutzung, die Begrenzung preistreibender Faktoren und eine jährlichen Berichtspflicht. Erfahrungen im Ausland und in anderen Rechtsgebieten zeigen, dass solche Mittel wirkungsvoll sein können. Je nach Stärke des Eingriffs besteht für die Politik hierbei ein Zielkonflikt zwischen der Versorgung mit Dispositionskrediten und günstigen Konditionen. Es ist möglich, dass klare Wucher- bzw. Preisobergrenzen zu einer Kostenverlagerung führen; dies kann anhand dieser Studie jedoch nicht abschließend beurteilt werden. Ein Ende der Quersubventionierung der Kontoführung durch Dispozinsen kann aus Verteilungs- und Preisgerechtigkeitsgründen politisch gewollt sein. Es würde die betroffenen Haushalte entlasten und zu mehr Preisgerechtigkeit führen. Aktuelle Beispiele aus der Praxis zeigen, dass günstigere Konditionen auf dem Niveau von Konsumentenkrediten und ein fairer Umgang mit dem Verbraucher bei Überziehungskrediten grundsätzlich möglich sind.
E39|Los modelos dsge: una respuesta de la discusión macroeconómica|Models of Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium (DSGE) are based on the theory of general equilibrium that influences contemporary macroeconomics. This instrument explains the aggregate economic phenomena derived from microeconomic principles, and, as a special characteristic, the DSGE models are not vulnerable to the Lucas critique. Also, those consider that the economy is affected by random shocks. In this sense, empirical analysis seeks for the sources of economic fluctuations. This paper presents an overview of the theoretical literature on economic fluctuations in order to reflect on the development of modern macroeconomics, the reflection culminating with an overview of the DSGE
E39|Estimating Potential Output in Romania using a Structural VAR|This paper estimates the potential output in Romania using seven structural VAR models. During the period of economic boom the potential GDP growth in Romania was around 6.5 %. The severe economic crisis that started in the last quarter of 2008 generated a significant reduction of the potential output. The potential economic growth dropped at around -2.8 % during the steep contraction of the economy in 2009 and at 1 % in 2010, according to the model estimates. The economic crisis changed significantly the potential growth in Romania due to the structural changes that affected the country. Labor input as well as capital accumulation negatively affected the potential output during the crisis. As regarding the crisis effects on total factor productivity (TFP) in Romania, the connection is uncertain.
E39|The Golden Mean, the Arab Spring and a 10-step analysis of American economic history|The Long-Wave theories of Nikolai Kondratiev and others claim to find mathematic waves in economic and other social data which are at present in dispute. Currently the theory is considered outside the scope of mainstream economics under several rationales. Despite the lack of mainstream acceptance, we make a strong case for the existence of long waves in the Real GNP of the United States with a 56 year cycle. Our analysis bypasses many of the issues cited by Long-Wave theory critics and in fact clarifies the mathematical structure of the theory.
E39|Inflación y expectativas de inflación en Colombia|En este documento se desarrolla una exploración empírica sobre la información contenida en las expectativas de inflación obtenidas tanto directa (a través de encuestas) como indirectamente (implícitas en el mercado de deuda pública). Para esto, se realizan pruebas de insesgamiento y eficiencia, se exploran cuales son algunos de los determinantes de las expectativas y se evalúa su capacidad predictiva sobre el comportamiento futuro de la inflación. De acuerdo a los resultados, se puede concluir que las tres medidas de expectativas de inflación empleadas contienen información relevante para pronosticar la inflación, pero dichas medidas por si solas no son un buen pronóstico de la inflación futura.
E39|Financial Markets Interactions between Economic Theory and Practice|During the last decades many financial analysts, either theorists or practitioners, have dedicated their studies to the interactions between different financial sectors. The results of these researches confirm that commodities, bonds and stock markets are closely related, therefore a thorough analysis of one should includes considerations of the other two. The aim of this article is to demonstrate that, even if from the theoretical point of view financial markets present typical and strong correlations between them, under economic turmoil the correlations change their signs. Both elementary rules of economic theory and examples with real time series are used in the demonstration. The results of our research emphasize that a simple theoretical analysis of financial markets’ behaviour through inflation and interest rates cannot define the real interactions of the markets and more robust research approaches are required.
E39|The Linguistic Representation of financial crisis. 'The New York Times Online,' 2008-2009|"Este artículo examina la descripción de crisis económica en ""The New York Times"" con ejemplos de artículos que aparecieron en los años 2008 y 2009. Hay tres dimensiones en que es descrita la crisis como evento; una de ellas es como un movimiento o desarrollo de extensión internacional o global (dimensión espacial). La segunda es la metafórica, que describe realmente la crisis como una fuerza natural. La tercera es la descripción de la crisis como ""global"". Nuestra cuestión es ""Cómo es descrita la crisis como evento mediático, si no hay un objeto concreto de referencia, sino sólo un concepto, sistemáticamente expresado, que denota una entidad no-material e imperceptible, a la que nos referimos como crisis?"" Tomando los ejemplos del NYT, demostraremos que tal falta de objeto concreto no altera el lenguaje del periodismo, excepto en que (para los términos más inusuales en el lenguaje periodístico) entra en juego una producción metafórica. La actividad del objeto representado por el nombre es el agente de las actividades, incluso aunque el proceso sea altamente abstracto. En un meta-nivel, el lenguaje en las noticias se convierte en una red alegórica con el objeto crisis, metaforizado, como agente de movimiento en un conjunto de textos inter-textuales que usan esa expresión."
E39|Círculos y Cuadraturas: Presiones inflacionarias y Enfermedad Holandesa en la Venezuela Bolivariana|"The analysis of inflationary pressures in Bolivarian Venezuela, in their origins and causes (historical and contemporary ones) has to be put into relation to the economic and monetary policy options adopted by the current Venezuelan government, in the framework of the challenges and choices a developing Economy has to face. For getting out of that complicated and involved cycle of underdevelopment. Inflationary pressures deconstruction is achieved by mean of interactions between the main aggregates and the behavior of such variables as public expenditure, prices and consumption. They are placed into relation to the socio-economic and historical background of Venezuelan development. Particularly, the ""Dutch disease"" theoretical and practical co-ordinates are used here."
E39|Estimating Residential Electricity Demand Responses in Pakistan’s Punjab|In this paper, we aim to understand residential electricity demand responses to changes in income, in order to assist policymakers in managing demand for electricity and evaluating tariff increases associated with proposed projects for increasing supply, while minimizing the impact on poverty.
E39|A Panel Data Analysis of Electricity Demand in Pakistan|This paper looks at the economy-wide demand and the firm level demand for electricity in Pakistan. The economy wide estimation of electricity demand uses panel data from 63 countries from 1998-2008, and finds that the elasticity of demand for electricity with respect to per capita income is approximately 0.69, which implies that a 1% increase in per capita income will lead to a 0.69% increase in the demand for electricity. The firm level analysis uses firm level data from the World Bank’s Enterprise Survey for Pakistan and finds that the price elasticity of demand for electricity across all firms is approximately -0.57, which implies that a 1% increase in electricity prices will lead to a 0.57% decrease in electricity demand across firms. Across sectors, the textile sector has the highest price elasticity of demand (-0.81) while the price elasticity of demand for firms in the electricity and electronics sector is the smallest (-0.31). Finally, firm level data is also used to estimate production functions in order to estimate the impact of electricity shortages on manufacturing output.
E39|Oferta y demanda y el ciclo económico: una interpretación de la situación económica actual/Supply and Demand Sides and the Economic Cycle: An Interpretation of the Current Situation|Tomando como punto de partida las dificultades económicas actuales, se pretende, siguiendo el modelo cíclico de Ibn Jaldún, una aproximación a las oscilaciones de la actividad económica teniendo en cuenta simultáneamente los lados de la oferta y de la demanda, entendiendo que el protagonismo de uno y otro lado puede modificarse en el tiempo, o que los dos pueden actuar simultáneamente, como sería el caso en la situación económica actual a juzgar por los síntomas observados. Asimismo, se llama la atención sobre la complejidad existente en la práctica, si se tiene en cuenta la riqueza de las motivaciones humanas, frente al carácter unidimensional del homo oeconomicus smithiano, a partir del cual se han elaborado nuestras concepciones económicas. Starting from the current economic difficulties, we will try to increase our knowledge of economic cycle with the help of Ibn Khaldûn Cyclical Model, considering simultaneously the eventual shocks of demand and supply sides. Both of them may influence on the oscillatory movements of economic activity, separately (with different grades of emphasize each one, depending on the moment) or simultaneously. According to the observed symptoms, we think the last option should be the best explanation nowadays. We also have to remark the real complexity of economic functioning, having in mind the variety of human motivations versus the one-dimensional character of Smith’s homo oeconomicus, which is in the basis of our conventional economic conceptions.
E39|Winners And Losers In The Context Of Global Economic Crisis|When contemplating a merger, acquisition or portfolio purchase, strategic objectives should be defined in advance along with your tolerance for risk. This process can be used to pre-screen transaction candidates, assemble a project team and establish the scope of work. Ongoing communication among the project team is essential to identify high risk elements that could jeopardize the viability of the transaction. If the transaction is not a good financial, geographic and cultural fit for your organization call it a day and move on to the next transaction candidate. The global financial crisis was clearly stamped “Made in USA,” but the outlook for growth in emerging economies is being rapidly scaled back, proving that globalization is for real. We are all in this together. What started as a US housing market problem has morphed into a worldwide economic slowdown and could be turning into something worse? The crisis is still in the early stages in many developing nations.
E39|Integrating in the EU or in the World?|Economic theory suggests that the degree of cyclical synchronisation is related to the degree of economic integration and structural similarity between countries. In gauging changes in the synchronisation of countries’ business cycles and the underlying driving factors, it is important to distinguish EU/specific developments from worldwide integration tendencies, i.e. globalisation. The effects of goods and capital market integration on business cycle synchronisation are theoretically ambiguous. The net effect is composed of a synchronisation-enhancing effect on the demand side of the economy, and a synchronisation-diminishing effect on the supply side resulting from increased incentives for specialisation.
E39|Explaining output volatility: The case of taxation|This paper presents strong empirical evidence that the observed heterogeneity of output volatility across countries and over time is partly endogenous. In particular, based on a closed-form solution we obtain a (long-run) equilibrium relationship between taxes and output volatility in the stochastic neoclassical growth model by showing that asymptotically the variance of output growth rates is affected by the level of taxes, without affecting the mean. We estimate the tax semi-elasticities on output volatility and provide convincing empirical evidence that taxes are important to understand differences in output volatility among OECD countries.
E39|Inside money, credit, and investment|This paper presents a monetary explanation for several business-cycle facts: (i) household and business investment are procyclical, (ii) business investment lags household investment, (iii) household investment is positively correlated with M1, and (iv) household credit outstanding is positively correlated with and more volatile than household investment. We extend a standard, dynamic general equilibrium model to include financial intermediaries, credit-producing firms, and inside (bank-created) money. The transmission of monetary shocks facilitated by credit and inside money creation in the model is able to reconcile these real and monetary observations regarding the cyclical behavior of investment.
E39|Desarrollo teórico y aplicación del modelo de ciclo de evolución de destino turístico: Análisis de España y Argentina, con el modelo de turismo clásico, en el segundo tercio del siglo XX|Focusing on the comprehension of tourism market, where the offer is mainly Spanish (tourist national offer) and the demand is mostly international (tourist international demand), we find that the tourist sector in Spain is not constituted by a local market of native tourists, not even only residents either. Instead they have been, and they often keep being foreign, in a great percentage, although it remains very close to native ones.
E39|Input-Output Structure and New Keynesian Phillips Curve|I show that an input-output production structure reinforces persistence in the pricing behavior of firms using a Calvo mechanism. In particular, the optimal price today depends upon the expected optimal prices in the infinite future and those set in the infinite past. It follows that the effect of the marginal cost on inflation in the new Keynesian Phillips curve is dampened with respect to the standard model. This helps in explaining the difference between the most recent empirical evidence on price adjustment frequency in the U.S. and structural estimates of the new Keynesian Phillips curve.
E39|Stock Market Returns and Partisan Political Business Cycles|Excess returns in the stock market are significantly higher during Democratic presidential administrations. Previous research concludes that partisan return differentials are anomalous since they are not due to differences in required returns. We find that partisan return differentials are, instead, likely due to differences in cash flows - capital income growth - during the first years of presidential administrations as predicted by the rational partisan model of the business cycle. The first major finding of this paper is that there is a statistically and economically significant partisan difference in capital income growth in the first year of presidential terms. The second finding of the paper is that significant partisan differences in excess returns are also found only in the first year of presidential terms. Further, it is differences in unexpected returns during that first year that is the source of partisan return differentials. We find no statistically significant partisan differences in unexpected returns during the rest of the term. This result holds across market capitalization deciles and book-to-market value deciles. The third finding is that there is a positive and statistically significant relationship between unexpected returns and capital income growth and real GDP growth one and two quarters ahead. Lastly, we find that the unexpected returns are related to the degree of electoral surprise as predicted by the rational partisan model. We conclude that that there is strong evidence in favor of the rational partisan model as an explanation for partisan return differences in the stock and bond markets.
E39|Price Dispersion with Directed Search| We present a model that generates empirically plausible price distributions in directed search equilibrium. There are many identical buyers and many identical capacity-constrained sellers who post prices. These prices can be renegotiated to some degree and the outcome depends on the number of buyers who want to purchase the good. In equilibrium all sellers post the same price, demand is randomly distributed, and there is sale price dispersion. Prices and distributions depend on market tightness and on the properties of renegotiation outcomes. In a labor market context, the model generates a strong empirical prediction. if workers can renegotiate the posted wage, then the model predicts a positively skewed and realistic-looking density function of realized wages when the mean number of job-seekers per vacancy is large. (JEL: C780, D390, D490, E390) (c) 2009 by the European Economic Association.
E39|L'impact de la hausse des prix des produits alimentaires sur la pauvreté des enfants et les reponses politiques au Mali|Depuis 2006, le Mali subit de plein fouet les effets de la crise alimentaire mondiale avec des augmentations de prix allant jusqu'à 67%. Cette étude propose des simulations des impacts de cette crise et de diverses politiques de réponse sur le bien-être des enfants. Les impacts analysés se situent au niveau de la pauvreté monétaire (alimentaire), la nutrition, l'éducation, le travail et l'accès aux services de santé des enfants. Selon les simulations, chez les enfants la pauvreté alimentaire aura augmenté de 41 à 51% et le taux d'insuffisance calorique de 32 à 40%, alors que les impacts sur leur participation scolaire, leur travail et leur accès aux services de santé auront été assez faibles. Pour préparer une réponse adéquate, le gouvernement doit tout d'abord identifier les individus pauvres à protéger sur la base d'un nombre restreint de caractéristiques sociodémographiques facilement observables. Dans cette étude, une méthode de ciblage est proposée. Toutefois, les simulations du modèle de ciblage montrent qu’environ un quart des enfants pauvres sont exclus par erreur (souscouverture), alors que plus du tiers des enfants non-pauvres sont inclus par erreur (fuites). Ces erreurs de ciblage, qui augmentent proportionnellement lorsqu'on vise les pauvres extrêmes, réduisent l'impact et augmentent les coûts de toute intervention politique. Cela dit, il est à noter que les fuites peuvent quand même agir au niveau de l'insuffisance calorique, de la participation scolaire, du travail des enfants et de l'accès aux services de santé où les besoins ne se trouvent pas exclusivement du côté des enfants pauvres. Le ciblage des enfants ou même des sous-groupes, par âge, d'enfants se bute au problème de la diffusion probable des bénéfices aux autres membres du ménage. De plus, pour des décisions concernant le travail, l'éducation et l'accès aux services de santé, c'est le revenu total du ménage qui est déterminant. La politique de cantines scolaires se révèle particulièrement efficace du fait qu'elle concentre tous les fonds publics consentis exclusivement sur la consommation alimentaire hautement nutritive, alors que des transferts en espèces aux ménages peuvent servir à diverses fins. De plus, il est probable qu'elle ait des impacts souhaitables sur la scolarisation et le travail des enfants. Toutefois, certaines mises en garde s'imposent sur l'exclusion des enfants qui ne participent pas à l'école, la difficulté de cibler uniquement les enfants pauvres et la possibilité que l'enfant se voit réduire proportionnellement ses rations alimentaires à l’intérieur du ménage.
E39|The Impact of the Increase in Food Prices on Child Poverty and the Policy Response in Mali|Since 2006, Mali has experienced the full effects of the global food crisis, with price increases of up to 67%. This study presents simulations of the impacts of this crisis and a number of policy responses with respect to the welfare of children. The impacts are analyzed in terms of monetary (food) poverty, nutrition, education, child labour and access to health services of children. According to simulations, food poverty among children would have increased from 41% to 51%, with a corresponding rise in caloric insufficiency from 32% to 40%, while the impacts on school participation, work and access to health services would have been relatively weak. To prepare an adequate response, the government should start by identifying the poor individuals who are to be protected, based on a limited number of easily observed sociodemographic characteristics. A method of targeting these individuals is proposed in this study. However, simulations show that with targeting about one quarter of poor children would be erroneously excluded (under-coverage), while more than a third of non-poor children would be erroneously included (leakage). These identification errors, which increase in proportion with the extremity of poverty, reduce the impact and increase the cost of any public interventions. That having been said, it is important to note that leakage to the non-poor can nonetheless improve the conditions of children in terms of caloric intake, school participation, child labour and access to health services, none of which are exclusive to poor children. When targeting children or sub-groups of children by age, benefits will likely be deflected to some extent to other family members. Moreover, it is total household income, regardless of the member targeted, that determines decisions relating to child work, education or access to health services. School feeding programmes are found to be a particularly efficient policy in that they concentrate public funds exclusively on the consumption of highly nutritious foods, while cash transfers can be used by households for other purposes. Moreover, school feeding programmes are likely to have desirable effects on school participation and child labour. However, there are some caveats due to the fact that these programmes exclude children who do not attend school, the difficulty of exclusively targeting poor children and the possibility that child food rations at home will be proportionally reduced.
E39|Determinants of House Prices in Central and Eastern Europe|This paper studies the determinants of house prices in eight transition economies of central and eastern Europe (CEE) and 19 OECD countries. The main question addressed is whether the conventional fundamental determinants of house prices, such as GDP per capita, real interest rates, housing credit and demographic factors, have driven the observed house prices in CEE. We show that house prices in CEE can be explained well by the underlying conventional fundamentals and some transition specific factors, in particular institutional development of housing markets and housing finance and quality effects.
E39|Are houses overvalued in the Netherlands?|The movement of the level of house prices in the Netherlands between 1980 and 2007 is explainable fairly well by fundamental supply and demand factors. Empirical research has shown that the overvaluation of approximately 10% that existed in 2003 shrunk to approximately 0% in 2007. This was not caused by downward correction of house prices, but by the circumstance that the increase of the actual house price between 2003 and 2007 lagged behind the increase of the long-term value of the house price. Therefore, this does not confirm the IMF's recently published research results, indicating that approximately 30% of the house price increase between 1997 and 2007 cannot be explained by fundamental factors.
E39|Does the study of Kondratieff Cycles help us to know more about the social nature of money?|"Money was, until Keynes and Friedman, the great absence in economic literature. After them, relations between money and long economic cycles have been in their turn absent in debate. Perhaps this conform an explanation for logical and chronological relations between business cycles and long cycles been scarcely explored. Notwithstanding, is in those three directions where a new monetary theory should be researched for. This ought to be a more dynamic one. Thus, economic theory would root to anthropology, showing floating relationship between theories, from former cycle theories to most recent monetary and long cycle ones. Yet we can propose as economic models Porter's diamond, applied to money, and Money Value Chain. The aim is to reflect on a ""social dimension of money"" rather than of monetary policy, evoking the rhythms followed by that perception and the means for managing it, along the long cycle."
E39|Storage and the Volatility of Agricultural Prices: A Model of Endogenous Fluctuations|Recent developments in world food markets stress the importance of identifying the sources of food price volatility. This paper develops a nonlinear Cobweb model with endogenous volatility which accounts for several characteristics of agricultural commodity markets (seasonality, storage) and leads to price series with positive skewness and autocorrelation, as in actual commodity prices. Practical consequences may imply a rethinking of the current methods of world food market regulation.
E39|Nonlinearities and the order of integration of oil prices|Unit root tests are the starting point of most empirical time series research. This paper analyses the order of integration of oil prices taking into account the possibilities of nonlinearities in the deterministic components. Using an aggregate index for the price of oil, and applying Bierens (1997) unit root tests, we find that the hypothesis of a unit root process is rejected in favour of nonlinear trend stationarity of the price of crude oil. On the contrary, preliminary analysis using Ng and Perron (2001) and Kapetanios, Shin and Snell's (2003) tests, fail to reject the hypothesis of a unit root.
E39|Price Setting Behaviour of Pakistani Firms: Evidence from Four Industrial Cities of Punjab|Macroeconomic research has mostly been focused on investigating micro foundations of the theory and transmission channels of policy ever since rational expectations have found place in the literature. It was in the 1990s that macroeconomists started working on models incorporating the assumption of nominal rigidity in the optimal behaviour of individuals and firms. These models have gained empirical support from both aggregate as well as firm-level data. The evidence for developing countries on the issue is limited and Pakistan is no exception. This study aims at investigating the price setting behaviour of Pakistani firms. Besides this, the potential effects of changes in financial cost on the overall pricing and production decisions have also been investigated. Pakistani firms perceive themselves to be operating in a competitive environment though most of their clientele is regular. The majority of the firms use current information while reviewing prices. Around 70 percent of the firms use either a state-dependent pricing rule or a combination of both time and state-dependent rules. Pakistani firms revise and change their prices usually in the months of June and July. The main determinants of change in the price level are the cost of raw material, energy and inflation. The competitors’ price generally figures in price decrease. Among the causes of price stickiness, implicit contract with the customers is at the top; the fixed term contract comes next. Most of the firms change their wage structure annually. About half of the firms index their workers’ wages to inflation and for the purpose refer to the earlier inflation rate. On the whole labour productivity and changes in inflation rate are observed as the main determinants of wage change.
E39|On the User Cost and Homeownership|This paper studies the differences in the cost of housing services for renters and homeowners and calculates the bias that results when we value owner-occupied housing services using a rental equivalence approach. Our framework is a life-cycle model with endogenous tenure choice with households facing idiosyncratic uninsurable earnings risk and housing price risk. We model houses as illiquid assets that provide collateral for loans. To analyze the impact of preferential housing taxation on the tenure choice and the bias, we consider a tax system that mimics that of the U.S. economy. Namely, owner-occupied housing services are not taxed and mortgage interest payments are deductible. Through simulations, we show that a rental equivalence approach (relative to a user cost approach) overestimates the cost of housing services. The magnitude of the bias is very sensitive to both the income tax rate and the size of adjustment costs in the housing market. (Copyright: Elsevier)
E39|Flambée des prix alimentaires internationaux : opportunité ou désastre pour les populations les plus pauvres ?|This article suggests a conceptual framework for analyzing the consequences of the recent prices increase on the poorest people in the world. The complexity of mechanisms at work is demonstrated. At the global level, the analysis points out that Sub Saharan Africa exhibits the worst situation but a high diversity exists between nations. Three countries were chosen for an analysis of local markets and households impacts (Cameroon, Mali and Senegal). In Senegal prices transmission on local markets is important and negative impacts on poor households are observed. By contrast domestic prices exhibit very few changes in Mali. Cameroon exhibits an intermediate situation between these two cases. ...French Abstract : Cet article propose et applique un cadre d'analyse pour l'étude des conséquences de la flambée des prix des denrées alimentaires sur les populations pauvres des pays du Sud. Il met en évidence la complexité des mécanismes à l'oeuvre et la diversité des cas. Parmi les grands ensembles régionaux, l'Afrique Sub-saharienne apparaît particulièrement exposée à des impacts négatifs, mais les situations sont contrastées d'une nation à l'autre. Trois pays sont retenus pour une analyse au niveau des marchés locaux et des ménages (Cameroun, Mali, Sénégal). Au Sénégal, la contagion aux prix alimentaires intérieurs est la plus importante, elle a des conséquences négatives sur les ménages, en particulier les plus pauvres. Au Mali par contre, on note très peu d'impacts sur les marchés domestiques. Le Cameroun illustre une situation intermédiaire entre ces deux extrêmes.
E39|The Information Content of Inflationary Expectations Derived from Bond Prices in Israel|In this article, we analyze the information content of expectations of inflation derived from the Israeli bond market. The results indicate that these expectations are unbiased and efficient with respect to the variables considered. In other words, we cannot reject the hypothesis that these expectations are rational. In particular, we found that these expectations are not adaptive and contain significant information regarding future inflation and thus constitute an important and useful indicator in the evaluation of the inflationary environment. The existence of continuous data of this type, which is unique to the Israeli economy, enables us to test a number of hypotheses concerning the process of price adjustment. The study found that expected inflation is a primary factor in the explanation of current inflation. This result is in agreement with the neo Keynesian approach according to which there exists rigidity in the adjustment of prices and as a result price increases in the present are determined primarily by expectations of future price increases. It was also found that inflation in Israel is better explained by the neoKeynesian approach (price rigidity) than by the Classical approach or the lack of information approach according to which current inflation is determined by past, rather than current, inflationary expectations. Another issue examined in this study is whether inflationary inertia existed in Israel during the 90s. From conventional estimation of an inflation equation (i.e. using future inflation as proxy for expectations) one can get the impression that there was strong inflationary inertia during this period. However, when data on inflationary expectations from the bond market were used in the estimation, this inertia completely disappeared. This finding raise the possibility that inflationary inertia that is found elsewhere is not a structural phenomenon but an outcome of lack of reliable data on inflationary expectations.
E39|Land Prices and Fundamentals|This paper examines the long-term relationship between macro economic fundamentals and the weighted-average land price indicators, which are supposed to be more appropriate than the official land price indicators when analyzing their impacts on the macro economy. In many cases, we find the cointegrating relationships between the weighted-average land price indicators and the discounted present value of land calculated based on the macro economic fundamentals indicators. We also find that the demographic factor has impacts on real land prices. The error-correction analysis using the cointegrating relationships shows that not only the changes in the discounted present value of land, but also the changes in the demographic factor and bank lending have an influence on the fluctuations of real land prices. Based on the analysis, the recent change in the trend of land prices in Japan is explained by the increase in the discounted present values of land in the accommodative monetary environment, the convergence of the actual land prices to the long-term equilibrium level, and the changes in bank lending.
E39|Testing for rate dependence and asymmetry in inflation uncertainty: Evidence from the G7 economies|The Friedman-Ball hypothesis implies a link between the inflation rate and inflation uncertainty. In this paper we employ a new test for the joint null hypothesis of no dependence effects and no asymmetry in the G7 inflation volatility. The results show that higher inflationrates operate additively via the conditional variance of inflation to induce greater inflation uncertainty in the U.S., U.K. and Canada. In addition, positive inflationary shocks are found to generate greater inflation uncertainty than negative shocks of a similar magnitude in the U.K. and Canada.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E39|A fresh look at business cycle synchronisation in the euro area|This paper revisits the issue of business cycle synchronisation in the euro area looking back on more than eight years of EMU experience. The dispersion of output gaps across Member States has reached historically low levels since around 2002. Yet, this observation seems to reflect a general decrease in the amplitude of cyclical fluctuations rather than a continued increase in business cycle synchronisation. Using cross-country correlations, the mean level of synchronisation of national cycles within the currency union since 1999 is found to be overall high, though not higher than in the first half of the nineties. Around 2003, the level of cross-country synchronisation experienced a quite abrupt decrease. This picture is shared between several measures of the business cycle. A rebound and partial recovery of cross-country synchronisation is indicated from around 2004 onwards. The observed dip in synchronisation thus appears to be a transitory phenomenon, partly rooted in a recurrent pattern of falling business cycle synchronisation in early recovery phases.
E39|Cyclical features of the ISAE business services series|The paper presents some first analysis on the ISAE Market Service Survey Series, focusing on the subset referring to Business Services (BS). The aim of the work is to identify the cyclical characteristics of BS series in order to build a confidence indicator that, in our plan, would improve the forecasts on economic fluctuations. To this end, ISAE BS series are rebuilt by merging the quarterly information collected from 1992 Q1 to 2002 Q4, with those collected on a monthly basis since January 2003. The series are analysed in order to check whether the data arising from entrepreneurs’ opinions about their current and future economic situation are subject to business cycle fluctuations. For this purpose, we compare the BS series chronology, detected using the Bry-Boschan routine, to the ISAE official chronology based on the ISAE – Bank of Italy methodology (Altissimo et al., 2000); however, since the official chronology indicates December 2000 as the last valid peak, we add some more recent turning points on the basis of the preliminary analysis recently presented by ISAE. Furthermore, we check whether the BS series are correlated with the GDP annual rate of growth and if they improve the forecast of GDP cyclical fluctuations. Thus, on the basis of the results of the analysis of both turning point synchronization and forecast properties, we appropriately selected some BS series to built alternative confidence indicators and compare them to the current ISAE Confidence Climate. Finally, our analysis indicates that the predictive capacity of the ISAE Business Services Confidence Indicator could be improved replacing assessments and forecasts on order books with those on turnover. However, being the time series short and highly variable, our results are not conclusive.
E39|Convergence of Business Cycles in the Euro Area: Evidence from Survey Data|Many empirical studies have dealt with the subject of European convergence. These studies have reached controversial conclusions as to the relation between business cycle synchronisation and increased monetary integration in Europe. One reason behind these differences relates to the necessity to identify the business cycle from trending statistical data. In this paper we argue that indicators based on business and consumer surveys (BCS) can act as a substitute for quantitative data such as GDP and IP. An important practical advantage of using survey-based indicators is that they do not require the prior identification and estimation of the cyclical component as the indicators are not subject to a long-term trend. The analysis in this paper uses the European Commission’s Industrial Confidence Indicator (ICI) to analyse cyclical convergence/divergence in the euro area. The empirical results suggest that there is a marked correspondence between results derived from the more traditional hard statistical data and those based on qualitative BCS data. The correlations between industrial confidence indicators provide evidence of a recent decrease in euro-area business cycle synchronisation starting around 2002. These findings do not support the hypothesis that the adoption of the euro has fostered cyclical convergence.
E39|Was There a British House Price Bubble? Evidence from a Regional Panel|This paper investigates the bubbles hypothesis with a dynamic panel data model of British regional house prices between 1972 and 2003. The model consists of a system of inverted housing demand equations, incorporating spatial interactions and lags and relevant spatial parameter heterogeneity. The results are data consistent, with plausible long-run solutions and include a full range of explanatory variables. Novel features of the model include transaction cost effects influencing the speed of adjustment, and interaction effects between an index of credit availability and real and nominal interest rates. No evidence for a recent bubble is found.
E39|The Century of Inflation|The 20th century gives us the worst inflation in human history. Every country in the world is hit during that very period. The reason for its existence is pointed out, as well as whether it is an inevitable phenomenon during the 21st century. Exchange rates and inflation are investigated. Countries, which currency appreciates against the dollar during the century, are pointed out. The inflation during the period of the two world wars and after the fall of the socialism is analysed briefly. A conclusion is drawn that the inflation is not inevitable.
E39|Bubble, Bubble, Where's the Housing Bubble?|Discussions of whether a housing bubble exists generally rely on indirect barometers such as rapidly increasing prices, unrealistic expectations of future price increases, and rising ratios of housing price indexes to indexes of household income. Such measures cannot, however, answer the key question of whether housing prices are justified by the value of the services that a home provides. We show how to estimate the fundamental value of a home from rent data. We then apply this procedure in ten metropolitan areas, using a unique set of rent and sale price data for matched single-family homes. We do not find evidence of a bubble in most of these cities: under a variety of plausible assumptions, buying a home in these cities today still appears to be an attractive long-term investment.
E39|How hard is the euro area core? : an evaluation of growth cycles using wavelet analysis|Using recent advances in time-varying spectral methods, this research analyses the growth cycles of the core of the euro area in terms of frequency content and phasing of cycles.The methodology uses the continuous wavelet transform (CWT) and also Hilbert wavelet pairs in the setting of a non-decimated discrete wavelet transform in order to analyse bivariate time series in terms of conventional frequency domain measures from spectral analysis.The findings are that coherence and phasing between the three core members of the euro area (France, Germany and Italy) have increased since the launch of the euro. Key words: time-varying spectral analysis, coherence, phase, business cycles, EMU, growth cycles, Hilbert transform, wavelet analysis JEL classification numbers: C19, C63, C65, E32, E39, E58, F40
E39|Was There A British House Price Bubble? Evidence From A Regional Panel|Many observers, including the OECD are alarmed by the seeming bubble type behaviour of British house prices. This paper investigates with a dynamic panel data model of British regional house prices between 1972 and 2003. The model consists of a system of inverted housing demand equations, incorporating spatial interactions and lags and relevant spatial parameter heterogeneity. The results are data consistent, with plausible long-run solutions and include a full range of explanatory variables. Novel features of the model include transaction cost effects influencing the speed of adjustment and interaction effects between an index of credit availability and real and nominal interest rates. The model explains periods of boom and bust in the British housing market, as well as the ripple effect from the London housing market to the rest of the country. The evidence suggests that so far there has been no significant bubble in the British housing market in the new millenium but cannot rule out some bubble behaviour in 1988-9.
E39|The Danish Housing Market: Less Subsidy and more Flexibility|While Denmark has fairly flexible labour and product markets in most respects, the housing market stands out with large direct and indirect subsidies for all types of housing and a highly regulated rental market hindering mobility, probably resulting in a mismatch between housing needs and use. In the current housing policy framework there is quite a contrast between the well-functioning market for transactions of owner-occupied housing (supported by the highly liberalised mortgage market) and the highly regulated rental housing market. This paper assess the recent development in Danish house prices, followed by a discussion of ways of replacing the costly government intervention in the Danish housing market with more market-based mechanisms, thereby achieving policy objectives in a more efficient and targeted way. The paper reviews the main areas for reform, including overall subsidisation of housing, rent regulation, social housing, and how housing supply could be made more responsive. Le marché du logement au Danemark: moins de subventions et plus de souplesse Alors que les marchés du travail et des produits sont dans l'ensemble assez souples au Danemark, le marché du logement se distingue par le nombre important de subventions directes et indirectes pour tout type de logements et un marché de la location très régulé qui est un frein à la mobilité, ceci ayant sans doute pour conséquence une disparité entre les besoins en logements et ce qui est disponible. Dans le cadre de la politique de logement actuelle, il existe une différence flagrante entre le marché des logements occupés par leur propriétaire, qui fonctionne bien (soutenu en cela par un marché hypothécaire très libéralisé), et un marché locatif très contrôlé. Ce document analyse les développements récents dans le domaine des prix des logements au Danemark, puis examine les moyens permettant de remplacer l'intervention coûteuse de l'État sur le marché du logement danois par des mécanismes davantage axés sur le marché, et d'atteindre ainsi les objectifs des pouvoirs publics d'une manière plus efficace et plus ciblée. Ce document traite des réformes à mener, notamment la question des multiples aides publiques au logement, la régulation des loyers, les logements sociaux ainsi que la manière d'accroître l'offre.
E39|Structura pieţelor şi concurenţa în economia digitală|The purpose of this paper is to investigate the distinctive characteristics of the competitive mechanism in the digital economy and information product markets. Specific properties of digital goods and information markets are considered.
E39|Inflación y crecimiento. Un modelo de covarianza condicional para la Argentina|This paper shows the effects of uncertainty of economic growth and inflation on average rates of output growth and inflation, using quarterly data of Argentina, during the last three decades. The paper employs a GARCH-M model (VARMA model) that permits to test diagonality and symmetry relationships between the variables. The results suggest that increased growth uncertainty is associated with significantly higher average output growth (theory of precautionary savings), while higher inflation uncertainty is correlated with lower average output growth (Okun, 1971, and Friedman, 1977, arguments). Both inflation and economic growth show evidence of significant asymmetric response to positive and negative shocks of equal magnitude.// Este trabajo analiza los efectos de la incertidumbre de las tasas de crecimiento del producto real (PIB real) y de las tasas de inflación en las tasas promedio de crecimiento del producto y de la inflación, empleando datos trimestrales de la Argentina, correspondientes a los tres decenios pasados. Para ello se utiliza un modelo GARCH-M, denominado VARMA, que permite probar las hipótesis de ausencia de asimetría y de diagonalidad del proceso de (varianzas) covarianza. Algunos de los resultados del trabajo sugieren que una mayor incertidumbre del crecimiento del producto estaría asociada con mayor crecimiento (teoría del motivo precautorio del ahorro), mientras que la mayor incertidumbre de la inflación reduciría el crecimiento económico, tal como afirman Okun (1971) y Friedman (1977). A su vez, tanto la inflación como el crecimiento del producto mostrarían una respuesta asimétrica significativa a los choques positivos y negativos de igual magnitud.
E39|Measuring the Response of Macroeconomic Uncertainty to Shocks| Recent research documents the importance of uncertainty in determining macroeconomic outcomes, but little is known about the transmission of uncertainty across such outcomes. This paper examines the response of uncertainty about inflation and output growth to shocks documenting statistically significant size and sign bias and spillover effects. Uncertainty about inflation is a determinant of output uncertainty, whereas higher growth volatility tends to raise inflation volatility. Both inflation and growth volatility respond asymmetrically to positive and negative shocks. Negative growth and inflation shocks lead to higher and more persistent uncertainty than shocks of equal magnitude but opposite sign. © 2005 President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
E39|Booms, Busts and Ripples in British Regional Housing Markets|We present and discuss an annual econometric model of regional house prices in Britain estimated over the period 1972 to 2003. The model, which consists of a system of inverted housing demand equations, is data consistent, incorporates spatial lags and errors, has some spatial coefficient heterogeneity, has a plausible long run solution and includes a full range of explanatory variables. We use our results to explain the periods of boom and bust and the ripple effect from London house prices to house prices elsewhere. We also address the issue of whether there has been a bubble in the British housing market
E39|Acerca del proceso de formación de precios internos en Uruguay en 1986.1-2003.4: un enfoque de cointegración multivariado|The objective of this investigation is to describe the price formation process in Uruguay, measured by the CPI. As inflation is not a monetary phenomenon exclusively, the description of its generating process requires to take into account other factors beside monetary ones. The estimation strategy used in this paper enables us to identify deep determinants of inflation in the long run and those other factors that affect its short-run performance as well. In particular, we find that the weight of monetary expansion in the explanation of consumer price level is relatively small
E39|The Relation Between Macroeconomic Uncertainty And The Expected Performance Of the Economy| By using data from surveys of expectations, it is shown that macroeconomic uncertainty, measured by the standard deviation of the expected output growth, the expected unemployment rate, and the expected inflation rate, is negatively related to the expected performance of the economy, proxied by the expected growth rate of output. That is, forward-looking agents are more uncertain about the future development of output, unemployment, and inflation when the growth rate of output is expected to fall, and they are less uncertain when this growth rate is expected to increase. The findings indicate that macroeconomic polices would have asymmetric effects on output depending upon how economic agents expect the economy to perform in the near future
E39|Characterising the Business Cycle for Accession Countries|We analyse the evolution of the business cycle in the accession countries, after a careful examination of the seasonal properties of the available series and the required modification of the cycle dating procedures. We then focus on the degree of cyclical concordance within the group of accession countries, which turns out to be in general lower than that between the existing EU countries (the Baltic countries constitute an exception). With respect to the Eurozone, the indications of synchronization are also generally low and lower relative to the position obtaining for countries taking part in previous enlargements (with the exceptions of Poland, Slovenia and Hungary). In the light of the optimal currency area literature, these results cast doubts on the usefulness of adopting the euro in the near future for most accession countries, though other criteria such as the extent of trade and the gains in credibility may point in a different direction.
E39|The asymmetric effects of uncertainty on inflation and output growth| We study the effects of growth volatility and inflation volatility on average rates of output growth and inflation for post-war US data. Our results suggest that increased growth uncertainty is associated with significantly lower average growth, while higher inflation uncertainty is significantly negatively correlated with lower output growth and lower average inflation. Both inflation and growth display evidence of significant asymmetric response to positive and negative shocks of equal magnitude. Copyright © 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
E39|Characterising the Business Cycle for Accession Countries|We analyse the evolution of the business cycle in the accession countries, after a careful examination of the seasonal properties of the available series and the required modification of the cycle dating procedures. We then focus on the degree of cyclical concordance within the group of accession countries, which turns out to be in general lower than that between the existing EU countries (the Baltic countries constitute an exception). With respect to the Eurozone, the indications of synchronization are also generally low and lower relative to the position obtaining for countries taking part in previous enlargements (with the exceptions of Poland, Slovenia and Hungary). In the light of the optimal currency area literature, these results cast doubts on the usefulness of adopting the euro in the near future for most accession countries, though other criteria such as the extent of trade and the gains in credibility may point in a different direction.
E39|Towards a renovated theory of classical growth|This essay first lists an inventory of the neoclassical model of endogenous growth’s notorious deficiencies. The second part attempts to construct a model of growth based on a classical model of prices in general equilibrium
E39|Economic Integration in West Africa: Does the CFA Make a Difference?|In this paper we use data from 17 African nations in order to investigate the hypothesis that monetary union – represented in this case by the CFA Franc Zone – augments the extent of macroeconomic integration in developing countries. The paper covers a number of dimensions of integration including the volume of bilateral trade, real exchange rate volatility and the magnitude of cross-country business cycle correlation.
E39|A Pearson's test for symmetry with an application to the Spanish business cycle|In this paper, we look for asymmetries in the Spanish business cycle. To that end, we firstly propose an easy nonparametric testing procedure to test for symmetry based on a Pearson's chi-squared statistic, which we call P-test. Then, we test for two popular forms of asymmetry, deepness and steepness, using a battery of nonparametric tests. In addition, we analyse possible complementarities between the tests used in this paper, and we compute p-value adjustments for multiple tests.
E39|Assessing the Adequacy of Measures of Australia’s Price Competitiveness and Structural Change|This article provides a practitioner’s guide to measures of Australia’s international price competitiveness. Existing measures are found to be both theoretically and empirically deficient. An alternative measure is suggested and constructed.
E39|The Effects of Uncertainty on Macroeconomic Performance: The Importance of the Conditional Covariance Model|We study the effects of growth volatility and inflation volatility on average rates of output growth and inflation for postwar U.S. data in a multivariate asymmetric GARCH-M model. Our statistical model differs from other work in that we allow the conditional covariance of inflation and growth to be both nondiagonal and asymmetric. We show that the data reject diagonality and symmetry restrictions frequently imposed in the literature. Our results on the macroeconomic effects of uncertainty also differ from those in other recent studies using a more restrictive covariance model. Specifically, we find that increased growth uncertainty is associated with significantly higher average growth, and that higher inflation uncertainty is significantly negatively correlated with lower output growth and lower average inflation.
E39|Un modelo clásico de crecimiento económico|This essay focuses on the conditions under which spontaneous growth in a developed economy create inestability, fluctuations and resources waste in a endogenous manner, in contrast with the neoclassical theories of economic cycles generated by exogenous shocks.
E39|An Application of TRAMO-SEATS: Model Selection and Out-of-Sample Performance: the Swiss CPI Series|"This paper applies the programs TRAMO and SEATS to seasonal adjustment of the monthly Consumer Price Index Swiss series. It is shown how the results of the purely automatic procedure can be improved with two simple modifications: one that emerges from the TRAMO-SEATS diagnostics, and another that uses ""a-priori"" information. In particular, the SEATS output is used to select a model among the ones that are equally compatible with the sample."
E39|Public Budgets in the Czech Republic - Searching the Root of Imbalance|"The article sums up the Czech Economic Association's seminar """"Public Budgets in the Czech Republic"""" held in April 2000 in Prague. Various presenters outlined the basic theoretical underpinnings of fiscal policy analysis and sought to quantify the structural and cyclical part of Czech public budgets. Focus was paid to an often overlooked aspect of taxation in the Czech Republic ? compliance costs and the European Union's influence on Czech taxation policy. It was agreed that the root of the Czech state's fiscal problem lays on the spending side of state budgets and that revenues are already stretched to the limit, with the possible exception of revenues from environmental taxes."
E39|Structural Deficits in Czech Public Finances|The paper analyzes the fiscal position of Czech public budgets. It focuses on the structural and the cyclical parts of the budget deficits and concludes that public budgets were in structural deficit as early as 1994. The authors propose three methods toward estimating the potential output of the Czech economy and demonstrate how these estimates lead to different conclusions vis-a-vis fiscal policy. Their analysis shows that the Czech economy under-performs with respect to its perceived convergence with the European Union. The authors also adjust the official budget numbers for one-off privatization revenues. These revenues considered, public budgets appear significantly less balanced, and recent practice suggests a mounting budgetary dependence on privatization revenues.
E39|A Bivariate Distribution for Inflation and Output Forecasts|The contribution of this paper is to derive a bivariate distribution for inflation and output uncertainty with a well-defined role for subjective judgements. The marginal distributions for inflation and output growth are derived from uncertainty in the macro variables that are deemed to be important for future inflation and output growth. The uncertainty in the macro variables is based on their historical standard deviations, but we allow these to be subjectively adjusted if there is reason to be more or less uncertain than historically. We also allow for a subjective assessment of the balance of risk, i.e. whether the distributions are symmetric or not. Given the marginal distributions for inflation and output growth we derive a bivariate distribution using the translation method. Having derived the bivariate distribution we are in a position to discuss inflation forecast uncertainty conditional on the growth of output (or vice versa). The analysis can readily be extended to the case of more than two variables.
E39|Seasonal Fluctuations and International Trade|This paper argues that seasonal fluctuations in international trade are large and have non-trivial effects on a country's resource allocation, production, and welfare. Using U.S. quarterly data, we find fluctuations of as much as 43% and 15% for apparel imports and exports respectively, and 7% and 12% for aggregate imports and exports respectively. In addition, we observe that seasonal fluctuations of aggregate exports have decreased substantially over time. We formulate a general equilibrium model to examine the link between changes in the size of seasonal fluctuations and the levels and variances of employment, output, and consumption. One result is that if price fluctuations increase under free trade, the traded good sector shrinks and the non- traded good sector expands. Increased trade volume can decrease fluctuations in domestic production of either good. This is verified in the data of U.S. apparel trade and production: we find that doubling of trade volume is associated with a 40% decrease in fluctuations in production.
E39|Interaction Between Price Setting and Capital Investment in a Customer Market|In this essayu a customer market model is constructed , where an entrepreneur-owned firm as two choice variable, namely the customer stock and the capital stock. The firm is assumed to be completely credit rationed and the investment procedure is characterised by time-to-built. The model is solved numerically to yield steady state paths for the ratio of customers to capital, investments and price.
E39|Interactions Between Price Setting and Capital Investment in a Customer Market|In this essay a customer market model is constructed, where an entrepreneur-owned firm has two choice variables, namely the customer stock and the capital stock. The firm is assumed to be completely credit rationed and the investment procedure is characterised by time-to-build. The model is solved numerically to yield steady state paths for the ratio of customers to capital, investments and price. A comparative statics analysis is carried out so as to find out how price and investments respond to exogenous shocks. The model is also tested empirically with data for the Swedish manufacturing sector. The results from the theoretical model point to a close relationship between price setting and investment decisions, which is then confirmed by the empirical investigation.
E39|Optimality of Exchange Credit Restrictions|The paper formalizes a conflict in the use of credit. As compared to using costless fiat, the consumer's use of credit wastes resources by avoiding the inflation tax through a costly means of exchange. This inefficiency gives lattitude for a planner to increase welfare by restricting exchange credit.
E39|Changes in Relative Wages in the 1980s: Returns to Observed and Unobserved Skills and Black-White Wage Differentials|During the 1980s, did the sharp increase in the college-high school wage differential represent a rise in the college premium, or a growth in the payoff to unmeasured ability or skill? Can the slowdown in black-white wage convergence or the widening black-white gap among young workers witnessed during the 1980s be explained by a rise in the return to pre-labor market factors correlated with race? In this study, we show that it is possible to use across-group variation in within-group wage variances from multiple periods to identify the change in the return to unobservable skill, within a relatively unrestrictive error-components model of wages. The identification does not require full specification of the time-series properties or the functional form of the errors. Male earnings data from the CPS show that there is useful variation in within-group wage variances -- enough to estimate a growth in the return to unobservable skill of about 10 to 20 percent during the 1980s. In our analysis, these magnitudes imply that even alter controlling for the effects of an increase in the payoff to unobservable skill, college-educated workers still gain substantially relative to high school-educated workers, while young black men still experience a significant wage decline relative to white men during the l980s.
E39|Exact Hedonic Price Indexes| Using the marginal value of characteristics, the author shows how to construct bounds on the exact hedonic price index. When prices are above marginal costs, then his bounds still apply but the value of characteristics cannot be measured so easily from a hedonic regression. Since the price-cost markups are an omitted variable, they will bias the coefficients obtained. For a special class of utility functions, the author argues that a linear regression will still provide a measure of the marginal value of characteristics but a log-linear regression will overstate these values. Copyright 1995 by MIT Press.
E39|Assessing inflationary pressures in Colombia|"The assessment of inflationary pressures in Colombia has faced two important challenges inthe present decade. The rst one occurred in 2006 and consisted of detecting an overheatingeconomy in the midst of fast growing investment and increasing measured productivity. Thesecond challenge took place in 2007-2008, when the economy was hit by a number of ""supply""shocks and core inflation indicators sent diverging signals about the transmission of thoseshocks to macroeconomic ination. An evaluation of the rst episode shows that traditionalindicators of productivity and unit labor costs were not su¢ cient to identify ""supply"" and""demand"" movements. Thus, policymakers had to rely on a wider array of variables to gaugethe state of the economy.Regarding the second episode, an evaluation of core ination indicators according to stan-dard criteria suggests that no particular measure seems to be clearly superior to the others.Hence, the assessment of inflationary pressures should not rely only on one or few core inationindicators, since some signals could be picked by some measures and not by others. Moreover,this result suggests that the analysis of core ination measures must be complemented witha careful examination of the persistence of the shocks and a close monitoring of their impacton inflation expectations. It is found that the latter are formed on the basis of past inflaation,but that the inflation target also plays a role. In addition, ination expectations partiallymove with ""supply"" shocks, an outcome that reects a degree of credibility of monetary policy.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
E39|Inflación y expectativas de inflación en Colombia|En este documento se desarrolla una exploración empírica sobre la información contenida en las expectativas de inflación obtenidas tanto directa (a través de encuestas) como indirectamente (implícitas en el mercado de deuda pública). Para esto, se realizan pruebas de insesgamiento y eficiencia, se exploran cuales son algunos de los determinantes de las expectativas y se evalúa su capacidad predictiva sobre el comportamiento futuro de la inflación. De acuerdo a los resultados, se puede concluir que las tres medidas de expectativas de inflación empleadas contienen información relevante para pronosticar la inflación, pero dichas medidas por si solas no son un buen pronóstico de la inflación futura.
