E40|The Neutral Rate in Canada: 2019 Update|This note provides an update on Bank of Canada staff’s assessment of the Canadian neutral rate. The neutral rate is the policy rate needed to keep output at its potential level and inflation at target once the effects of any cyclical shocks have dissipated. This medium- to long-run concept serves as a benchmark for gauging the degree of monetary stimulus provided by a given policy setting. Staff’s overall assessment, which is based on the combined output of a suite of four distinct approaches, is that the Canadian neutral rate likely lies in a range of 2.25 to 3.25 per cent in nominal terms, lower than the range of 2.5 to 3.5 per cent reported at the time of the last update in April 2018. Although this downward shift stems mainly from a lower assessed global neutral rate, the overall assessment also reflects some improved modelling techniques enabling staff to better capture the medium- to long-run impact of macroeconomic risk on the level of the neutral rate. Moreover, while staff’s assessed range for the neutral rate captures important sources of uncertainty, it should not be interpreted as reflecting the full extent of the uncertainties surrounding the neutral rate.
E40|Le taux neutre au Canada : mise à jour de 2019|Cette note met à jour l’évaluation par le personnel de la Banque du taux neutre canadien, c’est-à-dire le taux directeur requis pour maintenir la production à son niveau potentiel et l’inflation à son taux cible, une fois disparus les effets des chocs cycliques. Ce concept de moyen à long terme sert de point de référence pour évaluer le degré de détente monétaire résultant d’une politique donnée. Selon l’évaluation globale du personnel, qui est basée sur la juxtaposition des résultats de quatre approches distinctes, le taux neutre canadien se situe probablement dans une fourchette allant de 2,25 à 3,25 % en termes nominaux, ce qui est un peu plus bas que la fourchette de 2,5 à 3,5 % publiée lors de la dernière mise à jour, en avril 2018. Même si cette révision à la baisse découle surtout d’une réduction de la valeur estimée du taux neutre mondial, l’évaluation globale résulte également d’une meilleure modélisation, qui a permis au personnel de mieux rendre compte des effets à moyen et long terme des risques macroéconomiques sur le niveau du taux neutre. Par ailleurs, bien que la fourchette du taux neutre estimée par le personnel tienne compte d’importantes sources d’incertitude, elle ne devrait pas pour autant être vue comme la résultante de l’ensemble des incertitudes qui entourent le taux neutre.
E40|Economic and regulatory aspects of crypto-assets|TIn this study, we investigate the economic characteristics of bitcoin and similar crypto-assets. Following an introduction to the blockchain protocol, the role of exchanges and of digital wallet providers, we consider the regulatory measures adopted in various jurisdictions. Lastly, we examine the accounting and prudential aspects related to crypto-assets, of which significant uncertainties still remain. The paper provides a taxonomy of crypto-assets, and describes the basic features of the initial coin offerings (ICOs) and related aspects. The literature shows that bitcoin, and similar crypto-assets, do not fully fall within the category of money and financial instruments. This class of digital tokens, based on a permissionless distributed ledger technology (DLT), is highly volatile and absent of intrinsic value. The instability of their price, which is often undetermined, must be considered when evaluating these instruments from an accounting and prudential standpoint.
E40|On money, debt, trust and central banking|This essay examines in detail the properties of a well functioning monetary system - defined as money plus the mechanisms to execute payments - in both the short and long run, drawing on both theory and the lessons from history. It stresses the importance of trust and of the institutions needed to secure it. Ensuring price and financial stability is critical to nurturing and maintaining that trust. In the process, the essay addresses several related questions, such as the relationship between money and debt, the viability of cryptocurrencies as money, money neutrality, and the nexus between monetary and financial stability. While the present monetary system, with central banks and a prudential apparatus at its core, can and must be improved, it still provides the best basis to build on.
E40|On the Global Impact of Risk-off Shocks and Policy-put Frameworks|Global risk-off shocks can be highly destabilizing for financial markets and, absent an adequate policy response, may trigger severe recessions. Policy responses were more complex for developed economies with very low interest rates after the Global Financial Crisis (GFC). We document, however, that the unconventional policies adopted by the main central banks were effective in containing asset price declines. These policies impacted long rates and inspired confidence in a policy-put framework that reduced the persistence of risk-off shocks. We also show that domestic macroeconomic and financial conditions play a key role in benefiting from the spillovers of these policies during risk-off episodes. Countries like Japan, which already had very low long rates, benefited less. However, Japan still benefitted from the reduced persistence of risk-off shocks. In contrast, since one of the main channels through which emerging markets are historically affected by global risk-off shocks is through a sharp rise in long rates, the unconventional monetary policy phase has been relatively benign to emerging markets during these episodes, especially for those economies with solid macroeconomic fundamentals and deep domestic financial markets. We also show that unconventional monetary policy in the US had strong effects on long interest rates in most economies in the Asia-Pacific region (which helps during risk-off events but may be destabilizing otherwise—we do not take a stand on this tradeoff).
E40|What anchors for the natural rate of interest?|The paper takes a critical look at the conceptual and empirical underpinnings of prevailing explanations of low real (inflation-adjusted) interest rates over long horizons and finds them incomplete. The role of monetary policy, and its interaction with the financial cycle in particular, deserve greater attention. By linking booms and busts, the financial cycle generates important path dependencies that give rise to intertemporal policy trade-offs. Policy today constrains policy tomorrow. The policy regime is not neutral and can exert a persistent influence on the economy's evolution, including on the real interest rate. This raises serious conceptual and practical questions about the use of the natural interest rate as a monetary policy guidepost. In developing the analysis, the paper also provides a specific critique of the safe asset shortage hypothesis - a hypothesis that has gained considerable popularity in recent years.
E40|Global real rates: a secular approach|The current environment is characterized by low real rates and by policy rates close to or at their effective lower bound in all major €nancial areas. We analyze these unusual economic conditions from a secular perspective using data on aggregate consumption, wealth and asset returns. Our present-value approach decomposes fluctuations in the global consumption-to-wealth ratio over long periods of time and show that this ratio anticipates future movements of the global real risk-free rate. Our analysis identifies two historical episodes where the consumption-to-wealth ratio declined rapidly below its historical average: in the roaring 1920s and again in the exuberant 2000s. Each episode was followed by a severe global €financial crisis and depressed real rates for an extended period of time. Our empirical estimates suggest that the world real rate of interest is likely to remain low or negative for an extended period of time.
E40|Why Have Interest Rates Fallen far Below the Return on Capital|"Risk-free rates have been falling since the 1980s. The return on capital, defined here as the profits over the stock of capital, has not. We analyze these trends in a calibrated OLG model designed to encompass many of the ""usual suspects"" cited in the debate on secular stagnation. Declining labor force and productivity growth imply a limited decline in real interest rates and deleveraging cannot account for the joint decline in the risk free rate and increase in the risk premium. If we allow for a change in the (perceived) risk to productivity growth to fit the data, we find that the decline in the risk-free rate requires an increase in the borrowing capacity of the indebted agents in the model, consistent with the increase in the sum of public and private debt since the crisis but at odds with a deleveraging-based explanation put forth in Eggertsson and Krugman (2012)."
E40|Banks’ Business Model and Credit Supply in Chile: The Role of a State-Owned Bank|During the recent financial crisis, banks suffered losses on a scale not witnessed since the Great Depression, partly due to two structural developments in the banking industry; deregulation combined with financial innovation. The regulatory response concentrated on the Basel III recommendations, affected banks’ business model and funding patterns. Consequently, these changes have had implications on how banks grant loans, how they react to monetary policy shocks, and on how they respond to global shocks. We find evidence of significant interactions between banks’ lending and both monetary and global shocks in Chile. In particular, these interactions have been significantly shaped by the counter-cyclical behavior of the state-owned bank. The good governance of this institution along with a sound legal and economic environment, have propitiated this result.
E40|Modelling yields at the lower bound through regime shifts|"We propose a regime-switching approach to deal with the lower bound on nominal interest rates in dynamic term structure modelling. In the ""lower bound regime"", the short term rate is expected to remain constant at levels close to the effective lower bound; in the ""normal regime"", the short rate interacts with other economic variables in a standard way. State-dependent regime switching probabilities ensure that the likelihood of being in the lower bound regime increases as short rates fall closer to zero. A key advantage of this approach is to capture the gradualism of the monetary policy normalization process following a lower bound episode. The possibility to return to the lower bound regime continues exerting an influence in the early phases of normalization, pulling expected future rates downwards. We apply our model to U.S. data and show that it captures key properties of yields at the lower bound. In spite of its heavier parameterization, the regime-switching model displays a competitive out-of-sample forecasting performance. It can also be used to gauge the risk of a return to the lower bound regime in the future. As of mid-2018, it provides a more benign assessment than alternative measures."
E40|Money growth and inflation : International historical evidence on high inflation episodes for developed countries|How long is the long run in the relationship between money growth and inflation? How important are high inflation episodes for the unit slope finding in the quantity theory of money? To answer these questions we study the relationship between excess money growth and inflation over time and across frequencies using annual data from 1871 to 2013 for several developed countries. Wavelet-based exploratory analysis shows the existence of a close stable relationship between excess money growth and inflation only over longer time horizons, i.e. periods greater than 16 and 24 years, with money growth mostly leading. When we investigate the sensitivity of the unit slope finding to inflation episodes using a scale-based panel data approach we find that low-frequency regression coefficients estimated over variable-length subsamples before and after WWII are largely affected by high inflation episodes. Taken together the results that inflationary upsurges affect regression coefficients but not the closeness of the long-run relationship call for a qualification of the Quantity Theory of Money and suggests that policymakers should not lose interest on monetary developments.
E40|Asset Liquidity in Monetary Theory and Finance: A Unified Approach|Economists often say that certain types of assets, e.g., Treasury bonds, are very `liquid'. Do they mean that these assets are likely to serve as media of exchange or collateral (a definition of liquidity often employed in monetary theory), or that they can be easily sold in a secondary market, if needed (a definition of liquidity closer to the one adopted in finance)? We develop a model where these two notions of asset liquidity coexist, and their relative importance is determined endogenously in general equilibrium: how likely agents are to visit a secondary market in order to sell assets for money depends on whether sellers of goods/services accept these assets as means of payment. But, also, the incentive of sellers to invest in a technology that allows them to recognize and accept assets as means of payment depends on the existence (and efficiency) of a secondary market where buyers could liquidate assets for cash. The interaction between these two channels offers new insights regarding the determination of asset prices and the ability of assets to facilitate transactions and improve welfare.
E40|Banking Panics and the Lender of Last Resort in a Monetary Economy|This paper studies the role of a lender of last resort (LLR) in a monetary model where a shortage of bank’s monetary reserves (or a banking panic) occurs endogenously. We show that while a discount window policy introduced by the LLR is welfare improving, it reduces the banks’ ex ante incentive to hold reserves, which increases the probability of a panic, and causes moral hazard in asset investments. We also examine the combined effect of other related policies such as a penalty in lending rate, liquidity requirements, and constructive ambiguity.
E40|Sovereign Bonds since Waterloo|This paper studies external sovereign bonds as an asset class. We compile a new database of 220,000 monthly prices of foreign-currency government bonds traded in London and New York between 1815 (the Battle of Waterloo) and 2016, covering 91 countries. Our main insight is that, as in equity markets, the returns on external sovereign bonds have been sufficiently high to compensate for risk. Real ex-post returns averaged 7% annually across two centuries, including default episodes, major wars, and global crises. This represents an excess return of around 4% above US or UK government bonds, which is comparable to stocks and outperforms corporate bonds. The observed returns are hard to reconcile with canonical theoretical models and with the degree of credit risk in this market, as measured by historical default and recovery rates. Based on our archive of more than 300 sovereign debt restructurings since 1815, we show that full repudiation is rare; the median haircut is below 50%.
E40|Non-Linearities, Cyber Attacks and Cryptocurrencies|This paper uses a Markov-switching non-linear specification to analyse the effects of cyber attacks on returns in the case of four cryptocurrencies (Bitcoin, Ethernam, Litecoin and Stellar) over the period 8/8/2015 - 28/2/2019. The analysis considers both cyber attacks in general and those targeting cryptocurrencies in particular, and also uses cumulative measures capturing persistence. On the whole, the results suggest the existence of significant negative effects of cyber attacks on the probability for cryptocurrencies to stay in the low volatility regime. This is an interesting finding, that confirms the importance of gaining a deeper understanding of this form of crime and of the tools used by cybercriminals in order to prevent possibly severe disruptions to markets.
E40|On the Equivalence of Private and Public Money|"We develop a generic model of money and liquidity that identifies sources of liquidity bubbles and seignorage rents. We provide suffcient conditions under which a swap of monies leaves the equilibrium allocation and price system unchanged. We apply the equivalence result to the ""Chicago Plan,"" cryptocurrencies, the Indian de-monetization experiment, and Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC). In particular, we show why CBDC need not undermine financial stability."
E40|Inflation Expectations: Review and Evidence|This paper presents a comprehensive examination of the determination and evolution of inflation expectations, with a focus on emerging market and developing economies (EMDEs). The results suggest that long-term inflation expectations in EMDEs are not as well anchored as those in advanced economies, despite notable improvements over the past two decades. Indeed, in EMDEs, long-term inflation expectations are more sensitive to both domestic and global inflation shocks. However, EMDEs tend to be more successful in anchoring inflation expectations in the presence of an inflation targeting regime, high central bank transparency, strong trade integration, and a low level of public debt.
E40|A Risk-centric Model of Demand Recessions and Speculation|We theoretically analyze the interactions between asset prices, financial speculation, and macroeconomic outcomes when output is determined by aggregate demand. If the interest rate is constrained, a decline in risky asset valuations generates a demand recession. This reduces earnings and generates a negative feedback loop between asset prices and aggregate demand. In the recession phase, beliefs matter not only because they affect asset valuations but also because they determine the strength of the amplification mechanism. In the ex-ante boom phase, belief disagreements (or heterogeneous asset valuations) matter because they induce investors to speculate. This speculation exacerbates the crash by reducing high-valuation investors' wealth when the economy transitions to recession. Macroprudential policy that restricts speculation in the boom can Pareto improve welfare by increasing asset prices and aggregate demand in the recession.
E40|Prudential Monetary Policy|Should monetary policy have a prudential dimension? That is, should policymakers raise interest rates to rein in financial excesses during a boom? We theoretically investigate this issue using an aggregate demand model with asset price booms and financial speculation. In our model, monetary policy affects financial stability through its impact on asset prices. Our main result shows that, when macroprudential policy is imperfect, small doses of prudential monetary policy (PMP) can provide financial stability benefits that are equivalent to tightening leverage limits. PMP reduces asset prices during the boom, which softens the asset price crash when the economy transitions into a recession. This mitigates the recession because higher asset prices support leveraged, high-valuation investors' balance sheets. An alternative intuition is that PMP raises the interest rate to create room for monetary policy to react to negative asset price shocks. The policy is most effective when there is extensive speculation and leverage limits are neither too tight nor too slack.
E40|Money Runs|We develop a model in which, as in practice, bank debt is both a financial security used to raise funds and a kind of money used to facilitate trade. This dual role of bank debt provides a new rationale for why banks do what they do. In the model, banks endogenously perform the essential functions of real-world banks: they transform liquidity, transform maturity, pool assets, and have dispersed depositors. Moreover, they make their debt redeemable on demand. Thus, they are endogenously fragile. We show novel effects of narrow banking, suspension of convertibility, and some other policies.
E40|Banks' business model and credit supply in Chile: the role of a state-owned bank|During the Global Financial Crisis, banks suffered losses on a scale not witnessed since the Great Depression, partly due to two major structural developments in the banking industry; deregulation combined with financial innovation. In the aftermath of the financial crisis, the regulatory response concentrated on the Basel III recommendations, raising core capital requirements for banking institutions, which affected their business models and funding patterns. Consequently, these changes have had significant implications for how banks grant loans, how they react to monetary policy shocks, and how they respond to external shocks. We find evidence of significant interactions between the bank lending channel and both monetary and global shocks in Chile. These links have changed significantly after the Global Financial Crisis. In particular, they have been shaped by the counter-cyclical behavior of a state-owned bank.
E40|Monetary policy transmission to mortgages in a negative interest rate environment|Do negative policy rates hinder banks’ transmission of monetary policy? To answer this question, we examine the behaviour of Italian mortgage lenders using a novel loan-level dataset. When policy rates turn negative, banks with higher ratios of retail overnight deposits to total assets charge more on new fixed rate mortgages. This suggests that the funding structure of banks may matter for the transmission of negative policy rates, especially for long-maturity illiquid assets. Nevertheless, the aggregate economic implications for households are small, suggesting that concerns about inefficient monetary policy transmission to households under modestly negative rates are likely overstated. JEL Classification: E40, E52, E58, G21
E40|Uncertainty Shocks, Monetary Policy and Long-Term Interest Rates|"We study the relationship between monetary policy and long-term rates in a structural, general equilibrium model estimated on both macro and yields data from the United States. Regime shifts in the conditional variance of productivity shocks, or ""uncertainty shocks"", are an important model ingredient. First, they account for countercyclical movements in risk premia. Second, they induce changes in the demand for precautionary saving, which affects expected future real rates. Through changes in both risk-premia and expected future real rates, uncertainty shocks account for about 1/2 of the variance of long-term nominal yields over long horizons. The remaining driver of long-term yields are changes in in ation expectations induced by conventional, autoregressive shocks. Long-term in ation expectations implied by our model are in line with those based on survey data over the 1980s and 1990s, but less dogmatically anchored in the 2000s."
E40|Monetary policy shocks and the health of banks|Based on high frequency identification and other econometric tools, we find that monetary policy shocks had a significant impact on the health of euro area banks. Information effects, which made the private sector more pessimistic about future prospects of the economy and the profitability of the banking sector, were strongly present in the post-crisis period. We show that ECB communications at the press conference were crucial for the market response and that bank health benefitted from surprises, which steepened the yield curve. We find that the effects of monetary policy shocks on banks displayed some persistence. Other bank characteristics, in particular bank size, leverage and NPL ratios, amplified the impact of monetary policy shocks on banks. After the OMT announcement, we detect that the response of bank stocks to monetary policy shocks normalised. We discover that, in the post-crisis episode, Fed monetary policy shocks influenced euro area bank stock valuations. JEL Classification: E40, E52, G14, G21
E40|Modelling yields at the lower bound through regime shifts|We propose a regime-switching approach to deal with the lower bound on nominal interest rates in dynamic term structure modelling. In the “lower bound regime”, the short term rate is expected to remain constant at levels close to the effective lower bound; in the “normal regime”, the short rate interacts with other economic variables in a standard way. State-dependent regime switching probabilities ensure that the likelihood of being in the lower bound regime increases as short rates fall closer to zero. A key advantage of this approach is to capture the gradualism of the monetary policy normalization process following a lower bound episode. The possibility to return to the lower bound regime continues exerting an influence in the early phases of normalization, pulling expected future rates downwards. We apply our model to U.S. data and show that it captures key properties of yields at the lower bound. In spite of its heavier parameterization, the regime-switching model displays a competitive out-of-sample forecasting performance. It can also be used to gauge the risk of a return to the lower bound regime in the future. As of mid-2018, it provides a more benign assessment than alternative measures. JEL Classification: E31, E40, E44, E52, E58, E62, E63
E40|Do Monetary Policy Announcements Shift Household Expectations?|We use daily survey data from Gallup to assess whether households' beliefs about economic conditions are influenced by surprises in monetary policy announcements. We first provide more general evidence that public confidence in the state of the economy reacts to certain types of macroeconomic news very quickly. Next, we show that surprises about the federal funds target rate are among the news that have statistically significant and instantaneous effects on economic confidence. In contrast, surprises about forward guidance and asset purchases do not have similar effects on household beliefs, perhaps because they are less well understood. We document heterogeneity in the responsiveness of sentiment across demographics.
E40|Uncertainty shocks, monetary policy and long-term interest rates|"We study the relationship between monetary policy and long-term rates in a structural, general equilibrium model estimated on both macro and yields data from the United States. Regime shifts in the conditional variance of productivity shocks, or ""uncertainty shocks"", are an important model ingredient. First, they account for countercyclical movements in risk premia. Second, they induce changes in the demand for precautionary saving, which affects expected future real rates. Through changes in both risk-premia and expected future real rates, uncertainty shocks account for about 1/2 of the variance of long-term nominal yields over long horizons. The remaining driver of long-term yields are changes in inflation expectations induced by conventional, autoregressive shocks. Long-term inflation expectations implied by our model are in line with those based on survey data over the 1980s and 1990s, but less strongly anchored in the 2000s. JEL Classification: C11, C34, E40, E43, E52"
E40|Do Monetary Policy Announcements Shift Household Expectations?|We use daily survey data from Gallup to assess whether households' beliefs about economic conditions are influenced by surprises in monetary policy announcements. We first provide more general evidence that public confidence in the state of the economy reacts to certain types of macroeconomic news very quickly. Next, we show that surprises to the Federal Funds target rate are among the news that have statistically significant and instantaneous effects on economic confidence. In contrast, surprises about forward guidance and asset purchases do not have similar effects on household beliefs, perhaps because they are less well understood. We document heterogeneity in the responsiveness of sentiment across demographics.
E40|Asset Liquidity and Indivisibility|We study asset liquidity in a search-theoretic framework where divisible assets can facilitate exchange for an indivisible consumption good. The distinctive characteristics of our theory are that the asset dividend can be either positive or negative and buyers can choose whether or not to carry the asset and trade for the indivisible good. Buyers' participation determines the demand for asset liquidity and hence asset price carries a component of liquidity premium to reflect its function of trade facilitation. The economy features multiple equilibria when the asset dividend is negative, due to the trade-off between the probability of trade and the endogenous cost of holding the asset.
E40|Class, education and social mobility: Madrid, 1880-1905|Relying on an extremely rich data set of individuals living in Madrid in 1880 and 1905, this article explores the relationship between class, access to education and social mobility. In order to do so, we first focus on children and assess the probability of being literate according to their parents’ socio-economic status. Although inequality in education declined during the period under study, this social gap was still substantial in 1905. Linking where these children lived with the location of public schools, we show that, although the expansion of the supply of schools improved access to education of children from disadvantaged backgrounds, the public effort was clearly insufficient to overcome the challenges these families faced. Lastly, we analyse the returns to education by studying social mobility. In this regard, we have matched the children existing in our sample in 1880 with their corresponding adult-selves in 1905, 25 years later, using record linkage techniques. Our analysis shows that letting literate enhanced children's chances of moving up the social ladder. Taking together, our results show that high inequality levels, together with an inadequate schooling system, prevented a significant fraction of the schooling-age population to access education and thus limited subsequent economic growth.
E40|Money and modernization in early modern England|Classic accounts of the English industrial revolution present a long period of stagnation followed by a fast take-off. However, recent findings of slow but steady per capita economic growth suggest that this is a historically inaccurate portrait of early modern England. This growth pattern was in part driven by specialization and structural change accompanied by an increase in market participation at both the intensive and extensive levels. These, I argue, were supported by the gradual increase in money supply made possible by the importation of precious metals from America. They allowed for a substantial increase in the monetization and liquidity levels of the economy, hence decreasing transaction costs, increasing market thickness, changing the relative incentive for participating in the market, and allowing agglomeration economies to arise. By making trade with Asia possible, precious metals also induced demand for new desirable goods, which in turn encouraged market participation. Finally, the increased monetization and market participation made tax collection easier. This helped the government to build up fiscal capacity and as a consequence to provide for public goods. The structural change and increased market participation that ensued paved the way to modernization.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E40|What's Wrong With Modern Money Theory (MMT): A Critical Primer|Recently, there has been a burst of interest in modern money theory (MMT). The essential claim of MMT is sovereign currency issuing governments do not need taxes or bonds to finance government spending and are financially unconstrained. MMT rests on a triad of arguments concerning: (i) the macroeconomics of money financed budget deficits, (ii) the employer of last resort or job guarantee program, and (iii) the history of money. This primer analyzes that triad and shows each element involves suspect economic arguments. That leads MMT to underestimate the economic costs and exaggerate the capabilities of money financed fiscal policy. MMT's analytic shortcomings render it poor economics. However, its simplistic printing press economics is proving a popular political polemic, countering the equally simplistic and wrong-headed household economics of neoliberal austerity polemic.
E40|Sraffa, saggio di interesse, sistema fiscale|This paper covers three closely interrelated stages. The first regards Sraffa’s theory. It is argued in particular that: a) Sraffa’s 1925 and 1926 articles are closely linked to Production of Commodities by means of Commodities, inasmuch they state the minimal cost, which informs indirectly the 1960 book; b) minimum costs are linear and parallel to the x axis in competition, so they are independent of the quantity produced; c) any deviation from this situation entails rents; d) rents can derive from decreasing returns (agriculture, mines) or from increasing returns (oligopoly, monopoly). Sraffa’s system solutions are discussed in depth. Particular attention is attached to the determination of the rate of interest. This leads to interconnections with the Keynesian system, which are developed in the second stage. Here the necessity emerges of rendering structural what it now conjunctural, pushing the rate of interest towards zero. This target can be reached by a fiscal instrument, i.e. by levying a tax on gross interest, close to 100%. Thus public debt ceases to be a risk, and the public deficit may increase, as happens in the majority of countries worldwide. The third stage regards the fiscal system. To obtain a similar treatment of interest, and also to try to hit oligopolies effectively, we need to render the fiscal system global. The problem arises with the remaining fiscal structure, now dominated by the principle of a worldwide basis. It is shown that this circumstance has to cease, and that internal revenue must be collected on bases which are exclusively internal. Therefore primarily the direct taxation, and then the indirect, must be reshaped. It is most interesting that a consonance is found with the taxation in vigour up the Seventies, and with De Viti theory of fiscal systems, which is national and based on the benefit principle.
E40|On the Real Determinacy and Indeterminacy of Stationary Equilibria in Monetary Models|It is known that stationary equilibria are indeterminate in some monetary models, especially in money search models with divisible money. However, most of the indeterminacy results are limited to the case that money holdings distributions have fi nite supports. In the case of infi nite supports, both determinacy and indeterminacy results are known. In this paper, using the Borsuk-Ulam theorem in Banach Space, I investigate what determines the differences.
E40|Inflation Expectations: Review and Evidence|This paper presents a comprehensive examination of the determination and evolution of inflation expectations, with a focus on emerging market and developing economies (EMDEs). The results suggest that long-term inflation expectations in EMDEs are not as well anchored as those in advanced economies, despite notable improvements over the past two decades. Indeed, in EMDEs, long-term inflation expectations are more sensitive to both domestic and global inflation shocks. However, EMDEs tend to be more successful in anchoring inflation expectations in the presence of an inflation targeting regime, high central bank transparency, strong trade integration, and a low level of public debt.
E40|Euro Area Growth and European Institutional Reforms|Euro area countries have experienced profound economic, financial and institutional changes over the last three decades. GDP growth has been very volatile, and very uneven, across countries. Which factors played a role in stirring growth and/or reducing it? We provide an atheoretical toolkit looking at a large set of real, financial, monetary and institutional variables, as possible factors behind fluctuations and differences in growth rates among euro area countries since 1990. The main outcome stresses the key positive role for long-run growth of higher European institutional integration, overall and for the periphery in specific. This result is robust across specifications and setups. If we split the European institutional integration in its main components, we can see a significant positive role for financial and political integration in the long-run. However the first seems to have beneficial effects for the core only while the opposite holds for the political integration which influences positively the periphery.
E40|From Commodity to Fiat and Now to Crypto: What Does History Tell Us?|Over time, there has been a tendency for political jurisdictions and residents to converge on a single currency. Monopoly over seigniorage is a source of political power and a valuable lifeline when sovereignty is threatened. Moreover a uniform currency, insofar as it is free of counterparty and liquidity risk, facilitates economic activity. But will digital currencies now reverse this trend toward uniformity, given the apparent ease with which they can be created? The information sensitivity of those units, evident in the fact that they trade at varying prices, suggests that they do not yet provide the core functions of money. So-called stable coins are intended to bridge this gap, but whether they can be successfully scaled up and maintain their stability is doubtful. The one unit that can clearly meet these challenges is central bank digital currency. But there would be both costs and benefits of moving in this direction.
E40|The Indeterminacy Agenda in Macroeconomics|This article surveys a subset of literature in macroeconomics which embraces the existence of multiple equilibria. This indeterminacy agenda in macroeconomics uses multiple-equilibrium models to integrate economics with psychology. Economists have long argued that business cycles are driven by shocks to the productivity of labour and capital. According to the indeterminacy agenda, the selffulfilling beliefs of financial market participants are additional fundamental factors that drive periods of prosperity and depression. The indeterminacy agenda provides a microeconomic foundation to Keynes’ General Theory that does not rely on the assumption that prices and wages are costly to change.
E40|Prudential Monetary Policy|Should monetary policy have a prudential dimension? That is, should policymakers raise interest rates to rein in financial excesses during a boom? We theoretically investigate this issue using an aggregate demand model with asset price booms and financial speculation. In our model, monetary policy affects financial stability through its impact on asset prices. Our main result shows that, when macroprudential policy is imperfect, small doses of prudential monetary policy (PMP) can provide financial stability benefits that are equivalent to tightening leverage limits. PMP reduces asset prices during the boom, which softens the asset price crash when the economy transitions into a recession. This mitigates the recession because higher asset prices support leveraged, high-valuation investors' balance sheets. An alternative intuition is that PMP raises the interest rate to create room for monetary policy to react to negative asset price shocks. The policy is most effective when there is extensive speculation and leverage limits are neither too tight nor too slack. When shadow banks are present, PMP can still replicate the benefits of macroprudential policy, but PMP is less effective (like macroprudential policy) because shadow banks respond by increasing their leverage.
E40|On the global Impact of risk-off shocks and policy-put frameworks|Global risk-off shocks can be highly destabilizing for financial markets and, absent an adequate policy response, may trigger severe recessions. Policy responses were more complex for developed economies with very low interest rates after the GFC. We document, however, that the unconventional policies adopted by the main central banks were effective in containing asset price declines. These policies impacted long rates and inspired confidence in a policy-put framework that reduced the persistence of risk-off shocks. We also show that domestic macroeconomic and financial conditions play a key role in benefiting from the spillovers of these policies during risk-off episodes. Countries like Japan, which already had very low long rates, benefited less. However, Japan still benefited from the reduced persistence of risk-off shocks. In contrast, since one of the main channels through which emerging markets are historically affected by global risk-off shocks is through a sharp rise in long rates, the unconventional monetary policy phase has been relatively benign to emerging markets during these episodes, especially for those economies with solid macroeconomic fundamentals and deep domestic financial markets. We also show that unconventional monetary policy in the US had strong effects on long interest rates in most economies in the Asia-Pacific region (which helps during risk-off events but may be destabilizing otherwise -we do not take a stand on this tradeoff).
E40|The Indeterminacy Agenda in Macroeconomics|This article surveys a subset of literature in macroeconomics which embraces the existence of multiple equilibria. This indeterminacy agenda in macroeconomics uses multiple-equilibrium models to integrate economics with psychology. Economists have long argued that business cycles are driven by shocks to the productivity of labour and capital. According to the indeterminacy agenda, the self-fulfilling beliefs of financial market participants are additional fundamental factors that drive periods of prosperity and depression. The indeterminacy agenda provides a microeconomic foundation to Keynes’ General Theory that does not rely on the assumption that prices and wages are costly to change.
E40|The Great Recession and the teaching of macroeconomics: A critical analysis of the Blanchard, Amighini and Giavazzi textbook|The publication of the seventh edition of Blanchard’s textbook (Blanchard 2017) and of the third edition of the textbook authored by Blanchard, Amighini and Giavazzi (2017) represents a significant opportunity to assess the impact of the Great Recession on macroeconomic theory and on the teaching of macroeconomics. The authors acknowledge that the mainstream economic model presented in the previous editions of their textbooks is unable to offer a significant explanation of the causes of the crisis as it completely neglects the role of the financial system. They believe that the economics profession has learned the lesson of the crisis since economists understood the limitations of the theoretical model elaborated over the last decades. In the revised editions of their textbooks they present a new theoretical model taking into account the financial system. The objective of this work is twofold: i) to show that the new model does not allow to elaborate a coherent explanation of the Great Recession and: ii) to present the pillars of an alternative theoretical model based on the lessons of Keynes, Schumpeter and Minsky.
E40|Debasements and Small Coins: An Untold Story of Commodity Money|This paper draws quantitative implications for some historical coinage issues from an existing formulation of a theory that explains the society's demand for multiple denominations. The model is parameterized to match some key monetary characteristics in late medieval England. Inconvenience for an agent due to a shortage of a type of coin is measured by the difference between his welfare given the shortage and his welfare in a hypothetical scenario that the mint suddenly eliminates the shortage. A small coin has a more prominent role than small change. Because of this role, a shortage of small coins is highly inconvenient for poor people and, the inconvenience may extend to all people when commerce advances. A debasement may effectively supply substitutes to small coins in shortage. Large increase in the minting volume, cocirculation of old and new coins, and circulation by weight, critical facts constituting the debasement puzzle, emerge in the equilibrium path that follows the debasement.
E40|Cryptocurrency, Delivery Lag, and Double Spending History|We develop a general equilibrium model of cryptocurrency to study the optimal design of a cryptocurrency system. Agents trade cryptocurrency using digital wallets, and the cryptocurrency system provides verification of a digital wallet’s history of double spending attempts. Delaying the delivery of goods until payment information is confirmed in the blockchain prevents double spending. However, double spending can be prevented without a delivery lag under some conditions if a wallet has a good reputation in terms of its history of double spending attempts. In particular, as the difficulty of mining work rises, the incentive to engage in double spending with a good wallet decreases. We study the optimal design of the cryptocurrency system in terms of the difficulty of mining work and the supply of cryptocurrency and evaluate the welfare gain that would be captured if the current Bitcoin system adopted the optimal cryptocurrency system.
E40|Real consequences of open market operations: the role of limited commitment|We study how limited commitment in credit markets affects the implementation of open market operations and characterize when they result in real indeterminacies and when they have real effects. To do so, we consider a frictional and incomplete market framework where agents face stochastic trading opportunities and limited commitment in some markets. When limited commitment does not constraint agents’ choices, we find necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of a unique monetary equilibrium. However, real indeterminacies are possible when buyers face a binding no-default constraint. We also show that when the no-default constraint binds and bonds are not priced fundamentally, open market operations generically have real effects. A sale of government bonds can increase or decrease interest rates, depending on the nature of equilibria. The direction of the interest rate effects critically depend on the size of the liquidity premium on government bonds. Finally, government bonds purchases can be used to rule out real indeterminacies, thus finding another rationale for such policy.
E40|Cryptocurrency, Imperfect Information, and Fraud|We study cryptocurrency in a monetary economy with imperfect information. The network imperfection provides traders opportunities to engage in double spending fraud, but the trackability of transaction messages allows us to impose proof-of-work (PoW), proof-of-stake (PoS), and currency exclusion to mitigate fraud incentives. However, PoW consumes energy, and PoS requires extra cryptocurrency to be held as deposits, so deterring fraud may not be optimal. We find that forks can serve as signals to detect double spending fraud and to trigger punishments. If the probability is high that forks appear under double spending, imposing PoW and PoS to deter fraud is optimal; otherwise, it is optimal to save the cost but allow for double spending. Finally, by endogenizing the incentives to double spend and the size of PoW and PoS, we show that cryptocurrency economy can achieve efficient allocation as the imperfectness of the internet is sufficiently low.
E40|Fiat Money as a Public Signal, Medium of Exchange, and Punishment|This paper studies different welfare-enhancing roles that fiat money can have. To do so, we consider an indivisible monetary framework where agents are randomly and bilaterally matched and the government has weak enforcement powers. Within this environment, we analyze state contingent monetary policies and characterize the resulting equilibria under different government record-keeping technologies. We show that a threat of injecting fiat money, conditional on private actions, can improve allocations and achieve efficiency. This type of state contingent policy is effective even when the government cannot observe any private trades and agents can only communicate with the government through cheap talk. In all these equilibria fiat money and self-enforcing credit are complements in the off equilibrium. Finally, this type of equilibria can also emerge even when the injection of fiat money is not a public signal.
E40|Peluang dan Tantangan Financial Technologi Syariah di Indonesia|This article describes how the opportunities and challenges of FinTech Sharia in the face of the industrial revolution 4.0. By using a negation approach, this study concludes that FinTech Sharia which is the development of technological innovations that are in accordance with sharia provisions and becomes a solution to avoid interest transactions. The synergy between the Islamic financial sector and information technology innovation should also be a challenge as well as an opportunity for all actors in the Islamic finance industry to catch up with the conventional financial industry.
E40|Opportunities and Challenges of Sharia Technology Financials in Indonesia|This article describes how the opportunities and challenges of FinTech Sharia in the face of the industrial revolution 4.0. By using a negation approach, this study concludes that FinTech Sharia which is the development of technological innovations that are in accordance with sharia provisions and becomes a solution to avoid interest transactions. The synergy between the Islamic financial sector and information technology innovation should also be a challenge as well as an opportunity for all actors in the Islamic finance industry to catch up with the conventional financial industry.
E40|Time-Varying Impact of Uncertainty Shocks on Macroeconomic Variables of the United Kingdom: Evidence from Over 150 Years of Monthly Data|In this paper, we analyse the impact of uncertainty (corporate bond spread) shock on inflation rate, unemployment rate, monetary policy rate, and the nominal exchange rate returns of the United Kingdom over the monthly period of 1855:01 to 2016:12. Given that we use data spanning over one and a half century, we use a time-varying parameter vector autoregressive (TVP-VAR) model. We find that a positive uncertainty shock reflects a negative demand shock as suggested by theory, and results in declines in the inflation, interest rate and dollar-pound exchange rate returns, and an increase in unemployment rate. However, this impact varies over time, with the strongest effect observed for the period after World War II until the start of the Great Moderation, and during the recent global crisis. Our results are in general robust to an alternative econometric framework (breaks-based VAR) and a metric of uncertainty (stock market volatility).
E40|Monetary Policy and Heterogeneity: An Analytical Framework|"An analytical (heterogeneous-agent New-Keynesian) HANK model allows a closed-form treatment of a wide range of NK topics: determinacy properties of interest-rate rules, resolving the forward guidance FG puzzle, amplification and fiscal multipliers, liquidity traps, and optimal monetary policy. The key channel shaping all the model's properties is that of cyclical inequality: whether the income of constrained agents moves less or more than proportionally with aggregate income. With countercyclical inequality, good news on aggregate demand gets compounded, making determinacy less likely and aggravating the FG puzzle (the resolution of which requires procyclical inequality)---a Catch-22, because countercyclical inequality is what HANK (and TANK) models need to deliver desirable amplification. The dilemma can be resolved if a distinct, ""cyclical-risk"" channel is procyclical enough. Even when both channels are countercyclical a Wicksellian rule of price-level targeting ensures determinacy and cures the puzzle. Optimal monetary policy is isomorphic to RANK and TANK but calls for less inflation stabilization. In a liquidity trap, even with countercyclical inequality and FG amplification, optimal policy does not imply larger FG duration because as FG power increases, so does its welfare cost."
E40|The Societal Benefits of Money and Interest Bearing Debt|A long standing issue in monetary theory is whether money and interest bearing debt may both play a beneficial role in facilitating transactions. This paper identifies in the misallocation of liquidity a key element to provide an answer. In a search model of money, we show that there exists an equilibrium which resembles a liquidity trap, in which debt and money are used interchangeably to trade goods and debt carries no interest, and a Pareto superior equilibrium in which money is used to trade goods and interest bearing debt to reshuffle misallocated liquidity. Monetary policy has no effect in the liquidity trap, and a liquidity e¤ect in the Pareto superior equilibrium.
E40|Monetary Policy Expectations and Money Market in Japan : Analysis of Non-traditional Monetary Policy Regimes|When the Bank of Japan (BOJ) adopts interest rate targeting under a comprehensive easing policy, the yield curve up to 12 months in the Japanese money market is driven by a single trend. It is caused by monetary policy expectations. The regime of interest rate targeting gives a sense of comfort to market participants that the regular transmission mechanism works in the yield curve of the money market. Thus, monetary policy expectations are fully transmitted to the yield curve end. On the other hand, monetary policy expectations are not fully transmitted to the yield curve end under either the quantitative and qualitative easing policy or the negative easing policy. The quantitative and qualitative easing policy and the negative interest rate policy paralyze the market function in the short-term money market. Central bankers should always keep it in mind that the transmission of interest rates along the yield curve is an integral part of the mechanism through which monetary policy affects the economy.
E40|Endogenous Discounting, Wariness, and Effcient Capital Taxation|When the discount factors that infinite lived consumers use at each date are not predetermined but are instead chosen within some set, depending on what the consumption plan is, impatience might not hold. More precisely, if the utility is the infimum of discounted utilities over that set of discount factor sequences, then preferences may be just upper semi-impatient. Such lack of lower semi-impatience, which we refer to as wariness, consists in neglecting distant gains but not distant losses. Examples are the precautionary case (a concern with the worst lifetime outcome) and the habit persistence case (a concern with a fall in living standards). The implementation of efficient allocations by trading assets sequentially requires taxes that avoid excessive savings by raising the opportunity of cost of saving up to the point of matching the marginal benefit of dishoarding at distant dates. Taxes on equilibrium plans are zero in many contexts.
E40|Crashing of Efficient Stochastic Bubbles|Efficiency is not commonly related to the crash of bubbles. However in the presence of wary agents, infinite-lived agents that are worried about distant losses, efficient bubbles may occur and, in a stochastic setting, these bubbles can crash. In this paper we characterize the Arrow-Debreu (AD) price and establish the relationship between the agents' concern about distant losses and the existence of pure charges in the AD price. We show that this pure charge induces efficient bubbles in the positive net-supply assets that complete the markets and that, as we enter some sub-tree, that pure charge may no longer present in the AD price for the sub-economy, implying the crash of the bubble. Finally, we give an example in which there is an efficient bubble with infinitely many crashes.
E40|On the Equivalence of Private and Public Money|"We develop a generic model of money and liquidity that identifies sources of liquidity bubbles and seignorage rents. We provide sufficient conditions under which a swap of monies leaves the equilibrium allocation and price system unchanged. We apply the equivalence result to the ""Chicago Plan,'' cryptocurrencies, the Indian de-monetization experiment, and Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC). In particular, we show why CBDC need not undermine financial stability."
E40|Banking Panics and the Lender of Last Resort in a Monetary Economy|This paper studies the role of a lender of last resort (LLR) in a monetary model where a shortage of bank’s monetary reserves (or a banking panic) occurs endogenously. We show that while a discount window policy introduced by the LLR is welfare improving, it reduces the banks’ ex ante incentive to hold reserves, which increases the probability of a panic, and causes moral hazard in asset investments. We also examine the combined effect of other related policies such as a penalty in lending rate, liquidity requirements and constructive ambiguity.
E40|Global Factors Driving Inflation and Monetary Policy: A Global VAR Assessment|In this paper, we examine international linkages in inflation and short-term interest rates using a global sample of OECD and emerging economies. Using a Bayesian global vector autoregression (GVAR) model, we show that for short-term interest rates both movements in inflation and output play an important role. In advanced countries, however, international factors such as foreign interest rates appear as an important driver of local interest rates. For inflation, we also find evidence for the importance of global factors, such as price developments in other countries, oil prices and the exchange rate. Again, this impact of global factors appears predominately in advanced countries.
E40|Global Factors Driving Inflation and Monetary Policy: A Global VAR Assessment| In this paper, we examine international linkages in inflation and short-term interest rates using a global sample of OECD and emerging economies. Using a Bayesian global vector autoregression (GVAR) model, we show that for short-term interest rates both movements in inflation and output play an important role. In advanced countries, however, international factors such as foreign interest rates appear as an important driver of local interest rates. For inflation, we also find evidence for the importance of global factors, such as price developments in other countries, oil prices and the exchange rate. Again, this impact of global factors appears predominately in advanced countries.
E40|Knapp's 'State Theory of Money' and its reception in German academic discourse|"In 1905, Georg Friedrich Knapp published The State Theory of Money in his native German, claiming that money is a ""creature of law"" and not connected to metals via some intrinsic value. When the English translation appeared in 1924, apparently at the wishes of John Maynard Keynes, the German version had run through four editions, upon which the last the translation builds. There also had been considerable debate about ""Chartalism"" - the idea that money derived its acceptance by legal means - in the German academic literature. Among others, Knut Wicksell and Georg Simmel commented on it. Since so far there has not been any English-language publication on this issue, it is deemed worthwhile to provide such. After presenting the main arguments that Knapp makes in his book, the academic reviews that followed are presented and evaluated."
E40|The European economic crisis from 2007 onwards in the context of a global crisis of over-production of capital - a Marxian monetary theory of value interpretation|This paper attempts to clarify how the European economic crisis from 2007 onwards can be understood from the perspective of a Marxian monetary theory of value that emphasizes in-trinsic, structural flaws regarding capitalist reproduction. Chapter two provides an empirical description of the European economic crisis, which to some extent already reflects the struc-tural theoretical framework presented in chapter three. Regarding the theoretical framework Michael Heinrich's interpretation of 'the' Marxian monetary theory of value will be presented. Heinrich identifies connections between production and realization, between profit and inter-est rate as well as between industrial and fictitious capital, which represent contradictory tendencies for which capitalism does not have simple balancing processes. In the context of a discussion of 'structural logical aspects' of Marx's Critique of the Political Economy, explana-tory deficits of Heinrich's approach are analyzed. In the following, it is argued that Fred Mose-ley's view of these 'structural logical aspects' allows empirical 'applications' of Marxian mon-etary theories of value. It is concluded that a Marxian monetary theory of value, with the characteristics of expansive capital accumulation and its limitations, facilitates a structural analysis of the European economic crisis from 2007 onwards. In this line of argument, expan-sive production patterns are expressed, among other things, in global restructuring processes, while consumption limitations are mitigated by expansive financial markets and shifts in ex-port destinations.
E40|Endogenously (non-)Ricardian beliefs|This paper develops a theory of endogenously (non-)Ricardian beliefs. That is, whether Ricardian Equivalence holds in an equilibrium depends on endogenous private sector beliefs. The novelty here is a restricted perceptions viewpoint: in complex forecasting environments, agents forecast aggregate variables with (potentially) misspecified models that are optimal within the restricted class, i.e., a restricted perceptions equilibrium (RPE). A misspecification equilibrium is a refinement of an RPE where the choice of restricted models is endogenous. Our formalization considers two predictors: in one rule Ricardian beliefs emerge as a self-confirming equilibrium, while the other features an equilibrium with non-Ricardian beliefs. We show that (1.) there can exist misspecification equilibria where beliefs are endogenously (non-)Ricardian, (2.) multiple equilibria exist where the economy can coordinate on Ricardian or non-Ricardian equilibria. The theory suggests a novel interpretation of post-war U.S. inflation data as being generated by endogenous belief-driven regime change and a nuanced trade-off for monetary policy rules.
E40|Entrepreneurial finance, home equity, and monetary policy|We model entrepreneurial finance using a combination of fiat money, traditional bank loans, and home equity loans. The banking sector is over-the- counter, where bargaining determines the pass-through from the nominal interest rate to the bank lending rate, characterizing the transmission channel of monetary policy. The results show that the strength of this channel depends on the combination of nominal and real assets used to finance investments, and thus declines in the extent to which housing is accepted as collateral. A calibration to the U.S. economy supports the theoretical results and provides novel insights on entrepreneurial finance between 2000 and 2016.
E40|The Origins of the Division of Labor in Pre-modern Times|This research explores the historical roots of the division of labor in pre-modern societies. It advances the hypothesis and establishes empirically that intra-ethnic diversity had a positive effect on the division of labor across ethnicities in the pre-modern era. Exploiting a variety of identification strategies and a novel ethnic level dataset combining geocoded ethnographic, linguistic and genetic data, it establishes that higher levels of intra-ethnic diversity were conducive to economic specialization in the pre-modern era. The findings are robust to a host of geographical, institutional, cultural and historical confounders, and suggest that variation in intra-ethnic diversity is the main predictor of the division of labor in pre-modern times.
E40|Money Function and Money Banking by Ibnu Taimiyah|Ibn Taimiyah Is an Islamic thinker and scholar of Harran, Turkey, According to Ibn Taimiyah in terms of money, he said that the main function is as means demand value and as a medium to facilitate the exchange of an item. The method of research in this article using a descriptive method that aims to discuss the function of money and money trading according to Ibn Taimiyah. The results of this study show that Islam has its own concept of the main function of money only as a means of exchange in transactions.
E40|Yeni Parasalcılık: Bir Yazın Taraması<BR>[New Monetarism: A Survey Of The Literature]|Parasal iktisat literatüründeki modeller genellikle paranın değerli olduğunu kabul ederek para miktarını ilgi odağına alan modellerdir. Yeni Parasalcı İktisat akımının görüşüne göre ise parasal teori ve politika analizinde gelişme sağlanabilmesi için karşılıksız paraya değişim aracı rolü veren - yani aslen değersiz bir varlık olan karşılıksız paranın değişim işlemlerinde nasıl değişim aracı rolü üstlendiğini gösteren, açık modeller kurulması gerekmektedir. Bunun için dağınık piyasada değişim sürecinin nasıl geliştiğini, oyuncuların faydalarını maksimize etmeleri sürecinde neler olduğunu modelleyebilmek gerekir. Bu modelleme için en uygun araç arama ve eşleştirme yaklaşımıdır. Bu çalışmada; değişim sürecinin ve özellikle paranın değişim aracı rolünün modellenebilmesini sağlayan denge arama modelleri incelenmiştir.
E40|Alternative Specifications of Fisher Hypothesis: An Empirical Investigation|Fisher hypothesis provides theoretical framework for the study of relationship between nominal interest rate and inflation. It assumes one to one direct relationship between nominal interest rate and inflation. Modifications to this model are explained by Mundell effect, Phillips curve and Friedman effect , Levi and Makin effect, Darby effect and Carmichael and Stebbing effect (Inverted Fisher Hypothesis). The objective of this paper is to explore the Fisher hypothesis and its alternative specifications using IFS Panel data set and applying General to Specific Methodology .Findings of this paper show that Inverted Fisher hypothesis holds in above average money supply ̷ GDP countries. Full Fisher effect is present only when Phillips curve effect and Friedman effect are also present in below average money supply ̷ GDP countries.
E40|The Effect of Firm Cash Holdings on Monetary Policy|Firm cash holdings increased substantially from 1980 to 2013. The overall distribution of firm cash holdings changed in the same period. We study the implications of these changes for monetary policy. We use Compustat data and a model with financial frictions that allows the calculation of the monetary policy effects according to the distribution of cash holdings. We find that the interest rate channel of the transmission of monetary policy has become more powerful, as the impact of monetary policy over real interest rates increased. With the observed changes in firm cash holdings, the real interest rate takes 3.4 months more to return to its initial value after a shock to the nominal interest rate.
E40|Credit subsidies|Credit subsidies are an alternative to interest rate and credit policies when dealing with high and volatile credit spreads. In a model where credit spreads move in response to shocks to the net worth of financial intermediaries, credit subsidies are able to stabilize those spreads avoiding the transmission to the real economy. Interest rate policy can be a substitute for credit subsidies but is limited by the zero bound constraint. Credit subsidies overcome this constraint. They are superior to a policy of credit easing as long as the government is less efficient than financial intermediaries in providing credit. JEL Classification: E31, E40, E44, E52, E58, E62, E63
E40|Why so low for so long? A long-term view of real interest rates|Prevailing explanations of the decline in real interest rates since the early 1980s are premised on the notion that real interest rates are driven by variations in desired saving and investment. But based on data stretching back to 1870 for 19 countries, our systematic analysis casts doubt on this view. The link between real interest rates and saving-investment determinants appears tenuous. While it is possible to find some relationships consistent with the theory in some periods, particularly over the last 30 years, they do not survive over the extended sample. This holds both at the national and global level. By contrast, we find evidence that persistent shifts in real interest rates coincide with changes in monetary regimes. Moreover, external influences on countries’ real interest rates appear to reflect idiosyncratic variations in interest rates of countries that dominate global monetary and financial conditions rather than common movements in global saving and investment. All this points to an underrated role of monetary policy in determining real interest rates over long horizons.
E40|Bubbly Recessions|"We develop a tractable rational bubbles model with financial frictions, downward nominal wage rigidity, and the zero lower bound. The interaction of financial frictions and nominal rigidities leads to a ""bubbly pecuniary externality,"" where competitive speculation in risky bubbly assets can result in excessive investment booms that precede inefficient busts. The collapse of a large bubble can push the economy into a ""secular stagnation"" equilibrium, where the zero lower bound and the nominal wage rigidity constraint bind, leading to a persistent and inefficient recession. We evaluate a macroprudential leaning-against-the-bubble policy that balances the trade-off between the booms and busts of bubbles."
E40|Séries de pièces et billets socialement optimales: les coûts de production comptent-ils réellement ?|By adding denominations to their coin and banknote series central banks can increase the efficiency of cash payments. In practice, however, they opt for a denominational structure with a relatively low density. The literature holds that this is because of the production costs involved. Bouhdaoui and Van Hove (2017) test this proposition by introducing a per-denomination fixed cost into the matching model of Lee et al. (2005) and parameterize the model with data on the production of US dollar banknotes. This paper aims to test this assumption using production figures of Moroccan banknotes. The results confirm that central banks could increase the density of their currency systems beyond the observed level without the efficiency gains for transactors being dwarfed by the additional production costs for the central bank itself. Our finding shows that the explanation for the low density rather lies with computational and habituation costs incurred by consumers and merchants - and anticipated by central banks - that are not yet in any of the extant models.
E40|Consumption Dynamics, Housing Collateral and Stabilisation Policies: A Way Forward for Policy Co-Ordination?|We decompose aggregate consumption of heterogeneous consumers by modelling both savers and their links to collateral constrained borrowers through a bank which prices credit risk. Savers own both firms and the commercial bank while borrowers require loans from the commercial bank to effect their consumption plans. The bank lends at a premium over the interest rate on central bank money in proportion to the riskiness of loans, the demand for loans, the asset price and the quantity of housing collateral. We show that even though house price do not represent wealth, aggregate consumption is closely related to movements in house prices. We consider the case for jointly determined macro-prudential, fiscal and monetary policies in order to minimise losses for a representative household. We consider the implications of loan default for our main results.
E40|The Government Spending Multiplier at the Zero Lower Bound: Evidence from the Euro Area|We use an Interacted Panel Vector Autoregressive (IPVAR) model, to investigate the effects of a government spending shock when the interest rate is at zero lower bound (ZLB). We also compare the responses of variables of interest at the ZLB with what we get when a government spending shock occurs in normal times (i.e. when the interest rate is larger than 0.25). We identify the government spending shock by sign restrictions and use the European Commission forecasts of government expenditure to account for fiscal foresight. For the baseline specification we find lower multipliers in times in which the ZLB is binding. However, fiscal foresight is not the only problem in fiscal VARs related to limited information problems. Usually, VAR models can only consider a limited number of variables due to degree of freedom problems. Several authors have shown (see Stock and Watson(2005) for a survey) how principal components extracted from a larger number of variables, can approximate unobserved factors driving most (if not all) of the macroeconomic variables. Therefore, we develop a Factor-Augmented IPVAR model (FAIPVAR) and find that the multipliers are very similar among states, ranging between 1.08 and 1.41 at the ZLB and between 1.26 and 1.39 away from it. We also divide our sample, considering two groups of countries in terms of high and low debt-to-GDP ratios. We find that countries with high levels of debt-to-GDP ratio show relatively lower multipliers. Considering the FAIPVAR model, the government spending multiplier ranges between 2.69 and 3.54 for core countries and between 0.82 and 1.37 for peripheral countries. Therefore, our findings support some recent studies, which suggest that the government spending multiplier is even larger if the debt-to-GDP ratio is low.
E40|Community currency, local currency, negotiable voucher and others: a theoretical attempt to classify money substitutes into a system|"In our study we tried to group money substitutes including complementary currencies known as ""community currencies? in particular pursuing a new kind of approach. This objective was supported by the question whether there is a structuring principle according to which we can make groups of the different types of currencies and money substitutes in a structured manner. We have substantial and continuously developing literature of community currencies. However, as we know there are not many publications and studies about their classification. It is true that several authors and organizations have tried to make categories of currencies that exist besides legal currencies or that can be operated (e.g. Lietaer, Kennedy, Regiogelde. V Cooperation, Utterguggenberger Institution, Blanc, Bode, Boonstra and his colleagues, Greco, Mertignoni), but our opinion is that they are incomplete.On the one hand the aspects of classification developed in literature do not put the criteria of the classification into the whole monetary system and the currency system, on the other hand the main goal of certain criteria was not to create a structured system but to classify and to categorise the unique trials of money substitutes on the basis of some criteria. In our study we try to fill the two gaps above placing the certain types of money substitutes into a single system and a conceptual scheme."
E40|Macroeconomic Independence and Optimum Currency Area in the Eurozone: An Alternative Assessment|This paper attempts to investigate the degree of macroeconomic autonomy among the 12 original members of the eurozone. We develop a new measure of macroeconomic independence based on the concept of the desired policy interest rate each country would have chosen if it had retained its own currency and independent monetary policy. If it is detached from the centrally imposed policy rate and the two behave differently, we take it as an indication that the country should be constrained by the common central bank and has low degree of macroeconomic independence (MAI).We find that the original twelve members have indeed enjoyed varying degrees of MAI. Austria, France, Germany, Italy, and Luxembourg retain highest degree of MAI while Ireland, Greece, and Spain seem to have suffered from the lowest degree of MAI. The newly proposed MAI performs well as an OCA index, if not better than existing indices. On the one hand, so called the ?core? countries show up as those that have maintained high MAI. On the one hand, the ?periphery? countries have retained low MAI in the currency union.
E40|External debt composition and domestic credit cycles|We assess the role of external debt in shaping the dynamics of domestic credit cycles. Using quarterly data for 40 countries between 1980 and 2015, we examine four dimensions of external debt composition: instrument, sector, currency and maturity. We show that the first two dimensions provide valuable information about the likelihood of credit booms and busts. In particular, we find that a higher share of external bank lending in the form of bonds is associated with a greater likelihood of credit booms. Our results also reveal that credit busts tend to be associated with a lower share of interbank lending and a higher share of lending from banks to nonbanks.
E40|The New Keynesian Model with Stochastically Varying Policies|The Multiplicative Ergodic Theorem provides a novel general method- ology to analyze rational expectations models with stochastically vary- ing coecients. The approach is applied for the first time to economics and analyzes the canonical New Keynesian model with a Taylor rule which switches randomly between an aggressive and a passive reaction to in ation. The paper delineates the trade-o of the central bank of being passive in some periods and aggressive in others. Moreover, it is shown how this trade-o depends on the stochastic process governing the randomness in the central bank's policy. Finally, explicit solution formulas are derived in the case of determinateness as well as inde- terminateness. In doing so he paper considerably extends the current approach.
E40|A Note on Krugman's Liquidity Trap|The 1998 stylized model of Krugman constituted a ground-breaking contribution explaining the long lasting Japanese stagnation as the consequence of a ‘liquidity trap’ situation featuring a negative natural interest rate. Our critique to such a proposal will focus on three aspects. First, we will question the logical structure of the model, providing an alternative interpretation of its closure. Second, we will argue that aggregate demand has no role in the explanation, as the cause for the persistent excess of savings over desired investment is the result of a supply side shock plus a financial rigidity on the nominal interest rate. Finally, we will discuss the restrictive assumptions needed to get a negative natural interest rate, the concept that lies at the foundation of the entire theoretical apparatus. Our conclusion is that the explanation offered within the 1998 contribution does not provide a satisfying rationale for the Japanese stagnation.
E40|Lessons from the money mania for money creation|The first attempt in the human history to consciously create money ended in a collapse in 1720, well-known as the money mania. This unfortunate start raises doubt on money creation as a whole such that today there are still voices questioning created money even though it is now indispensible for the world economy. But this misfortune also has the bright side in that it delivers an extensive example of risks which created money has to consider. In this paper, I review the central facts from the money mania and highlight lessons we can still learn from it.
E40|A Monetary Model of Blockchain|The recent emergence of blockchain-based cryptocurrencies has received a considerable attention. The growing acceptance of cryptocurrencies has led many to speculate that the blockchain technology can surpass a traditional centralized monetary system. However, no monetary model has yet been developed to study the economics of the blockchain. This paper builds a model of the economy with a single generally acepted blockchain-based currency. In the spirit of the search and matching literature I use a matching function to model the operation of the blockchain. The formulation of the money demand is taken from a workhorse of monetary economics - Lagos and Wright (2005). I show that in a blockchain-based monetary system money demand features a precautionary motive which is absent in the standard Lagos-Wright model. Due to this precautionary money demand the monetary equilibrium can be stable for some calibrations. I also used the developed model to study how the equilibrium return on money is dependent on the blockchain parameters such as mining costs and rewards.
E40|A model of endogenous financial inclusion: implications for inequality and monetary policy|We propose a monetary model with endogenous credit market participation to study the impact of financial inclusion on inequality and welfare. We find that consumption inequality results from differences in agents’ decision to access financial services. This heterogeneity generates a pecuniary externality, potentially resulting in some agents over- consuming. Moreover, monetary policy has distributional consequences. To quantify these effects, we calibrate our model to India, accounting for a third of observed consumption inequality. Finally, we analyze various policies aimed at increasing financial inclusion and find that a direct transfer to bank account holders yields the highest welfare and lowest consumption inequality.
E40|The effectiveness of monetary and fiscal policy shocks on U.S. inequality: the role of uncertainty|Abstract The study examines the effect of monetary and fiscal policy on inequality conditioned on low and high uncertainty. We use U.S. quarterly time series data on different measures of income, labour earnings, consumption and total expenditure inequality as well as economic uncertainty. Our analysis is based on the impulse responses from the local projection methods that enable us to recover a smoothed average of the underlying impulse response functions. The results show that both contractionary monetary and fiscal policies increase inequality, and in the presence of relatively higher levels of uncertainty, the effectiveness of both policies is weakened. Thus, pointing to the need for policy-makers to be aware of the level of uncertainty while conducting economic policies in the U.S.
E40|The Neutral Rate in Canada: 2018 Estimates|The neutral nominal policy rate serves as a benchmark for assessing the degree of monetary stimulus and provides a medium- to long-run anchor for the policy rate. Since quantitative measures of the neutral rate are subject to considerable uncertainty, Bank staff rely on four different approaches to estimate the Canadian neutral rate. These approaches take explicit account of domestic and global factors, the relative importance of which varies with each approach. Informed by this analysis, Bank staff estimate that the Canadian neutral nominal policy rate lies between 2.5 and 3.5 per cent, the same range reported in the April 2017 Monetary Policy Report.
E40|Exchange rate pass-through into euro area inflation. An estimated structural model|We evaluate the exchange rate pass-through (ERPT) into euro area (EA) inflation by estimating an open economy New Keynesian model with Bayesian methods. In the model ERPT is incomplete because of local currency pricing and distribution services, with the latter allowing to distinguish between ERPT at the border and ERPT at the consumer level. Our main results are the following ones. First, ERPT into EA prices is, in general, high. Second, it is particularly high in correspondence of exchange rate and monetary policy shocks. Third, the EA monetary stance is relevant for ERPT; in particular, ERPT is higher if the stance is accommodative in correspondence of expansionary demand shocks.
E40|(Real-)Time Is Money|In the age of high-frequency trading in financial markets and faster payment services in account-to-account (A2A) transactions of bank retail customers, it may seem odd that the shortest maturity that is traded in the money market is overnight. This situation reflects policies implemented by central banks, which provide banks with free intraday liquidity. Such policies are difficult to ground in theory and have limitations which central banks could remedy by conducting real-time monetary policies. The article details how, following that decision, central banks could adapt some features of their monetary policy operational frameworks and of their real-time gross settlement systems. In any case, the potential benefits of such a move should be carefully weighed against the costs for the central banks, financial intermediaries and society.
E40|Money and Capital in a Persistent Liquidity Trap|In this paper we analyze the implications of a persistent liquidity trap in a monetary model with asset scarcity and price exibility. We show that a liquidity trap leads to an increase in cash holdings and may be associated with a long-term output decline. This long-term impact is a supply-side effect that may arise when agents are heterogeneous. It occurs in particular with a persistent deleveraging shock, leading investors to hold cash yielding a low return. Policy implications differ from shorter-run analyses. Quantitative easing leads to a deeper liquidity trap. Exiting the trap by increasing expected inflation or applying negative interest rates does not solve the asset scarcity problem.
E40|Monetary Policy in the Grip of a Pincer Movement|Monetary policy has been in the grip of a pincer movement, caught between growing financial cycles, on the one hand, and an inflation process that has become quite insensitive to domestic slack, on the other. This two-pronged attack has laid bare some of the limitations of prevailing monetary policy frameworks, particularly in the analytical notions that have guided much of its practice. We argue that the natural rate of interest as a guidepost for monetary policy has a couple of limitations: the concept, as traditionally conceived, neglects the state of the financial cycle in the definition of equilibrium; in addition, it underestimates the role that monetary policy regimes may play in persistent real interest rate movements. These limitations may expose monetary policy to blindsiding by the collateral damage that comes from an unhinged financial cycle. We propose a more balanced approach that recognises the difficulties monetary policy has in fine-tuning inflation and responds more systematically to the financial cycle.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E40|A risk-centric model of demand recessions and macroprudential policy|When investors are unwilling to hold the economy's risk, a decline in the interest rate increases the Sharpe ratio of the market and equilibrates the risk markets. If the interest rate is constrained from below, risk markets are instead equilibrated via a decline in asset prices. However, the latter drags down aggregate demand, which further drags prices down, and so on. If investors are pessimistic about the recovery, the economy becomes highly susceptible to downward spirals due to dynamic feedbacks between asset prices, aggregate demand, and potential growth. In this context, belief disagreements generate highly destabilizing speculation that motivates macroprudential policy.
E40|Central Bank Reputation and Inflation-Unemployment Performance: Empirical Evidence from an Executive Survey of 62 Countries|Although there is a well-established theoretical literature that links central bank (CB) reputation with inflation performance following Barro and Gordon, there is little empirical work testing the relationship rigorously. This paper empirically tests the impact of reputation on inflation-unemployment performance using a novel set of data on CB reputation--an annual local business manager survey on central bank policy covering 62 countries during 1995-2016. This paper finds that CB reputation is a significant determinant of inflation: the results of an FE panel and Arellano-Bond difference GMM model show that high-reputation CBs have achieved better inflation performances over the past 20 years with lower levels of inflation than others, holding the output gap and unemployment rate constant. This result remains robust to various control variables including money growth, past inflation levels, exchange rates, and financial crisis dummies. This paper also finds that high CB reputation is associated with a tight anchoring of inflation expectations to inflation targets in inflation-targeting countries. The effects of reputation on the volatility of inflation and unemployment rates are found to be not robust. This paper offers evidence of the opposite-direction causality as well that goes from high inflation to decreased CB reputation.
E40|Analysis of Changes in Determinants of Foreigners¡Ç Bond Investment before and after the Global Financial Crisis: The Case of Korea (in Korean)|This study employs regression analysis and variance decomposition based on portfolio selection and interest rate parity theories to examine whether the determinants of foreigners' bond investment for Korea, such as the degrees of arbitrage opportunities as well as global and country risks, have changed after the global financial crisis. Empirical results show that arbitrage opportunities played a more important role in the pre-crisis period (2004-07), while risk factors were more influential in the post-crisis period (2010-17). In addition, the explanatory power of the regression model decreased after the crisis, which implies that the influence of variables other than arbitrage opportunities and risk factors may have increased.
E40|Dynamic Effects of Monetary Policy Shocks on Macroeconomic Volatility|We use a simple New Keynesian model, with firm specific capital, non-zero steady-state inflation, long-run risks and Epstein-Zin preferences to study the volatility implications of a monetary policy shock. An unexpected increase in the policy rate by 150 basis points causes output and inflation volatility to rise around 10% above their steady-state standard deviations. VAR based empirical results support the model implications that contractionary shocks increase volatility. The volatility effects of the shock are driven by agents' concern about the (in) ability of the monetary authority to reverse deviations from the policy rule and the results are re-enforced by the presence of non-zero trend inflation.
E40|Steuart, Smith, and the ‘system of commerce’: international trade and monetary theory in late-18th century british political economy|Though contemporaries, Adam Smith and Sir James Steuart are commonly portrayed as men belonging to different eras. Whereas Smith went down in history both as founder of Classical Political Economy and patron of economic liberalism, Steuart became known as the last, outdated advocate of mercantilist policies in Britain. Smith himself was responsible for popularizing the notion of the ‘system of commerce’ as an approach to political economy that dominated British thought during the early modern period. As it evolved into a historiographical concept, the mercantile system came to be seen as an international trade theory grounded upon the fallacious doctrine of the favorable balance of trade. In the Wealth of Nations, however, Smith puts limited emphasis on international trade as a theoretical concern. His analysis of the subject, moreover, was marred by lack of analytical clarity, which caused him to be chastised by some among his followers who adhered more enthusiastically to the free trade cause. Given Smith’s doubtful credentials as a free trade theorist, in this paper we try to analyze the reasons that led him and Steuart to be historically placed on opposite sides of the mercantilist divide. To do so, we analyze the works of both authors in depth, showing that their disagreements in matters of economic policy have chiefly to do with different views about the role of money in the economy. Additionally, we explore how early-19th century writers helped forge the intellectual profiles of both Steuart and Smith.
E40|Risk management-driven policy rate gap|We employ real-time data available to the US monetary policy makers to estimate a Taylor rule augmented with a measure of financial uncertainty over the period 1969–2008. We find evidence in favor of a systematic response to financial uncertainty over and above that to expected inflation, output gap, and output growth. However, this evidence regards the Greenspan–Bernanke period only. Focusing on this period, the ”risk-management” approach is found to be responsible for monetary policy easings for up to 75 basis points of the federal funds rate.
E40|Beauty Contests and the Term Structure|Abstract A novel decomposition highlights the scope for information to in uence the term structure of interest rates. Based on the law of total covariance, we show that real term premia in macroeconomic models contain a component that depends on covariances of realised stochastic discount factors and a component that depends on covariances of expectations of those stochastic discount factors. The impact of different informational assumptions can then be identified by looking at their effect on the second, expectational, component. If agents have full information about technology in a simple macro-finance model then the conditional covariance of expectations is low, which contributes to the real term premia implied by the model being at least an order of magnitude too small, a result that is unchanged if some components of technology are unobservable or observed with noise. To generate realistic term premia, we draw on the beauty contest literature by differentiating between private and public information and introducing the possibility of strategic complementarities in the formation of expectations. A quantitative version of the model is found to explain a significant proportion of observed term premia when estimated using data on expectations of productivity growth from the Survey of Professional Forecasters.
E40|Partners or Strangers? Cooperation, Monetary Trade, and the Choice of Scale of Interaction|"We show that monetary exchange facilitates the transition from small to large-scale economic interactions. In an experiment, subjects chose to play an ""intertemporal cooperation game"" either in partnerships or in groups of strangers where payoffs could be higher. Theoretically, a norm of mutual support is sufficient to maximize efficiency through large-scale cooperation. Empirically, absent a monetary system, participants were reluctant to interact on a large scale; and when they did, efficiency plummeted compared to partnerships because cooperation collapsed. This failure was reversed only when a stable monetary system endogenously emerged: the institution of money mitigated strategic uncertainty problems."
E40|Money is More than a Memory|Impersonal exchange is the hallmark of an advanced society. One key institution for impersonal exchange is money, which economic theory considers just a primitive arrangement for monitoring past conduct in society. If so, then a public record of past actions—or memory—supersedes the function performed by money. This intriguing theoretical postulate remains untested. In an experiment, we show that the suggested functional equality between money and memory does not translate into an empirical equivalence. Monetary systems perform a richer set of functions than just revealing past behaviors, which proves to be crucial in promoting large-scale cooperation.
E40|Intermediation Markups and Monetary Policy Passthrough|"We introduce intermediation frictions into the classical monetary model with fully flexible prices. Trade in financial assets happens through intermediaries who bargain over a full set of state contingent claims with their customers. Monetary policy is redistributive and affects intermediaries' ability to extract rents; this opens up a new channel for transmission of monetary shocks into rates in the wider economy, which may be labelled the markup channel of monetary policy. Passthrough efficiency depends crucially on the anticipated sensitivity of future monetary policy to future stock market returns (the ""Central Bank Put""). The strength of this put determines the room for maneuver of monetary policy: when it is strong, monetary policy is destabilizing and may lead to market tantrums where deteriorating risk premia, illiquidity and markups mutually reinforce each other; when the put is too strong, passthrough becomes fully inefficient and a surprise easing even begets a rise in real rates."
E40|Financial spillovers of international monetary policy: Six hypotheses on the Latin American case, 2010-2016|This paper aims to determine if there is a differential incidence between conventional and unconventional monetary policy of developed economies in Latin American financial markets, evaluating six hypotheses that can be extracted from the economic literature. Financial spillovers are considered on two dimensions: financial asset prices (fixed income and equity markets) and interest rates (monetary policy rate and loans rates). The main finding is that both conventional and unconventional monetary policies in US and Eurozone have a significant and direct incidence on Latin American fixed income markets, although the effect of unconventional monetary policy is low. In contrast, only unconventional monetary policy has a significant effect on Latin American equity markets. On the other hand, regardless of the exchange rate pass-through of Latin American economies, the conventional monetary policy of the United States and Eurozone has a low but significant incidence on both monetary policy rates and lending interest rates in Latin America, while the unconventional monetary policies have no incidence. As anticipated, US conventional and unconventional monetary policy have a higher incidence on Latin American financial markets with respect to the monetary policy decisions in Eurozone and Japan. Finally, free trade agreements between developed economies and Latin American economies do not have a significant impact on the relationship between international monetary policy and Latin American financial markets.
E40|Some Simple Bitcoin Economics|In a novel model of an endowment economy, we analyze coexistence and competition between traditional fiat money (Dollar) and another intrinsically worthless medium of exchange, not controlled by a central bank, such as Bitcoin. Agents can trade consumption goods in either currency or hold on to currency for speculative purposes. A central bank ensures a Dollar inflation target, while Bitcoin mining is decentralized via proof-of-work. We analyze Bitcoin price evolution and interaction between the Bitcoin price and monetary policy which targets the Dollar. We obtain a fundamental pricing equation, which in its simplest form implies that Bitcoin prices form a martingale. We derive conditions, under which Bitcoin speculation cannot happen, and the fundamental pricing equation must hold. We show that the block rewards are not a tax on Bitcoin holders: they are financed by Dollar taxes imposed by the Dollar central bank. We discuss monetary policy implications and characterize the range of equilibria.
E40|Credit mechanics - a precursor to the current money supply debate|This paper assesses the theory of credit mechanics within the context of the current money supply debate. Credit mechanics and related approaches were developed by a group of German monetary economists during the 1920s-1960s. Credit mechanics overcomes a one-sided, bank-centric view of money creation, which is often encountered in monetary theory. We show that the money supply is influenced by the interplay of loan creation and repayment rates; the relative share of credit volume neutral debtor-to-debtor and creditor-to-creditor payments; the availability of loan security; and the behavior of non-banks and non-borrowing bank creditors . With the standard textbook models of money creation now discredited, we argue that a more general approach to money supply theory involving credit mechanics needs to be established.
E40|Credit mechanics: a precursor to the current money supply debate|This paper assesses the theory of credit mechanics within the context of the current money supply debate. Credit mechanics and related approaches were developed by a group of German monetary economists during the 1920s-1960s. Credit mechanics overcomes a one-sided, bank-centric view of money creation, which is often encountered in monetary theory. We show that the money supply is influenced by the interplay of loan creation and repayment rates; the relative share of credit volume neutral debtor-to-debtor and creditor-to-creditor payments; the availability of loan security; and the behavior of non-banks and non-borrowing bank creditors . With the standard textbook models of money creation now discredited, we argue that a more general approach to money supply theory involving credit mechanics needs to be established.
E40|The Impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on Small Business|There are concerns that the Dodd-Frank Act (DFA) has impeded small business lending. By increasing the fixed regulatory compliance requirements needed to make business loans and operate a bank, the DFA disproportionately reduced the incentives for all banks to make very modest loans and reduced the viability of small banks, whose small-business share of C&I loans is generally much higher than that of larger banks. Despite an economic recovery, the small loan share of C&I loans at large banks and banks with $300 or more million in assets has fallen by 9 percentage points since the DFA was passed in 2010, with the magnitude of the decline twice as large at small banks. Controlling for cyclical effects and bank size, we find that these declines in the small loan share of C&I loans are almost all statistically attributed to the change in regulatory regime. Examining Federal Reserve survey data, we find evidence that the DFA prompted a relative tightening of bank credit standards on C&I loans to small versus large firms, consistent with the DFA inducing a decline in small business lending through loan supply effects. We also empirically model the pace of business formation, finding that it had downshifted around the time when the DFA and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act were announced. Timing patterns suggest that business formation has more recently ticked higher, coinciding with efforts to provide regulatory relief to smaller banks via modifying rules implementing the DFA. The upturn contrasts with the impact of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which appears to persistently restrain business formation.
E40|Self-confirming Price Dispersion in Monetary Economies|In a monetary economy, we show that price dispersion arises as an equilibrium outcome without the need for costly simultaneous search or any heterogeneity in preferences, production costs, or search technologies. A distribution of money holdings among buyers makes sellers indifferent across a set of posted prices, leading to a non-degenerate price distribution. This price distribution, in turn, makes buyers indifferent across a range of money balances, rationalizing the non-degenerate distribution of money holdings. We completely characterize the distribution of posted prices and money holdings in any equilibrium. Equilibria with price dispersion admit higher maximum prices than observed in any single-price equilibrium. Also, price dispersion reduces welfare by creating mismatch between posted prices and money balances. Inflation exacerbates this welfare loss by shifting the distribution towards higher prices.
E40|Monetary policy and liquid government debt|We examine the conduct of monetary policy in a world where the supply of outside money is controlled by the fiscal authority–a scenario increasingly relevant for many developed economies today. Central bank control over the long-run inflation rate depends on whether fiscal policy is Ricardian or Non-Ricardian. The optimal monetary policy follows a generalized Friedman rule that eliminates the liquidity premium on scarce treasury debt. We derive conditions for determinacy under both fiscal regimes and show that they do not necessarily correspond to the Taylor principle. In addition, Non-Ricardian regimes may suffer from multiplicity of steady-states when the government runs persistent deficits.
E40|On the Economics of Digital Currencies|Can a monetary system in which privately issued cryptocurrencies circulate as media of exchange work? Is such a system stable? How should governments react to digital currencies? Can these currencies and government-issued money coexist? Are cryptocurrencies consistent with an efficient allocation? These are some of the important questions that the sudden rise of cryptocurrencies has brought to contemporary policy discussions. To answer these questions, we construct a model of competition among privately issued .at currencies. We .nd that a purely private arrangement fails to implement an efficient allocation, even though it candeliver price stability under certain technological conditions. Currency comptition creates problems for monetary policy implementation under conventional methods. However, it is possible to design a policy rule that uniquely implements an efficient allocation by driving private currencies out of the market. We also show that unique implementation of an efficient allocation can be achieved without government intervention if productive capital is introduced.
E40|Bubbly Recessions|We analyze the welfare tradeoff of rational bubbles in a tractable growth model with financial frictions and downward nominal wage rigidity. The monetary authority follows an inflation targeting Taylor-type interest rate rule that is constrained by the zero lower bound. We show that competitive speculation in a risky bubbly asset can result in an excessive investment boom that precedes an inefficient bust, and a larger boom precedes a deeper bust. In particular, the collapse of a large bubble can push the economy into a “secular stagnation” equilibrium, where the zero lower bound and the nominal wage rigidity constraint bind, leading to a persistent recession with inefficiently low employment, investment and output. The inefficiency is due to the pecuniary externality of speculative investment that arises from combination of financial frictions and nominal rigidities. The model provides a framework to evaluate macroprudential leaning-against-the-bubble policies to balance the welfare tradeoff between the boom and bust phases of bubbly episodes.
E40|Further insights on endogenous money and the liquidity preference theory of interest|We present a simple stock-ow consistent (SFC) model to discuss some recent claims made by Angel Asensio in the Journal of Post Keynesian Economics regarding the relationship between endogenous money theory and the liquidity preference theory of the rate of interest. We incorporate Asensio's assumptions as far as possible and use simulation experiments to investigate his arguments regarding the presence of a crowding-out effect, the relationship between interest rates and credit demand, and the ability of the central bank to steer interest rates through varying the stock of money. We show that in a fully-specified SFC model, some of Asensio's conclusions are not generally valid (most importantly, the presence of a crowding-out effect is ambiguous), and that in any case, his use of a non-SFC framework leads him to ignore important mechanisms which can contribute to a better understanding of the behaviour of interest rates. More generally, this paper hence once more demonstrates the utility of the SFC approach in research on monetary economics 1930s.
E40|The Fallacy of the natural rate of interest and Zero Lower Bound economics|This paper provides a critique of zero lower bound (ZLB) economics which has become the new orthodoxy for explaining stagnation. ZLB economics is an extension of pre-Keynesian economics which attributes macroeconomic dysfunction to rigidities and market imperfections. The ZLB is the latest rigidity in that pre-Keynesian tradition. The paper argues negative nominal interest rates, even if feasible, may be unable to remedy Keynesian demand shortage unemployment, and might even aggravate the problem. That is because there exist non-reproduced assets whose return dominates that of investment, and saving may also increase in response to negative rates. Consequently, there may be no natural rate of interest.
E40|Some Insights into the Development of Cryptocurrencies|Cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin might revolutionize the economy through enabling peer-to-peer based transactions by abolishing the need for a trusted intermediary. As for now, Bitcoin remains to be the best recognized cryptocurrency, in particular in terms of market capitalization. However, as this paper shows, there are plenty of alternatives. This paper outlines the historical roots which have led to the creation of privately emitted, cryptography based digital currencies. Additionally, this paper discusses future possible hurdles of the development of cryptocurrencies and outlines features which might infl uence the success of a cryptocurrency. Insights into the beginning of cryptocurrency development are gained by analysis of the publicly available DOACC dataset. The paper does so by providing an overview of the techniques and mechanisms used by cryptocurrencies. It shows that newly created cryptocurrencies tend to be very similar in some properties in the early stages but new features and more diversity developed in more recent years. Additionally, newly created cryptocurrencies tend more and more to create a fixed number of coins before the initial announcement in order to sell these in Initial Coin Offerings. Even when the amount of premining increases over years, it remains at lower levels on the aggregate.
E40|Smooth Breaks And Nonlinear Mean Reversion In Real Interest Parity: Evidence From East Asian Countries|This study aims to explore the empirical validity of the real interest rate parity (RIP) hypothesis for East Asian countries using Japan as the base country. To this end, we employ the recently proposed unit root tests of Christopoulos and Leon-Ledesma (2010) that account for both multiple smooth structural breaks of unknown form and nonlinear mean reversion in the series. Our empirical results uncover overwhelming evidences in favor of the RIP hypothesis for the whole countries in our sample. More specifically, through a Fourier approximation, it is observed that all real interest rate differentials display a mean reverting behavior around an infrequently smooth-breaking mean, with the breaks being in accordance with the financial reforms and economic crises witnessed by the countries. Moreover, the degree of mean reversion appears to vary nonlinearly with the size of real interest rate appreciations and depreciations.
E40|Some simple Bitcoin Economics|How do Bitcoin prices evolve? What are the consequences for monetary policy? We answer these questions in a novel, yet simple endowment economy. There are two types of money, both useful for transactions: Bitcoins and Dollars. A central bank keeps the real value of Dollars constant, while Bitcoin production is decentralized via proof-of-work. We obtain a ``fundamental condition'', which is a version of the exchange-rate indeterminacy result in Kareken-Wallace (1981), and a ``speculative'' condition. Under some conditions, we show that Bitcoin prices form convergent supermartingales or submartingales and derive implications for monetary policy.
E40|The Impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on Small Business|There are concerns that the Dodd-Frank Act (DFA) has impeded small-business lending. By increasing the fixed regulatory compliance requirements needed to make business loans and operate a bank, the DFA disproportionately reduced the incentives for all banks to make very modest loans and reduced the viability of small banks, whose small-business share of commercial and industrial (C&I) loans is generally much higher than that of larger banks. Despite an economic recovery, the small-loan share of C&I loans at large banks and banks with $300 or more million in assets has fallen 9 percentage points since the DFA was passed in 2010, with the magnitude of the decline twice as large at small banks. Controlling for cyclical effects and bank size, we find that these declines in the small-loan share of C&I loans are almost all statistically attributed to the change in regulatory regime. Examining Federal Reserve survey data, we find evidence that the DFA prompted a relative tightening of bank credit standards on C&I loans to small versus large firms, consistent with the DFA inducing a decline in small-business lending through loan supply effects. We also empirically model the pace of business formation, finding that it had downshifted around the time when the DFA and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act were announced. Timing patterns suggest that business formation has more recently ticked higher, coinciding with efforts to provide regulatory relief to smaller banks via modifying rules implementing the DFA. The upturn contrasts with the impact of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which appears to persistently restrain business formation.
E40|An Heterogeneous-Agent New-Monetarist Model with an Application to Unemployment|We develop a New Monetarist model with expenditure and unemployment risks that generates equilibria with non-degenerate distribution of money holdings. Distributional effects can overturn key insights of the model with degenerate distributions, e.g., the value of money depends on the income distribution; a one-time money injection raises aggregate real balances in the short run price adjustments look sluggish; anticipated inflation can raise output and welfare; there can be a long-run trade-o¤ between inflation and unemployment. Distributional effects also generate a quantitatively significant aggregate demand channel through which transfers financed with money creation can raise employment, and productivity shocks are amplified.
E40|Consumption Dynamics, Housing Collateral and Stabilisation Policies: A Way Forward for Policy Co-Ordination?|We decompose aggregate consumption of heterogeneous consumers by modelling both savers and their links to collateral constrained borrowers through a bank which prices credit risk. Savers own both firms and the commercial bank while borrowers require loans from the commercial bank to e¤ect their consumption plans. The bank lends at a premium over the interest rate on central bank money in proportion to the riskiness of loans, the demand for loans, the asset price and the quantity of housing collateral. We show that even though house prices do not represent wealth, aggregate consumption is closely related to movements in house prices. House price-induced changes may lead to large variations in household spending via the collateral effect with important policy implications. We consider the case for jointly determined macro-prudential, fiscal and monetary policies in order to minimise losses for a representative household. We also analyse the implications when there is uncertainty over some of the policy parameters such as the loan default rate.
E40|Monetary and Fiscal Policy in a Cash-in-advance Economy with Quasi-geometric Discounting|In this paper, we analyze monetary and fiscal policies in a dynamic general equilibrium model in which households have a preference of quasi-geometric discounting and face a cash- in-advance constraint. From this policy analysis, we obtain the following two outcomes. First, when the government can control only the money supply, the Friedman rule is optimal. Second, when the government can also control income tax rates, the Friedman rule may not be optimal.
E40|Beauty contests and the term structure|A novel decomposition highlights the scope for information to influence the term structure of interest rates. Based on the law of total covariance, we show that real term premia in macroeconomic models contain a component that depends on covariances of realised stochastic discount factors and a component that depends on covariances of expectations of those stochastic discount factors. The impact of different informational assumptions can then be identified by looking at their effect on the second, expectational, component. If agents have full information about technology in a simple macro-finance model then the conditional covariance of expectations is low, which contributes to the real term premia implied by the model being at least an order of magnitude too small, a result that is unchanged if some components of technology are unobservable or observed with noise. To generate realistic term premia, we draw on the beauty contest literature by differentiating between private and public information and introducing the possibility of strategic complementarities in the formation of expectations. A quantitative version of the model is found to explain a significant proportion of observed term premia when estimated using data on expectations of productivity growth from the Survey of Professional Forecasters.
E40|Cryptocurrencies: A Crash Course in Digital Monetary Economics|This article reviews what cryptocurrencies are, and it frames them within the context of historical monetary experiences and contemporary monetary economics. The article argues that, as pure fiduciary private money, cryptocurrencies are a bubble without a fundamental value and they will not provide, in general, optimal amounts of money or deliver price stability. Nevertheless, cryptocurrencies can play a role in improving the current means of payments and in disciplining central banks into providing better government‐run fiduciary monies.
E40|An early warning indicator system to monitor the unsecured interbank funds market|A core goal of regulators and financial authorities is to understand how market prices convey information on the financial health of its participants. From this viewpoint we build an Early-Warning Indicators System (EWIS) that allows for identifying those financial institutions perceived as risky counterparts by the participants of the interbank market. We use micro-level data from bilateral overnight unsecured loans performed in the interbank market between January 2011 and December 2014. The EWIS identifies those participants that systematically pay high prices for liquidity in this market. We employ coverage tests to estimate EWIS’ robustness and consistency. We find that financial institutions with an elevated frequency of signals tend to exhibit a net borrower liquidity position in the interbank market, hence suggesting they are facing recurrent liquidity needs. Those institutions also exhibit higher probability of insolvency measured by the Z-score indicator. Thus, our results support the existence of market discipline based on peer-monitoring. Overall, the EWIS may assist financial authorities in focusing their attention and resources on those financial institutions perceived by the market as those closer to distress.
E40|Monetary Policy Uncertainty|We construct new measures of uncertainty about Federal Reserve policy actions and their consequences - monetary policy uncertainty (MPU) indexes. We show that, under a variety of VAR identification schemes, positive shocks to uncertainty about monetary policy robustly raise credit spreads and reduce output. The effects are of comparable magnitude to those of conventional monetary policy shocks. We evaluate the usefulness of our MPU indexes, and examine the influence of Fed communication. Our analysis suggests that policy rate normalization that is accompanied by reduced uncertainty can help neutralize the contractionary effects of the rate increases themselves.
E40|A tractable model of monetary exchange with ex-post heterogeneity|We construct a continuous-time, New-Monetarist economy that displays an endogenous, non-degenerate distribution of money holdings. Properties of equilibria are obtained analytically and equilibria are solved in closed form in a variety of cases. Lump-sum transfers financed with money creation are welfare-enhancing when labor productivity is low whereas regressive transfers approach first best when labor productivity is high and agents are not too impatient. We introduce illiquid government bonds and draw implications for liquidity-trap equilibria. We also study transitional dynamics under quadratic preferences and the velocity of money under heterogeneous preference shocks.
E40|Liquidity Risk, Credit Risk and the Money Multiplier|Before the financial crisis there was a significant, negative relationship between the money multiplier and the risk free rate; post-crisis it was significant and positive. We develop a model where banksíreserves mitigate not only liquidity risk, but also default/credit risk. When default risk dominates, the model predicts a positive relationship between the risk free rate and the money multiplier. When liquidity risk dominates, that relationship is negative. We suggest reduced liquidity risk, from QE and remunerated reserves, helps explain the multiplier data. The model's implications linking the stock market and the money multiplier are also deduced and verified.
E40|Europe vs. the U.S.: A new look at the syndicated loan pricing puzzle|According to the syndicated loan pricing puzzle (Carey and Nini, 2007) interest rates charged to corporate borrowers are lower in Europe than in the U.S. Our investigation suggests that controlling for region-specific credit ratings makes the Europe–U.S. gap insignificant, and solves the puzzle. We speculate that the puzzle originates from the lack of uniformity of accounting standards.
E40|Money Illusion - Reconsidered in the Light of Cognitive Science|A basic principle of economics is that people always prefer a larger set of opportunities. Money illusion can be considered as the phenomenon that people may not perceive correctly their budget constraints, and may act in ways that run counter to this preference. In this view money illusion is a cognitive bias, worthwhile to overcome. Herein I argue that taking a view of human decision-making based on certain strands of cognitive psychology one can reinterpret the evidence for money illusion in two ways. First, I claim that money illusion is inescapable to some extent, and saying that we suffer from it is similar to alleging that we experience optical illusions, only because we are unable to see, say, individual atoms. Second, taking a view on “preferences” different from the traditional one, I contend that it may bring little benefit to get rid of money illusion even in the cases where it is possible to do so. To follow up the visual analogy, even if we can improve our eyesight it is not obviously desirable. These arguments seem to lead to a Candidean disposition: there is no possible improvement on the state of affairs as far as “money illusion” is concerned. Nonetheless, I will make some positive proposals concerning economic policy and economics research.
E40|Harbingers of Modernity: Monetary Injections and European Economics Growth 1492-1790|PhD dissertation summary forthcoming at: European Review of Economic History<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E40|Households’ Mortgage-Rate Expectations: More Realistic than at First Glance?|Household expectations of future mortgage rates elicited over the last few years might appear unrealistically low. However, taking explicit account of the high persistence in interest rates, we find that Swedish households’ implied long-term expectation of mortgage rates is around 4.7 percent. This number lines up well with the long-term expectation that can be deduced from the Riksbank’s assessment of the repo rate in the long run and the typical spread between the mortgage rate and the repo rate. Our analysis makes use of household mortgage rate expectations at three different horizons, which enables an explicit modelling of the “term-structure” of household forecasts.
E40|Basic Monetary Economics|This is an introduction to money and the workings of the financial system. The creation of money is discussed in detail in Chapter 1. Chapter 2 explains how international payments can add to money creation but also generate a new type of money, usually called Eurodollars. Basic securities are defined and characterized in Chapter 3, namely bills, bonds and shares, but basic derivatives, like futures, swaps, and options, are also discussed. Chapter 4 deals with pricing by banks when extending loans, but also with price formation in markets for securities. Chapter 5 surveys possible threats to the financial system and discusses three different approaches to the problem of stabilizing it, namely crisis management, regulation, and structural reforms.
E40|Low Long-Term Interest Rates - An alternative View|The fall in risk free interest rates since the 1980s has mostly been described as being induced by factors that push down interest rates from the demand side. This paper contributes to the literature by adding a view of the supply side, namely that interest has to be earned first, before it can be distributed. Consequently, interest can only sustainably be distributed from the added value in a given period. But through higher debt ratios today, a smaller amount of added value can be used to fund interest payments than in the past. In such an environment, average interest rates can only be held stable, if the nominal amount of interest paid is rising, which would then lead to lower income for labour and/or a lower reward for entrepreneurs in the form of corporate profits and dividends. But labour and entrepreneurial income did not fall as much as would be needed to compensate for the much higher amount of interest bearing assets since the 1980s. The only logical consequence then is a fall in average interest rates.
E40|Financial Firm Production Of Inside Monetary And Credit Card Services: An Aggregation Theoretic Approach1|A monetary-production model of financial firms is employed to investigate supply-side monetary aggregation, augmented to include credit card transaction services. Financial firms are conceived to produce monetary and credit card transaction services as outputs through financial intermediation. While credit cards provide transactions services, credit cards have never been included into measures of the money supply. The reason is accounting conventions, which do not permit adding liabilities to assets. However, index number theory measures service flows and is based on microeconomic aggregation theory, not accounting. Barnett, Chauvet, Leiva-Leon, and Su (2016) have derived and applied the relevant aggregation theory applicable to measuring the demand for the joint services of money and credit cards. But because of the existence of required reserves and differences in taxation on the demand and supply side, there is a regulatory wedge between the demand and supply of monetary services. We derive theory needed to measure the supply of the joint services of credit cards and money, to estimate the output supply function, and to compute value added. The resulting model can be used to investigate the transmission mechanism of monetary policy. Earlier results on the monetary policy transmission mechanism based on the correlation between simple sum inside money and final targets are not likely to approximate or even be relevant to results that can be acquired by empirical implementation of this model or its extensions. Our financialfirm value-added measure and its supply function are fundamentally different from prior measures of inside money, shadow banking output, or money supply functions. The data needed for empirical implementation of our theory are available online from the Center for Financial Stability (CFS) in New York City. We show that the now discredited conventional accounting-based measures of privately produced inside money can be replaced by our measures, based on microeconomic aggregation theory, to provide the information originally contemplated in the literature on monetary theory for over a century.
E40|Re-examining the real interest rate parity hypothesis (RIPH) using panel unit root tests with asymmetry and cross-section dependence|Abstract This paper investigates the validity of the real interest rate parity hypothesis (RIPH) using a panel unit root approach. For this purpose, first we estimate the possible nonlinear data-generating processes of the real interest rate differential series and using these estimates determine which panel unit root test is better for analyzing the RIPH. To this end, smooth transition autoregressive and threshold autoregressive (TAR) models are estimated for two different panels of countries: G7 and post-Soviet transition economies. The results show that the data displays both strong asymmetry and high transition speed. Therefore, secondly, we propose a new panel unit root test where the alternative is stationary with asymmetric TAR adjustment, and provide their empirical power properties. Finally, we demonstrate that our newly proposed test is able to provide conclusive evidence in favor of the RIPH in contrast to the other panel unit root tests considered.
E40|Towards a New Austrian Macroeconomics|Abstract Austrian macroeconomists of the interwar period saw the economy as a complex adaptive system, in which macroeconomic variables emerge from the interaction between millions of purposefully acting agents. Recent advances in computation technology allow us to build empirically salient synthetic economies in silico, and thereby formalize many Austrian insights. We present a workhorse model with firms on an input-output network. Macroeconomic variables evolve through the interaction between micro-economic decisions. We use the model to explain an effect of monetary shocks on the price distribution and provide a sketch of other potential applications.
E40|Equilibrium Selection in Monetary Search Models: An Experimental Approach|It is known that there exists a multiplicity (indeterminacy) of stationary equilibria in search models with divisible money. This paper investigate whether some specific stationary equilibrium is selected through economic experiments. We observe that in some treatments there is a tendency to converge to the most efficient equilibrium. However, as a whole, there remains some degree of indeterminacy.
E40|Harbingers Of Modernity: Monetary Injections And European Economic Growth, 1492-1790|PhD dissertation summary forthcoming at: European Review of Economic History
E40|The risks of exit from the EMU and the EU (in Italian)|The recipe of leaving the Euro, and therefore the EU, in order to foster Italian net export through a devaluation of the new Lira, offers hardly credible benefits compared to certain costs of the ensuing triple financial crisis. The costs would be heightened given the economic, legal ad geopolitical constraints of the country.
E40|The Housing Boom and Bust: Model Meets Evidence|We build a model of the U.S. economy with multiple aggregate shocks (income, housing finance conditions, and beliefs about future housing demand) that generate fluctuations in equilibrium house prices. Through a series of counterfactual experiments, we study the housing boom and bust around the Great Recession and obtain three main results. First, we find that the main driver of movements in house prices and rents was a shift in beliefs. Shifts in credit conditions do not move house prices but are important for the dynamics of home ownership, leverage, and foreclosures. The role of housing rental markets and long-term mortgages in alleviating credit constraints is central to these findings. Second, our model suggests that the boom-bust in house prices explains half of the corresponding swings in non-durable expenditures and that the transmission mechanism is a wealth effect through household balance sheets. Third, we find that a large-scale debt forgiveness program would have done little to temper the collapse of house prices and expenditures, but would have dramatically reduced foreclosures and induced a small, but persistent, increase in consumption during the recovery.
E40|Credit Growth and the Financial Crisis: A New Narrative|A broadly accepted explanation for the 2007-09 financial crisis emphasizes the growth in lending to subprime households during the preceding boom. According to this view, the resulting rise in insolvencies and foreclosures caused the financial crisis, leading to a decline in housing values and a broad contraction in credit. This paper studies the evolution of household borrowing and delinquency between 1999 and 2013, using a large administrative panel of credit file data. Our findings suggest an alternative narrative that challenges the large role of subprime credit. We show that credit growth between 2001 and 2007 is concentrated in the middle and high quartiles of the credit score distribution. Borrowing by individuals with low credit score is virtually constant for all debt categories during the boom. We also find that the rise in defaults during the financial crisis is concentrated in the middle and upper quartiles of the credit score distribution, and the fraction of defaults to the lowest quartile of of the credit score distribution sizably drops during the crisis. We discuss the broader implications of these findings for the role of housing collateral in the propagation of the crisis.
E40|Directed Search: A Guided Tour|This essay surveys the literature on directed/competitive search, covering theory and applications in, e.g., labor, housing and monetary economics. These models share features with traditional search theory, yet differ in important ways. They share features with general equilibrium theory, but with explicit frictions. Equilibria are typically efficient, in part because markets price goods plus the time required to get them. The approach is tractable and arguably realistic. Results are presented for finite and large economies. Private information and sorting with heterogeneity are analyzed. Some evidence is discussed. While emphasizing issues and applications, we also provide several hard-to-find technical results.
E40|Fiscal Rules, Bailouts, and Reputation in Federal Governments|Expectations of transfers by central governments incentivize overborrowing by local governments. In this paper, we ask if fiscal rules can reduce overborrowing if central governments cannot commit. We study a model in which the central government’s type is unknown and show that fiscal rules increase overborrowing if the central government’s reputation is low. In contrast, fiscal rules are effective in lowering debt if the central government’s reputation is high. Even when the central government’s reputation is low, binding fiscal rules will arise in the equilibrium of a signaling game.
E40|The profit rate and asset-price inflation in the Spanish economy|The measure of capital profitability in the Spanish economy is relevant because of both a process of capital accumulation since mid-nineties largely driven by asset-price inflation, as well as the deep economic crisis since late 2008. Therefore, in this article a comparative analysis is carried out using different databases and measures of the rate of profit, incorporating the financial sphere and addressing other different countries of the Eurozone. It shows the scope of the underlying valorization crisis in relation to previous decades and in terms of its fall experienced during the years not only of the housing boom, but also throughout the subsequent recession. In addition, this drop in profitability stands out in relation to other economies of the European periphery. Hence, this analysis puts the rate of profit at the center of the debate on the Great Recession in Spain, despite its absence in much of the economic literature, including heterodox approaches.
E40|Relationship of Fiscal Discipline and Household Income on Money Demand Function in Sri Lanka|This paper attempts to find those determinants stirring the function of money demand in Sri Lanka during 1975-2013. The empirical analysis starts from applying the unit root tests i.e. Ng-Perron. We apply ARDL bound testing approach of co-integration to scrutinize the co-integration in variables. We select independent variables like per capita GDP, interest rate, exchange rate, fiscal deficit, urban population and rural population to determine money demand function. The findings revealed that income, interest rate and fiscal deficit effect money demand significantly and positively. The exchange rate affects negatively and significantly upon money demand. The stable money demand function is found over time applying CUSUM and CUSUMSQ stability test. The model of our study strongly recommends the real demand for M2 is vital monetary aggregate in terms of policy implication including the appropriateness of model in Sri Lanka.
E40|Инвестирование Денежных Средств В Условиях Экономического Кризиса В 2017 Году|In the conditions of the economic crisis, one of the most urgent aspects is the investment of funds. The choice of the most optimal directions for investing is rather complicated, since there are many alternative options. The purpose of this study is to determine the most profitable directions for investing money in 2017.
E40|Nonneutrality of Money in Dispersion: Hume Revisited|For a class of standard and widely-used preferences, a one-shot money injection in a standard matching model can induce a significant and persistent output response by dispersing the distribution of wealth. Decentralized trade matters for both persistence and significance. In the presence of government bonds the injection has a liquidity effect and the inflation rate right following the injection may be below the steady-state rate level.
E40|The E-Monetary Theory|Using the Smolyak grid, we solve a DSGE model where there are two types of money: reserves (e-money that banks deposit at the central bank) and zero maturity deposits (e-money that is issued by banks). Transactions between bankers are settled by reserves, while other ones are settled by zero maturity deposits. Our model, featuring only one housing demand shock, can match some key facts in the Great Recession: (i) the investment falls sharply, (ii) the excess reserves skyrocket but the money multiplier plummets, (iii) the household debt declines, (iv) the long duration of the interbank rate at the lower bound - the interest rate paid on reserves, (v) the sharp deflation then back to inflation immediately after the central bank conducts quantitative easing. Due to the maturity mismatch between deposits and loans, we find that the large scale asset purchase program is very effective in the short run but creates deflation and lower outputs in the long run. After a period of time since conducting quantitative easing, a recommended policy is to slowly raise the interest rate paid on reserves even if the central bank does not see the inflation signal.
E40|User Cost of Credit Card Services under Risk with Intertemporal Nonseparability|This paper derives the user cost of monetary assets and credit card services with interest rate risk under the assumption of intertemporal non-separability. Barnett and Su (2016) derived theory permitting inclusion of credit card transaction services into Divisia monetary aggregates. The risk adjustment in their theory is based on CCAPM1 under intertemporal separability. The equity premium puzzle focusses on downward bias in the CCAPM risk adjustment to common stock returns. Despite the high risk of credit card interest rates, the risk adjustment under the CCAPM assumption of intertemporal separability might nevertheless be similarly small. While the known downward bias of CCAPM risk adjustments are of little concern with Divisia monetary aggregates containing only low risk monetary assets, that downward bias cannot be ignored, once high risk credit card services are included. We believe that extending to intertemporal non-separability could provide a non-negligible risk adjustment, as has been emphasized by Barnett and Wu (2015)
E40|The money creation process: A theoretical and empirical analysis for the US|The aim of this paper is to assess – on both theoretical and empirical grounds – the two main views regarding the money creation process,namely the endogenous and exogenous money approaches. After analysing the main issues and the related empirical literature, we will apply a VAR and VECM methodology to the United States in the period 1959-2016 to assess the causal relationship between a number of critical variables that are supposed to determine the money supply, i.e., the monetary base, bank deposits and bank loans. The empirical analysis carried out supports several propositions of the endogenous money approach. In particular, it shows that for the United States in the years 1959-2016 (i) bank loans determine bank deposits and (ii) bank deposits in turn determine the monetary base. Our conclusion is that money supply is mainly determined endogenously by the lending activity of commercial banks.
E40|Redistributive Tax Policy at the Zero Bound|Emulating consumer price inflation with an increasing path of consumption taxes when the nominal interest rate binds and monetary policy becomes ineffective, as proposed by Correia et al. [1] in the Standard New Keynesian model, may not neutralize a liquidity trap of very long duration. Instead this paper presents a wealth redistributive tax policy, in an OLG model with credit constraints, able to prevent or counteract a liquidity trap caused by a credit shock. The tax prescription is opposite to the one proposed by Correia et al.[1]
E40|Dampak Kepemilikan Asing terhadap Pasar Surat Berharga Negara (SBN) Indonesia<BR>[The Impact of Foreign Ownership on the Indonesian Government Bonds Market]|Kepemilikan investor nonresiden pada surat berharga negara (SBN) saat ini relatif cukup tinggi. Dibandingkan beberapa negara di kawasan seperti Malaysia, Thailand, Jepang, dan Korea Selatan, porsi kepemilikan investor non residen di Indonesia merupakan yang tertinggi. Hal ini dapat meningkatkan risiko apabila terjadi sudden reversal. Tulisan ini bertujuan untuk tidak hanya mengukur dampak perubahan arus modal masuk maupun arus modal keluar oleh investor nonresiden terhadap perubahan yield dan volatilitas yield, lebih dalam lagi juga dengan mempertimbangkan kondisi pasar keuangan global. Hasil empiris menunjukkan bahwa aliran keluar/masuk modal asing terbukti secara statistik berpengaruh terhadap kinerja SBN secara signifikan. Hasil empiris juga menunjukkan bahwa masuk dan keluarnya modal asing memiliki dampak yang asimetris terhadap kinerja pasar SBN. Dampak negatif arus modal keluar lebih besar daripada pengaruh positif ketika modal asing masuk ke pasar SBN. 1 persen penurunan kepemilikan asing pada SBN menaikkan yield SBN sebesar ±16 bps s.d. 41 bps. Sedangkan 1 persen kenaikan kepemilikan asing pada SBN hanya menurunkan yield SBN sebesar ±15 bps s.d. 30 bps. Hal yang bisa dilakukan regulator untuk mengurangi potensi dampak sudden reversal adalah dengan memperdalam pasar keuangan itu sendiri dengan mendorong partisipasi investor domestik lebih besar lagi, terutama dari pengelola sovereign wealth fund, sehingga akan menciptakan pasar dan memperdalam likuiditas pasar keuangan Indonesia.
E40|Monetary Policy, the Financial Cycle, and Ultra-Low Interest Rates|Do the prevailing unusually and persistently low real interest rates reflect a decline in the natural rate of interest as commonly thought? We argue that this is only part of the story. The critical role of financial factors in influencing mediumterm economic fluctuations must also be taken into account. Doing so for the United States yields estimates of the natural rate that are higher and, at least since 2000, decline by less. An illustrative counterfactual experiment suggests that a monetary policy rule that takes financial developments systematically into account during both good and bad times could help dampen the financial cycle, leading to significant output gains and little change in inflation.
E40|A Coordination Approach to the Essentiality of Money|The essentiality of money is commonly justified on efficiency grounds, i.e., money achieves socially desirable allocations which could not be achieved by alternative technologies of exchange. In this paper we argue that what makes money achieve such allocations is its ability to overcome coordination frictions. Intuitively, the fact that money is a permanent record of past production implies that an agent is willing to produce in exchange for money even if he believes that many of his future partners will not accept money. (Copyright: Elsevier)
E40|On the Theoretical Efficacy of Quantitative Easing at the Zero Lower Bound|We construct a monetary economy in which agents face aggregate demand shocks and hetero- geneous idiosyncratic preference shocks. We show that, even when the Friedman rule is the best interest rate policy the central bank can implement, not all agents are satiated at the zero lower bound and therefore there is scope for central bank policies of liquidity provision. Indeed, we find that quantitative easing can be welfare improving even at the zero lower bound. This is because such policy temporarily relaxes the liquidity constraint of impatient agents, without harming the patient ones. Moreover, due to a pricing externality, quantitative easing may also have beneficial general equilibrium effects for the patient agents even if they are unconstrained in their holdings of real balances. Last, our model suggests that it can be optimal for the central bank to buy private debt claims instead of government debt.
E40|Currency Manipulation|Many central banks manage the stochastic behavior of their currencies' exchange rates by imposing pegs relative to a target currency. We study the effects of such currency manipulation in a multi-country model of exchange rate determination with endogenous capital accumulation. We find that the imposition of an exchange rate peg relative to a given target currency increases the volatility of consumption in the target country and decreases the volatility of the target currency's exchange rate relative to all other currencies in the world. In addition, currency pegs affect the formation of capital across sectors and countries. For example, an economically smaller country (such as Saudi Arabia) pegging its currency to an economically large country (such at the U.S.) decreases capital accumulation in the larger country and increases its real and nominal interest rate
E40|Non-Neutrality of Open-Market Operations|Unconventional open-market operations can have consequences for inflation and output because of income losses on central-bank balance sheet. A proposition of neutrality holds under some special monetary and fiscal policy regimes in which the treasury is ready to cover central bank's losses through appropriate transfers levied as taxes on the private sector. In absence of treasury's support, large and recurrent central bank's losses can undermine its long-run solvency and should be resolved through a prolonged increase in inflation. Small and infrequent losses can be absorbed by future retained earnings without any further consequences on prices. A central bank averse to declining net worth commits to a more inflationary stance and delayed exit strategy from a liquidity trap. In absence of taxpayers' support, it is also desirable to increase inflation to the end of reducing the duration of central bank's losses.
E40|Monetary Policy Transmission Effect On The Real Sector Of The Bangladesh Economy: An Svar Approach|This study examines the effectiveness of the monetary policy transmission of Bangladesh using Structural Vector Autoregressive model (SVAR) for the period of 1972-2014. The SVAR model investigates how a monetary policy shock defined as an unexpected rise in interest rate affects real and nominal macro variables; namely real output, prices, real effective exchange rates, and money supply. Our results suggest that a monetary policy shock does have a short run effect on real output, price level, and exchange rates. A monetary policy shock generates inflationary pressure leading to a devaluation of the Bangladeshi Taka. This paper suggests that the policy makers, to consider the trade-off between output and interest rate of Bangladesh. L’effetto trasmissione della politica monetaria sul settore reale dell’economia del Bangladesh: un approccio SVAR Questo articolo esamina l’efficacia della politica monetaria del Bangladesh tramite il modello SVAR nel periodo 1972-2014. Tale modello esamina come uno shock di politica monetaria, definito come un aumento inatteso nel tasso di interesse, influenzi le macrovariabili reali e nominali: la produzione reale, il livello dei prezzi e del cambio reale effettivo, l’offerta di moneta. I risultati suggeriscono che uno shock di politica monetaria ha effetto nel breve periodo sulla produzione reale, sul livello dei prezzi e sui tassi di cambio. Uno shock di politica monetaria genera una pressione inflazionistica che porta ad una svalutazione del taka. Secondo questo studio i governi dovrebbero considerare il trade-off tra produzione e tasso di interesse nel Bangladesh.
E40|Beliefs formation and the puzzle of forward guidance power|We study the extent to which the belief-formation process affects the dynamics of macroeconomic variables when the central bank uses forward guidance. Recent literature has emphasized two kinds of puzzle associated to forward guidance. First, standard sticky-price models imply that far future forward guidance has huge and implausible effects on current outcomes, these effects grow in its horizon. Second, these models tend to overestimate the effects of central bank’s commitment to keep interest rate below the natural rate for a given period of time. Focusing on the former puzzle, by a parsimonious macro-model that allows for the role of bounded rationality and heterogeneous agents, we obtain tempered responses for both real and nominal variables.
E40|Banking Panics and Liquidity in a Monetary Economy|This paper studies banks’ liquidity provision in the Lagos and Wright model of monetary exchanges. With aggregate uncertainty we show that banks sometimes exhaust their cash reserves and fail to satisfy their depositors’ need of consumption smoothing. The banking panics can be eliminated by the zero-interest policy for the perfect risk sharing, but the first best can be achieved only at the Friedman rule. In our monetary equilibrium, the probability of banking panics is endogenous and increases with inflation, as is consistent with empirical evidence. The model derives a rich array of non-trivial effects of inflation on the equilibrium deposit and the bank’s portfolio.
E40|External financing and economic activity in the euro area - why are bank loans special?|"Using a Bayesian vector autoregression (BVAR) identified with a mix of sign and zero restrictions, we show that a restrictive bank loan supply shock has a strong and persistent negative impact on real GDP and the GDP deflator. This result comes about even though flows of other sources of financing, such as equity and debt securities, expand strongly and act as a ""spare tire"" for the reduction in bank loans. We show that this result can be rationalized by a recently revived view of banking, which holds that banks increase the nominal purchasing power of the economy when they create additional deposits in the act of lending. Consequently, our findings indicate that a substitution of bank loans by other sources of financing might have negative macroeconomic repercussions."
E40|The fallacy of the fiscal theory of the price level - one last time|"There have been attempts to resurrect the fiscal theory of the price revel (FTPL). The original FTPL rests on a fundamental compounded fallacy: confusing the intertemporal budget constraint (IBC) of the State, holding with equality and with sovereign bonds priced at their contractual values, with a misspecified equilibrium nominal bond pricing equation, and the ""double use"" of this IBC. This fallacy generates a number of internal inconsistencies and anomalies. The issue is not an empirical one. Neither does it concern the realism of the assumptions. It is about flawed internal logic. The issue is not just of academic interest. If fiscal policy authorities were to take the FTPL seriously, costly policy accidents, including sovereign default and hyperinflation, could be the outcome. Interpreting the FTPL as an equilibrium selection mechanism in models with multiple equilibria does not help. Attempts by Sims to extend the FTPL to models with nominal price rigidities fail. The attempted resurrection of the FTPL fails. It is time to bury it again - for the last time."
E40|Instability, imprecision and inconsistent use of equilibrium real interest rate estimates|The debate on monetary and fiscal policy is heavily influenced by estimates of the equilibrium real interest rate. In particular, this concerns estimates derived from a simple aggregate demand and Phillips curve model with time-varying components as proposed by Laubach and Williams (2003). For example, Summers (2014a) refers to these estimates as important evidence for a secular stagnation and the need for fiscal stimulus. Yellen (2015, 2017) has made use of such estimates in order to explain and justify why the Federal Reserve has held interest rates so low for so long. First, we re-estimate the United States equilibrium rate with the methodology of Laubach and Williams (2003). Then, we build on their approach and an alternative specification to provide new estimates for the United States, Germany, the euro area and Japan. Third, we subject these estimates to a battery of sensitivity tests. Due to the great uncertainty and sensitivity that accompany these equilibrium rate estimates, the observed decline in the estimates is not a reliable indicator of a need for expansionary monetary and fiscal policy. Yet, if these estimates are employed to determine the appropriate monetary policy stance, such estimates are better used together with the consistent estimate of the level of potential output.
E40|Discoordination and miscoordination caused by sunspots in the laboratory|This paper combines two strands of the experimental sunspot literature. It extends the rare literature that focuses experimentally on the coordination problems caused by sunspot variables. It also extends the literature that focuses on coordination games that have a payoff-dominant and a divergent risk-dominant equilibrium. To achieve this, we use a repeated three-player stag hunt game with fixed groups. In our experiment, a sunspot variable points randomly at the risk-dominant or the payoff-dominant choice. We find out-of-equilibrium behavior (discoordination) caused by the sunspot variable in the short run. In the long run, the sunspot variable can lead to coordination of the payoff-dominated equilibrium (miscoordination). If the sunspot-generating process points more frequently to the risk-dominant choice, some groups converge to the sunspot equilibrium.
E40|Liquidity, Monetary Policy and Unemployment: A New Monetarist Approach|We discover a consumption channel of monetary policy in a model with money and government bonds. When the central bank withdraws government bonds (short-term or long-term) through open market operations, it lowers re- turns on bonds. The lower return has a direct negative impact on consumption by households that hold bonds, and an indirect negative impact on consumption by households that hold money. As a result, fi rms earn less pro fits from production, which leads to higher unemployment. The existence of such a consumption channel can help us understand the e¤ects of unconventional monetary policy.
E40|Bank loan components, uncertainty and monetary transmission mechanism|We study the dynamic characteristics of bank loan components and seek to resolve the puzzle raised by den Haan et al. (2007) that commercial and industrial loans increase following monetary contraction. By estimating a set of structural vector autoregression models on US data for 1954-2015, we demonstrate that when risk and balance sheet factors are controlled for, business loans decrease after monetary tightening, what is consistent with bank-lending channel of monetary policy transmission mechanism. This result is robust to VAR specification and to the measure of uncertainty employed. We distinguish between volatility measures of uncertainty and measures of uncertainty as vagueness/”unknownness” of economic outlook and show that business loans go down following uncertainty shock only after the latter uncertainty measure is used. We demonstrate that controlling for risk factors is critical for explaining the dynamic properties of business loans, as variance of business loans is driven by innovations to uncertainty and credit risk to the greater extent than by innovations to macroeconomic variables.
E40|Monetary Policy Implementation in a Negative Rate Environment|Monetary policy implementation could, in theory, be constrained by deeply negative rates since overnight market participants may have an incentive to invest in cash rather than lend to other participants. To understand the functioning of overnight markets in such an environment, we add the option to exchange central bank reserves for cash to the standard workhorse model of monetary policy implementation (Poole 1968). Importantly, we show that monetary policy is not constrained when just the deposit rate is below the yield on cash. However, it could be constrained when the target overnight rate is below the yield on cash. At this point, the overnight rate equals the yield on cash instead of the target rate. Modifications to the implementation framework, such as a tiered remuneration of central bank deposits contingent on cash withdrawals, can work to restore the implementation of monetary policy such that the overnight rate equals the target rate.
E40|Competing Currencies in the Laboratory|We investigate competition between two intrinsically worthless currencies as a result of decentralized interactions between human subjects. We design a laboratory experiment based on a simple two-country, two-currency search model to study factors that affect circulation patterns and equilibrium selection. Experimental results indicate foreign currency acceptance rates decrease with relative country size but are not significantly affected by the degree of integration. The laboratory economies tend to converge to a unified currency regime where both currencies circulate at home and abroad, even if other regimes are theoretical possibilities. Introducing government transaction policies biased towards domestic currency significantly reduces the acceptability of foreign currency. These findings suggest government policies can serve as a coordination device when multiple currencies are available.
E40|Pairwise trading in the money market during the European sovereign debt crisis|This paper studies over-the-counter (OTC) trading in the unsecured interbank market for euro funds. The goal of our analysis is to identify the determinants of the probability of trading, the bilateral rate and the quantity exchanged during the European sovereign debt crisis. We show how the specific features of this market bring to a non-standard estimation framework. A dyadic econometric model with shadow rates is proposed to control for possibly endogenous matching with the counterparty. A unique dataset containing banks characteristics and bilateral trades is built and used to study the evolution of trading patterns. The estimates bring mild evidence towards the existence of shadow rates. Active monitoring decreased market access to low equity and illiquid borrowers, while dispersion in rates and quantities is mainly driven by banks' nationality, especially during the peak of the crisis.
E40|External financing and economic activity in the euro area: Why are bank loans special?|"Using a Bayesian vector autoregression (BVAR) identified with a mix of sign and zero restrictions, we show that a restrictive bank loan supply shock has a strong and persistent negative impact on real GDP and the GDP deflator. This result comes about even though flows of other sources of financing, such as equity and debt securities, expand strongly and act as a ""spare tire"" for the reduction in bank loans. We show that this result can be rationalized by a recently revived view of banking, which holds that banks increase the nominal purchasing power of the economy when they create additional deposits in the act of lending. Consequently, our findings indicate that a substitution of bank loans by other sources of financing might have negative macroeconomic repercussions."
E40|Assessing fiscal policy through the lens of the financial and the commodity price cycles|We assess the link between fiscal policy and credit and commodity price booms and busts. We do so by investigating the impact of financial and commodity price cycles on the identification of episodes of fiscal consolidation and stimulus and the size of the fiscal impulse. We find that controlling for the credit cycle has an impact on the magnitude of the change in the cyclically-adjusted budget balance. The impact is lower in the case of the commodity price cycle. In addition, we show that credit booms and busts influence the cyclicality of fiscal policy, but not to the extent of significantly altering the systematic response of fiscal policy to the dynamics of real economic activity. Again, the impact of the commodity price cycle is smaller and limited to some specific cases.
E40|Responses Of Term Structure Of Interest Rates And Asset Prices To Monetary Policy Shocks: Evidence From Turkey|This paper investigates the impact of the policy decisions by the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey (CBRT) and Federal Reserve (FED) on the financial markets in Turkey between 2010 and 2016, the period in which CBRT adopted new policy objectives. We investigate the impact of monetary policy shocks on the term structure of interest rates, exchange rates and credit default swap (CDS) rates using VAR framework. For identification, we rely on the assumption that monetary policy shocks are heteroscedastic. Our results show that expansionary monetary policy shocks by the CBRT made the yield curve steeper, caused TL to depreciate and CDS rates to decrease. As for FED decisions, expansionary decisions decreased the bond yields and CDS rates and caused TL to appreciate. The paper contributes to the literature by investigating the response of the term structure of interest rates and other asset prices for the period in which CBRT prioritized financial stability and did not make guidance for the future stance of monetary policy and by testing whether bond yields with various maturities responded to monetary policy shocks differently. Our results imply that not following a long term inflation target and lack of communication weakened the control of the CBRT over the long term interest rates.
E40|Why so low for so long? A long-term view of real interest rates|Prevailing explanations of the decline in real interest rates since the early 1980s are premised on the notion that real interest rates are driven by variations in desired saving and investment. But based on data stretching back to 1870 for 19 countries, our systematic analysis casts doubt on this view. The link between real interest rates and saving-investment determinants appears tenuous. While it is possible to find some relationships consistent with the theory in some periods, particularly over the last 30 years, they do not survive over the extended sample. This holds both at the national and global level. By contrast, we find evidence that persistent shifts in real interest rates coincide with changes in monetary regimes. Moreover, external influences on countries' real interest rates appear to reflect idiosyncratic variations in interest rates of countries that dominate global monetary and financial conditions rather than common movements in global saving and investment. All this points to an underrated role of monetary policy in determining real interest rates over long horizons.
E40|Revisiting Multiplicity of Bubble Equilibria in a Search Model with Posted Prices|Multiplicity of equilibria naturally obtains in search models of money with price posting: buyers’ money holdings depend on posted prices, which, in turn, depend on buyers’ money holdings. I show that this multiplicity of equilibria exists in general even when money is replaced with a dividend-bearing asset, as long as the asset is useful as a medium of exchange. If the fundamental value of the asset is sufficiently high, there is a unique equilibrium, in which the price of the asset equals its fundamental value. For lower fundamental values, there is a continuum of bubble equilibria, in which the price of the asset exceeds the fundamental value. For very low fundamental values, the equilibrium is again unique but the asset is not used as a medium of exchange. I characterize the set of symmetric and asymmetric bubble equilibria for both positive and negative fundamental values.
E40|Money creation and destruction|We study money creation and destruction in today's monetary architecture and examine the impact of monetary policy and capital regulation in a general equilibrium setting. There are two types of money created and destructed: bank deposits, when banks grant loans to firms or to other banks and central bank money, when the central bank grants loans to private banks. We show that equilibria yield the first-best level of money creation and lending when prices are flexible, regardless of the monetary policy or capital regulation. When prices are rigid, we identify the circumstances in which money creation is excessive or breaks down and the ones in which an adequate combination of monetary policy and capital regulation can restore effciency.
E40|Banking Panics and Liquidity in a Monetary Economy|This paper studies banks' liquidity provision in the Lagos and Wright model of monetary exchanges. With aggregate uncertainty we show that banks sometimes exhaust their cash reserves and fail to satisfy their depositors' need of consumption smoothing. The banking panics can be eliminated by the zero-interest policy for the perfect risk sharing, but the first best can be achieved only at the Friedman rule. In our monetary equilibrium, the probability of banking panics is endogenous and increases with inflation, as is consistent with empirical evidence. The model derives a rich array of non-trivial effects of inflation on the equilibrium deposit and the bank's portfolio.
E40|El costo de uso del capital y la inversión en Colombia 2001-2016|El costo del uso del capital (CUC) es una variable que recoge algunos determinantes tributarios y monetarios de las decisiones de inversión a nivel agregado. Dentro de la literatura encontrada para Colombia, las estimaciones de esta variable no abarcan el periodo que presentó las tasas de inversión más altas en los últimos treinta años. Al aplicar la metodología de Botero et al. (2007) se encuentra que el CUC bajó de un promedio de 23.4% entre 1990 y 2001 a un promedio de 14.2% entre 2002 y 2016. El último periodo coincide con la adopción del esquema de inflación objetivo. En el último año, el CUC creció de 8% a 13% por la reforma tributaria, la inflación fuera del rango meta y, en consecuencia, la política contractiva del banco central. Según los resultados del modelo estimado por el método MCO, un aumento de 1% del CUC disminuye en un 0.24% la inversión como proporción del PIB en Colombia.
E40|The Fallacy of the Fiscal Theory of the Price Level - Once More|Necessary conditions for valid dynamic general equilibrium analysis include: (1) the number of equations equals the number of unknowns; (2) the number of state variables equals the number of boundary conditions; (3) if (1) and (2) hold, the resulting solution(s) make sense. The fiscal theory of the price level fails on all three counts, both away from and at the ELB. The underlying fallacy is the confusion of the intertemporal budget constraint of the State with a misspecified government bond pricing equilibrium equation. This means overdetermined systems unless (a) the price level is flexible, (b) the interest rate is the monetary policy instrument and (c) there is a non-zero stock of nominal government bonds. Thus, a sticky price level or a nominal money stock rule imply inconsistency. When all three conditions are satisfied, unacceptable anomalies occur: negative price levels; the FTPL can price money when money does not exist; the logic of the FTPL applies equally to the intertemporal budget constraint of any household; when the bond pricing equation is specified correctly, there is no FTPL. The FTPL has nothing to do with monetary vs. fiscal dominance or active v. passive fiscal policy. The FTPL implies government debt is never a problem; the price level takes care of it, and not through unanticipated inflation or financial repression. If acted upon by fiscal authorities, the consequences could be severe. There is a correct fiscal theory of seigniorage. The issuance of return-dominated and/or irredeemable central bank money creates fiscal space and ensures that a combined monetary-fiscal stimulus always boosts nominal aggregate demand.
E40|The Good and the Bad Fiscal Theory of the Price Level|Necessary conditions for valid dynamic general equilibrium analysis include: (1) the number of equations equals the number of unknowns; (2) the number of state variables equals the number of boundary conditions; (3), if (1) and (2) hold, the model has one or more solutions and these solutions make economic sense. The fiscal theory of the price level â€“ in any of its variants - fails these conditions, both away from and at the effective lower bound. The fundamental fallacy at the root of the FTPL is not requiring the intertemporal budget constraint (IBC) of the State to hold identically but only in equilibrium, and treating the IBC of the State (holding with equality and with sovereign debt priced at its contractual value) as a (misspecified) government bond pricing equilibrium condition. Arbitrary (non-Ricardian) policies governing public spending, taxation, interest rates and monetary issuance are asserted to satisfy the intertemporal budget constraint of the State in equilibrium because either the price level (in the original FTPL) or the level of real economic activity (in the Keynesian version of the FTPL developed by Sims) will adjust to make the real contractual value of the outstanding stock of nominal public debt equal to the present discounted value of current and future primary surpluses plus seigniorage. In reality this means overdetermined or inconsistent systems unless (a) the price level is flexible, (b) the interest rate is the monetary policy instrument and (c) there is a non-zero stock of nominal government bonds. Thus, a sticky price level implies overdeterminacy or another inconsistency, and a nominal money stock rule implies overdeterminacy. When all three conditions are satisfied, unacceptable anomalies occur: the possibility of negative price levels; the FTPL can price money when money does not exist; the logic of the FTPL applies equally to the intertemporal budget constraint of an individual household; when the bond pricing equation is specified correctly, there is no FTPL. The FTPL has nothing to do with monetary vs. fiscal dominance or active v. passive fiscal policy. The FTPL implies government debt is never a problem; the price level or the level of real economic activity take care of it, and not through unanticipated inflation or financial repression. If acted upon by fiscal authorities, the consequences could be severe. There is a correct fiscal theory of seigniorage. The issuance of return-dominated and/or irredeemable central bank money creates fiscal space and ensures that a combined monetary-fiscal stimulus always boosts nominal aggregate demand.
E40|The New Keynesian Cross: Understanding Monetary Policy with Hand-to-Mouth Households|"The New Keynesian Cross describes aggregate demand through a planned expenditure PE curve and captures a key amplification mechanism and decomposition of heterogeneous-agent New Keynesian (HANK) models ï¿½ la Kaplan, Moll and Violante, 2015. In response to monetary policy, PEï¿½s shift is the direct effect (intertemporal substitution), while its slope (marginal propensity to consume) is the share of the indirect effect in total. There is amplification (dampening) when hand-to-mouthï¿½s income elasticity to aggregate is more (less) than unity; This elasticity depends chiefly on income (including fiscal re-distribution. The effects are magnified by self-insurance when households are hand-to-mouth only occasionally: the aggregate Euler equation now features discounting (McKay, Nakamura and Steinsson, 2015) when the elasticity of hand-to-mouth income to aggregate is lower than unity, but compounding when larger. This matters most for forward guidance (FG), whose power is reduced in the former case, thus resolving the ""FG puzzle"" (Del Negro et al, 2013) - but amplified in the latter (Werning, 2015), thus aggravating the puzzle."
E40|The Housing Boom and Bust: Model Meets Evidence|We build a model of the U.S. economy with multiple aggregate shocks (income, housing finance conditions, and beliefs about future housing demand) that generate fluctuations in equilibrium house prices. Through a series of counterfactual experiments, we study the housing boom and bust around the Great Recession and obtain three main results. First, we find that the main driver of movements in house prices and rents was a shift in beliefs. Shifts in credit conditions do not move house prices but are important for the dynamics of home ownership, leverage, and foreclosures. The role of housing rental markets and long-term mortgages in alleviating credit constraints is central to these findings. Second, our model suggests that the boom-bust in house prices explains half of the corresponding swings in non-durable expenditures and that the transmission mechanism is a wealth effect through household balance sheets. Third, we find that a large-scale debt forgiveness program would have done little to temper the collapse of house prices and expenditures, but would have dramatically reduced foreclosures and induced a small, but persistent, increase in consumption during the recovery.
E40|The Puzzle, the Power, and the Dark Side: Forward Guidance Redux|"Forward guidance (FG) is phenomenally powerful in New Keynesian models---a feature that earned the label ""FG puzzle"". This paper shows formally how two channels are jointly necessary to reduce the power enough to resolve the puzzle: hand-to-mouth constrained households' income respond to aggregate less than one-to-one; and unconstrained households self-insure idiosyncratic risk. These channels are complementary: if the former condition fails, FG power is instead amplified and the puzzle aggravated. Yet optimal policy does not imply larger FG duration even with such puzzling amplification, because FG power has a dark side: when it increases, so does its welfare cost."
E40|Shareholders’ Value of Saudi Commercial Banks: A Comparative Evaluation between Islamic and Conventional Banks using CAMEL Parameters|Islamic banks are playing an important role in the financial sector in various economies, especially in Islamic nations. They provide most of the banking services as are provided by the conventional banks, albeit different in nomenclature and specific characteristics. So far, however, no econometric study has been reported in the literature which analyses and compares the contribution to shareholders’ value by Islamic and conventional banks. This paper uses pooled OLS and random effect model to investigate and compare the contribution to shareholders’ value by the Islamic and conventional banks in Saudi Arabia over the period 2000-2015. Our results indicate that Islamic banks in Saudi Arabia contribute more to the shareholders’ value than conventional banks. We find that higher capital ratio and credit risk lead to a decline in shareholders’ value of the conventional banks but this is not true in the case of the Islamic banks. We also find that higher level of loans decrease the conventional banks’ shareholders’ value but increase the same in the case of the Islamic banks. In contrast to Islamic banks, we find that conventional banks with higher liquidity have a lower shareholders’ value. Lastly, our results indicate that in general, shareholders’ value is associated negatively with declines in cost efficiency and bank size. Policy implications and possible strategic interventions have also been discussed.
E40|An experimental study of finitely and infinitely repeated linear public goods games|A growing literature in experimental economics examines the conditions under which cooperation can be sustained in social-dilemma settings. In particular, several recent studies contrast cooperation levels in games in which the number of decision rounds is probabilistic to games in which the number of decision rounds is finite. We contribute to this literature by contrasting the evolution of cooperation in probabilistically and finitely repeated linear voluntary-contribution public-goods games (VCM). Consistent with past results, ceteris paribus, cooperation is found to increase in the marginal value of the public good. Additionally, as the number of decision sequences increases, there is a pronounced decrease in cooperation in the final round of finite sequences compared to those with a probabilistic end round. We do not, however, find consistent evidence that overall cooperation rates are affected by whether the number of decision rounds is finite or determined probabilistically.
E40|The Power of Forward Guidance Revisited|In recent years, central banks have increasingly turned to forward guidance as a central tool of monetary policy. Standard monetary models imply that far future forward guidance has huge effects on current outcomes, and these effects grow with the horizon of the forward guidance. We present a model in which the power of forward guidance is highly sensitive to the assumption of complete markets. When agents face uninsurable income risk and borrowing constraints, a precautionary savings effect tempers their responses to changes in future interest rates. As a consequence, forward guidance has substantially less power to stimulate the economy.
E40|Monetary Policy, Market Structure and the Income Shares in the U.S|Abstract A general equilibrium model of heterogeneous capital is employed to investigate whether, how and to what extent monetary policy and market structure may have contributed to the decline of the labor share in the U.S. in recent decades. By construction the model allows monetary policy to affect the labor share through two channels, i.e. one linking the policy rate to the real interest rate and another linking the latter to the useful life of producers’ goods, whereas regarding market structure, the more competitive the economy, the higher the labor share. From its solution using U.S. data over the period 2000–2014 it emerges that the persistent reduction in the policy rate on the one hand slowed down the decline in the labor share and on the other accelerated it, because the reduction in the policy rate was accompanied by a robust upward trend in the equilibrium real rate of interest, which increased the useful life of producers’ goods. In turn, to gauge the relative strength of these two opposite effects, the equation of the labor share is estimated by means of the autoregressive distributed lag method. The results show that the adverse effect of monetary policy through the useful life of producers’ goods was more than 12 times as strong as the favorable effect of the policy rate and on this ground I conclude that the monetary policy contributed to the decline of the labor share significantly, at least since 2000. As for the market structure, it is found that even if firms had and attempted to exercise monopoly power, it would be exceedingly difficult to exploit it because the demand of consumers’ goods is significantly price elastic.
E40|The ‘real’ explanation of the PPP puzzle| This article shows that global financial markets cannot, by themselves, achieve net transfers of financial capital and real interest rate equalization across countries and that the integration of both global financial markets and global goods markets is needed to achieve net transfers of capital and real interest rate equalization across countries. Thus, frictions (barriers to mobility) in one or both of these markets can impede the net transfer of capital between countries, produce the Feldstein and Horioka (1980) finding of high-saving-investment correlations and prevent real interest rates from being equalized across countries. Moreover, frictions in global goods markets can explain why real exchange rates deviate from purchasing power parity (PPP) for extended periods of time and can therefore also explain the PPP puzzle. Consequently, we are able to resolve two of Obstfeld and Rogoff’s (2000) ‘6 major puzzles in macroeconomics’ with essentially the same explanation.
E40|On the Neutrality of Money in CEE (EU Member) States: A Panel Cointegration Analysis|The concept of money neutrality is an important pillar of the mainstream economic literature. It implies that autonomous changes in the money supply have no influence on real macroeconomic variables in the long run. The goal of this paper is to test the validity of (long-run) money neutrality proposition in the CEE (EU member) states. The empirical research is based on panel cointegration analysis which utilises annual data on real output and broad (M2) as well as narrow (M1) monetary aggregates over the 1995–2013 period for 11 ex-socialist EU countries. The results suggest that the money neutrality proposition could be rejected in both cases when narrow or broad measure of money supply is applied, meaning that an active monetary policy could and should be used as a stabilisation instrument as well as in stimulating real economic activity.
E40|Estimating the money market microstructure with negative and zero interest rates|Money market microstructure is fundamental to studying bank behaviour, to evaluating monetary policy and to assessing the financial stability of the system. Given the lack of granular data on interbank loans, Furfine (1999) proposed an algorithm to estimate the microstructure using data from the payment system. We propose an econometric methodology to assess and improve the quality of the money market microstructure estimated by the Furfine algorithm in the presence of zero and negative rates, exploiting information coming from market regularities. We first extend the standard Furfine algorithm to include negative rates and verify the presence of significant noise at a specific rate. Secondly, we propose an inferential procedure that enriches and corrects the standard algorithm based on the economic likelihood of loans. Market regularities observed in this decentralized market are used to increase the reliability of the estimated interbank network. Thirdly, the methodology is applied to TARGET2, the European wholesale payment system. The main impacts of recent monetary policy decisions on key interest rates are studied, comparing the standard algorithm with the new econometric procedure.
E40|Self-fulfilling deflations|What types of monetary and fiscal policy rules produce self-fulfilling deflationary paths that are monotonic and empirically relevant? This paper presents simple theoretical conditions that guarantee the existence of these paths in a general equilibrium model with sticky prices. These sufficient conditions are weak enough to be satisfied by most monetary and fiscal policy rules. A quantification of the model which combines a real shock à la Hayashi and Prescott (2002) with a simultaneous sunspot that deanchors inflation expectations matches the main empirical features of the Japanese deflationary process during the “lost decade”. The results also highlight the key role of the assumption about the anchoring of inflation expectations for the size of fiscal multipliers and, in general, for any policy analysis.
E40|La inflación bajo una perspectiva monetaria: Colombia, 1951-1963|El artículo estudia la inflación en Colombia durante la segunda posguerra y su relación con el crecimiento deldinero enellargoplazo. El artículo aborda eltemade losdesplazamientosde la velocidad de circulación del dinero por medio de una estimación de la demanda de dinero en donde la monetización de la economía sigue un proceso estocástico, específicamente una tendencia lineal local. Este proceso sirve para capturar de forma parsimoniosa y general desplazamientos graduales de la demanda de dinero originados tanto en la monetización como en la innovación financiera. En el artículo se evalúa la predictibilidad de la velocidad de circulación del dinero por medio de una medición de su error de pronóstico. Los resultados muestran que la velocidad no fue predecible debido a la magnitud del error de pronóstico. La principal implicación de política es que una vez estimados los desplazamientos de la demanda de dinero, el enfoque monetario puede dar información sobre la postura pasada de la política monetaria; sin embargo, como los desplazamientos de la demanda de dinero son impredecibles hacia el futuro, el enfoque monetario no permite anclar la inflación en el largo plazo. Otra implicación de política es que la estabilización del sector externo de acuerdo con el enfoque monetario de la balanza de pagos era difícil debido a la ausencia de relación entre el crecimiento del dinero y la inflación en el corto plazo.******The article studies inflation in Colombia during the second postwar period in relation to long-term money growth. The article deals with the shifts in the velocity of money by estimating a demand for money function where monetization follows a stochastic process, specifically, a local linear trend. This process enables us to capture, in a way that is both parsimonious and general, gradual shifts in the demand for money originated in monetization as well as financial innovation. The article evaluates the predictability of velocity by means of measuring its forecast error. The results show that monetization explains the shifts in velocity and that velocity was not predictable due to the size of the forecast error. The main policy implication is that once the shifts in money demand have been estimated, the model may give information about the stance of monetary policy; however, as these shifts are unpredictable into the future, the monetary approach may not enable us to anchor inflation in the long term. Another policy implication is that stabilization of the trade balance, according to the monetary approach to the balance of payments, was difficult due to the lack of relationship between money growth and inflation in the short term.
E40|La inflación bajo una perspectiva monetaria: Colombia, 1951-1963|El artículo estudia la inflación en Colombia durante la segunda posguerra y su relación con el crecimiento del dinero en el largo plazo. El artículo aborda el tema de los desplazamientos de la velocidad de circulación del dinero por medio de una estimación de la demanda de dinero en donde la monetización de la economía sigue un proceso estocástico, específicamente una tendencia lineal local. Este proceso sirve para capturar de forma parsimoniosa y general desplazamientos graduales de la demanda de dinero originados tanto en la monetización como en la innovación financiera. En el artículo se evalúa la predictibilidad de la velocidad de circulación del dinero por medio de una medición de su error de pronóstico. Los resultados muestran que la velocidad no fue predecible debido a la magnitud del error de pronóstico. La principal implicación de política es que una vez estimados los desplazamientos de la demanda de dinero, el enfoque monetario puede dar información sobre la postura pasada de la política monetaria; sin embargo, como los desplazamientos de la demanda de dinero son impredecibles hacia el futuro, el enfoque monetario no permite anclar la inflación en el largo plazo. Otra implicación de política es que la estabilización del sector externo de acuerdo con el enfoque monetario de la balanza de pagos era difícil debido a la ausencia de relación entre el crecimiento del dinero y la inflación en el corto plazo.
E40|Cryptocurrencies, Network Effects, And Switching Costs|" type=""main"" xml:id=""coep12151-abs-0001""> Cryptocurrencies are digital alternatives to traditional government-issued paper monies. Given the current state of technology and skepticism regarding the future purchasing power of existing monies, why have cryptocurrencies failed to gain widespread acceptance? I offer an explanation based on network effects and switching costs. In order to articulate the problem that agents considering cryptocurrencies face, I employ a simple model developed by Dowd and Greenaway (1993) (Dowd, K., and D. Greenaway. “Currency Competition, Network Externalities, and Switching Costs: Towards an Alternative View of Optimum Currency Areas.” The Economic Journal, 103(420), 1993, 1180–89). The model demonstrates that agents may fail to adopt an alternative currency when network effects and switching costs are present, even if all agents agree that the prevailing currency is inferior. The limited success of bitcoin—almost certainly the most popular cryptocurrency to date—serves to illustrate. After briefly surveying episodes of successful monetary transition, I conclude that cryptocurrencies like bitcoin are unlikely to generate widespread acceptance in the absence of either significant monetary instability or government support. (JEL E40, E41, E42, E49)"
E40|Boycott or Buycott?: Internal Politics and Consumer Choices|Does politics affect economic relations? In particular, do political tensions significantly affect consumer choices? The main objective of the paper is to study the consequences of political conflicts between Spain and Catalonia (a region of Spain) and the subsequent boycott calls on sales of Catalan sparkling wine (cava) in the Spanish market. We use data from sales of sparkling wine in supermarkets and similar outlets. To determine with precision the boycott period we use data on the number of news on the issue that appeared in the main national Spanish daily newspapers. The results of our econometric analysis indicate that the boycott calls triggered different consumers’ reactions in different territories. While consumers in some Spanish regions followed them and reduced their purchases of Catalan cava, there was also an anti-boycott reaction of Catalan consumers which led them to increase their consumption of the product. As a consequence of this, the boycott calls had an insignificant impact at the Spanish aggregate level. These results can be rationalized by the predictions of theoretical models of boycotts that include both the free riding and animosity motives.
E40|Bitcoin et blockchain : quelles opportunités ?|The emergence of virtual currencies, based on cryptographic protocols, raises questions about their status. Here, we analyze the case of Bitcoin. We show that bitcoin does not fulfil the traditional functions of money. Acceptability as a means of payment is limited. Its volatility is too high to serve as store of value. And bitcoin is not used as a unit of account. However, as a collaborative and decentralized technology, the blockchain, used to issue the currency and settle transactions has the potential to change the centralized organization of payment and settlement system. Classification JEL: E40, G21, G23.
E40|On the Mechanics of New Keynesian Models|We scrutinize the monetary transmission mechanism in New-Keynesian models, focusing on the role of capital, the key ingredient in the transition from the basic framework to DSGE models. The widely held view that monetary policy affects output and inflation in these models through a real interest rate channel is shown to be misguided. A decline in output and inflation is consistent with a decline, increase, or no change in the real interest rate. The expected path of Taylor rule shocks and the New-Keynesian Phillips Curve are key for inflation and output; the real rate largely reflects consumption smoothing.
E40|La intervención cambiaria y los flujos de capital: evidencia empírica para Brasil, Colombia, Chile y México, 2001-2013|Este artículo investiga las inconsistencias de los supuestos en los que se basa el nuevo consenso macroeconómico, y posteriormente plantea un marco teórico alternativo para comprender el funcionamiento de la intervención cambiaria y del efecto de compensación de los flujos de capital en las economías emergentes de América Latina. Con base en la evidencia empírica para Brasil,Colombia, Chile y México, en el periodo 2001-IV a 2013-III, se infiere que la intervención esterilizada en el mercado de cambios ha cumplido su propósito de estabilizar el tipo de cambio nominal, pero con tres graves consecuencias: pérdida de competitividad, alto endeudamiento público y lento crecimiento económico.******This article examines inconsistencies in the assumptions on which the new macroeconomic consensus is based, before going on to propose an alternative theoretical framework for understanding how exchange rate interventions work, and the compensatory effect of capital flows in the emerging markets of Latin America. Basing its analysis on data from Brazil, Colombia, Chile and Mexico for the period between 2001-4 and 2013-3, it is inferred that sterilizedintervention in the foreign exchange markets has been successful in stabilizing the nominal exchange rate, but with three serious consequences: loss of competitiveness, high levels of public indebtedness and slow economic growth.
E40|Can Currency Competition Work?|Can competition among privately issued fiat currencies such as Bitcoin or Ethereum work? Only sometimes. To show this, we build a model of competition among privately issued fiat currencies. We modify the current workhorse of monetary economics, the Lagos-Wright environment, by including entrepreneurs who can issue their own fiat currencies in order to maximize their utility. Otherwise, the model is standard. We show that there exists an equilibrium in which price stability is consistent with competing private monies, but also that there exists a continuum of equilibrium trajectories with the property that the value of private currencies monotonically converges to zero. These latter equilibria disappear, however, when we introduce productive capital. We also investigate the properties of hybrid monetary arrangements with private and government monies, of automata issuing money, and the role of network effects.
E40|Optimal Forward Guidance|For how long should central banks keep interest rates low, beyond the end of a liquidity trap? I solve analytically for the optimal duration of forward guidance (FG), modelled stochastically through a probability of low interest rates once out of the trap. Welfare-maximizing FG balances the benefit of higher consumption (and lower volatility) today with the cost of higher volatility once the trap is over. Its main determinants are the trap duration, the severity of the recession, and a composite parameter capturing the elasticity of aggregate activity to news. A simple rule (announcing an FG duration of half the trap duration times the interest rate spread, plus half a period) is close to optimal. I apply this analytical apparatus to models with heterogenous agents, and study how optimal FG depends on informational asymmetries, financial constraints, and unemployment risk.
E40|Fuzzy Multi Objective Project Scheduling Under Inflationary Conditions|Project scheduling is a major area of project management and planning. Due to the increasing prices of goods in most countries during the project and lack of information related to each parameters and variables, using fuzzy sets under inflationary condition can be efficient. In this paper, fuzzy project scheduling when project’s revenues and costs are increased by different inflationary rate is considered. The duration of each project’s activity is assumed as a fuzzy number. Two objectives of the problem are to minimize the project duration and to maximize the net present value of the project. The nonlinear multi-objective model will be solved by one of the multi- objective decision making methods named LP-Metric method and Frank-Wolf algorithm as one of the nonlinear programming procedure. The solving approach will be explained in a numerical example and the computational results will be reported.
E40|Does Banknote Quality Affect Counterfeit Detection? Experimental Evidence from Germany and the Netherlands|Counterfeit prevention is a major concern for central banks. In search of effective policy measures, it is often claimed that a clean banknote circulation helps the general public to more easily detect counterfeits. To examine this claim, we conducted an experimental study with 250 consumers and 261 cashiers in the Netherlands and Germany. Participants received 200 banknotes with either a high or a low average soil level. The banknote test sets contained 20 counterfeits to be detected by the participants. For the regression analysis we applied approaches used in the area of psychophysical science (signal detection theory). Our candidates identified more counterfeits when sorting clean banknotes. However, our analysis also showed that the cleanliness of banknotes does not actually help the person checking the banknote to more easily distinguish a counterfeit banknote from a genuine note. In fact, new and clean banknotes raised suspicion: they were more often declared as counterfeits – correctly or not. We discuss the implication of our results for central banks’ banknote policies.
E40|A comparative analysis of developments in central bank balance sheet composition|In this paper we analyse developments in the composition of central bank balance sheets for a large set of central banks in a unified framework. Since 2007, central banks in advanced economies have experienced pronounced changes in balance sheet composition as a consequence of unconventional monetary policy measures. In addition, we document a convergence in balance sheet composition from 2007 until 2009, as the initial crisis response was fairly homogeneous across advanced economies, mostly driven by financial stability concerns. However, since 2009 design of balance sheet policies has been more diverse, reflecting diverging policy challenges across regions. By contrast, balance sheets of central banks in emerging market economies have remained broadly unchanged in terms of composition in the period under review.
E40|Trust in the Central Bank and Inflation Expectations|Using micro data from the 2015 Dutch CentERpanel, we examine whether trust in the European Central Bank (ECB) influences individuals’ expectations and uncertainty about future inflation, and also whether it anchors inflation expectations. We find that higher trust in the ECB lowers inflation expectations on average, and significantly reduces uncertainty about future inflation. Moreover, results from quantile regressions suggest that trusting the ECB increases (lowers) inflation expectations when the latter are below (above) the ECB’s inflation target. These findings hold after controlling for people’s knowledge about the objectives of the ECB. In addition, higher trust in the ECB raises expectations about GDP growth. The findings suggest that a central bank can influence the economy through people’s expectations, even in times when conventional monetary policy tools likely have weak effects.
E40|Risk Management and the Money Multiplier|The conventional model of bank liquidity risk management predicts a negative relation between the risk free rate and the money multiplier. We extend that model to reflect credit, or loan book, risk. We find that credit risk model predicts a positive correlation between the risk free rate and the money multiplier, other things constant. In the pre-financial crisis period the liquidity risk view fits the data better whilst in the post-crisis period, the credit risk management model is more appropriate in explaining the relationship between the money multiplier and the risk free rate. In addition, the model implies that the money multiplier should increase with stock market return and decline with its volatility. We provide evidence that this is indeed the case
E40|News and noise in the housing market|Housing prices are subject to boom and bust episodes with long-lasting deviation from fundamentals. By considering a present value housing price model under noisy information, I study the macroeconomic implications of movements in housing prices related (news) and not related (noise) to future fundamentals. I provide empirical evidence of the sizable macroeconomic effects of news and noise shocks. Following Forni et al. (2014, 2016), I identify news and noise shocks through a non-standard VAR technique which exploits future information. In the US, news shocks are the main driver of the housing market at low frequencies, but in the short-medium horizon noise shocks explain a large share of the variability in housing prices, residential investment and GDP. Historically, many housing cycles are driven by noise. The empirical findings are consistent with a model JEL Classification: E30, E40, E50
