E49|Interest rate bands of inaction and play-hysteresis in domestic investment: Evidence for the euro area|The interest rate represents an important monetary policy tool to steer investment in order to reach price stability. Therefore, implications of the exact form and magnitude of the interest rate-investment nexus for the European Central Bank's effectiveness in a low interest rate environment gain center stage. We first present a theoretical framework of the hysteretic impact of changes in the interest rate on macroeconomic investment under certainty and under uncertainty to investigate whether uncertainty over future interest rates in the Euro area hampers monetary policy transmission. In this non-linear model, strong reactions in investment activity occur as soon as changes of the interest rate exceed a zone of inaction, that we call 'play' area. Second, we apply an algorithm describing path-dependent play-hysteresis to estimate investment hysteresis using data on domestic investment and interest rates on corporate loans for 5 countries of the Euro area in the period ranging from 2001Q1 to 2018Q1. We find hysteretic effects of interest rate changes on investment in most countries. However, their shape and magnitude differ widely across countries which poses a challenge for a unified monetary policy. By introducing uncertainty into the regressions, the results do not change much which may be due to the interest rate implicitly incorporating uncertainty effects in investment decisions, e.g. by risk premia.
E49|La microfinance et la gestion des risques de vulnérabilité par les ménages ruraux au Sénégal<BR>[Microfinance and Vulnerability Risk Management by Rural Households in Senegal]|The development of microfinance has enabled millions of low-income actors around the world, who did not have access to conventional financing systems, to access financing for their production and / or consumption activities. In Senegal, the activities of Decentralized Financial Systems (DFS) have been growing dynamically for almost three decades (Drs-Sfd, 2018). Thus, the new approach advocated by the microfinance sector has led to a diversification of supply (Labie, 2009) and greater openness to the rural world, but above all to an increase in the overall scope of the financial sector, which is around 20.6%, of which 12.1% is carried by the microfinance sub-sector (ANSD, 2016), driven mainly by the SFDs. The development of financial services in rural areas should result in a better consideration of the needs of actors, particularly households, who often struggle to access quality financial services, meeting their needs, in terms of specificities. And adequate and timely amounts. The latter are often confronted with covariant risks, which make them vulnerable to endogenous and exogenous shocks, the management of which often requires the use of appropriate tools. Thus, this paper aims to analyze, in a detailed way, how rural households use the services offered by the DFS in order to face the risks of vulnerability that they face. The notion of vulnerability refers to the capacity or the incapacity of the actors to be able to prevent shocks, to manage them and to be able to get out of them in case of occurrence of these.
E49|Interest Rate Bands of Inaction and Play-Hysteresis in Domestic Investment - Evidence for the Euro Area|The interest rate represents an important monetary policy tool to steer investment in order to reach price stability. Therefore, implications of the exact form and magnitude of the interest rate-investment nexus for the European Central Bank’s effectiveness in a low interest rate environment gain center stage. We first present a theoretical framework of the hysteretic impact of changes in the interest rate on macroeconomic investment under certainty and under uncertainty to investigate whether uncertainty over future interest rates in the Euro area hampers monetary policy transmission. In this non-linear model, strong reactions in investment activity occur as soon as changes of the interest rate exceed a zone of inaction, that we call ’play’ area. Second, we apply an algorithm describing path-dependent play-hysteresis to estimate investment hysteresis using data on domestic investment and interest rates on corporate loans for 5 countries of the Euro area in the period ranging from 2001Q1 to 2018Q1. We find hysteretic effects of interest rate changes on investment in most countries. However, their shape and magnitude differ widely across countries which poses a challenge for a unified monetary policy. By introducing uncertainty into the regressions, the results do not change much which may be due to the interest rate implicitly incorporating uncertainty effects in investment decisions, e.g. by risk premia.
E49|Interest Rate Bands of Inaction and Play-Hysteresis in Domestic Investment - Evidence for the Euro Area|The interest rate represents an important monetary policy tool to steer investment in order to reach price stability. Therefore, implications of the exact form and magnitude of the interest rate-investment nexus for the European Central Bank's effectiveness in a low interest rate environment gain center stage. We first present a theoretical framework of the hysteretic impact of changes in the interest rate on macroeconomic investment under certainty and under uncertainty to investigate whether uncertainty over future interest rates in the Euro area hampers monetary policy transmission. In this non-linear model, strong reactions in investment activity occur as soon as changes of the interest rate exceed a zone of inaction, that we call 'play' area. Second, we apply an algorithm describing path-dependent play-hysteresis to estimate investment hysteresis using data on domestic investment and interest rates on corporate loans for 5 countries of the Euro area in the period ranging from 2001Q1 to 2018Q1. We find hysteretic effects of interest rate changes on investment in most countries. However, their shape and magnitude differ widely across countries which poses a challenge for a unified monetary policy. By introducing uncertainty into the regressions, the results do not change much which may be due to the interest rate implicitly incorporating uncertainty effects in investment decisions, e.g. by risk premia.
E49|Money in Spain. New historical statistics. 1830-1998|The purpose of this Working Paper is to present a reconstruction of the main monetary aggregates for the period 1830, when the first modern banknotes were issue, to1998, the last year before the substitution of the peseta by the euro. It offers series for currency in circulation and its components, bank deposits and its components, high-powered money and the money supply. With regard to previous monetary historical statistics, this Working Paper improves the quality and the time-span of the series, covering a period of more than 150 years. The Working Paper offers also a short approach to the long-term evolution of the quantity of money in Spain and the changes in its composition. The sources and methodology employed is explain in detail.
E49|Versatile Forward Guidance: Escaping or Switching?|We examine how forward guidance should be designed when an economy faces negative natural real interest-rate shocks and subsequent supply shocks. Besides a standard approach for forward guidance, we introduce two flexible designs: escaping and switching. With escaping forward guidance, the central banker commits to low interest rates in the presence of negative natural real interest-rate shocks, contingent on a self-chosen inflation rate threshold. With switching forward guidance, the central banker can switch from interest-rate forecasts to inflation forecasts any time in order to stabilize supply shocks. We show that for small and large natural real interest-rate shocks, escaping forward guidance is preferable to any of the other approaches, while switching forward guidance is optimal for intermediate natural real interest-rate shocks. Furthermore, with the polynomial chaos expansion method, we show that our findings are globally robust to parameter uncertainty. In addition, using Sobol' Indices, we identify the structural parameters with the greatest effect on the results.
E49|Main Determinants of Profit-Sharing Policy in the French Life Insurance Industry|Abstract The current low interest rate environment and the coming into force of Solvency II raise questions about the stability of the life insurance industry in Europe and the sustainability of traditional insurance products. We use a data set built from French supervisory reports to investigate the drivers of the participation rates (equivalent to annual yields) served on euro-denominated life insurance contracts over the period from 1999 to 2013. Our analysis confirms practitioners’ intuition on the alignment with the 10-year French government bond; we later analyse the deviation of the participation rates from this reference. Our data indicate that financial margins are more strictly targeted than participation. We find evidence that surrenders are fairly uncorrelated with participation, suggesting that other levers are used to monitor them. While higher asset returns can imply better yield for policyholders, riskier portfolios do not necessarily translate into better participation.
E49|Insolvency after the 2005 bankruptcy reform|Using a comprehensive panel dataset on U.S. households, we study the effects of the 2005 Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act (BAPCPA), the most substantive reform of personal bankruptcy in the United States since the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978. The 2005 legislation introduced a means test based on income to establish eligibility for Chapter 7 bankruptcy and increased the administrative requirements to file, leading to a rise in the opportunity cost and, especially, the financial cost of filing for bankruptcy. We study the effects of the reform on bankruptcy, insolvency, and foreclosure. We find that the reform caused a permanent drop in the Chapter 7 bankruptcy rate relative to pre-reform levels, owing to the rise in filing costs associated with the reform, which can be interpreted as resulting from liquidity constraints. We find that the decline in bankruptcy filings resulted in a rise in the rate and persistence of insolvency as well as an increase in the rate of foreclosure. We find no evidence of a link between the decline in bankruptcy and a rise in the number of individuals who are current on their debt. We document that these effects are concentrated at the bottom of the income distribution, suggesting that the income means tests introduced by BAPCPA did not serve as an effective screening device. We show that insolvency is associated with worse financial outcomes than bankruptcy, as insolvent individuals have less access to new lines of credit and display lower credit scores than individuals who file for bankruptcy. Since bankruptcy filings declined much more for low-income individuals, our findings suggest that, for this group, BAPCPA may have removed an important form of relief from financial distress.
E49|Do Cryptocurrencies and Traditional Asset Classes Influence Each Other?|Large stream of literature studies interconnectedness among various assets that are relevant in current global markets. Transmission of shocks between cryptocurrencies and traditional asset classes is, however, not understood at all, but should not be ignored due to increasing influence of cryptocurrencies in recent years. In this paper, we study how shocks between the most liquid representatives of the traditional asset classes including commodities, foreign exchange, stocks, financials, and cryptocurrencies are being transmitted. Generally, we document very low level of connectedness between the main cryptocurrency and other studied assets. The only exception is gold which receives substantial amount of shocks from cryptocurrency market. Our findings are important since we show that cryptocurrencies play role in global markets, and the results could also be useful in portfolio diversification schemes. Moreover, we find significant positive asymmetry in spillovers between the studied assets, which is in contradiction to previous studies conducted on assets from a single asset class.
E49|Инвестирование Денежных Средств В Условиях Экономического Кризиса В 2017 Году|In the conditions of the economic crisis, one of the most urgent aspects is the investment of funds. The choice of the most optimal directions for investing is rather complicated, since there are many alternative options. The purpose of this study is to determine the most profitable directions for investing money in 2017.
E49|How Does Monetary Policy Affect Economic Vulnerability to Oil Price Shock as against US Economy Shock?|This paper investigates the role of the monetary policy in protecting the economy against the external shocks of US output and oil price during the 2007-2009 financial crisis. It also considers economic vulnerability caused by these external shocks after the crisis abated. The application of the structural vector auto regression model using monthly data from 2002:M1 to 2013:M4 for Indonesia, Malaysia, and Thailand shows that poor influence of monetary policies on monetary policy transmission channels (namely, interest rate, exchange rate, domestic credit, and stock price) in the pre-crisis period could not shield these economies from shocks of oil price and US output. The results of post-crisis period indicate a significant increase in the positive impact of monetary policy on channels of monetary transmission channels compared to the pre-crisis period. However, these economies continue to remain vulnerable to oil price shocks.
E49|The Death of Cash? Not So Fast: Demand for U.S. Currency at Home and Abroad, 1990-2016|It would seem that physical currency should be fading out as the world of payments is increasingly electronic, with new technologies emerging at a rapid pace, and as governments look to restrictions on large-denomination notes as a way to reduce crime and tax evasion. Nonetheless, demand for U.S. dollar banknotes continues to grow, and consistently increases at times of crisis both within and outside the United States because it remains a desirable store of value and medium of exchange in times and places where local currency or bank deposits are inferior. After allowing for the effect of crises, demand for U.S. banknotes appears to be driven by the same factors as demand for other types of money, with no discernible downward trend. In this work, I review developments in demand for U.S. currency since the collapse of Lehman Brothers in late 2008 with a focus on some new questions. First, what are the factors driving demand for lower denominations, especially $20s, which are the most commonly used in domestic transactions? To what extent can the recent strength in demand be attributed to the long spell of very low interest rates? Finally, for the larger denominations, I revisit the question of international demand: I present the raw data available for measuring international banknote flows and presents updates on indirect methods of estimating the stock of currency held abroad. These methods continue to indicate that a large share of U.S. currency is held abroad, especially in the $100 denomination. As shown in an earlier paper, once a country or region begins using dollars, subsequent crises result in additional inflows: the dominant sources of international demand over the past two decades are the countries and regions that were known to be heavy dollar users in the early to mid-1990s. While international demand for U.S. currency eased during the early 2000s as financial conditions improved, the abrupt return to strong international demand that began nearly a decade ago with the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008 has shown only limited signs of slowing. In contrast, the growth rate of demand for smaller denominations is slowing, perhaps indicating the first signs of declining domestic cash demand.
E49|Cryptocurrencies, Network Effects, And Switching Costs|" type=""main"" xml:id=""coep12151-abs-0001""> Cryptocurrencies are digital alternatives to traditional government-issued paper monies. Given the current state of technology and skepticism regarding the future purchasing power of existing monies, why have cryptocurrencies failed to gain widespread acceptance? I offer an explanation based on network effects and switching costs. In order to articulate the problem that agents considering cryptocurrencies face, I employ a simple model developed by Dowd and Greenaway (1993) (Dowd, K., and D. Greenaway. “Currency Competition, Network Externalities, and Switching Costs: Towards an Alternative View of Optimum Currency Areas.” The Economic Journal, 103(420), 1993, 1180–89). The model demonstrates that agents may fail to adopt an alternative currency when network effects and switching costs are present, even if all agents agree that the prevailing currency is inferior. The limited success of bitcoin—almost certainly the most popular cryptocurrency to date—serves to illustrate. After briefly surveying episodes of successful monetary transition, I conclude that cryptocurrencies like bitcoin are unlikely to generate widespread acceptance in the absence of either significant monetary instability or government support. (JEL E40, E41, E42, E49)"
E49|Einseitig alternativ? Zur Frage des Alternativen im Geld- und Finanzsystem|The paper shows that models of consumption and business can hardly be considered alternative as long as they are carried out over the established money and finance system. Cause this system stands — already in the basic dimensions of space and time — for the big and the fast and as such for the opposite of what is defined as alternative on a most general basis. Doing so, first of all a process of money decoupling and abstracting is retraced. Money-qualities resulting from this process are subsequently described regarding theirtime-space-effects. Following that it’s explained why the same structures are responsible for a harder implementation of alternative models. In any case what finally remains is a recommendation for more qualified and critical financial education. Konsum- und Geschäftsmodelle können nur bedingt als alternativ gelten, so lange sie über das bestehende Geld- und Finanzsystem abgewickelt werden. Denn dieses steht schon in den beiden grundlegendsten (Deduktions-)Dimensionen – Raum und Zeit – für das Große und Schnelle und somit für das Gegenteil dessen, was Alternativ gemeinhin definiert. Um dies darzulegen, wird eingangs ein stufenweiser Entkoppelungs- beziehungsweise Abstrahierungsprozess des Geldes nachgezeichnet. Die dadurch erst möglichen strukturellen Eigenschaften des Geldes werden anschließend auf ihre räumlichen und zeitlichen Wirkungen hin beschrieben. Abschließend wird erklärt, warum dieselben Strukturen alternative Geld- und Finanzsysteme nur schwer durchsetzbar machen. Die Verstärkung kritischer, finanzieller Bildung ist eine anzuratende Konsequenz daraus.
E49|the Basic Determinants of Foreign Direct Investment Inflows in Turkey (1988-2012)|Foreign direct investment (FDI) -which is the investment of foreign assets into domestic structures, equipment, and organization- is a type of durable investment unlike foreign investment into the stock markets that leaves suddenly when the economy faces any challenge. FDI is also considered to be a significant source of economic development by increasing employment, productivity, and constituting a bridge for skill and technology transfers. Developing countries differ from each other in benefiting from and attracting FDI. Despite its potential, Turkey is not one of them that crucially succeed in inflows of FDI. The objective of this study is to figure out the determinants of foreign direct investment in Turkey. In order to undertake it, we performed an econometric model based in time series data analysis for the period of 1988-2012.
E49|Reserve Balances, the Federal Funds Market and Arbitrage in the New Regulatory Framework|We study developments in reserve balances and the federal funds market in the context of two banking regulatory changes: the widening of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) assessment base and the introduction of the Basel III leverage ratio. Using a novel data set that includes FDIC fees and balance sheet data for depository institutions, we find that, as most foreign banks were not subject to the FDIC fee, they absorbed increasing amounts of reserve balances. Furthermore, foreign banks experienced positive and improving conditions for arbitraging between borrowing reserve balances in the federal funds market and earning interest on excess reserves by holding those reserves at the Federal Reserve Banks, contributing to an increase in federal funds borrowing by foreign banks relative to domestic banks. However, the implementation of the Basel III leverage ratio was associated with temporary declines in foreign bank federal funds borrowing at reporting dates.
E49|Cashless Payments and the Persistence of Cash: Open Questions About Mexico|This essay analyzes the trends in payments in Mexico since 2002 and argues that there has been an important growth in the use of cashless digital payment instruments, namely the use of credit and debit cards, electronic funds transfers (EFTs) and mobile banking. However, the use of cash widely persists in the Mexican economy. The essay discusses the factors behind the persistence of the use of cash, and argues that low financial inclusion and informal economic activity are considered the main causes. Equally relevant is the fact that digital instruments are not a perfect substitute for cash as money yet, as it is the need to adequate payments services to the convenience and trust of segments of users, mainly population that still has little use or no access to financial services.
E49|Endogenous currency formation in an online environment: The case of Diablo II|This paper presents a case study of the emergence of currency from a barter economy in an online game community. We use this case study to attempt to shed light on the relative importance of various types of frictions that lead to the emergence of money in search-theoretic models of currency formation. In particular, our study highlights the importance of exchange frictions relative to epistemic frictions. Using the records of an online message board dedicated to facilitating trades within the game, we document the emergence of currency and its stability over time. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2016
E49|Sentiment and Bitcoin Volatility|This paper augments the current research suggesting the less rational factors like attractiveness of Bitcoin and speculative investments to be influential for excessive volatility. In particular, it examines the sentiment as a driver of Bitcoin volatility. The paper contributes with economic rationale about a link between sentiment and Bitcoin. Further, the authors propose a unique decomposition of Bitcoin price to rational and less rational components. The paper tests this theoretical prediction with unique sentiment intraday data in the period of 12/12/2013 â€“ 12/31/2015. The findings of the paper show the marginal presence of sentiment during the overall studied period. However, the explanato- ry power of sentiment significantly increases during the period of excessive volatility, especially dur- ing the bubble period at the end of the year 2013 and beginning of 2014. Moreover, the findings show that positive sentiment is more influential for Bitcoin excessive volatility.
E49|The Democratization of Credit and the Rise in Consumer Bankruptcies|"Financial innovations are a common explanation for the rise in credit card debt and bankruptcies. To evaluate this story, we develop a simple model that incorporates two key frictions: asymmetric information about borrowers' risk of default and a fixed cost of developing each contract lenders offer. Innovations that ameliorate asymmetric information or reduce this fixed cost have large extensive margin effects via the entry of new lending contracts targeted at riskier borrowers. This results in more defaults and borrowing, and increased dispersion of interest rates. Using the Survey of Consumer Finances and Federal Reserve Board interest rate data, we find evidence supporting these predictions. Specifically, the dispersion of credit card interest rates nearly tripled while the ""new"" cardholders of the late 1980s and 1990s had riskier observable characteristics than existing cardholders. Our calculations suggest that these new cardholders accounted for over 20% of the rise in bank credit card debt and delinquencies between 1989 and 1998."
E49|Altcoins|The aim of this article is to present altcoins that seem to be most promising. The author has made an attempt at answering the questions about the reasons for their creation and if any of them is strong enough to undermine Bitcoin's position among virtual currencies. In order to find the answers there have been used the literature on the subject as well as available internet sources since the Internet is the environment in which cryptocurrencies and their makers function. The research demonstrates that among over 600 existing cryptocurrencies there exists a group of quite interesting projects. These projects has not always been targeted at creation of a new cryptocurrency: some of them have been aimed at implementing the technology used by Bitcoin in other spheres of human activity, e.g. to collect data. There have been presented three Polish cryptocurrencies, whose history shows how uncertain it is to achieve success at the market of virtual currencies even if a created cryptocurrency is believed to be well-prepared to debut. The more we get to know about the way in which altcoins function, the more we will be able to predict if it is just a passing fad or the beginning of the new age of online payments.
E49|Insolvency After the 2005 Bankruptcy Reform|Using a comprehensive panel data set on U.S. households, we study the effects of the 2005 Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act (BAPCPA), the most substantive reform of personal bankruptcy in the United States since the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978. The 2005 legislation introduced a means test based on income to establish eligibility for Chapter 7 bankruptcy and increased the administrative requirements to file, leading to a rise in the opportunity cost and, especially, the financial cost of filing for bankruptcy. We study the effects of the reform on bankruptcy, insolvency, and foreclosure. We find that the reform caused a permanent drop in the Chapter 7 bankruptcy rate relative to pre-reform levels, due to the rise in filing costs associated with the reform, which can be interpreted as resulting from liquidity constraints. We find that the decline in bankruptcy filings resulted in a rise in the rate and persistence of insolvency as well as an increase in the rate of foreclosure. We find no evidence of a link between the decline in bankruptcy and a rise in the number of individuals who are current on their debt. We document that these effects are concentrated at the bottom of the income distribution, suggesting that the income means tests introduced by BAPCPA did not serve as an effective screening device. We show that insolvency is associated with worse financial outcomes than bankruptcy, as insolvent individuals have less access to new lines of credit and display lower credit scores than individuals who file for bankruptcy. Since bankruptcy filings declined much more for low income individuals, our findings suggest that BAPCPA may have removed an important form of relief from financial distress for this group.
E49|A Helyi Pénzek Szerepe A Magyar Kis- És Középvállalkozások Vonatkozásában| A kis– és középvállalkozások (kkv) a magyar gazdaság meghatározó szereplői. A gazdaságban betöltött jelentős szerepüket bizonyítja, hogy ez a szektor teszi ki a vállalkozások több mint 99 százalékát, és mindamellett, hogy szerepük jelentős a foglalkoztatás tekintetében, többek között jelentősen hozzájárulnak az éves bruttó hozzáadott értékhez (GDP) is. A szektor életben tartása, fejlesztése, finanszírozása minden tekintetben aktuális és szinte kimeríthetetlen problémakör. Kutatásom középpontjába ezen okból kifolyólag a magyar kkv szektor kockázatainak megismerését, ezen belül is a finanszírozási problémák vizsgálatát helyeztem. Többek között azt vizsgálom, hogy a helyi pénz kezdeményezések bevezetése – mely külföldön már több sikert megélt – milyen hatással lehetnek a magyar vállalkozások versenyképességére és növekedésére. Az eredményeim meghatározásában a szakirodalmi anyagok elsajátítása mellett, a Veszprém megyei Balatoni Korona vizsgálata volt segítségemre. A szekunder és primer vizsgálataim során arra törekedtem, hogy minél lehatároltabb képek kapjak a helyi pénzek hatásairól a magyar kkv szektor vonatkozásában. A szakirodalmak tanulmányozása mellett egy kérdőíves felmérés, valamint vállalkozásokkal készített mélyinterjúk eredményei voltak segítségemre a konklúzióim megalapozásában, melynek eredményeit az alábbi tanulmány részletezi. -------------------------------------------------------------------- The main players of the Hungarian economy are the small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). This section loaded significant role in the economic life that this sector makes up more than 99 percent of the companies, and in addition to having a significant role to play in terms of employment, contribute significantly to the gross value added (GDP). The sector will be keeping, development, financing are almost inexhaustible current problem in all respects. The focus point of my research are the Hungarian SME sector's potential risks and the assessments of funding problems. Among other things, I examine, that the introduction of local currencies – which lived for more success in abroad – could impact the growth and competitiveness of Hungarian enterprises. In addition to the acquisition of the references, the examination of the Balatoni Korona helped my work. The primary and secondary studies helped my research, so they gave me a comprehensive picture of the impact of the local currencies in relation to Hungarian SME sector. The results of a questionnaire survey and interviews helped my work to creation my conclusion. This study contains my results in this theme.
E49|Forward Guidance Contracts|We examine “Forward Guidance Contracts”, which make central bankers’ utility contingent on the precision of interest-rate forecasts for some time. Such Forward Guidance Contracts are a flexible commitment device and can improve economic performance when the economy is stuck in a liquidity trap. Utilizing the New Keynesian Framework, we establish the properties of simple renewable Forward Guidance Contracts and characterize the contracts that the government wants to offer repeatedly. These contracts create favorable tradeoffs between the efficacy of forward guidance at the zero bound and the reduced flexibility in reacting to future events, when the zero bound on nominal interest rates constrains the central banks’ choice. We discuss how Forward Guidance Contracts can be used when there is uncertainty about natural real interest-rate shocks, a situation which typically calls for moderate incentive intensity. Finally we explore alternative contractual environments.
E49|The Behavior of Conventional and Islamic Bank Deposit Returns in Malaysia and Turkey|This paper examines the empirical behavior of conventional bank deposit rates and the rate of return on retail Islamic profit-and-loss sharing (PLS) investment accounts in Malaysia and Turkey, using monthly data from January 1997 to August 2010. The analysis shows that conventional bank deposit rates and PLS returns exhibit long-run cointegration and the time-varying volatility of conventional bank deposit rates and PLS returns is correlated and is statistically significant. The pairwise and multivariate causality tests show that conventional bank deposit rates Granger cause returns on PLS accounts. These findings have policy implications in terms of price stability and financial stability.
E49|Price-Money Relationship after Infl ation Targeting: Co-integration Test with Structural Breaks for Turkey and Brazil|The infl ation targeting (IT) strategy may create structural changes in macroeconomic variables. This study analyzes the effect of the IT strategy on the price-money supply relationship in Turkey and Brazil by Kejriwal–Perron (K–P) cointegration analysis with structural breaks. The analysis aims to determine whether the IT strategy leads to regime shifts in the price index-money supply relationship in Turkey and Brazil. The K–P tests reveal a structural break in the price-money supply relationship as a result of the IT strategy. In both countries, the implementation of this strategy leads to a decrease in the regime coeffi cients for Turkey while it creates an increase for Brazil. When Turkey and Brazil are compared in terms of money-price relationship after the IT strategy, the study reveals that it has weakened more in Brazil.
E49|Money, liquidity and welfare|This paper develops an analytically tractable Bewley model of money demand to shed light on some important questions in monetary theory, such as the welfare cost of inflation. It is shown that when money is a vital form of liquidity to meet uncertain consumption needs, the welfare costs of inflation can be extremely large. With log utility and parameter values that best match both the aggregate money demand curve suggested by Lucas (2000) and the variance of household consumption, agents in our model are willing to reduce consumption by 3–4% to avoid 10% annual inflation. The astonishingly large welfare costs of inflation arise because inflation increases consumption risk by eroding the buffer-stock-insurance value of money, thus hindering consumption smoothing at the household level. Such an inflation-induced increase in consumption risk at the micro level cannot be captured by representative-agent models or the Bailey triangle. Although the development of financial intermediation can mitigate the problem, with realistic credit limits the welfare loss of moderate inflation still remains several times larger than estimations based on the Bailey triangle. Our findings provide a strong justification for adopting a low inflation target by central banks, especially in developing countries where money is the major form of household financial wealth.
E49|Fragmentation in the European interbank market: Measures, determinants, and policy solutions|This paper measures fragmentation in the European interbank market. We document that, during the recent crisis, fragmentation in the interbank market has been, on average, higher in the peripheral countries than in the core ones and it has increased particularly during periods of financial stress. Among the most significant factors that contributed to the high fragmentation levels observed are global factors such as financing costs and counterparty risk; and country-specific factors such as the debt-to-GDP ratio, the economic sentiment, and the banking sector openness. We also study the short-run effect of the ECB programmes and announcements and find a significant decrease in the daily levels of fragmentation immediately after the implementation of the SMP and the 3-year LTRO ECB programmes, the expansion of the list of the assets eligible as collateral in Eurosystem, the announcement of the Banking Union, and ECB President Mario Draghi's speech.
E49|Money and Inflation: Evidence from P-Star Model|This study uses P-star model to examine the role of money in explaining inflation in India. In particular, we compare the performance of traditional Phillips curve approach against P-star model in forecasting inflation. Moreover, the study estimates P-star model using the alternative measures of money such as simple sum and Divisia M3, to examine the relevance of aggregation theoretic monetary aggregates in explaining inflation. The empirical results indicate that P-star model with real money gap has an edge over traditional Phillips curve approach in forecasting inflation. More importantly, we found that the P-star model estimated with Divisia real money gap performs better than its simple sum counterpart. These results highlight the role of money in explaining inflation in India.Length: 39 pages
E49|Towards a General Theory of Deep Downturns|This paper, an extension of the Presidential Address to the International Economic Association, evaluates alternative strands of macro-economics in terms of the three basic questions posed by deep downturns: What is the source of large perturbations? How can we explain the magnitude of volatility? How do we explain persistence? The paper argues that while real business cycles and New Keynesian theories with nominal rigidities may help explain certain historical episodes, alternative strands of New Keynesian economics focusing on financial market imperfections, credit, and real rigidities provides a more convincing interpretation of deep downturns, such as the Great Depression and the Great Recession, giving a more plausible explanation of the origins of downturns, their depth and duration. Since excessive credit expansions have preceded many deep downturns, particularly important is an understanding of finance, the credit creation process and banking, which in a modern economy are markedly different from the way envisioned in more traditional models.
E49|Bitcoin as a virtual currency|The aim of this article is to show the position of Bitcoin among virtual currencies. On the basis of the reports published by the European Central Bank and The Financial Action Task Force, as well as the available Internet and primary sources, there have been presented the types and the history of virtual currencies, the way in which Bitcoin functions and the methods of acquiring it. The article is based on the assumption that an in-depth knowledge of virtual currencies, their classification and their functioning will make it possible to regulate their legal status. It is necessary not only for tax purposes, but also in order to avoid the risk of using this payment method for terrorist or criminal purposes. The knowledge of the history of virtual currencies also makes it possible to foresee the problems that may hinder the functioning of Bitcoin and other virtual currencies. The growing popularity of virtual currencies and cryptocurrencies is linked with the increase of importance of non-cash payments on global scale. Thus, Bitcoin may be considered a next step in the evolution of digital money.
E49|Bitcoin Mission Statement. Or What does it mean Sharing Economy and Distributed Trust?|Technological advancements in the means of production are the driving force behind the changes in the prevailing system of socio-economic relations. Feudalism was transformed into capitalism as a result of such advancements. While man obtained physical freedom, the financial freedom remained under the control of the centralized authority. A deep level of collaboration is required to attain the next level of productivity provided by new technological advancements. However, the present system with a centralized control of governance and finance appears to constrain and restrain the value producing economy. This constriction becomes especially evident when the business environment requires collaboration to create, as it underlines the inherent conflict of centralized control. The most recent tech sector innovations, such as smart contracts and cryptocurrencies, are poised to disrupt the system of centralized control. The removal of a centralized authority from the position of control will change the fabric of the society to reflect the mesh network of shared resources. The society will transform to the new form of socio-economic relations – the era of Crypto-Socialism.
E49|Half-Forgotten Personalities of Economic Thought - Silvio Gesell|Silvio Gesell was a German tradesman, self-educated economist, globetrotter and social reformer with a nonconformist worldview. He is known for his proposals for monetary reform. He is famous for his experiments with interest-free currency. Gesell’s thought inspired a plenty of political and civil movements, and has a few followers even to this day.
E49|Contester par projets. Le cas des monnaies locales associatives|Les monnaies associatives à circulation locale et commerciale, qui ont émergé en France depuis 2010 principalement, sont construites sur des fondements contestataires en vue d’une économie alternative et prennent la forme de projets destinés à agir sur la réalité. Elles font donc converger la critique et l’initiative. Ce texte analyse en quoi l’emploi de la catégorie du projet par les militants peut avoir un effet retour sur la portée de la contestation elle-même. À cette fin, ce texte commence par caractériser ce qui relève de la critique ou de la contestation dans les initiatives de monnaies associatives. Il poursuit en montrant en quoi ces initiatives relèvent de la forme du projet et souligne la contradiction possible entre projet et contestation du capitalisme dans sa forme néolibérale. Il ébauche la catégorie de « cité par projets solidaires » afin de rendre compte du genre particulier de projet que sont les monnaies locales associatives. L’examen d’une initiative monétaire associative particulière au filtre de la gestion de projet permet d’identifier les décalages que cette dernière occasionne sur le projet lui-même, et interroge la capacité de tels projets de réaliser leur dimension alternative et donc de contribuer à la transformation sociale désirée.
E49|Monetary Instability, Lack of Integration and the Curse of a Commodity Money Standard. The German Lands, c.1400–1900 A. D|Currency debasement, defined as a loss of precious metal content (intrinsic value) of the circulating penny currencies over time, was a common feature in the monetary history of Europe, c. 1400–1900. Over the centuries the loss rate was sustained; between 1400 and 1900 A. D. the (south) German penny currencies lost close to 90 per cent of their intrinsic value. As prior to the twentieth century all circulating means of exchange derived their purchasing power from the value of the precious metal contained in them these debasements reflect considerable fluctuations in these coins’ exchange value. Whilst some of the possible origins of this have been addressed by previous research, comprehensive models are missing, and the social and economic consequences of this phenomenon have only seldom been studied. The present paper contributes to the debate, using long-run data on the circulating small change currencies in the German lands, c.1400–1900. After an introduction (I.) the second section puts the present case study into an international, historical and conceptual context (II.). A third section provides a brief sketch of German monetary history since the Middle Ages with special regard to penny currency debasement (III.). A fourth section analyses some of the reasons for this, highlighting further areas and directions of research which previous models have missed (IV.). A fifth section studies the social and economic costs of monetary fragmentation and coin debasement (V.). A sixth section concludes (VI.).
E49|Private Shareholding and Public Interest: An Analysis of an Eclectic Group of Central Banks|"Although the title seems to be a contradictio in terminis, this paper shows that there are a small eclectic number of central banks with private shareholders. This paper reviews this selected group of central banks on which surprisingly little has been published. The first challenge is to identify these central banks, as no ""generally accepted"" or standardised list of such central banks exists, and very little has been published that identifies or compares them."
E49|Case Study Method Application when Studying Finance and Banking: Situation Description|The methods of situation analysis are used more and more in the learning process in present time. Case study method takes an important place in teaching of students. When studying such subject matters as corporate finance and banking, the decision and discussion of case study becomes an effective method of assimilation of the gained knowledge, allows students to concentrate on the arisen real problem from practical activities, independently to study it, and then to offer possible versions of its decision. One of important problems in the financial and bank sphere is existence of outstanding debts which demand creation of provisions, and, therefore, increase banks? expenses. It negatively affects financial result of commercial banks, and banks either receive less profit, or sustain losses. On the other hand, borrowers who freely obtained the credits during the pre-crisis period faced a problem of insolvency and can't fulfill the obligations for payment of the credit. It generates a problem, both in the sphere of corporate finance, and in the banking sector. Therefore considering really arisen problem situation between bank and the borrower, students are to have preliminary knowledge of the analysis of financial statements of the enterprise, skills of calculation and an assessment of financial performance (liquidity, financial stability, business activity, profitability). Besides, students need to possess skills of bank management to estimate correctly a situation in the bank, to have skills of credit policy implementation, of provision creation on the overdue credits, as well as to make decisions on restructuring of the credits.The purpose of the academic research is demonstration of the concrete problem situation which has arisen between bank and the borrower in the period of financial crisis, and the offer of possible versions of the solution of an exit from the created problem situation. In article the long-term period of cooperation of the borrower and bank (2004 - 2013) is considered, stages of their interaction during the pre-crisis period, the period of crisis and during the post-crisis period are described. Therefore for the decision of this case study students are to have skills in the sphere of economy, the financial analysis, corporate finance, banking and bank management.
E49|The Monetary Stability After The Financial Crisis|Great inflation observed during the period 1965-1984 is the event final monetary (monetary climate the event) in the twentieth century (Meltzer, 2005). Three types of explanations have been developed - all highlighting the importance of monetary policy:? Defects in the institutional and governance at origin sitting temporal incoherence (Barro ? Gordon model);? Monetary policy errors committed in an unconscious: it would have been too lax, or because the authorities have overestimated potential output growth (Orphanides, 2003) or because there has been insufficient attention to anchor expected inflation (Clarida , Gali and Gertler, 1999); However, combined with a sharp drop in productivity undoubtedly led to accelerating inflation persistence (Collard and Dallas, 2007);? Monetary policy errors committed in a conscious, namely the adoption by the authorities of a non-monetary approach to inflation; this is the result of an analysis of the experience of the United Kingdom and the United States (Nelson, 2005; DiCecio and Nelson, 2009).Inflation dynamics has seen a change in the early eighties, with the change that had profound monetary policy. After the Volcker experience, central bank reaction to inflation shocks became more aggressive. In this context, central banks have not hesitated to increase real interest rates to prevent triggering an inflationary spiral and the emergence of second round effects. For example, a sudden drop in inflation in the United States in the early eighties could be explained by EDF aggressive response to inflation shocks combined with lesser technological shocks (Carlström, and Paustian Fuerst, 2009).
E49|The non-negative constraint on the nominal interest rate and the effects of monetary policy|This paper analyzes the effects of monetary policy shock when there is a non-negative constraint on the nominal interest rate. I employ two algorithms: the piecewise linear solution and Holden and Paetz's (2012) algolithm (the HP algorithm). I apply these methods to a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) model which has sticky prices, sticky wages, and adjustment costs of investment. The main findings are as follows. First, the impulse responses obtained with the HP algorithm do not differ much from those obtained with the piecewise linear solution. Second, the non-negative constraint influences the effects of monetary policy shocks under the Taylor rule under some parameters. In contrast, the constraint has little effects on the response to money growth shocks. Third, wage stickiness contributes to the effects of the non-negative constraint through the marginal cost of the product. The result of money growth shock suggests that it is important to analyze the effects of the zero lower bound (ZLB) in a model which generates a significant liquidity effect.
E49|Economic and Financial Crises in Fifteenth-Century Egypt: Lessons From the History|The present paper attempts to study the economic and financial crises of 15th century Egypt, which was ruled by Mamluk dynasty. Two social thinkers of the time – al-Maqrizi at the beginning of the century and al-Asadi at the middle – addressed the situation. To the former, deterioration of Egypt’s monetary system was the single most important cause of its economic and financial difficulties. As a panacea, he prescribed a return to gold and silver standard and restricting copper coinage to petty transactions. The latter divided the factors responsible for economic and financial crises into socioeconomic factor and monetary factor. He advocated for an overall reform and strict management of the whole economy. The main financial problem, in his opinion, was debasement of currency leading to unrestricted supply of money, not the issue of copper coins. The paper concludes with an appraisal of their diagnosis of the problem, the solution suggested by them and the lessons learned from them.
E49|Do Currency Equivalent Monetary Aggregates Have an Edge over Their Simple Sum Counterparts?|The currency equivalent (CE) monetary aggregates are interpreted as aggregation theoretic money stock measures by Rotemberg et al. ( 1995 ), Barnett ( 1991 ) and Kelly ( 2009 ) and are far more superior to simple sum aggregates as a policy variable. In this context, the components of four official measures of monetary constructsâ€”M1, M2, M3 and L1â€”are used to construct monthly CE monetary aggregates for the period from April 1993 to June 2009. Quarterly estimates of CE aggregates are also obtained by taking quarterly averages of monthly aggregates. The empirical evidences in terms of information content, velocity behaviour and cyclical behaviour show that there is a potential gain of using CE aggregates as compared to their sum counterparts in applications of policy interest. JEL Classification: C43 E49
E49|“Black Swans” before the “Black Swan” evidence from international LIBOR–OIS spreads|The LIBOR–OIS spread is a closely monitored indicator of the financial health of economy. Previous research has used this spread to identify and anticipate abrupt changes in financial markets. Taylor and Williams (2009) refer to the drastic increase in the US LIBOR–OIS spread on August 7th, 2007 as a “Black Swan” in the money market. In this paper, rather than rely on visual observations of “Black Swans” we estimate them using Bai and Perron’s (1998) procedure. We estimate structural breaks, Granger causality tests, and innovation accounting in international LIBOR–OIS spreads and a CDS index to better understand their dynamics during the recent crisis. Our results reveal that “Black Swans” appeared in smaller economies prior to that in large ones during the financial crisis. In addition, we find that only shocks to the US LIBOR–OIS spread has any statistically significant effects after 30 days.
E49|Survey forecasts in Brazil: A prismatic assessment of epidemiology, performance, and determinants|This paper assesses the behavior of survey forecasts in Brazil during the inflation targeting regime, when managing expectations is one of the cornerstones of the conduct of monetary policy. The distinctive database of the survey conducted by the Central Bank of Brazil (BCB) among professional forecasters allows for a thorough investigation of the epidemiology, determinants, and performance of forecasts. The main results are: i) top performing forecasters are influential to other forecasters; ii) survey forecasts perform better than vector autoregressive model-based forecasts; iii) common forecast errors prevail over idiosyncratic components across respondents; iv) inflation targets play an important role in inflation expectations; and v) agents perceive the BCB as following a Taylor rule consistent with inflation targeting. The last two suggest high credibility of the monetary authority.
E49|Costly Contracts and Consumer Credit|the empirical density of credit card interest rates has become much more disperse since 1983.
E49|"""Gesell Tax"" and Efficiency of Monetary Exchange"|"A periodic ""Gesell Tax"" on money holdings as a way to overcome the zero-lower-bound on nominal interest rates is studied in a framework where money is essential. For this purpose, I characterize the efficiency properties of taxing money in a full-fledged macroeconomic business cycle model of the third-generation of monetary search models. Both, inflation and ""Gesell taxes"" maximize steady state capital stock, output, consumption, investment and welfare at moderate levels. The Friedman rule is sub-optimal, unless accompanied by a moderate “Gesell tax”. In a recession scenario a Gesell tax speeds up the recovery in a similar way as a large fiscal stimulus but avoids ""crowding out"" of private consumption and investment."
E49|Silvio Gesell: 'a strange, unduly neglected' monetary theorist|Given the renewed interest in negative interest rates as method for removing the floor to nominal interest rates, this article offers a concise review of Gesell's life, work and its place in the history of economic thought. It provides a brief biographical sketch of Gesell, demonstrating both his relative prominence as a social reformer during the interwar years as well as his close affiliation with anarchism. The article then gives a concise summary of Gesell's theory of effective demand and interest as expounded in the Natural Economic Order, the former being neglected by most scholars working on the subject. Finally, it is demonstrated that Keynes endorsement of Gesell as a strange, unduly neglected prophet is another piece of evidence for rejecting Hick's classic interpretation of the General Theory. If one takes Keynes extensive discussion of Gesell's theory of interest as a key for understanding the General Theory, Keynes main innovation of General Theory becomes a monetary theory of interest based on uncertainty that results in liquidity preference. The limited literature on Keynes' link to Gesell, published mainly in the 1940s, has however been widely ignored in the debate about the General Theory.
E49|An Evaluation on the Determinants of FinancialDevelopment: Literature Survey|In the economic development process, important role of financial sector has long been emphasized in the literature. Especially with the emergence of endogenous growth theory, this relationship has again become very attractive and it is stated that financial development is one of the determinants of economic growth. However this whole literature did not sufficiently explain how the financial development occurs. Financial liberalization hypothesis has been a starting point to explain the financial development. In addition, recently, it is seen that studies which examine the process of financial development has increasingly increased and, within this vein, it is emphasized that legal origin, liberalizations of foreign trade and capital account, institutional structure, deposit insurance, efficient supervision and regulation and policy framework for macro economy influence financial development
E49|Offshore finančné centrá a pranie špinavých peňazí|Offshore finančné centrá sú významnou súčasťou medzinárodného finančného systému. Často sa však zneužívajú na pranie špinavých peňazí, ktoré pochádzajú z rôznej trestnej činnosti, hlavne z obchodovania s drogami, z finančných podvodov alebo rôznych iných druhov trestnej činnosti. V poslednom období sa offshore centrá dostávajú pod silný tlak medzinárodných inštitúcií, aby prijali účinné opatrenia na boj proti praniu špinavých peňazí. V niektorých offshore centrách sa pod týmto tlakom zaviedla prísnejšia regulácia bankových transakcií s cieľom minimalizovať prílev týchto peňazí. Aj keď sa vynakladá nemalé úsilie na zavádzanie efektívnejšieho bankového dohľadu a na vytváranie väčšej transparentnosti pri bankových transakciách, stále sú v tejto oblasti ešte veľké rezervy. Niektorí odborníci označujú offshore finančný svet, pokiaľ ide o vyšetrovanie prania peňazí, finančných podvodov a daňových únikov, ako „Bermudský trojuholník“, v ktorom sa strácajú všetky stopy po špinavých peniazoch.
E49|The role of search frictions for output and inflation dynamics: a Bayesian assessment|Search frictions in the goods market have proven to be a fruitful deviation from the fiction of a centralized Walrasian market providing a micro-foundation of the use of money as a medium of exchange. Moreover, persistent propagation of monetary shocks can arise in search-theoretic monetary models through the interaction of search-frictions in the goods and labor markets, and inventory holdings. Here, a search-theoretic monetary DSGE model with capital and inventory investment is estimated, and its implications on output and inflation dynamics are contrasted with those of standard flexible price monetary models: a cash-in-advance and a portfolio adjustment cost model. Model estimation and comparison is conducted in a Bayesian way in order to account for possible model misspecification. The search model can track inflation and output data better, as well as it dominates the other models in the ability to predict the autocorrelations of inflation and the persistent disinflation process after a technology shock. It generates a hump-shaped but not strong enough output response to a monetary shock. Current and near current correlations between output growth inflation are predicted well.
E49|The Non-Convexity Issues in a Limited-Commitment Economy|After reviewing some basic self-enforcing labour contracts models, we expose how self-enforcing labour market theory can help explain some important dynamic properties of key macroeconomic variables. Calmès (1999, 2003) detail how self-enforcing labour contracts improve the way macroeconomic models account for the response of the economy to external shocks. The introduction of a state-dependent outside opportunity for the manager is the first step in generalizing the theory (Calmès 2007, Thomas and Worrall 2007). In this paper, we discuss the next step, the endogenization of capital. Although desirable, this task is not straightforward as the contract set might no longer be compact in this case. Relatedly, we also discuss the introduction of a third agent (the financial intermediary) in the model. We also analyse the link between stationarity and set convexity when incorporating growth in the model. A stochastic trend may be considered but then the non-convexity issue arises again. The aggregation of heterogeneous individual contracts can also lead to the same problem.
E49|Monetary operations and the financial turmoil|A proper understanding of central bank operations in response to the recent financial turmoil and of their implications for the monetary policy stance and for market functioning calls for an understanding of operating frameworks. And yet, not only are these the least familiar aspect of monetary policy, they also differ considerably across countries. The frameworks can have a first-order influence on the size and type of liquidity injections employed and on the need for exceptional measures.
E49|"Monnaie et reproduction du capital : un modèle pour aider un ""génie supérieur"" ricardien"|"The way in which Ricardo deals with the gravitation of market prices around natural prices involves some difficulties which, from our point of view, invalidate his reasoning. However, some propositions which can be found in his monetary writings can help to avoid those difficulties. We present a model dealing with the working of an economy in which the commodities which are produced can only be bought with money. We prove that the dynamical evolution of such a society depends on the distribution of money between capitalists and on their prices expectations. Thus, if a ""superior genius had the arrangement of the capital of the country under his control"", as he alludes to in a letter to his friend Malthus, the consequences of such an intervention would be different from those assumed by Ricardo."
E49|Toward a bias corrected currency equivalent index|The currency equivalent index measures the discounted economic capital stock of money producing the monetary service flow, but does so under assumptions that cause downward bias. We propose an extension that will correct for a significant amount of this bias.
E49|La détention et l’usage des instruments de paiement en France|[fre] L’objet de cet article est de proposer une photographie générale de la détention et de l’usage des instruments de paiement en France et de déterminer quels facteurs influencent les comportements de paiement des individus. Nous montrons qu’une grande majorité des Français disposent, outre les espèces, d’un chéquier et d’une carte de débit pour régler leurs dépenses. Les instruments de paiement qui permettent de gérer une trésorerie (cartes de crédit, certaines cartes accréditives ou privatives) sont moins développés. L’âge, le revenu, le diplôme et la profession influencent les taux de détention pour le chèque et la carte de débit. L’usage des instruments de paiement dépend non seulement de l’âge et du revenu de l’individu mais aussi des caractéristiques de la transaction (valeur, type de commerce, etc.). . Classification JEL : E41, E49 [eng] Detention and use of payment instruments in France . In this article, we offer a general picture of the detention and the use of payment instruments in France, and we determine which variables influence consumer payment behavior. We show that a large majority of the French hold a checkbook and a debit card to pay for their expenses. The payment instruments, that enable consumers to manage their bank account by offering them access to credit, such as credit cards and private label cards, are less developed. We show that the variables age, income, diploma and occupation influence the detention rates of the checkbook and the debit card. The use of payment instruments depends not only on age and income, but also on the characteristics of the transaction (its value, the type of store, its periodicity, etc...). . Classification JEL : E41, E49
E49|The Stock of Money and Why You Should Care|In this paper, I will examine the problems created by incorrectly using a simple sum monetary aggregate to measure the monetary stock. Specifically, I will show that simple sum monetary aggregate confounds the current stock of money with the investment stock of money and that this confounding leads the simple sum monetary aggregate to report an artificially smooth monetary stock. This smoothing causes important information about the dynamic movements of the monetary stock to be lost. This may offer at least a partial explanation of why so many studies find that money has little economic relevance. To that end, we will conclude the paper by examining a reduced form backward looking IS equation to determine whether monetary aggregates contain information about real GDP gap. This paper differs from previous work in that it focuses on smoothing of the monetary stock data caused by the use of simple sum methodology, where the previous work focuses on the bias exhibited by simple sum monetary aggregates.
E49|The Currency Equivalent Index and the Current Stock of Money|The currency equivalent index provides an elegant method for measuring the stock of money, but it rests upon assumptions that do not match an important characteristic of the data. Thus, it is unclear what, if anything, the CE measures. This paper attempts to answer this question by deriving the current stock of money (CSM), which is defined to be the discounted present value of the monetary service flows provided by only the current portfolio of monetary assets, and then analyzing the assumptions under which the current stock of money can be measured by the currency equivalent index.
E49|Dinámica de la inflación y el canal de costos: Una aplicación para Chile|La importancia de los mecanismos de transmisión de la política monetaria hacen imprescindible un estudio acabado de los posibles canales por los que pueda influir el instrumento utilizado. El mecanismo tradicional de transmisión es aquel en el que un aumento de la tasa de interés busca disminuir las presiones de precios por el lado de la demanda. No obstante lo anterior, existe otro posible canal relevante de transmisión de política monetaria: el canal de costos. Un aumento del interés nominal afecta la función de costos de empresas que se endeudan para pagar a sus trabajadores. De esta manera, el efecto de un incremento de la tasa de interés sobre la dinámica de precios iría en el sentido contrario al señalado por el canal tradicional de política monetaria. El propósito de este trabajo es estimar la curva de Phillips para el caso chileno, y verificar si el canal de costos afecta la dinámica de la inflación. Los resultados sugieren que dicho canal no sería relevante en Chile y que, en caso de existir, sería cuantitativamente pequeño.
E49|Consumer Bankruptcy: A Fresh Start|Consumer bankruptcy provides partial insurance against bad luck, but, by driving up interest rates, makes life-cycle smoothing more difficult. We argue that to assess this trade-off one needs a quantitative model of consumer bankruptcy with three key features: life-cycle component, idiosyncratic earnings uncertainty, and expense uncertainty (exogenous negative shocks to household balance sheets). We find that transitory and persistent earnings shocks have very different implications for evaluating bankruptcy rules. More persistent shocks make the bankruptcy option more desirable. Larger transitory shocks have the opposite effect. Our findings suggest the current US bankruptcy system may be desirable for reasonable parameter values. (JEL D14, D91, K35)
E49|Relaciones entre el ínidice de precios, la tasa de interés, el tipo de cambio real y los medios de pago en Colombia, durante 1970 -2004|ResumenLa economía Colombiana ha sido manejadapor diferentes tipos de cambio, debido a queel gobierno y sus instituciones han sufridodiversos cambios legislativos, que hanllevado a la consolidación de un BancoCentral independiente de las decisiones delGobierno. El presente artículo buscaanalizar algunas variables monetarias quepermitan brindar elementos de juicio paradistinguir condiciones parciales, con lascuales se pueda lograr que se presenteequilibrio entre los diferentes mercadosparticipantes de la economía nacional.
E49|Estudiantes de economía de la UMNG: ¿cómo son?|"Resumen Este artículo presenta un análisis de las características de los estudiantes del programa de economía de la Universidad Militar ""Nueva Granada"" - UMNG; el cual servirá de insumo para la toma de decisiones en cuanto al proceso de admisiones, consejerías y el perfil del economista de la UMNG. Entre los resultados más destacados, se encuentra que aproximadamente el 34% de la población estudiantil ha aplazado semestres, principalmente por motivos económicos. En este sentido, los estudiantes financian su carrera básicamente por medio de recursos familiares y propios. Igualmente, se evidencia que el 76% de la población estudiantil labora. Adicionalmente, se identifica que una de las principales motivaciones para entrar a estudiar economía es la conveniencia laboral. Por otro lado, la mayoría de estudiantes presentan un PGA inferior a 3,8 y se encuentra que en las áreas nucleares es donde se presenta menor PGA. Finalmente, se realiza un análisis de algunos factores intrínsecos a los estudiantes que podrían incidir en su desempeño académico."
E49|"Parquesoft"" : A study of social entrepreneurship in software industry cluster in Cali, Colombia"""|No abstract is available for this item.
E49|¿Qué hogares colombianos son pobres? una aproximación desde la ECV del 2003|ResumenEste artículo analizó los conceptos y medidas de pobreza. A partir de esta perspectiva, se estudió quiénes son pobres en Colombia y qué características de los hogares determinan dicha condición para el 2003. A partir de la Encuesta de Calidad de Vida, se realizó un análisis logit para identificar y medir la incidencia de algunos factores en la probabilidad de que un hogar sea clasificado como pobre. Estas estimaciones mostraron que los hogares que tienen más probabilidad de considerarse como pobres son aquellos en los que los jefes de hogar eran analfabetas, mujeres, los que se ocuparon en labores agrícolas o que hacían parte de alguna etnia. Adicionalmente, se encontró que los hogares que tenían menores de 12 años tuvieron más de probabilidad de ser pobres. Finalmente, los hogares cuyo jefe de hogar tenía mayor nivel educativo, tenían menor probabilidad de ser pobres, siendo mayor el efecto educativo de su cónyuge.AbstractWhat Colombian homes are poor? An approach from the ECV of the 2003 This paper analyzed the concepts and measures of poverty. From this perspective, this document studied who are poor in Colombia? and what characteristic determine this condition in these individuals? for period 2003. From the Quality of Living Survey, it was estimated a logit analysis to identify and measure the incidence of some household factors in the probability that these are found like poor one. These estimations showed that have more likelihood to being a poor when head of households were illiterates, women, those that have activities in agricultural workings or those that are part of the ethnic groups. In addition, it found that households with children less than twelve years old had 2.3% more of likelihood of being poor. Finally, the results showed that the households whose head of household have greater educative level, would have minor probability of being poor, being greater the educative effect of the partner.
E49|Self-Enforcing Labour Contracts and Macroeconomic Dynamics|To properly account for the dynamics of the key macroeconomic variables, researchers incorporate various internal propagation mechanisms in their models. In general, these mechanisms implicitly rely on the assumption of a perfect equality between the real wage and the marginal product of labour. This paper features a micro-founded model of a limited-commitment firm, and derive endogenous dynamic labour contracts that produce a different linkage between the real wage and the marginal product of labour. The risk-sharing between the entrepreneur and the worker, both faced with enforcement problems, provides a different type of propagation mechanism. I investigate the dynamic properties of this endogenous rigidity in relation to the initial bargaining power of each agent. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2007
E49|Measuring the Economic Stock of Money|Aggregation theoretic measures of the capital stock of money have in the past been criticized for their dependence on future expectations. I attempt to answer some of those objections by using several forecasting methods to generate expectations needed for calculating the economic stock of money. I show that targeted factor model forecasting improves the accuracy of monetary capital stock measurements slightly. However, I also find, as has previous research, that monetary capital stock calculations are robust to assumptions about future expectation. I believe these findings tend to support the conclusion that concerns about the dependency of theoretical monetary stock aggregates on forecasted future expectations have been overstated.
E49|Attitudes Towards The Euro: An Empirical Study Based On The German Socio-Economic Panel (Soep)|This paper investigates the attitudes towards the Euro and their changes over time in Germany by using longitudinal micro data from the German Socio Economic Panel Study (SOEP). We observe that a large part of the German population was worried about the new currency before its implementation. Individual changes of worries can be explained by theories of self-perception and cognitive dissonance. According to these theories, concerns should diminish after the Euro notes and coins are distributed. In contrast, the theory of reactance predicts an increase, while the theories of attitude changes as learning processes offer both its increase and decrease. The latter seems to be the most suitable explanation for the development of concerns about the Euro. We discover that problems with the handling of the new money and the time of questioning are strong predictors. The time pattern goes hand in hand with the time of press coverage on price rises. As worries are connected with problems in handling the new money, future member states of the European Monetary Union should prepare their population in a better manner than the existing member states did.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E49|Self-Enforcing Labour Contracts and the Dynamics Puzzle|To properly account for the dynamics of key macroeconomic variables, researchers incorporate various internal-propagation mechanisms in their models. In general, these mechanisms implicitly rely on the assumption of a perfect equality between the real wage and the marginal product of labour. The author proposes a theoretical validation of a micro-founded internal-propagation mechanism: he builds a model that features a limited-commitment economy, and derives endogenous self-enforcing labour contracts that produce a different linkage between the real wage and the marginal product of labour. The risk-sharing between the entrepreneur and the worker, both faced with enforcement problems, provides an admissible explanation of the prolonged comovements observed between consumption and labour. Since these co-movements are at the core of the persistence of the impulse response of output to exogenous technology shocks, this persistence can, in turn, be rationalized with the endogenous real rigidity emerging from the economy. The author shows that, in this framework, the persistence ultimately depends on the initial bargaining power and the magnitude of the risk-sharing.
E49|La neutralidad del dinero y la dicotomía clásica en la macroeconomía|Uno de los temas que se estudia en macroeconomía es el efecto de las variables nominales, en particular del dinero, sobre las variables reales. En este artículo se presenta una revisión teórica del punto de vista de las escuelas más representativas acerca de la neutralidad del dinero y de la dicotomía clásica, aspectos que tienen grandes repercusiones de política monetaria, y que junto con la posición que se adopte en la discusión sobre reglas o discreción determinan la ejecución de la política monetaria.
E49|A Search-Theoretic Monetary Business Cycle Model with Capital Formation|Search-theory has become the main paradigm for the micro-foundation of money. But no comprehensive business cycle analysis has been undertaken yet with a search-based monetary model. This paper extends the model with divisible goods and divisible money of Shi (JET, 1998) to allow for capital formation, analyses the monetary propagation mechanism and contrasts the model's implications with US business cycle stylized facts. The propagation mechanism based on a feedback between increased search intensity and depleted inventories only survives in the presence of non-negligible capital adjustment costs. With intermediate adjustment costs the model is able to replicate fairly well the volatility and cross-correlation with output of key US time series, including sales and inventory investment.
E49|Monnaies parallèles provinciales et fédéralisme budgétaire en Argentine|[eng] Provincial quasi-monies and fiscal federalism in Argentina . Since July 2001, the Argentineans provinces emitted a large amount of quasi-monies. This manifestation of the structural difficulties rises from the imperfect organization of the Argentinean fiscal federalism. The separation of powers between the federal State and the provinces seems inadequate, since the provinces have an influence on the legitimate prerogatives of the federal authority. The excessive power of the provinces results in a recurring monetary competition which weakens the national currency and which is only the reflection of an institutional bursting. The notes, emitted by the provinces, provided a partial function of means of payment. One, however, could see in the quasi-monies, the solution to define the new monetary regime. It seems that those are misled. It would rather be necessary to tackle the institutional inconsistencies of the Argentinean federalism, to ensure the viability of the new monetary order. . JEL classification : H77, E49, N16, D79 [fre] L’Argentine a connu, à partir de juillet 2001, un phénomène massif d’émission de monnaies parallèles provinciales. Cette émission découle de l’imparfaite organisation du fédéralisme budgétaire argentin. Dans ce cadre, la séparation des pouvoirs entre l’État et les provinces est déséquilibrée, puisque les provinces ont une influence sur des sujets qui relèvent normalement du pouvoir fédéral. Le pouvoir excessif des provinces se traduit par une concurrence monétaire récurrente qui affaiblit la monnaie nationale et qui n’est que le reflet d’un éclatement institutionnel. Les bons monétaires, émis par les provinces, ont assuré une fonction partielle de moyens de paiement. D’aucuns ont pu voir dans les monnaies parallèles, la solution pour définir le nouveau régime monétaire. Il faudrait plutôt s’attaquer aux incohérences institutionnelles du fédéralisme argentin, afin d’assurer la viabilité du nouvel ordre monétaire. . Classification JEL : H77, E49, N16, D79
E49|Liquidity and growth traps: a framework for the analysis of macroeconomic policy in the 'age' of Central Banks|Conventional explanations of how a growing potential output generates an equi-proportional increase in aggregate demand in the long run usually rely on the real balance effect. Yet this mechanism has a negligible size and an uncertain sign. We present a theoretical framework for the analysis of the power of conventional monetary policy to take the economy down its potential output path. We develop a simple model that predicts the behavior of the ‘neutral’ interest rate and the ‘pseudo-warranted’ interest rate in the wake of different types of shocks. We identify several different scenarios according to whether the behavior of the ‘neutral’ real interest rate enhances or weakens the power of conventional monetary policy. Likewise, we identify several regimes depending on whether a rise in the target rate of inflation in steady growth yields faster or slower output growth when the ‘natural’ rate is not (fully) exogenous. In addition, we provide a formal definition of the concept of the ‘growth trap’ which complements the notion of the ‘liquidity trap’. Finally, we propose a taxonomy of monetary policy regimes.
E49|Income Tax Evasion Revisited: The Impact of Interest Rate Yields on Tax-Free Municipal Bonds|This study empirically investigates a hypothesis that the degree of aggregate federal personal income tax evasion may be influenced by the interest rate yield on high-grade municipal bonds. After allowing for the impacts of a variety of factors that typically have been inferred to influence income tax evasion, it is found that the higher the tax-free interest rate yield on high-grade municipal bonds relative to the taxable yield on 10-year Treasury notes, the lower the aggregate degree of federal personal income tax evasion.
E49|Monetary Factors in the Long-Run Co-movement of Consumer and Commodity Prices|This paper estimates a structural VAR model of U.S. consumer and world commodity prices. An equiproportional long-run response of nominal price levels to amonetary shock yields identifying restrictions. Exogenous innovations to monetary policy account for a sizable share of the co-movement of these series, including during episodes more commonly attributed to “supply shocks.”
E49|Impactos de un Shock Externo en un Modelo Estocástico de Equilibrio General para una Economía Abierta: El Caso de Chile|Este documento analiza el impacto de un shock en la tasa de interés externa en la economía chilena. Con este fin, se estima un modelo empírico de Vectores Autoregresivos y adicionalmente se desarrolla un modelo estocástico de equilibrio general calibrado y parametrizado para la economía chilena. Del análisis de las funciones impulso-respuesta del modelo empírico se concluye que la autoridad monetaria no debiese reaccionar ante un shock transitorio en la tasa de interés externa. Más aún, si la autoridad monetaria reaccionase causaría una caída en el nivel de producto y un aumento de la tasa de inflación debido al ' price puzzle ' observado. De manera similar, las funciones impulso-respuesta y las simulaciones del modelo teórico utilizando reglas á la Taylor alternativas sugieren que la autoridad monetaria no debería reaccionar ante un aumento de la tasa de interés externa mientras valore la estabilidad de la tasa de inflación por sobre la volatilidad de la tasa de depreciación. Los resultados sugieren que una reacción moderada de la autoridad solamente lograría disminuir la volatilidad del tipo de cambio a un costo de una tasa de inflación más volátil.
E49|Poignée de main invisible et persistance des cycles économiques : une revue de la littérature|The author explains how self-enforcing labour contracts can enhance the performance of macroeconomic models. He exposes the benefits of using these dynamic contracts to account for some puzzling macroeconomic facts regarding the dynamics and persistence of employment, consumption and output. In particular, the dynamic properties of employment and consumption differ from those derived with the standard flexible-wage model, in a way that could shed new light on the dynamics puzzle typical of macroeconomic models.
E49|Sistemas de información en Pymes y acceso al crédito en contextos de asimetría de información|El actual contexto se caracteriza por restricciones en el acceso al crédito, aún habiendo fondos disponibles en tal sentido. Las pequeñas y medianas empresas necesitan del crédito para sostener inversiones en activos fijos y de trabajo y generar empleo, pero se les dificulta obtenerlo por potenciales problemas de asimetría de información, que podrían manifestarse por ejemplo en la forma de operaciones informales que no son correctamente expuestas por aspectos impositivos y/o relacionados con la seguridad social, o por déficit en la preparación de información de soporte en la gestión. Un elemento que ayuda a reducir este fenómeno se encuentra en los sistemas de información con sus herramientas de presupuesto y control que le permiten al potencial acreedor tener un mejor perspectiva de la verdadera naturaleza del demandante, y que en la normativa del Banco Central hacia los Bancos respecto del otorgamiento de créditos se encuentran especialmente contemplados. Realizamos un estudio de campo para relevar el grado de desarrollo de estas herramientas para empresas PYMES, exponiendo los resultados sobre una muestra de empresas en el tiempo y observamos evidencia de falta de utilización de instrumentos de información de gestión, aspecto que dificulta al potencial prestatario exponer su verdadera naturaleza.
E49|Banking System Stability|The article summaries the main points discussed at the seminar on ?Banking System Stability?, organized by the Czech Economic Association in May 2003. There were three speakers at the seminar. The first was Martin Èihák (International Monetary Found), who presented the problem of macrofinancial stability and its measurement. The second speaker was Jan Hanousek (CERGE-EI), who chiefly presented the main results from the study ?Detection of Banking Failure: the Case of the Czech Republic? (co-authored with Gerard Roland, UC Berkeley). The final speaker, Petr Dvoøák (University of Economics, Prague), summarized the main trends in the Czech and European banking sector. The presentations were largely based on materials available in Czech Economic Association web page www.cse.cz.
E49|La dolarización en Bolivia: Una estimación de la elasticidad de sustitución entre monedas|El indicador que tradicionalmente se emplea para estimar el grado de dolarización de la economía, depósitos en moneda extranjera respecto a depósitos totales, muestra el grado de sustitución de activos, pero no de sustitución de monedas para fines transaccionales. El presente trabajo pretende complementar el análisis de la dolarización, empleando el enfoque de costos de transacción con optimización intertemporal para cuantificar la elasticidad de sustitución entre la moneda nacional y el dólar, y estimar la composición de los saldos monetarios en moneda nacional y extranjera que los agentes mantienen para maximizar su función de utilidad en el período 1990 - 2001. La tenencia de dinero por parte del agente económico, en moneda nacional y extranjera, se expresa a través de una función de liquidez tipo CES, que se incorpora en la función de utilidad del consumidor. Los resultados obtenidos muestran cierta inelasticidad de los saldos reales domésticos, entre moneda nacional y moneda extranjera, ante cambios en su precio. El dinero transaccional, cuya tenencia es de corto plazo, no es muy sensible a las variaciones cambiarias y el cuasidinero ya está, en su mayor parte, conformado por moneda extranjera. Por otra parte, la preferencia de los agentes por mantener saldos reales en moneda nacional es mayor para el dinero transaccional que para el cuasidinero.
E49|Self-Enforcing Wage Contract and the Dynamics Puzzle|No abstract is available for this item.
E49|Systemic Risk: A Survey|This Paper develops a broad concept of systemic risk, the basic economic concept for the understanding of financial crises. It is claimed that any such concept must integrate systemic events in banking and financial markets as well as in the related payment and settlement systems. At the heart of systemic risk are contagion effects, various forms of external effects. The concept also includes simultaneous financial instabilities following aggregate shocks. The quantitative literature on systemic risk, which has evolved swiftly in the last couple of years, is surveyed in the light of this concept. Various rigorous models of bank and payment system contagion have now been developed, although a general theoretical paradigm is still missing. Direct econometric tests of bank contagion effects seem to be mainly limited to the United States. Empirical studies of systemic risk in foreign exchange and security settlement systems appear to be non-existent. Moreover, the literature surveyed reflects the general difficulty in developing empirical tests that can make a clear distinction between contagion in the proper sense and joint crises caused by common shocks, rational revisions of depositor or investor expectations when information is asymmetric (‘information-based’ contagion) and ‘pure’ contagion as well as between ‘efficient’ and ‘inefficient’ systemic events.
E49|Money, «Laissez-Faire» and the Underground Economy|The fact that the use of money enables underground transactions to be kept undetected by the authorities, implies that its variation changes this ability too, thus imposing transaction costs. Variations in money alter in addition the interest rate and hence, the opportunity cost of holding money, which is another money related factor affecting underground economy. The present paper argues that this double role of money makes it useful in controlling underground activities, more useful than a campaign against tax evasion, which constitutes a motive for going underground. The whole discussion evolves around this thesis, tackling it analytically from different points of view.
E49|A Comparison of Transactions in Conventional and Islamic Economies|This paper compares the transactions costs in two economies, one conventional, the other Islamic. The conventional economy is characterized by borrowing to finance some current purchases, while the Islamic economy disallows interest-based lending and operates on the basis of universal banking that mixes commerce and commercial and investment banking. To finance current purchases, it provides customers with credit purchase agreements, which entail that the bank buy the commodities and assets from suppliers and resell them on credit to customers satisfying conditions of creditworthiness similar to those that conventional banks require for borrowers. The paper uses simple calculations to compare transactions costs in both economies. It argues that under competitive competition, credit purchase arrangements occasion lower transactions costs than borrow-and-purchase arrangements in the conventional economy. The most important implication is that a policy that lifts entry barriers in the Islamic banking market and allows banks to combine commerce with banking activities contributes to social welfare. The paper concludes with suggestions for further points of research.
E49|La théorie des contrats de travail auto-exécutoires et ses implications macroéconomiques: un survol de la littérature|L'objet de cette revue de la littérature est de mettre en évidence les implications de la théorie des contrats auto-exécutoires pour la recherche en macroéconomie. Il s'agit de présenter les développements théoriques sur les contrats auto-exécutoires ayant des implications directes pour la réplication des faits stylisés relatifs à la dynamique de l'emploi et de la consommation agrégés et donc de la production agrégée; faits que les modèles macroéconomiques traditionnels sont incapables de reproduire. En particulier, j'expose les propriétés dynamiques que la théorie des contrats de travail auto-exécutoires confère au salaire réel, a l'emploi et la consommation agrégés, et comment ces propriétés sont susceptibles de pallier les insuffisances des mécanismes de propagation interne de la dynamique des chocs dans les modèles macroéconomiques usuels. The purpose of this survey is to show how the self-enforcing labor contract theory can enhance the performance of macroeconomic models. I expose some desirable features of this theory regarding the duplication of puzzling macroeconomic facts relative to the dynamics of employment, consumption, and hence output. Within this theoretical framework, dynamic properties of employment and consumption are shown to be interestingly different from those derived with the standard flexible wage model, in a way that could shed new light on the dynamics puzzle usually encountered in macroeconomic models.
E49|Optimal Forward Contracts|Firms that have foreign currency exposure face the problem of optimally hedging currency risk. In this paper, the firm adopts a hedging strategy that takes the risk-reward trade-off into account.
E49|Business Cycles in a Habit Formation Monetary Model|This paper sets up a habit persistence monetary model in line with Campbell and Cochrane(1995) with transaction costs in consumption. It compares the quantitative properties of the habit formation model with data. It shows that the habit persistence model fails to explain the interest rate and employment ï¬‚uctuations as well as the movement of consumption due to a locally large value of relative risk aversion.
E49|"Orchestrating Impartiality: The Impact of ""Blind"" Auditions on Female Musicians"|"A change in the audition procedures of symphony orchestras--adoption of ""blind"" auditions with a ""screen"" to conceal the candidate's identity from the jury--provides a test for sex-biased hiring. Using data from actual auditions, in an individual fixed-effects framework, we find that the screen increases the probability a woman will be advanced and hired. Although some of our estimates have large standard errors and there is one persistent effect in the opposite direction, the weight of the evidence suggests that the blind audition procedure fostered impartiality in hiring and increased the proportion women in symphony orchestras."
E49|Money Velocity with Costly Credit|The paper functionally describes the income velocity of money by including the cost of a key substitute to money: exchange credit. Financial innovation causes the cost of credit to fall, the quantity of money demanded to fall, and the velocity to rise, all without shifting the money demand function.
E49|Learning by Imitation in the Kiyotaki-Wright Model of Money|No abstract is available for this item.
E49|Inventories and Interest Rates: A Stage of Fabrication Approach|Maccini, Moore, and Schaller (2004, hereafter MMS) recently uncovered a long-run inverse relationship between interest rates and finished goods in a number of nondurables industries and the nondurables sector overall. Their primary innovation is a regime-switching model of the real interest rate. This paper extends that model to include work-in-process and raw material inventories as well as industries that produce to order. A cointegrating model similar to that of MMS is then estimated for all three types of inventories and all industries in both the durables and nondurables sectors. The results reinforce the MMS conclusion of a long-run inverse relationship between the real interest rate and finished goods during the 1967-1997 period. But the results for the durables sectors, work-in-process and raw materials, and the 1997-2007 period are generally much less supportive. Moreover, results for the manufacturing aggregates suggest that the overall responses are small.
