E50|Macro and Micro Prudential Policies: Sweet and Lowdown in a Credit Network Agent Based Model|The paper presents an agent based model reproducing a stylized credit network that evolves endogenously through the individual choices of rms and banks. We introduce in this framework a anancial stability authority in order to test the e ects of different prudential policy measures designed to improve the resilience of the economic system. Simulations show that a combination of micro and macro prudential policies reduces systemic risk, but at the cost of increasing banks' capital volatility. Moreover, agent based methodology allows us to implement an alternative meso regulatory framework that takes into consideration the connections between firms and banks. This policy targets only the more connected banks, increasing their capital requirement in order to reduce the di usion of local shocks. Our results support the idea that the meso prudential policy is able to reduce systemic risk without a ecting the stability of banks'capital structure.
E50|Central Bank Digital Currency and Banking|Many central banks are considering whether to issue a new form of electronic money that would be accessible to the public. This new form is usually called a central bank digital currency (CBDC). Issuing a CBDC would have implications on the financial system and more broadly on the wider economy. The effects of a CBDC on the banking sector, output and welfare depend crucially on the level of competition in the market for bank deposits. We show that when banks have no market power, issuing a deposit-like CBDC (that people can use like a debit card in transactions) would crowd out private banking. It would shift deposits away from the banking system, reducing bank lending. However, in a more realistic scenario, when banks have market power in the deposit market, issuing a deposit-like CBDC with a proper interest rate would encourage banks to pay higher interest or offer better services to keep their customers. They can do so because they earn a positive profit. As a result, banks would attract more deposits and extend more loans. In this case, issuing a CBDC would not necessarily crowd out private banking. In fact, the CBDC would serve as an outside option for households, thus limiting banks’ market power, and improve the efficiency of bank intermediation. We show quantitatively that the effects of a CBDC on lending, deposits, output and welfare can be sizable. We also analyze how different designs of a CBDC affect our results, including whether the CBDC is deposit-like or cash-like and whether the CBDC can be used to satisfy banks’ reserve requirements.
E50|The Neutral Rate in Canada: 2019 Update|This note provides an update on Bank of Canada staff’s assessment of the Canadian neutral rate. The neutral rate is the policy rate needed to keep output at its potential level and inflation at target once the effects of any cyclical shocks have dissipated. This medium- to long-run concept serves as a benchmark for gauging the degree of monetary stimulus provided by a given policy setting. Staff’s overall assessment, which is based on the combined output of a suite of four distinct approaches, is that the Canadian neutral rate likely lies in a range of 2.25 to 3.25 per cent in nominal terms, lower than the range of 2.5 to 3.5 per cent reported at the time of the last update in April 2018. Although this downward shift stems mainly from a lower assessed global neutral rate, the overall assessment also reflects some improved modelling techniques enabling staff to better capture the medium- to long-run impact of macroeconomic risk on the level of the neutral rate. Moreover, while staff’s assessed range for the neutral rate captures important sources of uncertainty, it should not be interpreted as reflecting the full extent of the uncertainties surrounding the neutral rate.
E50|Le taux neutre au Canada : mise à jour de 2019|Cette note met à jour l’évaluation par le personnel de la Banque du taux neutre canadien, c’est-à-dire le taux directeur requis pour maintenir la production à son niveau potentiel et l’inflation à son taux cible, une fois disparus les effets des chocs cycliques. Ce concept de moyen à long terme sert de point de référence pour évaluer le degré de détente monétaire résultant d’une politique donnée. Selon l’évaluation globale du personnel, qui est basée sur la juxtaposition des résultats de quatre approches distinctes, le taux neutre canadien se situe probablement dans une fourchette allant de 2,25 à 3,25 % en termes nominaux, ce qui est un peu plus bas que la fourchette de 2,5 à 3,5 % publiée lors de la dernière mise à jour, en avril 2018. Même si cette révision à la baisse découle surtout d’une réduction de la valeur estimée du taux neutre mondial, l’évaluation globale résulte également d’une meilleure modélisation, qui a permis au personnel de mieux rendre compte des effets à moyen et long terme des risques macroéconomiques sur le niveau du taux neutre. Par ailleurs, bien que la fourchette du taux neutre estimée par le personnel tienne compte d’importantes sources d’incertitude, elle ne devrait pas pour autant être vue comme la résultante de l’ensemble des incertitudes qui entourent le taux neutre.
E50|Measuring real and financial cycles in Luxembourg: An unobserved components approach|We use unobserved components time series models to extract real and financial cycles for Luxembourg over the period 1980Q1-2018Q2. We find that financial cycles are longer and have larger amplitude compared to standard business cycles. Furthermore, financial cycles are highly correlated with cycles in GDP. We compare our results to other approaches to measure financial cycles and show how unobserved components models can serve to evaluate uncertainty and to monitor cyclical developments in real time. Overall, our estimates indicate that in mid 2018 both real and financial cycles in Luxembourg were close to zero, with financial conditions near their long-run trend.
E50|Tarjetas de crédito en personas de ingresos medios y bajos en Colombia: ¿qué determina su uso?|Se investigan los determinantes del uso de la tarjeta Crédito Fácil Codensa, utilizando las características demográficas de los tarjetahabientes. Este mecanismo de financiación, de uso generalizado en Bogotá por parte de personas cuyos ingresos se encuentran en la parte baja de la distribución, se utiliza para la financiación de consumo de bienes semidurables (muebles, electrodomésticos, computadores, etc.) y no durables (alimentos, prendas de vestir, etc.). Son algo más de 1.000.000 de clientes al finalizar el período de estudio. Analizamos los determinantes del cupo de crédito, la probabilidad de uso de la tarjeta y el valor de las compras para el período 2010-2015. Ingreso, educación, edad, género, estrato y vivienda propia son determinantes del cupo de crédito junto con variables indicadoras de la fase del ciclo, el comportamiento del mercado laboral y la liquidez de la economía (tasa de intervención de la autoridad monetaria, aproximada por la Tasa Interbancaria, TIB). La probabilidad de compra está determinada no solo por el ambiente macroeconómico, sino también por variables individuales, entre las cuales, el ingreso permanente figura reduciendo dicha probabilidad. El monto de las compras mensuales está determinado por la tasa de interés vigente en el mes de las compras, la tasa de usura y por características individuales como el ingreso, la edad, la educación y el género. Se presenta evidencia de restricciones de liquidez para personas que tienen una alta utilización el cupo; sin embargo, las decisiones de la mayoría de los agentes no distan de la hipótesis de ciclo de vida-ingreso permanente. **** ABSTRACT: The determinants of the Crédito Fácil Codensa card usage are investigated, using the demographic characteristics of cardholders. This financing mechanism, widely used in Bogotá by people (more than 1.000.000 at the end of the sample period) whose income is in the lower part of the distribution, is used to finance the consumption of semi-durable goods (furniture, household appliances, computers, etc.) and non-durable goods (food, clothing, etc.). We analyze the determinants of the credit quota, the probability of using the card and the value of purchases for the period 2010-2015. Income, education, age, gender stratum and own housing are determinants of the credit limit along with variables indicating the phase of the cycle, the labor market performance, and the liquidity of the economy represented by the policy rate (proxied by the Interbank Rate, TIB). The probability of purchase is determined not only by the macroeconomic environment, but also by individual variables. Permanent income reduces the likelihood of buying. The amount of monthly purchases is determined by the current interest rate in the month of purchases or usury rate and by individual characteristics such as income, age, education, gender of the individual. There is evidence of liquidity restrictions for people who have a high use of the card limit. However, the decisions of most agents are not that far from the permanent income-life cycle hypothesis.
E50|On money, debt, trust and central banking|This essay examines in detail the properties of a well functioning monetary system - defined as money plus the mechanisms to execute payments - in both the short and long run, drawing on both theory and the lessons from history. It stresses the importance of trust and of the institutions needed to secure it. Ensuring price and financial stability is critical to nurturing and maintaining that trust. In the process, the essay addresses several related questions, such as the relationship between money and debt, the viability of cryptocurrencies as money, money neutrality, and the nexus between monetary and financial stability. While the present monetary system, with central banks and a prudential apparatus at its core, can and must be improved, it still provides the best basis to build on.
E50|What anchors for the natural rate of interest?|The paper takes a critical look at the conceptual and empirical underpinnings of prevailing explanations of low real (inflation-adjusted) interest rates over long horizons and finds them incomplete. The role of monetary policy, and its interaction with the financial cycle in particular, deserve greater attention. By linking booms and busts, the financial cycle generates important path dependencies that give rise to intertemporal policy trade-offs. Policy today constrains policy tomorrow. The policy regime is not neutral and can exert a persistent influence on the economy's evolution, including on the real interest rate. This raises serious conceptual and practical questions about the use of the natural interest rate as a monetary policy guidepost. In developing the analysis, the paper also provides a specific critique of the safe asset shortage hypothesis - a hypothesis that has gained considerable popularity in recent years.
E50|Money growth and inflation : International historical evidence on high inflation episodes for developed countries|How long is the long run in the relationship between money growth and inflation? How important are high inflation episodes for the unit slope finding in the quantity theory of money? To answer these questions we study the relationship between excess money growth and inflation over time and across frequencies using annual data from 1871 to 2013 for several developed countries. Wavelet-based exploratory analysis shows the existence of a close stable relationship between excess money growth and inflation only over longer time horizons, i.e. periods greater than 16 and 24 years, with money growth mostly leading. When we investigate the sensitivity of the unit slope finding to inflation episodes using a scale-based panel data approach we find that low-frequency regression coefficients estimated over variable-length subsamples before and after WWII are largely affected by high inflation episodes. Taken together the results that inflationary upsurges affect regression coefficients but not the closeness of the long-run relationship call for a qualification of the Quantity Theory of Money and suggests that policymakers should not lose interest on monetary developments.
E50|Households' Liquidity Constraint, Optimal Attention Allocation, and Inflation Expectations|We theoretically and empirically investigate the implications of heterogeneity in households' inflation expectations formation within an economy. We develop a rational inattention model in which households attempt to minimize the expected loss from insufficient bargain-hunting and inefficient inter-temporal consumption allocation. The model focuses on households' allocation of attention to two variables: the cheapest price of a particular product they can find, and the inflation rate the central bank aims to achieve in the long run. The model yields the clear prediction that households with a tighter liquidity constraint will allocate more attention to finding the cheapest price of a good by visiting different stores and less attention to information on the inflation rate the central bank aims to achieve in the long run including messages sent out by the central bank. Using a unique and rich micro dataset of Japanese households, we find empirical support for the testable prediction of our model. The model provides the important policy implication that households pay more attention to messages emitted by the central bank if monetary easing successfully relieves households' liquidity constraints.
E50|Wirtschaftspolitik-Fehlorientierung des Westens nach 1989: Bankenkrise, Globalisierungs-Ordnungsdefizit und Desintegrationsdruck|Der Zerfall der sozialistischen Wirtschaftssysteme vollzog sich Ende der 1980er Jahre in den Ländern Osteuropas und der Sowjetunion, wobei osteuropäische EU-Länder einen ökonomischen Aufholprozess begonnen haben. 1991 hat aber der Westen teilweise keine vernünftigen Konsequenzen aus der beginnenden Systemtransformation gezogen und eine Phase geringer politischer Selbstdisziplin bei manchen westlichen Regierungen bzw. eine Expansion des Populismus - erklärbar unter Bezug auf Harry-Johnson-Ansätze und Identity Economics - begonnen. Die Transatlantische Bankenkrise ergab sich aus überzogener Bankenderegulierung in den USA und UK, die faktisch auch die Länder der Eurozone zur Bankenderegulierung brachte und sich absehbar wiederholen könnte; auch als Folge des BREXIT. Bei der Digitalisierung fehlt ein Ordnungsrahmen. Dessen Fehlen hat zu einer Art digitalem Sozialismus geführt – mit negativen Konsequenzen für Effizienz in der Marktwirtschaft und für die Demokratie. Mit dem Populismus in UK, dem strukturellen US-Populismus – inklusive Anti-Multilateralismus - und dem Anti-Liberalismus in Teilen der EU(27) steht der Westen vor einer Abstiegs- und die EU vor einer politischen Spannungsphase; eine sinnvolle Reformagenda wäre eine Stabilisierungschance für die EU, wird aber teilweise blockiert, während zugleich verfrühte Vergemeinschaftung, etwa bei Einlagensicherung, droht. Der US-Sachverständigenrat unter Trump sieht die USA wohlfahrtsmäßig vor Nordeuropa, was eine Fehlsicht ist.
E50|Asset Liquidity in Monetary Theory and Finance: A Unified Approach|Economists often say that certain types of assets, e.g., Treasury bonds, are very `liquid'. Do they mean that these assets are likely to serve as media of exchange or collateral (a definition of liquidity often employed in monetary theory), or that they can be easily sold in a secondary market, if needed (a definition of liquidity closer to the one adopted in finance)? We develop a model where these two notions of asset liquidity coexist, and their relative importance is determined endogenously in general equilibrium: how likely agents are to visit a secondary market in order to sell assets for money depends on whether sellers of goods/services accept these assets as means of payment. But, also, the incentive of sellers to invest in a technology that allows them to recognize and accept assets as means of payment depends on the existence (and efficiency) of a secondary market where buyers could liquidate assets for cash. The interaction between these two channels offers new insights regarding the determination of asset prices and the ability of assets to facilitate transactions and improve welfare.
E50|Endogenous Repo Cycles|This paper presents a simple and tractable equilibrium model of repos, where collateralized credit emerges under limited commitment. We show that even if there is no time variation in fundamentals, repo markets can fluctuate endogenously over time. In our theory, repo market fragilities are associated with endogenous fluctuations in trade probabilities, collateral values, and debt limits. We show that the collateral premium of a durable asset will become the lowest right before a recession and the highest right after the recession and that secured credit is acyclical.
E50|The effects of climate change on a small open economy|We investigate the impact of climate change on the macroeconomic performance of a small open economy. The setup is a new Keynesian dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model of a small open economy without monetary policy independence in which a climate module that interacts with the economy has been incorporated. The model is solved numerically using common parameter values, fiscal data and projections about temperature growth from the Greek economy. Our results, suggest that climate change implies a significant output loss and a dramatic deterioration of competitiveness.
E50|On the Equivalence of Private and Public Money|"We develop a generic model of money and liquidity that identifies sources of liquidity bubbles and seignorage rents. We provide suffcient conditions under which a swap of monies leaves the equilibrium allocation and price system unchanged. We apply the equivalence result to the ""Chicago Plan,"" cryptocurrencies, the Indian de-monetization experiment, and Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC). In particular, we show why CBDC need not undermine financial stability."
E50|Inflation Expectations: Review and Evidence|This paper presents a comprehensive examination of the determination and evolution of inflation expectations, with a focus on emerging market and developing economies (EMDEs). The results suggest that long-term inflation expectations in EMDEs are not as well anchored as those in advanced economies, despite notable improvements over the past two decades. Indeed, in EMDEs, long-term inflation expectations are more sensitive to both domestic and global inflation shocks. However, EMDEs tend to be more successful in anchoring inflation expectations in the presence of an inflation targeting regime, high central bank transparency, strong trade integration, and a low level of public debt.
E50|Taming the Global Financial Cycle: Central Banks and the Sterilization of Capital Flows in the First Era of Globalization (1891-1913)|"Are central banks able to isolate their domestic economy by offsetting the effects of foreign capital flows? We provide an answer for the First Age of Globalisation based on an exceptionally detailed and standardized database of monthly balance sheets of all central banks in the world (i.e. 21) over 1891-1913. Investigating the impact of a global interest rate shock on the exchange-rate, the interest rate and the central bank balance sheet, we find that not a single country played by the ""rules of the game."" Core countries fully sterilized capital flows, while peripheral countries also relied on convertibility restrictions to avoid reserve losses. In line with the predictions of the trilemma, the exchange rate absorbed the shock fully in countries off the gold standard (floating exchange rate): the central bank's balance sheet and interest rate were not affected. In contrast, in the United States, a gold standard country without a central bank, the reaction of the money market rate was three times stronger than that of interest rates in countries with a central bank. Central banks' balance sheets stood as a buffer between domestic economy and global financial markets."
E50|Improving U.S. Monetary Policy Communications|The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) publishes vast amounts of information regarding monetary policy, including its goals, strategy and outlook. By reinforcing the commitment to price stability and maximum sustainable employment, this transparency has helped improve U.S. economic performance in recent decades. Based on two dozen interviews with policy experts, we identify three objectives that guide our search for further improvements in communications practices: simplifying public statements, clarifying how policy will react to changing conditions, and highlighting uncertainty and risks. As examples, we propose a simpler post-meeting policy statement and the introduction of a concise Report on Economic Projections, the elements of which are mostly available in existing publications. A broader, systematic application of these objectives could also help the FOMC streamline other aspects of its communications framework.
E50|Bayesian Structural VAR models: a new approach for prior beliefs on impulse responses| Structural VAR models are frequently identified using sign restrictions on impulse responses. Moving beyond the popular but restrictive Normal-inverse-Wishart-Uniform prior, we develop a methodology that can handle almost any prior distribution on contemporaneous responses. We then propose a new sampler that explores the posterior just as efficiently as done by the existing algorithm for the Normal-inverse-Wishart-Uniform case. We use this exible and tractable framework to combine sign restrictions with information on the volatility of the data, giving less prior mass to impulse effects that are inconsistent with the data from a training sample. This approach sharpens posterior bands and makes sign restrictions more informative. We apply the methodology to the oil market and show that oil supply shocks have a non-negligible effect on oil price dynamics.
E50|Outlier detection in TARGET2 risk indicators|This paper studies the detection of outliers in risk indicators based on large value payment system transaction data. The ten risk indicators are daily time series measuring various risks in the large value payment system, such as operational risk, concentration risk and liquidity flows related to other financial market infrastructures. We use extreme value theory and local outlier factor methods to identify anomalous data points (outliers). In a univariate setup, the extreme value analysis quantifies the unusualness of each outlier. In a multivariate setup, the local outlier factor method identifies outliers by measuring the local deviation of a given data point with respect to its neighbours. We find that most detected outliers are at the beginning and near end of the calendar month when turnover is significantly larger than at other days. Our method can be used e.g. by overseers and financial stability experts who wish to look at many (risk) indicators in relation to each other.
E50|Does monetary policy affect income inequality in the euro area?|This paper examines how monetary policy affects income inequality in 10 euro area countries over the period 1999–2014. We distinguish macroeconomic and financial channels through which monetary policy may have distributional effects. The macroeconomic channel is captured by wages and employment, while the financial channel by asset prices and returns. We find that expansionary monetary policy in the euro area reduces income inequality, especially in the periphery countries. The macroeconomic channel leads to these equalizing effects: monetary easing reduces income inequality by raising wages and employment. However, there is some indication that the financial channel may weaken the equalizing effect of expansionary monetary policy.
E50|An agent-based model for the assessment of LTV caps|We assess the effects of regulatory caps in the loan-to-value (LTV) ratio using agent-based models (ABMs). Our approach builds upon a straightforward ABM where we model the interactions of sellers, buyers and banks within a computational framework that enables the application of LTV caps. The results are first presented using simulated data and then we calibrate the probability distributions based on actual European data from the HFCS survey. The results suggest that this approach can be viewed as a useful alternative to the existing analytical frameworks for assessing the impact of macroprudential measures, mainly due to the very few assumptions the method relies upon and the ability to easily incorporate additional and more complex features related to the behavioral response of borrowers to such measures. JEL Classification: D14, D31, E50, R21
E50|Inflation Expectations: Review and Evidence|This paper presents a comprehensive examination of the determination and evolution of inflation expectations, with a focus on emerging market and developing economies (EMDEs). The results suggest that long-term inflation expectations in EMDEs are not as well anchored as those in advanced economies, despite notable improvements over the past two decades. Indeed, in EMDEs, long-term inflation expectations are more sensitive to both domestic and global inflation shocks. However, EMDEs tend to be more successful in anchoring inflation expectations in the presence of an inflation targeting regime, high central bank transparency, strong trade integration, and a low level of public debt.
E50|Does monetary policy affect income inequality in the euro area?|This paper examines how monetary policy affects income inequality in 10 euro area countries over the period 1999-2014. We distinguish macroeconomic and financial channels through which monetary policy may have distributional effects. The macroeconomic channel is captured by wages and employment, while the financial channel by asset prices and returns. We find that expansionary monetary policy in the euro area reduces income inequality, especially in the periphery countries. The macroeconomic channel leads to these equalizing effects: monetary easing reduces income inequality by raising wages and employment. However, there is some indication that the financial channel may weaken the equalizing effect of expansionary monetary policy.
E50|Money and modernization in early modern England|Classic accounts of the English industrial revolution present a long period of stagnation followed by a fast take-off. However, recent findings of slow but steady per capita economic growth suggest that this is a historically inaccurate portrait of early modern England. This growth pattern was in part driven by specialization and structural change accompanied by an increase in market participation at both the intensive and extensive levels. These, I argue, were supported by the gradual increase in money supply made possible by the importation of precious metals from America. They allowed for a substantial increase in the monetization and liquidity levels of the economy, hence decreasing transaction costs, increasing market thickness, changing the relative incentive for participating in the market, and allowing agglomeration economies to arise. By making trade with Asia possible, precious metals also induced demand for new desirable goods, which in turn encouraged market participation. Finally, the increased monetization and market participation made tax collection easier. This helped the government to build up fiscal capacity and as a consequence to provide for public goods. The structural change and increased market participation that ensued paved the way to modernization.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E50|The Four Equation New Keynesian Model|This paper develops a New Keynesian model featuring financial intermediation, short and long term bonds, credit shocks, and scope for unconventional monetary policy. The log-linearized model reduces to four key equations – a Phillips curve, an IS equation, and policy rules for the short term nominal interest rate and the central bank's long bond portfolio (QE). The four equation model collapses to the standard three equation New Keynesian model under a simple parameter restriction. Credit shocks and QE appear in both the IS and Phillips curves. Optimal monetary policy entails adjusting the short term interest rate to offset natural rate shocks, but using QE to offset credit market disruptions. The ability of the central bank to engage in QE significantly mitigates the costs of a binding zero lower bound.
E50|On Secular Stagnation in the Industrialized World|We argue that the economy of the industrialized world taken as a whole is currently – and for the foreseeable future will remain – highly prone to secular stagnation. But for extraordinary fiscal policies, real interest rates would have fallen much more and be far below their current slightly negative level, current and prospective inflation would be further short of the two percent target levels and past and future economic recoveries would be even more sluggish. We start by arguing that, contrary to current practice, neutral real interest rates are best estimated for the bloc of all industrial economies given capital mobility between them and relatively limited fluctuations in their aggregated current account. We show, using standard econometric procedures and looking at direct market indicators of prospective real rates, that neutral real interest rates have declined by at least 300 basis points over the last generation. We argue that these secular movements are in larger part a reflection of changes in saving and investment propensities rather than the safety and liquidity properties of Treasury instruments. We highlight the observation that levels of government debt, the extent of pay-as-you-go old age pensions and the insurance value of government healthcare programs have all ceteris paribus operated to raise neutral real rates. Using estimates drawn from the literature, as well as two general equilibrium models emphasizing respectively life-cycle heterogeneity and individual uncertainty, we suggest that the “private sector neutral real rate” may have declined by as much as 700 basis points since the 1970s.
E50|The Bank Multiplier and A New Mechanism for the Transmission of the Monetary Policy|The concept of economic multiplier has been extensively used in the design and analysis of the fiscal policy. However, it has never been used to analyse the impact of nominal interest income received by the depositors through the banking channel on the total output. Here, we investigate the impact of nominal interest income on the macroeconomy using multiplier theory. We define and calculate the corresponding multiplier values algebraically and then we empirically calculate them using impulse response analysis. Along the way, we have shown a new mechanism for the transmission of the monetary policy decision which transcends through, as we call it here, the nominal interest income channel.
E50|Cryptocurrency, Delivery Lag, and Double Spending History|We develop a general equilibrium model of cryptocurrency to study the optimal design of a cryptocurrency system. Agents trade cryptocurrency using digital wallets, and the cryptocurrency system provides verification of a digital wallet’s history of double spending attempts. Delaying the delivery of goods until payment information is confirmed in the blockchain prevents double spending. However, double spending can be prevented without a delivery lag under some conditions if a wallet has a good reputation in terms of its history of double spending attempts. In particular, as the difficulty of mining work rises, the incentive to engage in double spending with a good wallet decreases. We study the optimal design of the cryptocurrency system in terms of the difficulty of mining work and the supply of cryptocurrency and evaluate the welfare gain that would be captured if the current Bitcoin system adopted the optimal cryptocurrency system.
E50|A Theory of Inflation: The Law of Motion for Inflation under the MDC-based Procedure|In this paper, I construct an inflation model in an economy where the government and households behave under a procedure based on the maximum degree of comfortability (MDC) to reach steady state. MDC indicates the state at which the combination of revenues and assets is felt most comfortable. I show that, if MDCs of the government and households are not consistent, inflation accelerates (or decelerates) because the government behaves to match the rate of increase of its real obligations with its MDC, but households and firms behave to match the real interest rate with household’s MDC. This inconsistency or contradiction must be resolved by acceleration (or deceleration) of inflation. To control inflation, therefore, a truly independent central bank is needed because MDC is a type of preference. The central bank can control the government’s MDC by forcing the government to increase its real obligations and thereby control inflation.
E50|Economic integration and macroeconomic shocks in Eurasia|The main objective of this research is to make an assessment of the symmetry/asymmetry of underlying macroeconomic shocks in the Eurasia region. A model is developed to distinguish structural global supply shocks, regional supply shocks, and domestic supply shocks using a reduced-form structural vector autoregressive model (SVAR). Empirical results reveal that the correlation between domestic and regional shocks, as well as between domestic and global shocks, are clearly divided into two groups of countries: (i) domestic (country-specific) supply shocks are more correlated with global shocks in the European part of the region (Armenia, Belarus, Georgia, and Ukraine; with the exception of Mongolia here); and (ii) domestic shocks are mostly correlated with regional shocks in the Central Asian part of the region (Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and Azerbaijan; with the exception of Moldova here). This has implications for the Chinese economy in the region.
E50|The Transmission of Unconventional Monetary Policy to Bank Credit Supply: Evidence from the TLTRO|We assess the transmission of the Targeted Longer-Term Refinancing Operations (TLTRO) to the bank credit supply for the Euro area (2014:05-2018:01) and for Portugal (2011:01-2018:01), using a panel data setup. For the Euro area, we find a positive relationship between the TLTRO and the amount of credit granted to the real economy. For the vulnerable countries, the effects of the TLTRO on the stock of credit increased from 2016 to 2017. Among the group of small banks, the effects are stronger in less vulnerable countries. We also find that competition has no statistically significant impact on the transmission of the TLTRO to the bank credit supply for the Euro area. For Portugal, using a difference-in-differences model, we find no statistically significant impact of the TLTRO on credit granted by banks. Finally, bidding banks set lower interest rates than non-bidding banks and the difference seems to be larger in 2017. In Portugal, the effects of the TLTRO on loan interest rates also increased from 2016 to 2017 and are stronger for small banks.
E50|Modelling the Demand for Euro Banknotes|Liquidity management is a key mission of a central bank. In particular, the adequate provision of banknotes requires the understanding of what drives currency demand in a continuously changing environment. The challenge is even bigger in the case of the European monetary union where the euro continues to develop into a well-established currency outside borders. The focus is on modelling euro banknotes demand namely by considering its denominational breakdown. Such an analysis allows to unveil the heterogeneous role played by the several drivers while providing a more in depth modelling of currency demand. The econometric approach pursued allows to take on board the interconnections across denominations both in the long- and short-run dynamics.
E50|Why private cryptocurrencies cannot serve as international reserves but central bank digital currencies can|"This paper begins by a recap on the ambition and mechanism behind Bitcoin, followed by an overview of the top 10 cryptocurrencies by market capitalization. Our focus is on their price dynamics and volatility relative to those of fiat paper money and gold, assets that have traditionally served the functions of money and international reserves. We then perform a counterfactual analysis using the Bank of England's foreign currency reserves to determine the hypothetical performance in terms of relative volatility of two alternative reserve portfolios consisting of 0.1%, 1%, or 10% holdings of either Bitcoin only, since July 2010, or of a portfolio of 50% Bitcoin and 50% Ethereum, since July 2015. Revisiting in this light the functions of money and international reserves, we expound on why private cryptocurrencies do not meet the inherent requirements for both money and international reserve assets, whereas central bank digital currencies do meet these requirements. We, finally, ""scale"" the magnitude and dynamics of the recent Bitcoin bubble into a historical perspective, and conclude by a discussion of areas where blockchain-based and FinTech technologies could be beneficial in international trade, payments, banking and finance."
E50|Monetary Policy and Heterogeneity: An Analytical Framework|"An analytical (heterogeneous-agent New-Keynesian) HANK model allows a closed-form treatment of a wide range of NK topics: determinacy properties of interest-rate rules, resolving the forward guidance FG puzzle, amplification and fiscal multipliers, liquidity traps, and optimal monetary policy. The key channel shaping all the model's properties is that of cyclical inequality: whether the income of constrained agents moves less or more than proportionally with aggregate income. With countercyclical inequality, good news on aggregate demand gets compounded, making determinacy less likely and aggravating the FG puzzle (the resolution of which requires procyclical inequality)---a Catch-22, because countercyclical inequality is what HANK (and TANK) models need to deliver desirable amplification. The dilemma can be resolved if a distinct, ""cyclical-risk"" channel is procyclical enough. Even when both channels are countercyclical a Wicksellian rule of price-level targeting ensures determinacy and cures the puzzle. Optimal monetary policy is isomorphic to RANK and TANK but calls for less inflation stabilization. In a liquidity trap, even with countercyclical inequality and FG amplification, optimal policy does not imply larger FG duration because as FG power increases, so does its welfare cost."
E50|Dollarization in Montenegro: evidence after two decades of experience|Montenegro has started transition process from centrally planned to market oriented economy in late nineties of the XX century. Being still part of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, official currency was dinar in that period. Dinar, inherited currency from the Social Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, was not convertible currency (except for short period from 1990-1992), after which then actual monetary policy resulted in hyperinflation during 1992-1993. Afterword, although it was only legal tender until 1999, dinar was not used as currency in full capacity and in all transactions, but often replaced with Deutsche mark (DM), although unofficially. As result of such practice, in 1999, Montenegro introduced ?double currency? regime, officially allowing use of both, dinar and DM as legal tenders. In November 2000, dollarization regime has officially become implemented in Montenegro, introducing DM and later EURO (since January 2002) as only legal tender in Montenegro. Two decades later, we may summarize effects of such choice, and see whether decision to implement dollarization instead to issue national currency (perper was the one which was proposed) or remain using dinar was appropriate. We will make comparisons of selected indicators with Serbia, as it has decided to use dinar as national currency. Although there are many differences between Montenegrin and Serbian economy, both have many elements in common, which make reasonable to make comparisons. In addition, we did empirical analysis and analyzed economic performance of European countries that belongs to different monetary regimes, for period from 2000-2016.
E50|Monetary Policy and Efficiency in Over-the-Counter Financial Trade|We develop a monetary model that incorporates Over-the-Counter (OTC) asset trade. After agents have made their money holding decisions, they receive an idiosyncratic shock that affects their valuation for consumption and, hence, for the unique liquid asset, namely, money. Subse- quently, agents can choose whether they want to enter the OTC market in order to sell assets and, thus, boost their liquidity, or to buy assets and, thus, provide liquidity to other agents. In our model inflation affects not only the money holding decisions of agents, as is standard in monetary theory, but also the entry decision of these agents in the financial market. We use our framework to study the effect of inflation on welfare, asset prices, and OTC trade volume. In contrast to most monetary models, which predict a negative relationship between inflation and welfare, we find that inflation can be welfare improving within a certain range, because it mitigates a search externality that agents impose on one another when they make their OTC market entry decision. Also, an increase in the holding cost of money will lead to a decrease in asset prices, a regularity which is well-documented in the data and often considered anomalous.
E50|Euro Area Accession and its Effect on Manufacturing|A single currency could bring both benefits and challenges, hence, this paper examines one of the various dimensions of euro adoption. Moreover, although previous studies have illuminated the euro effect on inflation and trade, the research on manufacturing remains limited. The paper aims to make an assessment of whether euro area accession has an impact on industrial output in the context of the manufacturing sector, as this sector is considered to have a crucial role for sustainable economic growth. The research fits a panel regression model for seven-euro area member states from Central and Eastern Europe and covers a 16-year period from 2003 to 2018. The findings suggest that the participation in the monetary union might increase manufacturing turnover for its members.
E50|The reaction function channel of monetary policy and the financial cycle|This paper examines whether monetary policy reaction function matters for financial stability. We measure how responsive the Federal Reserve’s policy appears to be to imbalances in the equity, housing and credit markets. We find that changes in these policy sensitivities predict the later development of financial imbalances. When monetary policy appears to respond more countercyclically to market overheating, imbalances tend to decline over time. This effect is distinct from that of current and anticipated interest rate levels – the risk-taking channel. The evidence highlights the importance of a “policy reaction function” channel of monetary policy in shaping the financial cycle.
E50|Preference Heterogeneity, Inflation, and Welfare|This paper assesses the welfare implications of long-run inflation in an environment with essential money, a competing illiquid asset, and potential ex-ante heterogeneity of households with respect to their behavioral measures of risk aversion and elasticity of intertemporal substitution. The results show that the relative liquidity position of households’ portfolio as well as potential inter-cohort transfers of resources can deliver fewer welfare costs to inflation than has been previously reported, and in some instances net welfare benefits to low levels of positive inflation. These results hold in versions of the model calibrated to both US and euro area data.
E50|Foreign exchange reserves as a tool for capital account management|Many recent theoretical papers have argued that countries can insulate themselves from volatile world capital flows by using a variable tax on foreign capital as an instrument of monetary policy. But at the same time many empirical papers have argued that only rarely do we observe these cyclical capital taxes used in practice. In this paper we present a small open economy framework where the central bank can engage in sterilized foreign exchange intervention. When private agents can freely buy and sell foreign bonds, sterilized foreign exchange intervention has no effect. But we analytically prove that when private agents cannot freely buy and sell foreign bonds, that is, under acyclical capital controls, optimal sterilized foreign exchange intervention is equivalent to an optimally chosen tax on foreign capital. Numerical simulations of the model show that a variable capital tax is a reasonable approximation for sterilized foreign exchange intervention under the levels of capital controls observed in many emerging markets.
E50|Do Monetary Policy Announcements Shift Household Expectations?|We use daily survey data from Gallup to assess whether households' beliefs about economic conditions are influenced by surprises in monetary policy announcements. We first provide more general evidence that public confidence in the state of the economy reacts to certain types of macroeconomic news very quickly. Next, we show that surprises about the federal funds target rate are among the news that have statistically significant and instantaneous effects on economic confidence. In contrast, surprises about forward guidance and asset purchases do not have similar effects on household beliefs, perhaps because they are less well understood. We document heterogeneity in the responsiveness of sentiment across demographics.
E50|Liquidity Funding Shocks: the Role of Banks’ Funding Mix|Abstract This study attempts to evaluate the impact of an increase in banks’ funding stress and its transmission to the real economy, taking into account different funding sources banks can rely on. Using aggregate data from eight Euro area financial systems, we find that following a liquidity funding shock, both credit and GDP decline in different amounts and lengths. GDP reverts faster than credit. Furthermore, periphery countries experience a more pronounced fall in deposits and credit growth and the negative effects from the shock last longer than in core countries. Banks’ funding seems to play a relevant role as periphery countries rely more on wholesale funding during normal times.
E50|A Dynamic Theory of Collateral Quality and Long-Term Interventions|We study a dynamic model of collateralized lending under adverse selection in which the quality of collateral assets is endogenously determined by hidden effort. Complementarities in incentives lead to non-ergodic dynamics: Asset quality and output grow when asset quality is high, but stagnate or deteriorate otherwise. Inefficiencies remain, even in the most efficient competitive equilibrium—investment and output are vulnerable to spells of lending market illiquidity, and these spells may persist because of suboptimal effort. Nevertheless, benevolent regulators without commitment can destroy welfare by prioritizing liquidity over incentives. Optimal interventions with commitment call for large, long-term subsidies in excess of what is required to restore liquidity.
E50|Do Monetary Policy Announcements Shift Household Expectations?|We use daily survey data from Gallup to assess whether households' beliefs about economic conditions are influenced by surprises in monetary policy announcements. We first provide more general evidence that public confidence in the state of the economy reacts to certain types of macroeconomic news very quickly. Next, we show that surprises to the Federal Funds target rate are among the news that have statistically significant and instantaneous effects on economic confidence. In contrast, surprises about forward guidance and asset purchases do not have similar effects on household beliefs, perhaps because they are less well understood. We document heterogeneity in the responsiveness of sentiment across demographics.
E50|Hit them in the Wallet! An Analysis of the Indian Demonetization as a Counter-Insurgency Policy|In this paper, we study empirically how a policy targeting the cash-funding system of armed groups affects criminal activities, focusing on the 2016 Indian Banknote Demonetization as a natural experiment. We take advantage of a unique dataset on daily surrenders of the Maoist insurgents in India between 2006 and 2018. In order to measure the exposure of the conflict to the policy in different districts, we use three sources of access to funding for Maoists, namely mineral resources, public works’ contractors and forest products. Our results suggest that there is a positive and significant impact of the demonetization on surrenders of Maoist extremists. We find a lower increase in surrenders where insurgents have higher abilities to raise new cash through mineral resources and public works, while we find a sharper increase in districts that rely on subsistence agriculture. This paper provides evidence that policies that curb illicit cash flows have the desired impact of deterring illegal and violent activities.
E50|A Macro-Model to Monetary Transmission Analysis in Tunisia|In this paper, we develop a gap model based on a reduced form of the New Keynesian Model. The model offers various scenario structure tools which analyze the dynamics of key macroeconomic variables under diverse shocks and depicts their properties and historical decompositions. This framework rationalizes the monetary transmission mechanism as well as the effects of major shocks influencing the macroeconomic variables and can assess the role of monetary policy in reacting to observed and anticipated changes in inflation and other economic variables. This model provides a useful framework detailing monetary policy and helping policymakers mainly to react strongly to inflation.
E50|Class, education and social mobility: Madrid, 1880-1905|Relying on an extremely rich data set of individuals living in Madrid in 1880 and 1905, this article explores the relationship between class, access to education and social mobility. In order to do so, we first focus on children and assess the probability of being literate according to their parents’ socio-economic status. Although inequality in education declined during the period under study, this social gap was still substantial in 1905. Linking where these children lived with the location of public schools, we show that, although the expansion of the supply of schools improved access to education of children from disadvantaged backgrounds, the public effort was clearly insufficient to overcome the challenges these families faced. Lastly, we analyse the returns to education by studying social mobility. In this regard, we have matched the children existing in our sample in 1880 with their corresponding adult-selves in 1905, 25 years later, using record linkage techniques. Our analysis shows that letting literate enhanced children's chances of moving up the social ladder. Taking together, our results show that high inequality levels, together with an inadequate schooling system, prevented a significant fraction of the schooling-age population to access education and thus limited subsequent economic growth.
E50|Dirty float or clean intervention? The Bank of England in the foreign exchange market|The effectiveness of central bank intervention is debated and despite literature showing mixed results, central banks regularly intervene in the foreign exchange market, both in developing and developed economies. Does foreign exchange intervention work? Using over 60,000 new daily observations on intervention and exchange rates, this paper is the first study of the Bank of England’s foreign exchange intervention between 1952 and 1972. The main finding is that the Bank of England was unsuccessful in managing a credible exchange rate over that period. Running an event study, I demonstrate that betting systematically against the Bank of England would have been a profitable trading strategy. The Bank of England failed to maintain credibility in offshore markets and eventually manipulated the publication of its reserve figures to avoid a run on sterling.
E50|Why Should Money Lose Value With Time: Boosting Economy In The Era Of E-Money|We investigate new instrument of monetary policy which is able to stimulate economy in the age of electronic money. Demurrage (negative interest on money holdings) is a non inflationary monetary instrument that is able to boost the rate of economic transactions. We show with the search-theoretic model that the search effort of buyers is increasing in demurrage fees and higher search effort is associated with the lower price level and higher aggregate output. We find that aggregate welfare is higher when demurrage is imposed compared to quantitative easing policy. While demurrage is complicated to impose on banknotes it is easily set on electronic money which makes this unconventional policy measure more technologically feasible
E50|International Coordination of Economic Policies in the Global Financial Crisis: Successes, Failures, and Consequences|The global financial crisis dominated the international financial landscape during the first 20 years of the 21st century. This paper assesses the contribution of the international coordination of economic policies to contain the crisis. The paper evaluates international efforts to diagnose the crisis and decide on appropriate responses, the treatments that were agreed and adopted, and the successes and failures as the crisis unfolded. International economic policy coordination eventually contributed importantly to containing the crisis, but the authorities failed to agree on a diagnosis and the consequent need for joint action until the case was obvious. The policy actions that were adopted were powerful and effective, but they may have undermined prospects for coordinated responses to crises in the future.
E50|The transmission of unconventional monetary policy to bank credit supply: evidence from the TLTRO|We assess the transmission of the Targeted Longer-Term Refinancing Operations (TLTRO) to the bank credit supply for the Euro area (2014:05-2018:01) and for Portugal (2011:01-2018:01), using a panel data setup. For the Euro area, we find a positive relationship between the TLTRO and the amount of credit granted to the real economy. For the vulnerable countries, the effects of the TLTRO on the stock of credit increased from 2016 to 2017. Among the group of small banks, the effects are stronger in less vulnerable countries. We also find that competition has no statistically significant impact on the transmission of the TLTRO to the bank credit supply for the Euro area. For Portugal, using a difference-in-differences model, we find no statistically significant impact of the TLTRO on credit granted by banks. Finally, bidding banks set lower interest rates than non-bidding banks and the difference seems to be larger in 2017. In Portugal, the effects of the TLTRO on loan interest rates also increased from 2016 to 2017 and are stronger for small banks.
E50|Job duration and inequality|As suggested by recent empirical evidence, one of the causes behind the widespread rise of inequality experienced by OECD countries in the last few decades may have been the increased flexibility of labor markets. The authors explore this hypothesis through the analysis of a stock-flow consistent agent-based macroeconomic model able to reproduce with good statistical precision several empirical regularities. To this scope they employ three different sensitivity analysis techniques, which indicate that increasing job contract duration (i.e. decreasing flexibility) has the effect of reducing income and wealth inequality. However, the authors also find that this effect is diminished by tight monetary policy and low credit supply. This result suggests that the final outcome of structural reforms aimed at changing labor flexibility can depend on the macroeconomic environment in which these are implemented.
E50|The European economic crisis from 2007 onwards in the context of a global crisis of over-production of capital - a Marxian monetary theory of value interpretation|This paper attempts to clarify how the European economic crisis from 2007 onwards can be understood from the perspective of a Marxian monetary theory of value that emphasizes in-trinsic, structural flaws regarding capitalist reproduction. Chapter two provides an empirical description of the European economic crisis, which to some extent already reflects the struc-tural theoretical framework presented in chapter three. Regarding the theoretical framework Michael Heinrich's interpretation of 'the' Marxian monetary theory of value will be presented. Heinrich identifies connections between production and realization, between profit and inter-est rate as well as between industrial and fictitious capital, which represent contradictory tendencies for which capitalism does not have simple balancing processes. In the context of a discussion of 'structural logical aspects' of Marx's Critique of the Political Economy, explana-tory deficits of Heinrich's approach are analyzed. In the following, it is argued that Fred Mose-ley's view of these 'structural logical aspects' allows empirical 'applications' of Marxian mon-etary theories of value. It is concluded that a Marxian monetary theory of value, with the characteristics of expansive capital accumulation and its limitations, facilitates a structural analysis of the European economic crisis from 2007 onwards. In this line of argument, expan-sive production patterns are expressed, among other things, in global restructuring processes, while consumption limitations are mitigated by expansive financial markets and shifts in ex-port destinations.
E50|Endogenously (non-)Ricardian beliefs|This paper develops a theory of endogenously (non-)Ricardian beliefs. That is, whether Ricardian Equivalence holds in an equilibrium depends on endogenous private sector beliefs. The novelty here is a restricted perceptions viewpoint: in complex forecasting environments, agents forecast aggregate variables with (potentially) misspecified models that are optimal within the restricted class, i.e., a restricted perceptions equilibrium (RPE). A misspecification equilibrium is a refinement of an RPE where the choice of restricted models is endogenous. Our formalization considers two predictors: in one rule Ricardian beliefs emerge as a self-confirming equilibrium, while the other features an equilibrium with non-Ricardian beliefs. We show that (1.) there can exist misspecification equilibria where beliefs are endogenously (non-)Ricardian, (2.) multiple equilibria exist where the economy can coordinate on Ricardian or non-Ricardian equilibria. The theory suggests a novel interpretation of post-war U.S. inflation data as being generated by endogenous belief-driven regime change and a nuanced trade-off for monetary policy rules.
E50|Does one size fit all in the Euro Area? Some counterfactual evidence|"This paper examines whether Euro Area countries would have faced a more favorable inflation output variability tradeoff without the Euro. We provide evidence that this claim is true for the periods of the Great Recession and the European Sovereign Debt Crisis. For the Euro Area as a whole, the deterioration of the tradeoff becomes insignificant with Draghi's ""whatever it takes"" announcement onwards. However, a more detailed analysis shows that the detrimental effect of the Euro is more severe and long-lasting for peripheral countries, pointing to structural differences among Euro Area countries as a key element of the detrimental effect of the Euro. We base our results on a novel empirical strategy that, consistently with monetary theory, models the joint determination of the variability of inflation and output conditional on structural supply shocks. Moreover, our findings are robust to potential endogeneity concerns related to adoption of the Euro."
E50|Unemployment and the demand for money|We develop a dynamic general equilibrium model to analyze the relationship between monetary policy, money demand, and unemployment. Our model succeeds in replicating the empirical fact of a downward sloping Phillips curve for low infl ation rates and an upward sloping curve for high inflation rates. The reason is that low in flation rates make saving, as opposed to consumption, more attractive. Less consumption is associated with less output and therefore higher unemployment. To the contrary, when inflation exceeds a certain threshold, money is too costly to hold, which results in a decrease in output and an increase in unemployment.
E50|Credit Risk, Excess Reserves and Monetary Policy: The Deposits Channel|This paper examines the role of precautionary liquidity (reserves) and the inter- est on reserves as two potential determinants of the deposits channel that can help explain the role of monetary policy, particularly at the near zero-bound. Through the deposits channel either of these two determinants can explain a number of e¤ects including, (i) zero-bound optimal policy rates, (ii) a negative deposit rate spread, but also (iii) determinacy at the lower-zero bound. Similarly, through its effects on the deposits channel the interest on reserves can act as the main tool of monetary policy, that is shown to provide higher welfare gains than a simple Taylor rule. This result is shown to hold at the zero-bound and it is independent of precautionary liquidity, or the fiscal theory of the price level.
E50|Did the Swiss exchange rate shock shock the market?|The Swiss National Bank abolished the exchange rate floor versus the Euro in January 2015. Based on a synthetic matching framework, we analyse the impact of this unexpected (and therefore exogenous) shock on the stock market. The results reveal a significant level shift (decline) in asset prices in Switzerland following the discontinuation of the minimum exchange rate. While adjustments in stock market returns were most pronounced directly after the news announcement, the variance was elevated for some weeks, indicating signs of increased uncertainty and potentially negative consequences for the real economy.
E50|Fostering green investments and tackling climate-related financial risks: Which role for macroprudential policies?|While there is a growing debate among researchers and practitioners on the possible role of central banks and financial regulators in supporting a smooth transition to a low-carbon economy, the information on which macroprudential instruments could be used for reaching the “green structural change” is still quite limited. Moreover, the achievement of climate goals is still affected by the so-called “green finance gap”. This paper addresses these issues by proposing a critical review of existing and novel prudential approaches to incentivizing the decarbonization of banks' balance sheets and aligning finance with sustainable growth and development objectives. The analysis carried out in the paper allows understanding of under which conditions macroprudential policy could tackle climate change and promote green lending, while also containing climate-related financial risks.
E50|The macroeconomic effects of asset purchases revisited|This paper revisits the macroeconomic effects of the large-scale asset purchase programmes launched by the Federal Reserve and the Bank of England from 2008. Using a Bayesian VAR, we investigate the macroeconomic impact of shocks to asset purchase announcements and assess changes in their effectiveness based on sub-sample analysis. The results suggest that the early asset purchase programmes had significant positive macroeconomic effects, while those of the subsequent ones were weaker and in part not significantly different from zero. The reduced effectiveness seems to reflect in part better anticipation of asset purchase programmes over time, since we find significant positive macroeconomic effects when we consider shocks to survey expectations of the Federal Reserve's last asset purchase programme. Finally, in all estimations we find a significant and persistent positive impact of asset purchase shocks on stock prices.
E50|A model of endogenous financial inclusion: implications for inequality and monetary policy|We propose a monetary model with endogenous credit market participation to study the impact of financial inclusion on inequality and welfare. We find that consumption inequality results from differences in agents’ decision to access financial services. This heterogeneity generates a pecuniary externality, potentially resulting in some agents over- consuming. Moreover, monetary policy has distributional consequences. To quantify these effects, we calibrate our model to India, accounting for a third of observed consumption inequality. Finally, we analyze various policies aimed at increasing financial inclusion and find that a direct transfer to bank account holders yields the highest welfare and lowest consumption inequality.
E50|The Dynamics of Japanese Government Bonds' Nominal Yields|This paper employs a Keynesian perspective to explain why Japanese government bonds' (JGBs) nominal yields have been low for more than two decades. It deploys several vector error correction (VEC) models to estimate long-term government bond yields. It shows that the low short-term interest rate, induced by the Bank of Japan's (BoJ) accommodative monetary policy, is mainly responsible for keeping long-term JGBs' nominal yields exceptionally low for a protracted period. The results also demonstrate that higher government debt and deficit ratios do not exert upward pressure on JGBs' nominal yields. These findings are relevant to ongoing policy debates in Japan and other advanced countries about government bond yields, fiscal sustainability, fiscal policy, functional finance, monetary policy, and financial stability.
E50|Australian Government Bonds' Nominal Yields: An Empirical Analysis|The short-term interest rate is the main driver of the Commonwealth of Australia government bonds' nominal yields. This paper empirically models the dynamics of government bonds' nominal yields using the autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) approach. Keynes held that the central bank exerts decisive influence on government bond yields because the central bank's policy rate and other monetary policy actions determine the short-term interest rate, which in turn affects long-term government bonds' nominal yields. The models estimated here show that Keynes's conjecture applies in the case of Australian government bonds' nominal yields. Furthermore, the effect of the budget balance ratio on government bond yields is small but statistically significant. However, there is no statistically discernable effect of the debt ratio on government bond yields.
E50|Two Harvard Economists on Monetary Economics: Lauchlin Currie and Hyman Minsky on Financial Systems and Crises|In November 1987, Hyman Minsky visited Bogota, Colombia, after being invited by a group of professors who at that time were interested in post-Keynesian economics. There, Minsky delivered some lectures, and Lauchlin Currie attended two of those lectures at the National University of Colombia. Although Currie is not as well-known as Minsky in the American academy, both are outstanding figures in the development of non-orthodox approaches to monetary economics. Both alumni of the economics Ph.D. program at Harvard had a debate in Bogota. Unfortunately, there are no formal records of this, so here a question arises: What could have been their respective positions? The aim of this paper is to discuss Currie's and Minsky's perspectives on monetary economics and to speculate on what might have been said during their debate.
E50|The ECB’s fiscal policy|Abstract While the ECB helped mitigate the euro crisis in the aftermath of Lehman, it has stretched its monetary mandate and moved into fiscal territory. This text describes and summarizes the crucial role played by the ECB in the intervention spiral resulting from its bid to manage the crisis. It also outlines ongoing competitiveness problems in southern Europe, discusses the so-called austerity policy of the Troika, comments on QE and presents two alternative paths for the future development of Europe.
E50|Credit Risk, Excess Reserves and Monetary Policy: The Deposits|This paper examines the role of the precautionary demand for liquidity and the interest on reserves as two potential determinants of the deposits channel that can help explain the role of monetary policy, particularly at the near zero-bound. At high levels of precautionary liquidity hoarding the optimal policy response of a Taylor rule is shown to indicate a zero weight on inflation. This is a determinate outcome, despite the violation of the Taylor Principle, because of the effect that the demand for liquidity has on the deposit rate which determines the intertemporal choices of households. Similarly, through its effect on the deposits channel the interest on reserves can act as the main monetary policy tool that can provide determinacy and replace the Taylor rule. This result holds at the zero-bound and it is independent of precautionary demand for liquidity, or fiscal theory of the price level properties.
E50|Measuring monetary policy deviations from the Taylor rule|We estimate deviations of the federal funds rate from the Taylor rule by taking into account the endogeneity of output and inflation to changes in interest rates. We do this by simulating the paths of these variables through a DSGE model using the estimated time series for the exogenous processes except for monetary shocks. We then show that taking the endogeneity of output and inflation into account can make a significant quantitative difference (which can exceed 40 basis points) when calculating the appropriate value of interest rates according to the Taylor rule.
E50|Bargeld, Giralgeld, Vollgeld: Zur Diskussion um das Geldwesen nach der Finanzkrise|Der Aufsatz setzt sich kritisch mit verschiedenen Vorschlägen zur Reform des Geldwesens seit der Finanzkrise und mit den zugrundeliegenden Vorstellungen von „Geld“ auseinander. Das Wort „Geld“ wird in dieser Diskussion für verschiedene Dinge und in verschiedenen Bedeutungen gebraucht. Als paradox erweist es sich, dass die Diskussion um die Geldpolitik, auch die Rechtsprechung des Bundesverfassungsgerichts, geprägt ist von der Vorstellung, dass die Ausgabe von Bargeld eine Verbindlichkeit der Zentralbank darstellt, ebenso die Einlagen der Geschäftsbanken bei der Zentralbank, während gleichzeitig die Diskussion um die Rolle der Geschäftsbanken im Geldwesen geprägt ist von der Vorstellung, dass diese durch ihre Kreditvergabe „Geld“ schöpfen und somit die Einlagenfinanzierung von Geschäftsbanken keine Schuldenfinanzierung ist. Beide Vorstellungen sind falsch, die eine, weil die Geldschöpfung der Zentralbank diese zu nichts verpflichtet, die andere, weil die Geldschöpfung der Geschäftsbanken sehr wohl Verpflichtungen schaffen, die Liquiditäts- und Solvenzrisiken mit sich bringen. Der zweite Teil des Aufsatzes geht kritisch auf radikale Reformvorschläge zur Abschaffung des Bargelds und zur Abschaffung der Geldschöpfung der Geschäftsbanken (Vollgeld-Initiative) ein. Erstere unterschätzen die Rolle des Bargelds als Grundlage aller auf Nominalwerte gerichteten Forderungen, u.a. der Forderungen an Geschäftsbanken, letztere unterschätzen die Möglichkeiten und die Risiken einer Substitution von Sichteinlagen durch andere „geldnahe“ Titel, z.B. Geldmarktfondsanteile. Die Vorstellung, man könne durch solche Änderungen die Komplexität der Interdependenz von Geldsystem und Banksystem reduzieren und die Aufgabe der Geldpolitik vereinfachen, ist unrealistisch.
E50|Some simple Bitcoin Economics|How do Bitcoin prices evolve? What are the consequences for monetary policy? We answer these questions in a novel, yet simple endowment economy. There are two types of money, both useful for transactions: Bitcoins and Dollars. A central bank keeps the real value of Dollars constant, while Bitcoin production is decentralized via proof-of-work. We obtain a ``fundamental condition'', which is a version of the exchange-rate indeterminacy result in Kareken-Wallace (1981), and a ``speculative'' condition. Under some conditions, we show that Bitcoin prices form convergent supermartingales or submartingales and derive implications for monetary policy.
E50|The Impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on Small Business|There are concerns that the Dodd-Frank Act (DFA) has impeded small-business lending. By increasing the fixed regulatory compliance requirements needed to make business loans and operate a bank, the DFA disproportionately reduced the incentives for all banks to make very modest loans and reduced the viability of small banks, whose small-business share of commercial and industrial (C&I) loans is generally much higher than that of larger banks. Despite an economic recovery, the small-loan share of C&I loans at large banks and banks with $300 or more million in assets has fallen 9 percentage points since the DFA was passed in 2010, with the magnitude of the decline twice as large at small banks. Controlling for cyclical effects and bank size, we find that these declines in the small-loan share of C&I loans are almost all statistically attributed to the change in regulatory regime. Examining Federal Reserve survey data, we find evidence that the DFA prompted a relative tightening of bank credit standards on C&I loans to small versus large firms, consistent with the DFA inducing a decline in small-business lending through loan supply effects. We also empirically model the pace of business formation, finding that it had downshifted around the time when the DFA and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act were announced. Timing patterns suggest that business formation has more recently ticked higher, coinciding with efforts to provide regulatory relief to smaller banks via modifying rules implementing the DFA. The upturn contrasts with the impact of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which appears to persistently restrain business formation.
E50|Perceived FOMC: The Making of Hawks, Doves and Swingers|Narrative records in US newspapers reveal that about 70 percent of Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) members who served during the last 55 years are perceived to have had persistent policy preferences over time, as either inflation-fighting hawks or growth-promoting doves. The rest are perceived as swingers, switching between types, or remained an unknown quantity to markets. What makes a member a hawk or a dove? What moulds those who change their tune? We highlight ideology by education and early life economic experiences of members of the FOMC from 1960s to 2015. This research is based on an original dataset.
E50|Global Financial Cycles and Risk Premiums|Abstract This paper studies the synchronization of financial cycles across 17 advanced economies over the past 150 years. The comovement in credit, house prices, and equity prices has reached historical highs in the past three decades. While comovement of credit and house prices increased in line with growing real sector integration, comovement of equity prices has increased above and beyond growing real sector integration. The sharp increase in the comovement of global equity markets is particularly notable. We demonstrate that fluctuations in risk premiums, and not risk-free rates and dividends, account for a large part of the observed equity price synchronization after 1990. We also show that US monetary policy has come to play an important role as a source of fluctuations in risk appetite across global equity markets. These fluctuations are transmitted across both fixed and floating exchange rate regimes, but the effects are more muted in floating rate regimes.
E50|An Heterogeneous-Agent New-Monetarist Model with an Application to Unemployment|We develop a New Monetarist model with expenditure and unemployment risks that generates equilibria with non-degenerate distribution of money holdings. Distributional effects can overturn key insights of the model with degenerate distributions, e.g., the value of money depends on the income distribution; a one-time money injection raises aggregate real balances in the short run price adjustments look sluggish; anticipated inflation can raise output and welfare; there can be a long-run trade-o¤ between inflation and unemployment. Distributional effects also generate a quantitatively significant aggregate demand channel through which transfers financed with money creation can raise employment, and productivity shocks are amplified.
E50|Monetary Policy and Reaching for Income|"We study the impact of monetary policy on investors' portfolio choices and asset prices. Using data on individual portfolio holdings and on mutual fund flows, we find that a low-interest-rate monetary policy increases investors' demand for high-dividend stocks and drives up their prices. The increase in demand is more pronounced among investors who fund consumption using dividend income. To explain these empirical findings, we develop an asset pricing model in which investors have quasi-hyperbolic time preferences and use dividend income as a commitment device to curb their tendency to over-consume. When accommodative monetary policy lowers interest rates, it reduces the income stream from bonds and induces investors who want to keep a desired level of consumption to ""reach for income'' by tilting their portfolio toward high-dividend stocks. Our finding suggests that low-interest-rate monetary policy may influence the risk premium of income-generating assets, lead to under-diversification of investors' portfolios, and cause redistributive effects across firms that differ in their dividend policy."
E50|Does Indonesia’s macroeconomic work well towards the political year?|This paper utilizes the timeframe of 2014-2018 as the period with some of the global underperformed macroeconomic indicators. This paper found that in late 2016, Indonesia’s macroeconomic indicators started shown some improvements that keep real and monetary sector’s equilibrium to be stable. This paper observes the external balance of current account, exchange rate stability, inflation and interest rate as well as consumption patterns, saving-investment gap, fiscal discipline & fiscal sustainability. It analyses the government expenditure multiplier, real & monetary sector stability and institutional coordination between fiscal authority, monetary authority, and financial service authority. Real sector improvements which have been rolling since 2017 has significantly contributed to the recent Indonesia’s macroeconomic stability. Technically, if all on the track, this will sustain during the upcoming political year of 2019.
E50|Banks' Disclosure of Information and Financial Stability Regulations|This study proposes a model that analyzes the interaction between a bank and its creditors. The bank uses short-term wholesale funding and the creditors decide whether to roll over their loan by using information about the bank. The model shows that, when the creditors become more reluctant to roll over their loans since the bank heavily depends on such a debt, the bank does not issue the short-term debt excessively and its privately optimal amount of the debt in this situation corresponds to the socially desirable one. This implies that a regulation requiring banks to disclose information about their capital structures can by itself contribute to stabilizing the financial system. However, the model also shows that in order to ensure the result we need an additional regulation that bridges the information gap between banks and creditors
E50|Convenience yield on government bonds and unconventional monetary policy in Japanese corporate bond spreads|This paper examines the factors that contribute to credit spreads in the primary market for Japanese corporate bonds, especially when the Bank of Japan implemented unconventional monetary policy measures. The models of credit spreads based on the Treasury convenience yield hypothesis are estimated using an issue-level dataset. The results indicate that the factors to explain credit spreads changed under the unconventional monetary policy regime. Investors became less sensitive to the risk of default for issuers with different credit quality due to the unprecedented degree of monetary easing. The Japanese government’s debt-to-GDP ratio, which is a measure of the convenience yield on government bonds, is an important driver of credit spreads throughout the sample period.
E50|The Real Meaning of the real Bills Doctrine|The real bills doctrine asserts that money should be issued in exchange for short-term real bills of adequate value. Critics of this doctrine have thought of it as a means to make the money supply move in step with the production of goods, a task at which it supposedly fails. In this essay I explain that the real bills doctrine is actually a means to make the money supply move in step with the money-issuer’s assets. When viewed this way, I find that the real bills doctrine is an effective means to prevent inflation. More importantly, the real bills doctrine is a means to make the quantity of money grow and shrink with the needs of business, thus preventing money shortages and the resulting recessions.
E50|Türk Bankacılık Sektöründe Krediler ile Mevduatlar Arasındaki Açığın Kaynağı Nedir ?<BR>[What is the Source of Gap between the Loans and the Deposits in the Turkish Banking System ?]|Turkish banking sector has realized serious reconstruction after the 2001 crisis. Turkish banks left to finance government debts and has turned to their intermediation activities . However, Turkish banks broke the traditional loans-deposits balance and led to situation that loans have surpassed the deposits in the system. This article tries to indicate that the growth of gap between loans and deposits in Turkish banking system results from cross curreny swap transactions and these transactions change the composition of Turkish banks’ liabilities in favour of FX liabilities.
E50|The Real Meaning of the Real Bills Doctrine (revised Nov., 2018)|The real bills doctrine asserts that money should be issued in exchange for short-term real bills of adequate value. Critics of this doctrine have thought of it as a means to make the money supply move in step with the production of goods, a task at which it supposedly fails. In this essay I explain that the real bills doctrine is actually a means to make the money supply move in step with the money-issuer’s assets. When viewed this way, I find that the real bills doctrine is an effective means to prevent inflation. More importantly, the real bills doctrine is a means to make the quantity of money grow and shrink with the needs of business, thus preventing money shortages and the resulting recessions.
E50|Can we beat the Random Walk? The case of survey-based exchange rate forecasts in Chile|We examine the accuracy of survey-based expectations of the Chilean exchange rate relative to the US dollar. Our out-of-sample analysis reveals that survey-based forecasts outperform the Driftless Random Walk (DRW) in terms of Mean Squared Prediction Error at several forecasting horizons. This result holds true even when comparing the survey to a more competitive benchmark based on a refined information set. A similar result is found when precision is measured in terms of Directional Accuracy: survey-based forecasts outperform a “pure luck” benchmark at several forecasting horizons. Differing from the traditional “no predictability” result reported in the literature for many exchange rates, our findings suggest that the Chilean peso is indeed predictable.
E50|The Effect of Firm Cash Holdings on Monetary Policy|Firm cash holdings increased substantially from 1980 to 2013. The overall distribution of firm cash holdings changed in the same period. We study the implications of these changes for monetary policy. We use Compustat data and a model with financial frictions that allows the calculation of the monetary policy effects according to the distribution of cash holdings. We find that the interest rate channel of the transmission of monetary policy has become more powerful, as the impact of monetary policy over real interest rates increased. With the observed changes in firm cash holdings, the real interest rate takes 3.4 months more to return to its initial value after a shock to the nominal interest rate.
E50|Why so low for so long? A long-term view of real interest rates|Prevailing explanations of the decline in real interest rates since the early 1980s are premised on the notion that real interest rates are driven by variations in desired saving and investment. But based on data stretching back to 1870 for 19 countries, our systematic analysis casts doubt on this view. The link between real interest rates and saving-investment determinants appears tenuous. While it is possible to find some relationships consistent with the theory in some periods, particularly over the last 30 years, they do not survive over the extended sample. This holds both at the national and global level. By contrast, we find evidence that persistent shifts in real interest rates coincide with changes in monetary regimes. Moreover, external influences on countries’ real interest rates appear to reflect idiosyncratic variations in interest rates of countries that dominate global monetary and financial conditions rather than common movements in global saving and investment. All this points to an underrated role of monetary policy in determining real interest rates over long horizons.
E50|Central Bank Digital Currency and Monetary Policy|Many central banks are contemplating whether to issue a central bank digital currency(CBDC). CBDC has certain potential benefits, including the possibility that it can bear interest. However, using CBDC is costly for agents, perhaps because they lose their anonymity when using CBDC instead of cash. I study optimal monetary policy when only cash, only CBDC, or both cash and CBDC are available to agents. If the cost of using CBDC is not too high, more efficient allocations can be implemented by using CBDC than with cash, and the first best can be achieved. Having both cash and CBDC available may result in lower welfare than in cases where only cash or only CBDC is available. The welfare gains of introducing CBDC are estimated as up to 0.64% for Canada.
E50|The Neutral Rate in Canada: 2018 Estimates|The neutral nominal policy rate serves as a benchmark for assessing the degree of monetary stimulus and provides a medium- to long-run anchor for the policy rate. Since quantitative measures of the neutral rate are subject to considerable uncertainty, Bank staff rely on four different approaches to estimate the Canadian neutral rate. These approaches take explicit account of domestic and global factors, the relative importance of which varies with each approach. Informed by this analysis, Bank staff estimate that the Canadian neutral nominal policy rate lies between 2.5 and 3.5 per cent, the same range reported in the April 2017 Monetary Policy Report.
E50|Weakness in Italy’s core inflation and the Phillips curve: the role of labour and financial indicators|We investigate the dynamics of core inflation in Italy, with a special focus on the period of low inflation after 2014, through the lenses of a Phillips curve framework. Composite indicators of the Italian labour and financial market are constructed and included into a Phillips curve. A number of results emerges from the empirical analysis. First, a statistically significant trade-off between core inflation and economic activity is observed, especially when measures of slack are derived from labour market variables. Second, financial indicators can help to better characterize the dynamics of core inflation. Third, when controlling for financial indicators the slope of the Phillips curve turns out to be smaller, except for the case in which it is measured by the measure of slack based on broad labour market conditions. Fourth, a steepening in the Phillips curve emerges in the aftermath of the Global Financial Crisis, while a stabilization is evident at the end of the sample. Fifth, non-linear techniques suggest that weakness in core inflation may be dependent on the level of labour market tightness and of trend inflation especially. These findings have non-negligible implications for modeling and forecasting inflation dynamics in Italy.
E50|How slow is the recovery of loans to firms in Italy?|This paper studies the characteristics of the recent evolution of loans to non-financial firms in Italy from an historical perspective, with the aim of ascertaining whether the ongoing recovery is creditless; the main demand- and supply-side determinants of credit are also discussed. We find the following results. First, bank loan dynamics have been weak compared to the universe of recoveries in 13 euro-area countries since 1980; however, credit has evolved in line with the median pattern in the restricted sample of recoveries following deep and long recessions and/or recessions associated with banking crises. Second, the reduction in loans has been common to firms of all sizes, though it has been more pronounced for smaller ones. Third, based on a review of credit market indicators, survey evidence and econometric studies, the weakness of lending to firms has been in line with subdued dynamics of demand; the stringency of lending criteria has also contributed, in particular for smaller and riskier firms.
E50|‘New Normal’ or ‘New Orthodoxy’? Elements of a Central Banking Framework for the After-Crisis|Two different approaches to central banking in the aftermath of the crisis are contrasted. In the first one, labelled ‘New Normal’, the monetary policy strategy is broadened to encompass such objectives as financial stability or full employment. Furthermore, the inflation target is raised and large scale asset purchases (LSAPs) are retained as a standard instrument for implementing monetary policy. In the second approach, which we label ‘New Orthodoxy’, central banks keep the same objectives but interest rates can be brought to unprecedented negative levels, thus making LSAPs possibly unnecessary. The role of central banks in preserving financial stability is also explicitly recognized, both by themselves and by society, making their contribution to this task more effective and transparent.
E50|Perceived FOMC: The Making of Hawks, Doves and Swingers|Narrative records in US newspapers reveal that about 70 percent of Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) members who served during the last 55 years are perceived to have had persistent policy preferences over time, as either inflation-fighting hawks or growth-promoting doves. The rest are perceived as swingers, switching between types, or remained an unknown quantity to markets. What makes a member a hawk or a dove? What moulds those who change their tune? We highlight ideology by education and early life economic experiences of these members. The Hawk/Dove composition of the FOMC also matters for monetary policy as do the determinants that we isolate. They help explain deviations of the Federal Funds Rate from a forward–looking Taylor rule. This result has implications for the political economy of FOMC appointments. This research is based on an original dataset.
E50|Monetary Policy in the Grip of a Pincer Movement|Monetary policy has been in the grip of a pincer movement, caught between growing financial cycles, on the one hand, and an inflation process that has become quite insensitive to domestic slack, on the other. This two-pronged attack has laid bare some of the limitations of prevailing monetary policy frameworks, particularly in the analytical notions that have guided much of its practice. We argue that the natural rate of interest as a guidepost for monetary policy has a couple of limitations: the concept, as traditionally conceived, neglects the state of the financial cycle in the definition of equilibrium; in addition, it underestimates the role that monetary policy regimes may play in persistent real interest rate movements. These limitations may expose monetary policy to blindsiding by the collateral damage that comes from an unhinged financial cycle. We propose a more balanced approach that recognises the difficulties monetary policy has in fine-tuning inflation and responds more systematically to the financial cycle.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E50|Exchange Rates and Prices: Evidence from the 2015 Swiss Franc Appreciation|The removal of the lower bound on the EUR/CHF exchange rate in January 2015 provides a unique setting to study the implications of a large and sudden appreciation in an otherwise stable macroeconomic environment. Using transaction-level data on non-durable goods purchases by Swiss consumers, we measure the response of border and consumer retail prices to the CHF appreciation and how household expenditures responded to these price changes. Consumer prices of imported goods and of competing Swiss-produced goods fell by more in product categories with larger reductions in border prices and a lower share of CHF-invoiced border prices. These price changes resulted in substantial expenditure switching between imported and Swiss-produced goods. While the frequency of import retail price reductions rose in the aftermath of the appreciation, the average size of these price reductions fell (and more so in product categories with larger border price declines and a lower share of CHF-invoiced border prices), contributing to low pass-through into import prices.
E50|Macroprudential capital regulation in general equilibrium|We examine macroprudential bank capital policy in a macroeconomic model with a financial accelerator originating in the banking sector. Under Ramsey-optimal policy, the bank capital buffer tracks closely a model-based measure of the credit gap, defined as the gap between equilibrium credit in the economy featuring financial frictions and that in a hypothetical frictionless economy. Simple rules that vary the capital buffer in response to the credit gap perform worse than Ramsey policy, but only modestly so. When monetary policy controls inflation less aggressively, optimal macroprudential responses are smaller. Optimal macroprudential policy operates at a lower frequency than monetary policy.
E50|The power of forward guidance and the fiscal theory of the price level|Standard New Keynesian models predict implausibly large and favorable responses of inflation and output to expansionary forward guidance on interest rates. We find that the introduction of permanent or recurring active fiscal policy dampens the response of output and inflation to forward guidance in the New Keynesian model. Moreover, the presence of regime-switching policy introduces expectation e ects that cause forward guidance to be less stimulative in our regime-switching model's active money, passive fiscal policy regime. Finally, the introduction of long-term debt a ects the magnitude of the stimulus resulting from forward guidance in models with active fiscal policy.
E50|Banks' trading after the Lehman crisis: The role of unconventional monetary policy|Based on a detailed trade-level dataset, we analyze the proprietary trading behavior of German banks in the months directly preceding and following the Lehman collapse in September 2008. The default of Lehman Brothers was a shock to the German banking system that was both unexpected and exogenous. We examine banks' immediate reactions as well as their responses to unconventional monetary policy measures introduced shortly after the event - the introduction of full allotment and the change in eligibility criteria for collateral in central bank refinancing operations. Our results show that market liquidity tightened after the Lehman collapse but there is no evidence of fire sales in the German banking sector. Instead, we observe a broad-based flight to liquidity. The European Central Bank's unconventional monetary policy had a strong impact on banks' trading behavior by inducing shifts towards eligible securities and reducing pressure on market liquidity. This suggests that the ECB's measures contributed to stabilizing the financial system after the Lehman collapse.
E50|Exchange rates and prices: evidence from the 2015 Swiss franc appreciation|The removal of the lower bound on the EUR/CHF exchange rate in January 2015 provides a unique setting to study the implications of a large and sudden appreciation in an otherwise stable macroeconomic environment. Using transaction-level data on non-durable goods purchases by Swiss consumers, we measure the response of border and consumer retail prices to the CHF appreciation and how household expenditures responded to these price changes. Consumer prices of imported goods and of competing Swiss-produced goods fell by more in product categories with larger reductions in border prices and a lower share of CHF-invoiced border prices. These price changes resulted in substantial expenditure switching between imported and Swiss-produced goods. While the frequency of import retail price reductions rose in the aftermath of the appreciation, the average size of these price reductions fell (and more so in product categories with larger border price declines and a lower share of CHF-invoiced border prices), contributing to low pass-through into import prices.
E50|Portugal and the Euro|This paper is divided in two parts. In the first part, we present some data of the Portuguese economy aiming to capture some of its main long trends and the way it reacts to the introduction of the single currency in Europe. Since Portugal follow a similar path with Spain in what concerns the European economic integration process, we developed a comparative analysis between the two Iberian countries trying to capture some dynamics that can aid to understand the different ways how the two economies reacted to the introduction of the euro and, in this phase of the economic integration in Europe, how they suffered the 2007-2008 international crisis and reacted to its effects. To evaluate and compare the two countries paths we use some fundamental macroeconomic indicators as, output and employment, investment, external accounts, budget balances and government debts. The comparison with Europe's average economic performance is also present, trying to understand which country follow a more “European path”. In the second part, we concentrate on the euro system crisis trying to give some contributes to the ongoing discussion about the role and effectiveness of the euro as an internal adjustment variable. Not only in terms of the pre-creation of the better conditions for the European economy to respond to cyclical and structural crisis processes, but also in terms of dealing with the developments of the real crisis process that explode in Europe in 2007-2008 and gave origin to what was called the “sovereign debt crisis” that deeply harmed the most week economies, like Portugal but also like Spain. In particular, we discuss the issue of the effectiveness versus the exhaustion of monetary policy followed by the ECB in response to the Eurozone effects of the global economic and financial crisis.
E50|Will Robots Automate Your Job Away? Full Employment, Basic Income, and Economic Democracy|Will the internet, robotics and artificial intelligence mean a 'jobless future'? A recent narrative says tomorrow's technology will fundamentally differ from cotton mills, steam engines, or washing machines. Automation will be less like post-WW2 demobilisation for soldiers, and more like the car for horses. Driverless vehicles will oust truckers and taxi drivers. Hyper-intelligent clouds will oust financial advisers, doctors, and journalists. We face more 'natural' or 'technological' unemployment than ever. Government, it is said, must enact a basic income, because so many jobs will vanish. Also, maybe robots should become 'electronic persons', the subjects of rights and duties, so they can be taxed. This narrative is endorsed by prominent tech-billionaires, but it is flawed. Everything depends on social policy. Instead of mass unemployment and a basic income, the law can achieve full employment and fair incomes. This article explains three views of the causes of unemployment: as 'natural', as stemming from irrationality or technology, or as caused by laws that let people restrict the supply of capital to the job market. Only the third view has any credible evidence to support it. After WW2, 42% of UK jobs were redundant (actually, not hypothetically) but social policy maintained full employment, and it can be done again. Unemployment is driven by inequality of wealth and of votes in the economy. Democratic governments should reprogramme the law: for full employment and universal fair incomes. The owners of the robots will not automate your job away, if we defend economic democracy.
E50|Monetary policy under climate change|We study monetary policy under climate change in order to answer the question of whether monetary policy should take into account the expected impacts of climate change. The setup is a new Keynesian dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model of a closed economy in which a climate module that interacts with the economy has been incorporated, and the monetary authorities follow a Taylor rule for the nominal interest rate. The model is solved numerically using common parameter values and fiscal data from the euro area. Our results, which are robust to a large number of sensitivity checks, suggest non-trivial implications for the conduct of monetary policy.
E50|Optimal fiscal policy with labor selection|This paper characterizes long-run and short-run optimal fiscal policy in the labor selection framework. In a calibrated non-Ramsey decentralized equilibrium, labor market volatility is inefficient. Keeping fixed the structural parameters, the Ramsey government achieves efficient labor market volatility; doing so requires labor-income tax volatility that is orders of magnitude larger than the “tax-smoothing” results based on Walrasian labor markets, but a few times smaller than the results based on search and matching markets. We analytically characterize selection-model-consistent wedges and inefficiencies in order to understand optimal tax volatility.
E50|The Relative Effectiveness of Spot and Derivatives‐Based Intervention|This paper studies the relative effectiveness of foreign exchange intervention in spot and derivatives markets. We use Brazilian data where spot and nondeliverable futures intervention have been used in tandem for more than a decade. The analysis finds evidence of a link between both modes of intervention and the exchange rate. In line with theory, the impact of spot intervention is strikingly similar to that of futures intervention when convertibility risk is limited. We show that both types of interventions also affect the level and the price of hedging risk in the foreign exchange market.
E50|Risk management-driven policy rate gap|We employ real-time data available to the US monetary policy makers to estimate a Taylor rule augmented with a measure of financial uncertainty over the period 1969–2008. We find evidence in favor of a systematic response to financial uncertainty over and above that to expected inflation, output gap, and output growth. However, this evidence regards the Greenspan–Bernanke period only. Focusing on this period, the ”risk-management” approach is found to be responsible for monetary policy easings for up to 75 basis points of the federal funds rate.
E50|The Dynamics of Finance-Growth-Inequality Nexus: Theory and Evidence for India|The purpose of this research study has been to expand our understanding of the finance-growth ‘nexus’ to finance-growth-inequality ‘nexus’ in the presence of both the formal and the informal sources of borrowing. Using empirical evidence of IHDS Survey data for two rounds the study attempts to assess the co-evolution of finance-growth-inequality in an intertemporal framework. The most important finding of the paper pertains to the econometric result that the household asset grows at the same rate independent of the source of loans - banks or moneylenders though the level effect (intercept) is higher if the loan is obtained from banks or lower if the household lives below poverty line. The same also holds for the rate of growth of per capita income. There is virtually no significant difference for the households living below poverty line (BPL) on the rate of growth of capital asset or income whether source of borrowing is bank or money lender. This is then formalized in a theoretical model of intertemporal choice of entrepreneur-investor to show that if there are both formal and informal sources of borrowing with a constraint on the formal sector borrowing and no constraint on the latter, then growth rates of asset and income are determined by the informal sector interest rate. The result can be generalised for any number of sources of borrowing. This questions the conventional wisdom regarding the policy aimed at financial inclusion. Inequality of income increases independent of the source of borrowing, though the BPL households are worse off in general.
E50|Quantitative Easing|Is Quantitative Easing (QE) an effective substitute for conventional monetary policy? We study this question using a quantitative heterogeneous-agents model with nominal rigidities, as well as liquid and partially liquid wealth. The direct effect of QE on aggregate demand is determined by the difference in marginal propensities to consume out of the two types of wealth, which is large according to the model and empirical studies. A comparison of optimal QE and interest rate rules reveals that QE is indeed a very powerful instrument to anchor expectations and to stabilize output and inflation. However, QE interventions come with strong side effects on inequality, which can substantially lower social welfare. A very simple QE rule, which we refer to as Real Reserve Targeting, is approximately optimal from a welfare perspective when conventional policy is unavailable. We further estimate the model on U.S. data and find that QE interventions greatly mitigated the decline in output during the Great Recession.
E50|Nonconventional monetary policy in a regime-switching model with endogenous financial crises|This paper develops a regime-switching newkeynesian model for a small open economy, with an occasionally binding financial friction that allows for endogenous financial crises. The model has two regimes: a regime for normal economic times, in which financial market access is unconstrained, and a crisis regime, characterized by curtailed access to foreign borrowing. The transition probability between regimes depends on the endogenous variables of the model. We employ this framework to analyze the macroeconomic implications of adapting the Inflation Targeting (IT) strategy in a way that takes into account the possibility to prevent the occurrence of financial crises. We calibrate the model using Colombian historical data. The results show that monetary policy has major limitations when it seeks to prevent financial crises. As the central bank gives more importance to the GDP growth gap, the frequency with which crises occur decreases. However, this reduction is quantitatively small. On the other hand, as the monetary authority responds more strongly to increases in the external debt growth rate, the frequency with which the economy goes into crisis is not significantly different from the current IT scheme. However, the volatilities of inflation and consumption are much higher.
E50|Financial spillovers of international monetary policy: Six hypotheses on the Latin American case, 2010-2016|This paper aims to determine if there is a differential incidence between conventional and unconventional monetary policy of developed economies in Latin American financial markets, evaluating six hypotheses that can be extracted from the economic literature. Financial spillovers are considered on two dimensions: financial asset prices (fixed income and equity markets) and interest rates (monetary policy rate and loans rates). The main finding is that both conventional and unconventional monetary policies in US and Eurozone have a significant and direct incidence on Latin American fixed income markets, although the effect of unconventional monetary policy is low. In contrast, only unconventional monetary policy has a significant effect on Latin American equity markets. On the other hand, regardless of the exchange rate pass-through of Latin American economies, the conventional monetary policy of the United States and Eurozone has a low but significant incidence on both monetary policy rates and lending interest rates in Latin America, while the unconventional monetary policies have no incidence. As anticipated, US conventional and unconventional monetary policy have a higher incidence on Latin American financial markets with respect to the monetary policy decisions in Eurozone and Japan. Finally, free trade agreements between developed economies and Latin American economies do not have a significant impact on the relationship between international monetary policy and Latin American financial markets.
E50|Some Simple Bitcoin Economics|In a novel model of an endowment economy, we analyze coexistence and competition between traditional fiat money (Dollar) and another intrinsically worthless medium of exchange, not controlled by a central bank, such as Bitcoin. Agents can trade consumption goods in either currency or hold on to currency for speculative purposes. A central bank ensures a Dollar inflation target, while Bitcoin mining is decentralized via proof-of-work. We analyze Bitcoin price evolution and interaction between the Bitcoin price and monetary policy which targets the Dollar. We obtain a fundamental pricing equation, which in its simplest form implies that Bitcoin prices form a martingale. We derive conditions, under which Bitcoin speculation cannot happen, and the fundamental pricing equation must hold. We show that the block rewards are not a tax on Bitcoin holders: they are financed by Dollar taxes imposed by the Dollar central bank. We discuss monetary policy implications and characterize the range of equilibria.
E50|Credit mechanics - a precursor to the current money supply debate|This paper assesses the theory of credit mechanics within the context of the current money supply debate. Credit mechanics and related approaches were developed by a group of German monetary economists during the 1920s-1960s. Credit mechanics overcomes a one-sided, bank-centric view of money creation, which is often encountered in monetary theory. We show that the money supply is influenced by the interplay of loan creation and repayment rates; the relative share of credit volume neutral debtor-to-debtor and creditor-to-creditor payments; the availability of loan security; and the behavior of non-banks and non-borrowing bank creditors . With the standard textbook models of money creation now discredited, we argue that a more general approach to money supply theory involving credit mechanics needs to be established.
E50|Quantitative Easing|Abstract Is Quantitative Easing (QE) an effective substitute for conventional monetary policy? We study this question using a quantitative heterogeneous-agents model with nominal rigidities, as well as liquid and partially liquid wealth. The direct effect of QE on aggregate demand is determined by the difference in marginal propensities to consume out of the two types of wealth, which is large according to the model and empirical studies. A comparison of optimal QE and interest rate rules reveals that QE is indeed a very powerful instrument to anchor expectations and to stabilize output and inflation. However, QE interventions come with strong side effects on inequality, which can substantially lower social welfare. A very simple QE rule, which we refer to as Real Reserve Targeting, is approximately optimal from a welfare perspective when conventional policy is unavailable. We further estimate the model on U.S. data and find that QE interventions greatly mitigated the decline in output during the Great Recession.
E50|Macroprudential regulation in the European Union in 1995-2014: introducing a new data set on policy actions of a macroprudential nature|This paper introduces a new comprehensive data set on policies of a macroprudential nature in the banking sectors of the 28 member states of the European Union (EU) between 1995 and 2014. The Macroprudential Policies Evaluation Database (MaPPED) offers a detailed overview of the “life-cycle” of policy instruments which are either genuinely macroprudential or are essentially microprudential but likely to have a significant impact on the whole banking system. It tracks events of the introduction, recalibration and termination of eleven categories and 53 subcategories of instruments. MaPPED has been based on a carefully designed questionnaire, which has been completed in cooperation with experts from national central banks and supervisory authorities of all EU member states. This paper describes the design and structure of the new data set and presents the first descriptive analysis of the use of policy measures with a macroprudential nature in the EU over the last two decades. The results indicate that there has been a remarkable variation in the use of policies of a macroprudential nature both across EU countries and over time. Moreover, the analysis provides some tentative evidence of an impact of capital buffers, lending restrictions and caps on maturity mismatches on credit to the non-financial private sector in the EU as well as of the relative ineffectiveness of sectoral risk weights in controlling credit growth. JEL Classification: E50, E60, G28
E50|Who benefits from the corporate QE? A regression discontinuity design approach|On March 10, 2016, the European Central Bank (ECB) announced the Corporate Sector Purchase Programme (CSPP) – commonly known as corporate quantitative easing (QE) – to improve the financing conditions of the Eurozone’s real economy and strengthen the pass-through of unconventional monetary interventions. Using a regression discontinuity design framework that exploits the rating wedge between the ECB and market participants, we show that: (i) bond yield spreads decline by around 15 basis points at the announcement of the programme, (ii) the impact is mostly noticeable in the sample of CSPP-eligible bonds that are perceived as high yield from the viewpoint of market participants and, (iii) the CSPP seems to have stimulated new issuance of corporate bonds. Overall, our results are consistent with the explanation that highlights the portfolio rebalancing mechanism and the liquidity channel. JEL Classification: E50, E52, G11, G30, G32
E50|Credit mechanics: a precursor to the current money supply debate|This paper assesses the theory of credit mechanics within the context of the current money supply debate. Credit mechanics and related approaches were developed by a group of German monetary economists during the 1920s-1960s. Credit mechanics overcomes a one-sided, bank-centric view of money creation, which is often encountered in monetary theory. We show that the money supply is influenced by the interplay of loan creation and repayment rates; the relative share of credit volume neutral debtor-to-debtor and creditor-to-creditor payments; the availability of loan security; and the behavior of non-banks and non-borrowing bank creditors . With the standard textbook models of money creation now discredited, we argue that a more general approach to money supply theory involving credit mechanics needs to be established.
E50|Lessons from historical monetary unions - is the European monetary union making the same mistakes?|Abstract This article examines three historical monetary unions: the Latin Monetary Union (LMU), the Scandinavian Monetary Union (SMU), and the Austro-Hungarian Monetary Union (AHMU) in an attempt to derive possible lessons for the European Monetary Union (EMU). The term ‘monetary union’ can be defined either narrowly or broadly depending on how closely it conforms to Mundell’s notion of ‘Optimal Currency Area’. After examining each of the historical monetary unions from this perspective, the article concludes that none of them ever truly conformed to Mundell’s concept, nor does the EMU. Nevertheless, the article argues that some lessons may be learned from these historical experiences. First, it is necessary that there exist robust institutions such as a common central bank and a unified fiscal policy in order to withstand external shocks. The three early unions could not withstand the shock of WWI. Another important lesson is that continuing national rivalries can undermine any monetary union.
E50|Quantitative easing|Is Quantitative Easing (QE) an effective substitute for conventional monetary policy? We study this question using a quantitative heterogeneous-agents model with nominal rigidities, as well as liquid and partially liquid wealth. The direct effect of QE on aggregate demand is determined by the difference in marginal propensities to consume out of the two types of wealth, which is large according to the model and empirical studies. A comparison of optimal QE and interest rate rules reveals that QE is indeed a very powerful instrument to anchor expectations and to stabilize output and inflation. However, QE interventions come with strong side effects on inequality, which can substantially lower social welfare. A very simple QE rule, which we refer to as Real Reserve Targeting, is approximately optimal from a welfare perspective when conventional policy is unavailable. We further estimate the model on U.S. data and find that QE interventions greatly mitigated the decline in output during the Great Recession.
E50|Should Monetary Policy Lean against the Wind? An Evidence from a DSGE Model with Occasionally Binding Constraint|This research paper studies the performance of the Taylor-type rules augmented with output and asset prices, and compares their performance in a model with an eternally and occasionally binding constraint. The rules are examined under the optimisation of a central bank's loss function and a welfare maximisation of the economic agents. The analysis delivers the following results. The model with occasionally binding constraint has more favourable properties regarding the hump-shaped and asymmetric impulse responses compared to the eternally binding constraint model. The best rule regarding the lowest value of the central banks' loss function proves to be the rule augmented with asset prices. The optimal reactions are, however, shock- and model-dependent. Moreover, a chosen specification of the loss function plays a significant role. The welfare maximisation reveals that reacting to asset prices might not be welfare-improving for both types of economic agents – households and entrepreneurs. This result is, however, model-dependent.
E50|The Impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on Small Business|There are concerns that the Dodd-Frank Act (DFA) has impeded small business lending. By increasing the fixed regulatory compliance requirements needed to make business loans and operate a bank, the DFA disproportionately reduced the incentives for all banks to make very modest loans and reduced the viability of small banks, whose small-business share of C&I loans is generally much higher than that of larger banks. Despite an economic recovery, the small loan share of C&I loans at large banks and banks with $300 or more million in assets has fallen by 9 percentage points since the DFA was passed in 2010, with the magnitude of the decline twice as large at small banks. Controlling for cyclical effects and bank size, we find that these declines in the small loan share of C&I loans are almost all statistically attributed to the change in regulatory regime. Examining Federal Reserve survey data, we find evidence that the DFA prompted a relative tightening of bank credit standards on C&I loans to small versus large firms, consistent with the DFA inducing a decline in small business lending through loan supply effects. We also empirically model the pace of business formation, finding that it had downshifted around the time when the DFA and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act were announced. Timing patterns suggest that business formation has more recently ticked higher, coinciding with efforts to provide regulatory relief to smaller banks via modifying rules implementing the DFA. The upturn contrasts with the impact of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which appears to persistently restrain business formation.
E50|Taylor Rule Estimation by OLS|Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) estimation of monetary policy rules produces potentially inconsistent estimates of policy parameters. The reason is that central banks react to variables, such as inflation and the output gap, which are endogenous to monetary policy shocks. Endogeneity implies a correlation between regressors and the error term, and hence, an asymptotic bias. In principle, Instrumental Variables (IV) estimation can solve this endogeneity problem. In practice, IV estimation poses challenges as the validity of potential instruments also depends on other economic relationships. We argue in favor of OLS estimation of monetary policy rules. To that end, we show analytically in the three-equation New Keynesian model that the asymptotic OLS bias is proportional to the fraction of the variance of regressors accounted for by monetary policy shocks. Using Monte Carlo simulation, we then show that this relationship also holds in a quantitative model of the U.S. economy. As monetary policy shocks explain only a small fraction of the variance of regressors typically included in monetary policy rules, the endogeneity bias is small. Using simulations, we show that, for realistic sample sizes, the OLS estimator of monetary policy parameters outperforms IV estimators.
E50|International monetary policy coordination in a new Keynesian model with NICE features| The authors provide a static two-country new Keynesian model to teach two related questions in international macroeconomics: the international transmission of unilateral monetary policy decisions and the gains coming from the coordination monetary rules. They concentrate on “normal times” and use a thoroughly graphical approach to analyze the questions at hand. In this setting monetary policy is conducted using interest rates rules and economic integration between nations does not necessarily create the case for the coordination of monetary policy. In particular, they show that the conduct of optimal national monetary policies does not make any difference with the coordination of national policies, as this creates a situation where the international monetary system operates “Near an International Cooperative Equilibrium” (NICE).
E50|Currency Union with and without Banking Union|This paper analyzes a two-country model of currency, banks and endogenous default to study whether impediments to credit market integration across jurisdictions impact the desirability of a currency union. We show that when those impediments induce a higher cost for banks to manage cross-border credit compared to domestic credit, welfare may not be maximal under a regime of currency union. But a banking union that would suppress hurdles to banking integration restores the optimality of that currency arrangement. The empirical and policy implications in terms of banking union are discussed.
E50|The long run impact of foreign direct investment, exports, imports and GDP: evidence for Spain from an ARDL approach|This paper analyses the relationship between foreign direct investment (FDI), exports and economic growth in Spain using annual time series data for the period 1970 to 2016. To examine these linkages the autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) bounds testing approach to cointegration for the long-run is applied. The error correction model (ECM) is used to examine the short-run dynamics and the vector error correction model (VECM) Granger causality approach is used to investigate the direction of causality. The results confirm a long-run relationship among the examined variables. The Granger causality test indicates a strong unidirectional causality between FDI and exports with direction from FDI to exports. Besides, the results for the relationship between FDI and economic growth are interesting and indicate that there is no significant Granger causality from FDI to economic growth and vice-versa.
E50|Dealing with Time-inconsistency: Inflation Targeting vs. Exchange Rate Targeting|Abandoning an objective function with multiple targets and adopting a single mandate is an effective way for a central bank to overcome the classic time-inconsistency problem. We show that the choice of a particular single mandate depends on a country's level of trade openness. Both inflation targeting and nominal exchange rate targeting come with their own costs. We show that the costs of inflation targeting are increasing in a country's level of trade openness while the costs of exchange rate targeting are decreasing in trade openness. Thus a relatively closed economy will prefer an inflation targeting mandate and a very open economy will prefer an exchange rate target. Empirical results show that as central banks become less credible they are more likely to adopt a pegged exchange rate, and crucially the empirical link between central bank credibility and the tendency to peg depends on trade openness.
E50|"The ""eternal character"" of austerity measures in European crisis policies: Evidences from the Fiscal Compact discourse in Austria"|"The European Fiscal Compact (FC) entered into force by 1 January, 2013 in 25 EU Member States. With the ratification the signatory countries commit significant parts of their budget to the European Commission and the European Court of Justice, which indicates a shift of power from legislative to executive authorities and the judiciary. In the aftermath of the economic crisis there can be observed a strong tendency to interpret the financial and economic crisis mainly as a sovereign debt crisis without any connection to the preceding crisis. This is reflected in several recommendations, which limit the scope of political decision-making in order to ""calm financial markets"". Applying an analysis of the public discourse about FC in three leading Austrian newspapers from December 2011 (the initial debate at an EU Summit) to July 2012 (the ratification in the Austrian parliament), the dominant rationale as well as legitimization and argumentation patterns will be examined. The methodology adopted in the article is based on a combination of critical discourse analysis and conceptual metaphor theory in order to illustrate the effectiveness of marketradical thinking of specific economic elites in public discourse. It can be shown that the public discourse about economic policies yet in a time of a potential ""crisis of economics"" is still dominated by economic ideas or ""economic imaginaries"" (implicitly) preferring austerity measures to active fiscal policies."
E50|The Fallacy of the natural rate of interest and Zero Lower Bound economics|This paper provides a critique of zero lower bound (ZLB) economics which has become the new orthodoxy for explaining stagnation. ZLB economics is an extension of pre-Keynesian economics which attributes macroeconomic dysfunction to rigidities and market imperfections. The ZLB is the latest rigidity in that pre-Keynesian tradition. The paper argues negative nominal interest rates, even if feasible, may be unable to remedy Keynesian demand shortage unemployment, and might even aggravate the problem. That is because there exist non-reproduced assets whose return dominates that of investment, and saving may also increase in response to negative rates. Consequently, there may be no natural rate of interest.
E50|Sticky Prices versus Sticky Information: Does it Matter for Policy Paradoxes?|This paper shows that under a strict inflation targeting regime, the government spending multiplier at the zero lower bound (ZLB) is larger under sticky information than under sticky prices. Similarly, well known paradoxes, e.g., the paradox of toil and the paradox of flexibility become more severe under sticky information. For the case of sticky information it is important to assume that the fiscal policy intervention coincides with the duration of zero interest rates, while such a distinction is less important for sticky prices. We unify and clarify results that may appear to contradict each other in the literature. (Copyright: Elsevier)
E50|Fiscal Policy in a Currency Union at the Zero Lower Bound|When monetary policy is constrained by the zero lower bound, fiscal policy can be used to achieve macro stabilization objectives. At the same time, fiscal policy is also a key policy variable within a single currency area that allow policy makers to respond to regional demand asymmetries. How do these two uses of fiscal policy interact with one another? Is there an inherent conflict between the two objectives? How do the answers to these questions depend on the degree of fiscal space available to different members of the currency area? This paper constructs a two-country New Keynesian model of a currency union to address these questions. We find that the answers depend sensitively on the underlying internal structure of the currency union, notably the degree of trade openness between the members of the union.
E50|Islamic Financial Institutions and Participatory Finance Constraints: The Case of Pakistan|Islamic financial contracts are designed to facilitate financing according to Islamic norms. Islamic financing in its first stages used only the partnership modes of Musharakah and Mudarabah. Later it is realized that, to avoid moral hazards, yet compete successfully with conventional banks, it is necessary to use all permissible Islamic modes and consequently, trade and leasing techniques were developed. This paper aims to identify the constraints faced by Islamic financial institutions in the adoption of participatory finance i.e., Musharakah and Mudarabah financing. The two basic categories of financing are: 1) profit-and-loss-sharing (PLS), also called participatory finance, i.e. Musharakah and Mudarabah and 2) purchase and hire of goods or assets and services on a fixed-return basis, i.e., Murabahah, Istisna', Salam and Ijarah also called non-participatory finance. This paper suggests that innovation and creativity is necessitated more than ever to promote participatory modes of financing and to make it the preferred choice for meeting the increasingly sophisticated and diversified financial needs.
E50|A Dynamic Hierarchical Cluster Analysis of Economic Performance and Perceptions of the Euro across EU Countries|One of the crucial benefits of EU membership, inscribed in Art. 3(3) of the Treaty on the European Union, should be economic and social cohesion. Ample empirical studies have examined EU countries? performance in terms of nominal convergence, real convergence, and convergence of business and financial cycles. Twenty years after the inception of the Economic and Monetary Union, economic cohesion clearly is not a reality, while widening real income gaps threaten social cohesion, too. The paper aims to highlight the heterogeneity and dynamics of changes in economic performance and perceptions of the euro across Europe ? two factors arguably having a tremendous impact on the success of the European project. To this end, series of data spanning 2008 through 2017 were explored using hierarchical cluster analysis.
E50|The impact of guidance, short-term dynamics and individual characteristics on firms' long-term inflation expectations|No abstract is available for this item.
E50|External debt composition and domestic credit cycles|We assess the role of external debt in shaping the dynamics of domestic credit cycles. Using quarterly data for 40 countries between 1980 and 2015, we examine four dimensions of external debt composition: instrument, sector, currency and maturity. We show that the first two dimensions provide valuable information about the likelihood of credit booms and busts. In particular, we find that a higher share of external bank lending in the form of bonds is associated with a greater likelihood of credit booms. Our results also reveal that credit busts tend to be associated with a lower share of interbank lending and a higher share of lending from banks to nonbanks.
E50|Central Bank Independence Revisited|In major advanced economies, including Australia, independent central banks have become established institutions. Yet there are reasons why the sustained presence of such an institution in a democratic society should be challenged. This paper considers the arguments usually advanced for central bank independence, and the underlying arguments for a failure of democracy including the standard argument based on the importance of central bank credibility. This argument depends crucially on the role of inflationary expectations on the actual inflation rate. We question whether the standard story is really relevant – and, if not, then independence depends on the argument that politicians may not always act in the best long-term interests of their constituencies but bankers are more likely to. We show that this is a questionable assumption. The post Wold War 2 development of Europe and the emergence of the European Central Bank is examined to illustrate our underlying proposition that Central bank independence is not the result of economic argument, but of political ones leading to suboptimal economic results.
E50|Did Smaller Firms Face Higher Costs of Credit During the Great Recession? A Vector Error Correction Analysis with Structural Breaks|This paper examines the challenges firms (and policymakers) encounter when confronted by a recession at the zero lower bound, when traditional monetary policy is ineffective in the face of deteriorated balance sheets and high costs of credit. Within the larger body of literature, this paper focuses on the cost of credit during a recession, which constrains smaller firms from borrowing and investing, thus magnifying the contraction. Extending and revising a model originally developed by Walker (2010) and estimated by Pandey and Ramirez (2012), this study uses a Vector Error Correction Model with structural breaks to analyze the effects of relevant economic and financial factors on the cost of credit intermediation for small and large firms. Specifically, it tests whether large firms have advantageous access to credit, especially during recessions. The findings suggest that during the Great Recession of 2007-09 the cost of credit rose for small firms while it decreased for large firms, ceteris paribus. From the results, the paper assesses alternative ways in which the central bank can respond to a recession facing the zero lower bound.
E50|Monetary policy, de-anchoring of inflation expectations, and the 'new normal'|"Persistently low inflation rates in the Euro Area raise the question whether inflation is still credibly anchored to the Euro-systemâ€™s medium term target of below, but close to 2%. The purpose of this paper is twofold. First, we investigate why agentsâ€™ expectations that over the business cycle inflation will remain in line with the target begin to falter. Our hypothesis is that agents form expectations in terms of their confidence in the ""normal regime"", which is updated observing the state of the economy. Second, we study how the de-anchoring of expectations interacts with monetary policy determining whether the central bank is still able to achieve its target - and hence re-anchor inflation expectations - or whether the system drifts away towards depressed states of low inflation and output. Two are our main findings. The first is that, facing unfavourable shocks, if inflation expectations ""fall faster"" than the policy rate, and the zero lower bound is reached without correcting the shock, the system converges to a new steady state - the â€œnew normalâ€ - with permanent negative gaps. The second is that a more aggressive monetary policy is ineffective both at the ZLB and above the ZLB, when the shock is large and/or when the reactivity of inflation expectations is high enough. This last finding seems to support the necessity, in those conditions, to abandon conventional monetary policy and to switch to an aggressive reflationary policy that prevents the entrenchment of deflationary expectations"
E50|Financial Cycles Around the World|The study analyses ﬁnancial cycles based on a global sample of 34 advanced and developing countries over the period 1960Q1 to 2015Q4. We use dynamic factor models and state-space techniques to estimate ﬁnancial cycles in credit, housing, bond and equity markets, as well as aggregate ﬁnancial cycles for each country in the sample using a large number of variables conveying price, quantity and risk characteristics of respective markets. The analysis reveals the highly persistent and recurring nature of ﬁnancial cycles, which tend to ﬂuctuate at frequencies much lower than business cycles, 9‑15 years on average, and are indicative of major ﬁnancial distress episodes. Our results point to notable intra-regional synchronisation, as well as nontrivial co-movement tendencies between European, American and Asian ﬁnancial cycles. We also extract global and regional ﬁnancial cycles, the former closely associated with the dynamics of the US T-bill rate and the VIX index, conﬁrming the existence of common supranational factors governing the boom-bust dynamics of ﬁnancial market activity around the world.
E50|Exchange Arrangements Entering the 21st Century: Which Anchor Will Hold?|This paper provides a comprehensive history of anchor or reference currencies, exchange rate arrangements, and a new measure of foreign exchange restrictions for 194 countries and territories over 1946-2016. We find that the often-cited post-Bretton Woods transition from fixed to flexible arrangements is overstated; regimes with limited flexibility remain in the majority. Our central finding is that the US dollar scores (by a wide margin) as the world's dominant anchor currency and, by some metrics, its use is far wider today than 70 years ago. In contrast, the global role of the euro appears to have stalled in recent years. While the incidence of capital account restrictions has been trending lower for decades, an important wave toward capital market integration dates as recently as the mid-1990s. We suggest that record accumulation of reserves post 2002 has much to do with many countries' desire to stabilize exchange rates in an environment of markedly greater capital mobility. Indeed, the continuing desire to manage exchange rates despite increased capital mobility post-2003 may be a key factor underpinning the modern-day Triffin dilemma that some have recently pointed to.
E50|On the Theoretical Efficacy of Quantitative Easing at the Zero Lower Bound|We construct a monetary economy in which agents face aggregate demand shocks and hetero- geneous idiosyncratic preference shocks. We show that, even when the Friedman rule is the best interest rate policy the central bank can implement, not all agents are satiated at the zero lower bound and therefore there is scope for central bank policies of liquidity provision. Indeed, we find that quantitative easing can be welfare improving even at the zero lower bound. This is because such policy temporarily relaxes the liquidity constraint of impatient agents, without harming the patient ones. Moreover, due to a pricing externality, quantitative easing may also have beneficial general equilibrium effects for the patient agents even if they are unconstrained in their holdings of real balances. Last, our model suggests that it can be optimal for the central bank to buy private debt claims instead of government debt.
E50|Currency Manipulation|Many central banks manage the stochastic behavior of their currencies' exchange rates by imposing pegs relative to a target currency. We study the effects of such currency manipulation in a multi-country model of exchange rate determination with endogenous capital accumulation. We find that the imposition of an exchange rate peg relative to a given target currency increases the volatility of consumption in the target country and decreases the volatility of the target currency's exchange rate relative to all other currencies in the world. In addition, currency pegs affect the formation of capital across sectors and countries. For example, an economically smaller country (such as Saudi Arabia) pegging its currency to an economically large country (such at the U.S.) decreases capital accumulation in the larger country and increases its real and nominal interest rate
E50|Dealing with time-inconsistency: Inflation targeting vs. exchange rate targeting|Abandoning an objective function with multiple targets and adopting single mandate can be an effective way for a central bank to overcome the classic time-inconsistency problem. We show that the choice of a particular single mandate depends on an economy’s level of trade openness and the credibility of the central bank. We begin with reduced form empirical results which show that as central banks become less credible they are more likely to adopt a pegged exchange rate, and crucially, the tendency to peg depends on trade openness. Then in a model where the central bank displays “loose commitment” we show that as central bank credibility falls, they are more likely to adopt either an inflation target or a pegged exchange rate. A relatively closed economy would adopt an inflation target to overcome the time-inconsistency problem, but a highly open economy would prefer an exchange rate peg.
E50|Central Banking below Zero: The Implementation of Negative Interest Rate Policies in Europe and Japan|We provide an overview of the operational implementation of negative interest rates in Europe and Japan, drawing attention to the fact that there is precedent for negative policy rates and negative money market rates. We then address conceptual issues and summarize measures which define negative interest rate policies. Based on detailed institutional analyses and an examination of the interaction of negative interest rate policies with balance sheet policies, we argue that there is substantial heterogeneity in the purpose, design, and operational specificities of negative interest rate policies across economies, with significant consequences for effective money market rates, private sector funding conditions, and expectations. Finally, summarizing transmission channels of negative rates to the real economy and their potential benefits and risks, we call attention to potential adverse effects resulting from the interaction of negative interest rate policies with tighter liquidity and capital standards adopted since the Global Financial Crisis.
E50|La politique macroprudentielle dans une union monétaire|En utilisant un modèle néo-keynésien simple, qui représente une union monétaire et intègre des frictions financières, cet article montre qu’une politique macroprudentielle ciblée par pays et agissant sur l’offre de crédit pourrait compléter la politique monétaire unique au niveau de l’union. Une telle politique macroprudentielle améliore le degré d’optimalité de l’union monétaire en atténuant les déséquilibres économiques et financiers entre les pays en présence de chocs financiers, des spreads de crédit contracycliques, ou d’une transmission incomplète de la politique monétaire aux conditions financières. Ces résultats sont d’autant plus vrais lorsque les pays représentant le coeur et la périphérie font face à des chocs asymétriques ne nécessitant aucune réaction de la politique monétaire
E50|Macroprudential Policy in a Monetary Union|Abstract Using a simple New Keynesian model of a monetary union that incorporates financial frictions, we show that country-targeted macroprudential policy could complement a single monetary policy at the union level. In particular, macroprudential policy helps taming financial and economic imbalances in the presence of countercyclical financial shocks and imperfect transmission of monetary policy to financial conditions in a monetary union. These results are even stronger when different economies are hit by asymmetric shocks that cancel out without provoking any monetary policy reaction. In addition, we show that when coordinated with monetary policy, country-targeted macroprudential policy (implemented by national or supranational authorities) has advantages over a federally implemented policy that reacts to average financial indicators.
E50|Monetary Policy Transmission Effect On The Real Sector Of The Bangladesh Economy: An Svar Approach|This study examines the effectiveness of the monetary policy transmission of Bangladesh using Structural Vector Autoregressive model (SVAR) for the period of 1972-2014. The SVAR model investigates how a monetary policy shock defined as an unexpected rise in interest rate affects real and nominal macro variables; namely real output, prices, real effective exchange rates, and money supply. Our results suggest that a monetary policy shock does have a short run effect on real output, price level, and exchange rates. A monetary policy shock generates inflationary pressure leading to a devaluation of the Bangladeshi Taka. This paper suggests that the policy makers, to consider the trade-off between output and interest rate of Bangladesh. L’effetto trasmissione della politica monetaria sul settore reale dell’economia del Bangladesh: un approccio SVAR Questo articolo esamina l’efficacia della politica monetaria del Bangladesh tramite il modello SVAR nel periodo 1972-2014. Tale modello esamina come uno shock di politica monetaria, definito come un aumento inatteso nel tasso di interesse, influenzi le macrovariabili reali e nominali: la produzione reale, il livello dei prezzi e del cambio reale effettivo, l’offerta di moneta. I risultati suggeriscono che uno shock di politica monetaria ha effetto nel breve periodo sulla produzione reale, sul livello dei prezzi e sui tassi di cambio. Uno shock di politica monetaria genera una pressione inflazionistica che porta ad una svalutazione del taka. Secondo questo studio i governi dovrebbero considerare il trade-off tra produzione e tasso di interesse nel Bangladesh.
E50|Estimating Liquidity Created by Banks in Pakistan|The saving-investment facilitation, the core function of the banking system results in liquidity creation. The on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet activities of banks play a vital role in liquidity provision: banks create liquidity while actively managing their portfolios of assets and liabilities of different maturities. This study attempts to measure the liquidity created by Pakistan’s banking system using methods employed by Berger and Bouwman (2009). Four measures LIC-C1, LIC-C2, LIC-T1 and LIC-T2 have been constructed for banks. We also group banks according to their size. Analyses of these measures indicate that, compared to other measures, the LIC-C1 measure records the highest amount of liquidity created during Sep07-Jun16. In absolute terms, liquidity of Rs 2.55 trillion was created at the end of Jun 2016, equal to 16.5 percent of the total assets of the banking industry. Further, a disaggregated analysis shows that most of the participation has come from large banks; medium sized banks’ ability remained subdued, whereas the group of small banks performed well in liquidity provision.
E50|An Empirical Evaluation of ‘Structure-Conduct-Performance’ and ‘Efficient-Structure’ Paradigms in the Banking Sector of Pakistan|Based upon the indicators of market structure, this paper tests the relevance of Structure-Conduct-Performance (SCP), Relative Market Power (RMP), and the Efficient Structure (ES) paradigms for banking industry of Pakistan. We use a (balanced) panel data from 24 commercial banks of Pakistan from the year 1996 to 2015. Descriptive statistics and the formal tests suggest that: (a) there is a weak association between the indicators of market structure and banks’ performance in case of Pakistan; (b) the empirical evaluation results do not provide meaningful support to SCP or RMP paradigms; and (c) the ES paradigm is more relevant in case of Pakistan. At policy level, the findings of this paper suggest that the focus of policymakers should be to improve the efficiency of banking sector, as the excessive focus on indicators of market structure like concentration ratio to improve competition in the banking sector could be counterproductive.
E50|A Formal Test of Competition in the Banking Sector of Pakistan: An Application of PR-H Statistic|This study explores competition in the banking sector of Pakistan in the context of transformation in its structure and business environment since the implementation of financial sector reforms in the country. Instead of relying on the changes in the market structure indicators (like concentration ratio), we employ widely used Panzar and Rosse H statistic as a formal test of competition. PR-H statistic is estimated by using a balanced panel data comprising 24 commercial banks operating in Pakistan from the year 1996 to 2015. The results suggest that the banking sector of Pakistan exhibits the characteristics of monopolistic and perfectly competitive market structures.
E50|Measuring Competition in the Banking Sector of Pakistan: An Application of Boone Indicator|The banking sector of Pakistan has witnessed a notable transformation in its structure and business activities following the implementation of financial sector reforms since the early 1990s. Specifically, the reforms helped transform a repressed financial sector into a market oriented and sound financial sector, predominantly owned and managed by the private sector. How these developments have impacted competition among the banks is still an open question. This study attempts to answer this question with the application of a new approach to measure competition: Boone Indicator of competitiveness. This measure postulates that inefficient firms (banks) in a competitive environment are punished harshly, and there is an output reallocation from inefficient to efficient firms/banks. We have estimated elasticity of market share to marginal costs for 24 banks in Pakistan, using a balanced panel of bank level (annual) data for the year 1996 to 2015. Marginal costs are obtained indirectly by first estimating a translog cost function using earning assets as an output, and cost of financial capital, physical capital and labor as inputs. The estimated Boone Indicator value of negative 0.31 is significant and suggests that inefficient banks have been losing their market share to efficient banks over the estimation period: a reflection of underlying competitive environment. Increasing value of Boone Indicator (in absolute terms) over the period of study suggests that competition among the banks in Pakistan has increased over time.
E50|The Great Financial Crisis and its Aftermath: A Perspective from Asia| Compared to advance economies in the West, Asian emerging market have recovered relatively well from the Great Recession of 2008-09 A contributory factor were lessons learned from the Asian Financial Crisis (AFC) of 1997-98 which led to changes in governance frameworks and policy strategies that rendered economies in the region more resilient. This note also suggests that an element of good fortune may have been present. The good economic performance notwithstanding, policy makers must guard against complacency. They need to ensure that possible side effects of current policy frameworks are kept at a minimum, and that the frameworks themselves evolve with changes in the global economy.
E50|Evaluating Inflation Targeting Regime - Case Study: Georgia|Inflation is an indicator used by economists to assess the economic performance of the country as it shows percentage growth of price level. High inflation means higher growth rate of prices which is bad for the economy and for the country mainly because of the reduction of average labor purchasing power, caused by stickiness of wages, which decreases economic welfare. Another important factor is divergence between the price levels of different goods and services. Zero lower bound inflation (or deflation) can also cause serious negative results such as output collapse in response to various shocks leading to economic stagnation and high rate of unemployment. Both too high and too low inflation are problem that should be solved by policymakers to achieve sustainable economic growth and long-run development of the country. Because of the above-mentioned reasons low and stable rate of inflation is to be considered the most efficient for reaching high rate of economic growth and development. This paper reviews mentioned problems and outlines why it is so crucial to have inflation rate at low level and why is it vital to keep it stable. Most of the countries desire to have their inflation rate at 2%. Inflation targets mostly vary from 2 to 5% depending on the central bank and economic development of the country but with a long run inflation target of maximum 2-3%.The National Bank of Georgia adopted Inflation Targeting regime in 2009 while some economists had misconceptions and debates about this decision and some papers were criticizing Georgia for not being ready for this change yet mostly because of its institutional setup and imperfect monetary transmission mechanism (Billmeier & Bakradze, 2007). The results of this adoption are reviewed in this paper by assessing economic performance during Monetary Targeting regime and comparing it to the period after Inflation Targeting regime. This paper uses price level stability comparison between these two periods as well as relative price variability among different commodity groups. The model investigates the relationship between inflation rate and the relative price variability and shows that adopting Inflation Targeting regime significantly improved economic performance of the country.
E50|Beliefs formation and the puzzle of forward guidance power|We study the extent to which the belief-formation process affects the dynamics of macroeconomic variables when the central bank uses forward guidance. Recent literature has emphasized two kinds of puzzle associated to forward guidance. First, standard sticky-price models imply that far future forward guidance has huge and implausible effects on current outcomes, these effects grow in its horizon. Second, these models tend to overestimate the effects of central bank’s commitment to keep interest rate below the natural rate for a given period of time. Focusing on the former puzzle, by a parsimonious macro-model that allows for the role of bounded rationality and heterogeneous agents, we obtain tempered responses for both real and nominal variables.
E50|Balance sheet strength and the bank-lending channel: evidence from an emerging market|The bank lending channel view of monetary policy argues that bank loan supply should fall during periods of tight monetary policy. Employing a sample of over 122 Indian commercial banks for the period between 2005-17, we investigate the role of cross-sectional heterogeneity in bank balance sheet strength in the effectiveness of bank lending channel. We show that both small and large banks with liquid balance sheets are able to maintain their supply of loans during periods of tight monetary policy. Furthermore, we find that higher capital ratios can also enable banks to maintain their loan supply, in particular among smaller financial institutions. The mechanism at play is a time deposits insulation channel, whereby banks with strong balance sheets can raise time deposits during periods of contractionary monetary policy.
E50|Money and credit overhang in the euro area|In this paper, we employ panel co-integration techniques to identify and estimate homogeneous long-run equilibrium relations for money and credit for 10 euro area countries. Over the period 1999–2013, we do find evidence of such long-run relations when accounting for a structural break in 2008. While money and credit follow similar long run trends, the short and medium term relation between money and credit overhang is weak, throwing doubt on the hypothesis that money creating potential drives credit booms. Especially in current account deficit countries, we observe a sizable build-up of credit overhang prior to 2008. Positive (negative) credit overhang is strongly related to net foreign borrowing (lending).
E50|Financial Cycles in Credit, Housing and Capital Markets: Evidence from Systemic Economies|The study estimates aggregate financial cycles and segment-specific cycles for credit, equity, bond and housing markets of the USA, the UK, Germany and Japan over the period 1960-2015 using dynamic factor models with state-space techniques based on a range of variables conveying market price, quantity and risk dynamics. The analysis reveals a highly persistent and recurring nature of financial cycles reflecting the build-up of financial imbalances in each segment with an estimated average cycle duration of about ten years. The significant co-movements and spillovers that we find among many of the segment-specific cycles suggest that well-diversified financial systems are prone to the risks associated with the mutual amplification of nominal shocks via linkages between financial market segments, which needs to be taken into account in the design of policies addressing asset bubbles and financial imbalances.
E50|External financing and economic activity in the euro area - why are bank loans special?|"Using a Bayesian vector autoregression (BVAR) identified with a mix of sign and zero restrictions, we show that a restrictive bank loan supply shock has a strong and persistent negative impact on real GDP and the GDP deflator. This result comes about even though flows of other sources of financing, such as equity and debt securities, expand strongly and act as a ""spare tire"" for the reduction in bank loans. We show that this result can be rationalized by a recently revived view of banking, which holds that banks increase the nominal purchasing power of the economy when they create additional deposits in the act of lending. Consequently, our findings indicate that a substitution of bank loans by other sources of financing might have negative macroeconomic repercussions."
E50|Dynamic Openness and Finance in Africa|This study assesses dynamics of openness and finance in Africa by integrating financial development dynamics of depth, activity and size in the assessment of how financial, trade, institutional, political and other openness policies (of second generation structural and institutional reforms) have affected financial development. The empirical evidence is based on Generalized Method of Moments with data from 28 African countries for the period 1996-2010. The following findings are established. (i) While the de jure (KAOPEN) indicator of financial openness improves financial depth, the de facto (FDI) measurement decreases it, with the effect of the latter measure positive on financial size. (ii) Whereas trade openness improves financial depth, its effect on financial activity and size is negative. (iii) Institutional openness has a positive effect on financial dynamics of depth and activity, while its effect on financial size is negative. (iv) Political openness and economic freedom are detrimental to financial depth and activity. Justifications for these nexuses are discussed.
E50|Dynamic openness and finance in Africa| This study assesses dynamics of openness and finance in Africa by integrating financial development dynamics of depth, activity and size in the assessment of how financial, trade, institutional, political and other openness policies (of second generation structural and institutional reforms) have affected financial development. The empirical evidence is based on Generalized Method of Moments with data from 28 African countries for the period 1996–2010. The following findings are established. (1) While the de jure (KAOPEN) indicator of financial openness improves financial depth, the de facto (FDI) measurement decreases it, with the effect of the latter measure positive on financial size. (2) Whereas trade openness improves financial depth, its effect on financial activity and size is negative. (3) Institutional openness has a positive effect on financial dynamics of depth and activity, while its effect on financial size is negative. (4) Political openness and economic freedom are detrimental to financial depth and activity. Justifications for these nexuses are discussed.
E50|Liquidity, Monetary Policy and Unemployment: A New Monetarist Approach|We discover a consumption channel of monetary policy in a model with money and government bonds. When the central bank withdraws government bonds (short-term or long-term) through open market operations, it lowers re- turns on bonds. The lower return has a direct negative impact on consumption by households that hold bonds, and an indirect negative impact on consumption by households that hold money. As a result, fi rms earn less pro fits from production, which leads to higher unemployment. The existence of such a consumption channel can help us understand the e¤ects of unconventional monetary policy.
E50|Monedas digitales emitidas por los bancos centrales: adopcion y repercusiones|Los libros contables distribuidos (distributed ledgers, en ingles) constituyen una tecnologÃ­a que permite una version digitalizada del dinero en efectivo al tiempo que potencialmente mantiene sus cuatro caracterÃ­sticas principales: la universalidad, el anonimato, la intercambiabilidad entre pares (P2P) y un valor nominal constante.
E50|Central Bank Digital Currencies: assessing implementation possibilities and impacts|Distributed ledgers are a technology that can support a digitized version of cash while potentially withholding its four major features: universality, anonymity, peer-to-peer exchangeability (P2P) and a constant nominal value.
E50|Price-Level Dispersion versus Inflation-Rate Dispersion: Evidence from Three Countries|Inflation can affect both the dispersion of commodity-specific price levels across locations (relative price variability, RPV) and the dispersion of inflation rates (relative inflation variability, RIV). Some menu-cost models and models of consumer search suggest that the RIV-inflation relationship could differ from the RPV-inflation relationship. However, most empirical studies examine only RIV, finding that RIV is high when inflation is high. We examine city-level retail price data from Japan, Canada and Nigeria, and find that the impact of inflation on RIV differs from its effect on RPV. In particular, positive inflation shocks reduce RPV but raise RIV.
E50|Pairwise trading in the money market during the European sovereign debt crisis|This paper studies over-the-counter (OTC) trading in the unsecured interbank market for euro funds. The goal of our analysis is to identify the determinants of the probability of trading, the bilateral rate and the quantity exchanged during the European sovereign debt crisis. We show how the specific features of this market bring to a non-standard estimation framework. A dyadic econometric model with shadow rates is proposed to control for possibly endogenous matching with the counterparty. A unique dataset containing banks characteristics and bilateral trades is built and used to study the evolution of trading patterns. The estimates bring mild evidence towards the existence of shadow rates. Active monitoring decreased market access to low equity and illiquid borrowers, while dispersion in rates and quantities is mainly driven by banks' nationality, especially during the peak of the crisis.
E50|Household credit, growth and inequality in Malaysia: does the type of credit matter?|Do different types of household credit affect income growth and income inequality differently? This empirical paper investigates this question by employing both macrolevel data and micro-level household survey data, covering the period since 1997. We find that the different types of household credit matter, and our contributions are twofold. First, on income growth, both macro- and micro-analyses consistently find housing credit to be positively associated with future income growth, while consumption credit shows no significant evidence. Second, on income inequality, the results are more nuanced. At the macro level, housing credit in terms of total net disbursements is positively related to income inequality. However, the micro-level data, which investigate the proportion of households with housing loans, find a negative relationship with income inequality. We interpret these two sets of empirical results for housing credit to imply that financial inclusion that improves access to housing credit for more households would likely reduce income inequality. Meanwhile, further accumulation of housing credit for existing borrowers may worsen income inequality given the likely concentration of housing wealth among richer households. The findings in our paper fill a research gap for the Malaysian economy and could serve to inform policies, especially in relation to the broader discussion of household indebtedness.
E50|Consumption-led expansions|GDP growth has increasingly been led by consumption. However, consumption-led expansions tend to be significantly weaker than when growth is driven by other components of aggregate demand, often because of the build-up of imbalances. We show that while factors such as credit growth and rising house prices can boost consumption in the short run, the incidence of consumption-led growth and rising debt service ratios significantly dampen growth in the medium to long run. Policies that address the build-up of imbalances and strengthen investment are therefore central to fostering durable growth.
E50|External financing and economic activity in the euro area: Why are bank loans special?|"Using a Bayesian vector autoregression (BVAR) identified with a mix of sign and zero restrictions, we show that a restrictive bank loan supply shock has a strong and persistent negative impact on real GDP and the GDP deflator. This result comes about even though flows of other sources of financing, such as equity and debt securities, expand strongly and act as a ""spare tire"" for the reduction in bank loans. We show that this result can be rationalized by a recently revived view of banking, which holds that banks increase the nominal purchasing power of the economy when they create additional deposits in the act of lending. Consequently, our findings indicate that a substitution of bank loans by other sources of financing might have negative macroeconomic repercussions."
E50|Assessing fiscal policy through the lens of the financial and the commodity price cycles|We assess the link between fiscal policy and credit and commodity price booms and busts. We do so by investigating the impact of financial and commodity price cycles on the identification of episodes of fiscal consolidation and stimulus and the size of the fiscal impulse. We find that controlling for the credit cycle has an impact on the magnitude of the change in the cyclically-adjusted budget balance. The impact is lower in the case of the commodity price cycle. In addition, we show that credit booms and busts influence the cyclicality of fiscal policy, but not to the extent of significantly altering the systematic response of fiscal policy to the dynamics of real economic activity. Again, the impact of the commodity price cycle is smaller and limited to some specific cases.
E50|Why so low for so long? A long-term view of real interest rates|Prevailing explanations of the decline in real interest rates since the early 1980s are premised on the notion that real interest rates are driven by variations in desired saving and investment. But based on data stretching back to 1870 for 19 countries, our systematic analysis casts doubt on this view. The link between real interest rates and saving-investment determinants appears tenuous. While it is possible to find some relationships consistent with the theory in some periods, particularly over the last 30 years, they do not survive over the extended sample. This holds both at the national and global level. By contrast, we find evidence that persistent shifts in real interest rates coincide with changes in monetary regimes. Moreover, external influences on countries' real interest rates appear to reflect idiosyncratic variations in interest rates of countries that dominate global monetary and financial conditions rather than common movements in global saving and investment. All this points to an underrated role of monetary policy in determining real interest rates over long horizons.
E50|Measuring the systemic importance of banks|We measure the systemic importance of all banks that issue publicly traded CDS contracts among the world’s biggest 150. Systemic importance is captured by the intensity of spillovers of daily CDS movements. Our new empirical tool uses Bayesian VAR to address the dimensionality problem and identifies banks that may trigger instability in the global financial system. For the period January 2008 to June 2017, we find the following: A bank’s systemic importance is not adequately captured by its size. European banks have been the main source of global systemic risk with strong interconnections to US banks. For the global system, we identify periods of increased interconnections among banks, during which systemic and idiosyncratic shocks are propagated more intensely via the network. Using principal components analysis, we identify a single dominant factor associated with fluctuations in CDS spreads. Individual banks’ exposure to this factor is related to their government’s ability to support them and to their retail orientation but not to their size.
E50|Asymmetric financial integration bank ownership and monetary policy in emerging economies|Over the last 30 years cross-country financial integration has increased significantly. In this process many banks in developing and transition economies became foreign-owned. Using a panel data on banks in eleven Central and Eastern Europe economies we provide new evidence that foreign-owned banks react differently to monetary policy changes than domestic-owned banks not only during financial crises but also in normal times. We embed bank heterogeneity in a stylized DSGE model featuring monopolistic competition in the banking sector and show that such a pattern may be driven not only by a facilitated access to internal market within the financial conglomerate they belong to but also by their competitive advantages. While the first mechanism leads to a decrease of the responsiveness of the banking sector to the monetary policy, the second mechanism does not.
E50|Money creation and destruction|We study money creation and destruction in today's monetary architecture and examine the impact of monetary policy and capital regulation in a general equilibrium setting. There are two types of money created and destructed: bank deposits, when banks grant loans to firms or to other banks and central bank money, when the central bank grants loans to private banks. We show that equilibria yield the first-best level of money creation and lending when prices are flexible, regardless of the monetary policy or capital regulation. When prices are rigid, we identify the circumstances in which money creation is excessive or breaks down and the ones in which an adequate combination of monetary policy and capital regulation can restore effciency.
E50|A Model of Collateral|This paper presents a simple equilibrium model in which collateralized credit emerges endogenously. Just like in repos, individuals cannot commit to the use of collateral as a guarantee of repayment, and both lenders and borrowers have incentives to renege. Our theory provides a micro-foundation to justify the borrowing constraints that are widely used in the existing macroeconomic models. We provide an explanation to the question of why assets are often used as collateral, rather than simply as a means of payment, why there is a tradeoff in assets between return and liquidity, and what kinds of assets are useful as collateral.
E50|Studies on Issues in Political Economy since the Global Financial Crisis|Die Dissertation behandelt in vier Kapiteln Themen zu den Ursprüngen und Auswirkungen der globalen Finanzkrise 2007-8. Nach der Einleitung untersucht Kapitel 2, warum autoritäre Regime im Vergleich zu Demokratien vor und nach der Finanzkrise eher in der Lage waren, größere Bestände an Währungsreserven anzuhäufen. Die empirische Analyse zeigt, daß Wahlzyklen ausschließich in Demokratien zu einer signifikanten Reduzierung von Währungsreserven führten. Kapitel 3 zeigt, daß die Deregulierung der Banken-Mindestreserve einen negativen Einfluß auf die Volatilität der M2-Geldmenge und der Inflationsrate hat. Dies könnte eine weitreichende Bedeutung haben, da die Mindestreserve in Form von Liquiditätsanforderungen ein Hauptbestandteil der Basel III Regulierung ist, die bis 2019 in Kraft treten soll. In Kapitel 4 gehe ich der Frage nach, ob die Regierungsideologie in Zeiten von Globalisierung und Austeritätsprogrammen noch eine Rolle in der Wirtschaftspolitik spielt. Basierend auf einen Index, der die wirtschaftliche Freiheit für diverse Politikfelder mißt, zeigt das Kapitel, daß rechte bzw. klassisch liberale Regierungen dazu tendieren, die wirtschaftliche Freiheit signifikant zu erhöhen, während sie unter linken bzw. sozialdemokratischen Regierungen stagniert. Das fünfte Kapitel untersucht, warum deutsche und französische Top-Manager - auf dem Höhepunkt der Eurokrise - den Euro öffentlich in einer Anzeigenkampagne unterstützten. Während die Firmeninteressen anscheinend keinen direkten Einfluß haben, verfügten die Unterstützer der Euro-Kampagne über mehr Netzwerkkontakte zu Wirtschaftsverbänden und Politik. Dieses Ergebnis suggeriert, daß führende Manager den Euro öffentlich unterstützten, um ihr politisches Kapital zu EU- und nationalen Entscheidungsträgern zu wahren oder zu verbessern.
E50|The Collateral Policy of Central Banks - An Analysis Focusing on the Eurosystem|Die vorliegende Dissertation wurde von Christopher Weber während seiner Tätigkeit als wissenschaftlicher Mitarbeiter am Center for Economic Studies (CES) an der Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität (LMU) München verfasst. Sie wurde im Juli 2016 an der volkswirtschaftlichen Fakultät der LMU eingereicht. Ziel der Arbeit ist es, die Ausgestaltung der Pfänderpolitik innerhalb des Zielsystems von Zentralbanken als Instrument der Zentralbankpolitik zu etablieren und praktische Ausgestaltung, Wirkungsweise sowie Auswirkungen darzulegen. Die Arbeit gliedert sich in drei Teile und neun Kapitel. Der erste Teil bespricht die Rolle von Pfändern in der Zentralbankpolitik. Die verschiedenen möglichen Aufgaben und Ziele von Zentralbanken werden historisch abgeleitet. Dann wird die Ausgestaltung der Pfänderpolitik innerhalb dieses Zielsystems besprochen und geschlussfolgert, dass Pfänderpolitik mit Blick auf alle Zentralbankziele von Bedeutung ist. Somit entsteht ein normativer Rahmen für die Rolle von Pfänderpolitik. Im zweiten Teil werden praktische Pfänderpolitikmaßnahmen mit Blick auf diesen Rahmen vorgestellt. Der Fokus liegt dabei auf der Pfänderpolitik des Eurosystems, deren Facetten im Detail erarbeitet werden. Während der Finanz- sowie der Eurokrise hat das Eurosystem seine Pfänderpolitik mit Blick auf verschiedene Zentralbankziele stark intensiviert. Vergleichend werden der historische Einsatz von Pfänderkriterien als Instrument der Zentralbankpolitik und die Ausgestaltung der Pfänderkriterien im Federal Reserve System sowie bei Bank of England und Bank of Japan während der jüngsten Krisenjahre gegenübergestellt. Im dritten Teil geht es zunächst darum, die Wirkungsweise von Pfänderpolitik innerhalb des Zielsystems einer Zentralbank theoretisch zu fundieren. Sie wird dazu in Haircut- und Quantitypolicy gegliedert und klassischer Zinspolitik gegenübergestellt. Der optimale Einsatz von Pfänderpolitik, je nach Zentralbankziel, wird hergeleitet. Anschließend werden Auswirkungen der Ausgestaltung der Pfänderpolitik des Eurosystems aufgedeckt: Ein Kapitel zeigt modelltheoretisch die einseitigen Förderung schlechter Qualitäten durch das Angebot von segmentweise gepoolten Refinanzierungsbedingungen (adverse Selektion der schlechten Pfandqualitäten). Ein weiteres Kapitel geht mit Hilfe eines schematischen Modells auf die Verteilungseffekte innerhalb der Währungsunion durch diesen Poolingansatz ein, die sich gegenüber einer Fiskalunion, wie den USA, dem Vereinigten Königreich oder Japan, wesentlich unterscheiden. Im Ergebnis kann für die Eurozone auf eine Umverteilung zugunsten der Krisenländer geschlossen werden. Schließlich widmet sich ein Kapitel der Suche nach Spuren im Marktverhalten, als Reaktion auf die Politik des Eurosystems. Dazu wird der Datensatz der zentralbankfähigen Sicherheiten im Eurosystem von 2007 bis 2013 angereichert und deskriptiv ausgewertet. Besonders für Pfänder aus Krisenländern und aus dem Bankensektor sind solche Marktreaktionen ableitbar.
E50|Engagement der deutschen Wirtschaft in afrikanischen Staaten|Afrika ist ein Kontinent mit immensen Zukunftschancen, steht aber großen Herausforderungen gegenüber. Das Wirtschaftswachstum der vergangenen Jahre war vielerorts hoch, die Bevölkerung wird sich bis 2050 verdoppeln, aber die Pro-Kopf-Einkommen sind immer noch sehr niedrig. Das wirtschaftliche Engagement der deutschen Wirtschaft in Afrika ist, abgesehen von Südafrika, gering. Zwar ist Deutschland der fünftwichtigste Lieferant für Afrika, doch der deutsche Marktanteil ist von 14% im Jahre 1992 auf 5% im Jahr 2013 gesunken. Deutschland exportiert vor allem Industrieprodukte; Agrarprodukte spielen eine sehr untergeordnete Rolle. Für Afrika ist Deutschland der achtwichtigste Absatzmarkt; aber auch hier blieb das Wachstum hinter jenem anderer Länder deutlich zurück. Interessanterweise dominieren Energie- und Bergbauprodukte die deutschen Importe weniger, als das in anderen Ländern der Fall ist. Dies liegt auch daran, dass es fast keine deutschen Auslandsdirektinvestitionen (ADI) im extraktiven Ressourcenbereich in Afrika gibt. Die deutschen ADI konzentrieren sich im Know-how-intensiven Kfz-Bereich. Insgesamt beträgt der Anteil Afrikas am Bestand der deutschen ADI weniger als 1% und entwickelt sich nur langsam. Die deutsche Wirtschaft könnte durch ein stärkeres Engagement in Afrika Wachstumschancen wahrnehmen und gleichzeitig die wirtschaftliche Entwicklung fördern. Dazu bedarf es geeigneter institutioneller Rahmenbedingungen und politischer Hilfestellungen. Zum Beispiel zeigt sich, dass der Abschluss von Freihandelsabkommen vor allem afrikanische Exporte fördert und Investitionsschutzverträge wesentliche Voraussetzung für deutsche ADI in Afrika sind.
E50|ifo Konjunkturumfragen und Konjunkturanalyse: Band II|Das ifo Institut begleitet seit seiner Gründung im Jahr 1949 das aktuelle Wirtschaftsgeschehen durch seine regelmäßigen Konjunkturumfragen und Konjunkturprognosen. Im Jahr 2007 hat das ifo Institut zur methodischen Basis seiner Konjunkturforschung einen ersten Sammelband mit ausgewählten Artikeln aus dem ifo Schnelldienst veröffentlicht. Der vorliegende zweite Band setzt diese Tradition fort und präsentiert Artikel aus den Jahren 2003 bis 2016 aus den Gebieten: Prognosemethodik, makroökonomische Analyse, monetäre Analyse, ifo Konjunkturtest und Ifo World Economic Survey. Die ausgewählten Artikel zur Prognosemethodik schlagen einen Bogen von den Spezifika der ifo Prognosetechnik zu den wirtschaftsstatischen Grundlagen wie der Volumenrechnung in den Volkswirtschaftlichen Gesamtrechnungen oder das vom ifo Institut eingesetzte Saisonbereinigungsverfahren. Ein weiterer Themenkreis befasst sich mit ausgewählten Aspekten der makroökonomischen Analyse. Darüber hinaus wird der monetären Analyse und speziell der Geldpolitik der EZB breiten Raum gegeben. Schließlich findet sich eine Palette von Aufsätzen zu den Spezifika des ifo Konjunkturtests für Deutschland bzw. des ifo World Economic Survey. Mit diesem Band soll die angesprochene Thematik, die bisher nur im ifo Schnelldienst veröffentlicht wurde, einem breiteren Leserkreis zugänglich gemacht werden. Alle Autoren waren oder sind Mitarbeiter des ifo Zentrums für Konjunkturforschung und Befragungen.
E50|Neoliberalism and Right-wing Populism: Conceptual Analogies| The paper compares neoliberal market-fundamentalism and right-wing populism on the basis of its core patterns of thinking and reasoning. Hence we offer an analysis of the work of important founders of market-fundamental economic thinking (particularly von Mises) and an established definition of populism (demonstrated by the example of arguments brought forward by leading populists, like Trump). In doing so, we highlight conceptual resemblances of these two approaches: Both assume a dually divided world that is split into only two countervailing parts. Right-wing populism shows a society split into two groups, fighting against each other. In a similar vein, neoliberal market-fundamentalists argue that there are only two possible countervailing economic and societal orders. We argue that the categorical analogies between neoliberal market-fundamentalism and right-wing populism could provide the basis for a new form of authoritarian neoliberalism.
E50|The fallacy of the fiscal theory of the price level - one last time|"There have been attempts to resurrect the fiscal theory of the price revel (FTPL). The original FTPL rests on a fundamental compounded fallacy: confusing the intertemporal budget constraint (IBC) of the State, holding with equality and with sovereign bonds priced at their contractual values, with a misspecified equilibrium nominal bond pricing equation, and the ""double use"" of this IBC. This fallacy generates a number of internal inconsistencies and anomalies. The issue is not an empirical one. Neither does it concern the realism of the assumptions. It is about flawed internal logic. The issue is not just of academic interest. If fiscal policy authorities were to take the FTPL seriously, costly policy accidents, including sovereign default and hyperinflation, could be the outcome. Interpreting the FTPL as an equilibrium selection mechanism in models with multiple equilibria does not help. Attempts by Sims to extend the FTPL to models with nominal price rigidities fail. The attempted resurrection of the FTPL fails. It is time to bury it again - for the last time."
E50|"The interaction between monetary and macroprudential policy: Should central banks ""lean against the wind"" to foster macrofinancial stability?"|"The extensive harm caused by the financial crisis raises the question of whether policymakers could have done more to prevent the build-up of financial imbalances. This paper aims to contribute to the field of regulatory impact assessment by taking up the revived debate on whether central banks should ""lean against the wind"" or not. Currently, there is no consensus on whether monetary policy is, in general, able to support the resilience of the financial system or if this task should better be left to the macroprudential approach of financial regulation. We aim to shed light on this issue by analyzing distinct policy regimes within an agent-based computational macro-model with endogenous money. We find that policies make use of their comparative advantage leading to superior outcomes concerning their respective intended objectives. In particular, we show that ""leaning against the wind"" should only serve as first line of defense in the absence of a prudential regulatory regime and that price stability does not necessarily mean financial stability. Moreover, macroprudential regulation as unburdened policy instrument is able to dampen the build-up of financial imbalances by restricting credit to the unsustainable high-leveraged part of the real economy. In contrast, leaning against the wind seems to have no positive impact on financial stability which strengthens proponents of Tinbergen's principle arguing that both policies are designed for their specific purpose and that they should be used accordingly."
E50|Money, Banking and Financial Markets|The fact that money, banking, and financial markets interact in important ways seems self-evident. The theoretical nature of this interaction, however, has not been fully explored. To this end, we integrate the Diamond (1997) model of banking and financial markets with the Lagos and Wright (2005) dynamic model of monetary exchange–a union that bears a framework in which fractional reserve banks emerge in equilibrium, where bank assets are funded with liabilities made demandable in government money, where the terms of bank deposit contracts are affected by the liquidity insurance available in financial markets, where banks are subject to runs, and where a central bank has a meaningful role to play, both in terms of inflation policy and as a lender of last resort. Among other things, the model provides a rationale for nominal deposit contracts combined with a central bank lender-of-last-resort facility to promote efficient liquidity insurance and a panic-free banking system.
E50|An overlapping generations model for monetary policy analysis|We integrate an overlapping generations model into a new monetarist framework and show that the Friedman rule is not optimal. This is because inflation makes saving for retirement less attractive, such that young agents optimally choose to increase their consumption at the expense of lower savings. On the other hand, old agents consume less due to the inflation tax. We show that for low inflation rates, the former effect dominates the latter, such that the Friedman rule is not optimal. However, this effect disappears for higher inflation rates such that the optimal rate is at an intermediate level.
E50|The Long-run Determinants of Indian Government Bond Yields|This paper investigates the long-term determinants of Indian government bonds' (IGB) nominal yields. It examines whether John Maynard Keynes's supposition that short-term interest rates are the key driver of long-term government bond yields holds over the long-run horizon, after controlling for various key economic factors such as inflationary pressure and measures of economic activity. It also appraises whether the government finance variable--the ratio of government debt to nominal income--has an adverse effect on government bond yields over a long-run horizon. The models estimated here show that in India, short-term interest rates are the key driver of long-term government bond yields over the long run. However, the ratio of government debt and nominal income does not have any discernible adverse effect on yields over a long-run horizon. These findings will help policymakers in India (and elsewhere) to use information on the current trend in short-term interest rates, the federal fiscal balance, and other key macro variables to form their long-term outlook on IGB yields, and to understand the implications of the government's fiscal stance on the government bond market.
E50|The Dynamics of Government Bond Yields in the Eurozone|This paper investigates the determinants of nominal yields of government bonds in the eurozone. The pooled mean group (PMG) technique of cointegration is applied on both monthly and quarterly datasets to examine the major drivers of nominal yields of long-term government bonds in a set of 11 eurozone countries. Furthermore, autoregressive distributive lag (ARDL) methods are used to address the same question for individual countries. The results show that short-term interest rates are the most important determinants of long-term government bonds' nominal yields, which supports Keynes's (1930) view that short-term interest rates and other monetary policy measures have a decisive influence on long-term interest rates on government bonds.
E50|Stock-flow Consistent Macroeconomic Models: A Survey|"The stock-flow consistent (SFC) modeling approach, grounded in the pioneering work of Wynne Godley and James Tobin in the 1970s, has been adopted by a growing number of researchers in macroeconomics, especially after the publication of Godley and Lavoie (2007), which provided a general framework for the analysis of whole economic systems, and the recognition that macroeconomic models integrating real markets with flow-of-funds analysis had been particularly successful in predicting the Great Recession of 2007-9. We introduce the general features of the SFC approach for a closed economy, showing how the core model has been extended to address issues such as financialization and income distribution. We next discuss the implications of the approach for models of open economies and compare the methodologies adopted in developing SFC empirical models for whole countries. We review the contributions where the SFC approach is being adopted as the macroeconomic closure of microeconomic agent-based models, and how the SFC approach is at the core of new research in ecological macroeconomics. Finally, we discuss the appropriateness of the name ""stock-flow consistent"" for the class of models we survey."
E50|An Inquiry Concerning Long-term US Interest Rates Using Monthly Data|This paper undertakes an empirical inquiry concerning the determinants of long-term interest rates on US Treasury securities. It applies the bounds testing procedure to cointegration and error correction models within the autoregressive distributive lag (ARDL) framework, using monthly data and estimating a wide range of Keynesian models of long-term interest rates. While previous studies have mainly relied on quarterly data, the use of monthly data substantially expands the number of observations. This in turn enables the calibration of a wide range of models to test various hypotheses. The short-term interest rate is the key determinant of the long-term interest rate, while the rate of core inflation and the pace of economic activity also influence the long-term interest rate. A rise in the ratio of the federal fiscal balance (government net lending/borrowing as a share of nominal GDP) lowers yields on long-term US Treasury securities. The short- and long-run effects of short-term interest rates, the rate of inflation, the pace of economic activity, and the fiscal balance ratio on long-term interest rates on US Treasury securities are estimated. The findings reinforce Keynes's prescient insights on the determinants of government bond yields.
E50|Harbingers Of Modernity: Monetary Injections And European Economic Growth, 1492-1790|PhD dissertation summary forthcoming at: European Review of Economic History
E50|Monetary Policy Trilemma, Inflation Targeting And Global Financial Crisis|We empirically investigate the validity of the monetary policy trilemma postulation for emerging market (EME) and advanced (AE) economies under different exchange rate and monetary policy regimes before and after the recent global financial crisis (GFC). Consistent with the dilemma proposition, domestic interest rates are determined by global financial conditions and the FED rate even under floating exchange rate regimes (ERR) in the long-run. The impact of the FED rates is higher in EME than AE and EME are much more sensitive to global financial cycle under managed than floating ERR. The spillover from the FED rate substantially increases after the GFC in EME with floating ERR and AE. The results from the monetary policy reaction functions based on equilibrium correction mechanism specifications suggest that domestic interest rates respond to inflation and output gaps especially under inflation targeting (IT) in the short-run. The response to inflation gap tends to be smaller in IT AE after the GFC.
E50|The Making of Hawks and Doves: Inflation Experiences on the FOMC|We show that personal experiences of inflation strongly influence the hawkish or dovish leanings of central bankers. For all members of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) since 1951, we estimate an adaptive learning rule based on their lifetime inflation data. The resulting experience-based forecasts have significant predictive power for members' FOMC voting decisions, the hawkishness of the tone of their speeches, as well as the heterogeneity in their semi-annual inflation projections. Averaging over all FOMC members present at a meeting, inflation experiences also help to explain the federal funds target rate, over and above conventional Taylor rule components.
E50|International Monetary Relations: Taking Finance Seriously|In this essay, we highlight the interactions of the international monetary system with financial conditions, not just with the output, inflation, and balance of payments goals usually discussed. We review how financial conditions and outright financial crises have posed difficulties for each of the main international monetary systems in the last 150 years or so: the gold standard, the interwar period, the Bretton Woods system, and the current system of floating exchange rates. We argue that even as the world economy has evolved and sentiments have shifted among widely different policy regimes, there remain three fundamental challenges for any international monetary and financial system: How should exchange rates between national currencies be determined? How can countries with balance of payments deficits reduce these without sharply contracting their economies and with minimal risk of possible negative spillovers abroad? How can the international system ensure that countries have access to an adequate supply of international liquidity—financial resources generally acceptable to foreigners in all circumstances? In concluding, we evaluate how the current international monetary system answers these questions.
E50|Are Negative Nominal Interest Rates Expansionary?|Following the crisis of 2008 several central banks engaged in a radical new policy experiment by setting negative policy rates. Using aggregate and bank-level data, we document a collapse in pass-through to deposit and lending rates once the policy rate turns negative. Motivated by these empirical facts, we construct a macro-model with a banking sector that links together policy rates, deposit rates and lending rates. Once the policy rates turns negative the usual transmission mechanism of monetary policy breaks down. Moreover, because a negative interest rate on reserves reduces bank profits, the total effect on aggregate output can be contractionary.
E50|Malaysia’s economic success story and challenges|Malaysia has sustained over four decades of rapid, inclusive growth, reducing its dependence on agriculture and commodity exports to become a more diversified, modern and open economy. GDP per capita is now higher than in a number of OECD economies, while poverty and income inequality have declined considerably. Growth has also been remarkably resilient in the face of external shocks. Going forward, the Malaysian government's 11th Malaysia Plan (2016-20) emphasises the need for greater inclusiveness. Continued, gradual fiscal consolidation is a key policy priority, building on earlier energy and food subsidy rationalisation and on the introduction of a goods and services tax. So is continued prudent monetary and financial policy. Further reforms are needed for Malaysia to become a high-income nation around 2020: productivity growth needs to be reinvigorated through various structural reforms while growth needs to become more inclusive. Succès et défis économiques de la Malaisie La Malaisie a connu plus de quatre décennies de croissance rapide et inclusive, réduisant sa dépendance à l'égard de l'agriculture et des exportations de matières premières, pour devenir une économie plus diversifiée, moderne et ouverte. Le PIB par tête est désormais plus élevé que dans un certain nombre d'économies de l'OCDE, alors que la pauvreté et les inégalités de revenu ont considérablement reculé. La croissance s'est également montrée résiliente face aux chocs externes. Pour l'avenir, le 11ème plan du gouvernement malaisien (2016-2020) souligne l'importance d'une plus grande inclusion. La poursuite graduelle de la consolidation budgétaire est une priorité majeure, dans la foulée de la rationalisation des subventions énergétiques et alimentaires et de l'introduction d'une taxe sur les biens et services. La continuation d'une politique monétaire et financière prudente en est une autre. La Malaisie doit réformer plus avant pour devenir un pays à haut revenu autour de 2020: diverses réformes sont nécessaires pour stimuler la croissance de la productivité et pour une croissance plus inclusive.
E50|The Intersection of U.S. Money Market Mutual Fund Reforms, Bank Liquidity Requirements, and the Federal Home Loan Bank System|"The most recent changes to money market fund regulations have had a strong impact on the money fund industry. In the months leading up to the compliance date of the core provisions of the amended regulations, assets in prime money market funds declined significantly, while those in government funds increased contemporaneously. This reallocation from prime to government funds has contributed to the latter's increased demand for debt issued by the U.S. government and government-sponsored enterprises. The Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLBank) System played a key role in meeting this heightened demand for U.S. government-related assets with increased issuance of short-term debt. The FHLBank System uses the funding obtained from money market funds to provide general liquidity to its members, including the largest U.S. banks. Large U.S. banks' increased borrowings from the FHLBank System are motivated, in large part, by other post-crisis regulations, specifically the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR). The intersection of money market mutual fund reforms and the LCR have contributed to the FHLBanks' increased reliance on short-term funding to finance relatively longer-term assets, primarily collateralized loans to its largest members. This funding model could be vulnerable to ""runs"" and impact financial markets and financial institutions in ways that are difficult to predict. While a funding run seems unlikely, it is often the violation of commonly held conventions that tend to pose financial stability risks. Indeed, runs on leveraged financial intermediaries engaged in maturity transformation have produced systemic risks issues in the past and are worthy of investigation and continuous monitoring."
E50|The Link Between Bank Credit And Private Sector Investment In Nigeria From 1980-2014|TThis study attempts to investigate the link between bank credit and private sector investment in Nigeria from 1980 to 2014 using Ordinary Least Square (OLS) regression procedure. The study also employs other preliminary investigations which include, unit root, cointegration and Granger causality test procedures. The OLS result indicates that the coefficients of the variables which include, banks credit to the private sector (CRPRIVAT), trade openness (OPEN), exchange rate (EXCHR) and total bank saving (BSAVING) exhibit positive signs to the dependent variable, private investment (INVEST) during the period under review, while the coefficients of two other variables, capital expenditure (CAP) and interest rate (INTR) indicate negative signs to the dependent variable. The stationarity test result shows that all the variables under consideration are stationary and integrated of order one at 5% significance level. Also, the cointegration test result indicates at most five cointegrating equations at 5% level of significance. The Granger causality test result shows that a bi-directional causality exists between banks credit and private investment and also between private investment and capital expenditure, while a uni-directional causality exists from exchange rate to private investment.Statistically, the descriptive statistics result indicates that all the variables have a positive mean values which ranges from 18.05390 to 2427052 with 34 observations.The correlation test result obtained shows that four variables, CRPRIVAT, OPEN, EXCHR and BSAVING have positive relationships with the dependent variable INVEST. The t-statistic result shows that five of the variables which includes, CRPRIVAT, OPEN, CAP, INTR and EXCHR are statistically significant at 5% significance level. The study recommends that there is a need for increased Federal government support to banks in terms of policies that would encourage lending to the private sector in Nigeria.
E50|International Currencies Past, Present, and Future: Two Views from Economic History|Conventional economic wisdom has long held that the world's dominant economic power tends to possess the world's dominant currency, and that the dominance of that currency can continue even after other, more dynamic economics powers surpass the issuer of it. The paradigmatic example is Great Britain, which had the world's biggest economy and the dominant currency in the nineteenth century. Yet even as it faded relative to the US and Germany, the pound sterling remained the world's reserve currency well into the twentieth century. Only massive systemic shocks like the Great Depression and World War Two could knock the pound from its perch. The story of the US economy and the dollar after the war is a similar one, and many expect that the dollar will eventually lose its pre-eminence to Chinese the renminbi at some point after the Chinese economy surpasses the US economy in size. China is certainly a clear rival to the US, but as Barry Eichengreen, Marc Flandreau, Arnaud Mehl and Livia Chitu argue, economics is not a zero-sum game. In International Currencies, Past, Present, and Future, they draw from innovative data sets to argue that several national currencies can play an important role in the global economy all at once. Rather than focusing on how one currency dominates, then, we should look at currency systems as networks. While there may be a clear leader, that does not meant that other major currencies cannot serve as international reserve hedges. Indeed, even in the late twentieth century, when US power was at a geopolitical apex, roughly 40 percent of global foreign exchange reserves were not in dollar form. The late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries were similarly multipolar with regard to foreign exchange reserve holdings, with the mark, the franc, and the dollar all playing important roles in a system in which the pound led. If past is prologue, we can look forward to a multipolar system in which the dollar and euro will continue to be important international currencies even if the renminbi surpasses the dollar--and the jury is out on that. Deeply informed by history, this powerfully revisionist account of how the international monetary system operates will not only transform our understanding of the past, but also force us to reconsider our expectations of how the system will evolve in future decades.
E50|A contribution to the Quantity Theory of Disaggregated Credit|In my view, Richard Werner is sitting on a pot of gold. In Werner (2014), he has shown the tremendous potential his ‘Quantity Theory of Credit’ has to reorient public policy and stimulate nominal GDP. Yet, his ideas do not seem to take root. In this paper my aim is to refine his theory and provide some improvements by constructing new empirical proxies of ‘bank credit for GDP transactions’—a quite arduous and open-ended task. I conclude that the theory is very promising, but it is still in a stage of maturation.
E50|Долгосрочное Банковское Кредитование: Какие Банки Им Занимаются И Почему?<BR>[Which banks and why lend long-term in Russia?]|We study the determinants of longer-term bank lending to the real economy in Russia. Our empirical results confirm the «development view» of state-controlled banks who display the highest propensity to lend long-term. We control for such variables as cost of funding and the market power in the corporate loan market. The share of long-term loans in bank assets would benefit from a lower average cost of funds and a diversification of funding sources, as well as larger average size of banks, higher capital adequacy and a less risky lending policy.
E50|Инвестирование Денежных Средств В Условиях Экономического Кризиса В 2017 Году|In the conditions of the economic crisis, one of the most urgent aspects is the investment of funds. The choice of the most optimal directions for investing is rather complicated, since there are many alternative options. The purpose of this study is to determine the most profitable directions for investing money in 2017.
E50|Nonneutrality of Money in Dispersion: Hume Revisited|For a class of standard and widely-used preferences, a one-shot money injection in a standard matching model can induce a significant and persistent output response by dispersing the distribution of wealth. Decentralized trade matters for both persistence and significance. In the presence of government bonds the injection has a liquidity effect and the inflation rate right following the injection may be below the steady-state rate level.
E50|Forecasting inflation in Latin America with core measures|We explore the ability of core inflation to predict headline CPI annual inflation for a sample of eight developing economies in Latin America over the period January 1995–May 2017. Our in-sample and out-of-sample results are roughly consistent in providing robust evidence of predictability in four of the countries in our sample. Mixed evidence is found for the other four countries. The bulk of the out-of-sample evidence of predictability concentrates on the short horizons of one and six months. In contrast, at the longest horizon of 24 months, we only find out-of-sample evidence of predictability for two countries: Chile and Colombia, with robust results only for the latter. This is both important and challenging, given that the monetary authorities in our sample of developing countries are currently implementing or are taking steps toward the future implementation of inflation targeting regimes, which are based heavily on long-run inflation forecasts.
E50|Central Bank Quantitative Easing as an Emerging Political Liability|Officials from major central banks have previously acknowledged QE programs’ distributional effects but expected aggregate economic benefits of these unconventional policies to outweigh their costs. Post-crisis asset price appreciation became well entrenched under the effect of QE, which out-paced median wage growth to unintentionally burden low-to-middle income households and individuals with limited asset ownership. Subsequently, rising inequality fueled discontent and contributed to the rise of anti-establishment political candidates Efforts by elected officials to ease the effects of policy-induced inequality would likely bolster support toward further redistribution policies such as “helicopter money” to threaten central bank monetary policy independence
E50|The money creation process: A theoretical and empirical analysis for the US|The aim of this paper is to assess – on both theoretical and empirical grounds – the two main views regarding the money creation process,namely the endogenous and exogenous money approaches. After analysing the main issues and the related empirical literature, we will apply a VAR and VECM methodology to the United States in the period 1959-2016 to assess the causal relationship between a number of critical variables that are supposed to determine the money supply, i.e., the monetary base, bank deposits and bank loans. The empirical analysis carried out supports several propositions of the endogenous money approach. In particular, it shows that for the United States in the years 1959-2016 (i) bank loans determine bank deposits and (ii) bank deposits in turn determine the monetary base. Our conclusion is that money supply is mainly determined endogenously by the lending activity of commercial banks.
E50|Das Nichts ist Zentralbankgeld. Anmerkungen zu Dirk Ehnts' Buch über Geld und Kredit<BR>[The Nothing is Central Bank Money. Comments on Dirk Ehnts' book on Money and Credit]|The importance of liquidity for banks and even for nation states has been demonstrated once more by the last series of global crises, of which the repercussions still are being felt ten years later. It is a common understanding that a shortage of liquidity leads to insolvency. Under the auspices of central banks and a two-level monetary system, the connection between lost liquidity and insolvency could be cut. If central banks are lenders of last resort, they are capable of removing any problem of illiquidity and insolvency. This is a thesis propagated by Dirk H. Ehnts (2016), who presents a monetary theory beyond the one we find in textbooks. Ehnts extends his super-optimistic view even to states that can – according to him – solve any crisis if they are allowed to enhance their spending. In his theoretical approach to monetary theory, Ehnts puts the examination of balance sheets in the center of his deliberations. The whole body of arguments can be found in his book, “Money and Credit,” which is written in German, as is this analysis of the new perspective to modern money. It results in a list of more than forty flaws - wrong assertions, inherent contradictions and unfounded consequences. The main problems of the balance sheet-centered analysis are these: (i.) Balance sheets are identities. They cannot inform us about causal relations and action sequences. It is an illusion to hope that balance sheets can highlight the functioning of the monetary system. Ehnts’ book is filled with statements that are not consequences of his balance sheets, but untested hypotheses being presented as plausible claims about reality. (ii.) The balance sheet approach is masking the legal dimension of financial interactions. For instance, in credit agreements it is accepted by the debtor to pay back the sum. Otherwise, he or she faces a compulsory execution. According to Ehnts, only one thing happens: the creditor loses his or her claim. (iii.) The theoretical conception ignores the role of the collateral, which is a limiting factor to central bank money and serves as an anchor to stabilize its value. High quality securities are scarce and therefore real money cannot be delivered unlimited in size. (iv.) The subject matter of a credit is not specified correctly in the theoretical framework. According to the author, it can even be jelly babies. But it is money emitted by central banks. No complete explanation of the creation of money by central banks can be found in the whole book. The availability of central bank money is an ignored prerequisite to the creation of money by commercial banks. If money could be created out of nothing, like it is claimed, no bankruptcy would have ever happened. The rationale of Ehnts’ policy advice has as many holes as Swiss cheese. It is not the base upon which serious policy recommendations can be built.
