E59|Outlier detection in TARGET2 risk indicators|This paper studies the detection of outliers in risk indicators based on large value payment system transaction data. The ten risk indicators are daily time series measuring various risks in the large value payment system, such as operational risk, concentration risk and liquidity flows related to other financial market infrastructures. We use extreme value theory and local outlier factor methods to identify anomalous data points (outliers). In a univariate setup, the extreme value analysis quantifies the unusualness of each outlier. In a multivariate setup, the local outlier factor method identifies outliers by measuring the local deviation of a given data point with respect to its neighbours. We find that most detected outliers are at the beginning and near end of the calendar month when turnover is significantly larger than at other days. Our method can be used e.g. by overseers and financial stability experts who wish to look at many (risk) indicators in relation to each other.
E59|Alternative frameworks for measuring credit gaps and setting countercyclical capital buffers|This paper complements the standard Basel countercyclical capital buffer framework by suggesting four additional measures for credit gaps that can be used to measure the financial cycle and to decide on countercyclical capital buffers for banks. The new measures behave similarly to the gaps calculated with the standard Basel one-sided Hodrick-Prescott filter in long samples, but they have the properties desired for countries with relatively short historical samples. While the standard Basel credit gaps have been deep in negative territory for many European Union countries since the Great Recession the new gaps are close to zero and the buffers suggested are more in line with the countercyclical capital buffer ratios that were in place in 2018.
E59|Information insensitivity, collateral flows and the logic of financial stability|The role of collateralization in the dynamics of credit and liquidity provision is the subject of increasing research interest, for instance concerning the global macroeconomic role of safe assets. Still, when it comes to first principles of financial stability, questions of transparency seem to overshadow the relevance of collateralization arrangements and the specificity of networks of counterparties. According to Holmström (2015), the fact that liquidity requires transparency is a misunderstanding. The paper is meant to deepen the connection between the principle of “no questions asked” (NQA) on collateralized debt and the stabilizing properties of collateral flows in an equilibrium selection perspective. Conceptual and empirical implications are thoroughly discussed, and can be conjectured to represent lines of progress for the logic of financial stability, and for the theory of money as well. In a well known formula, money is a substitute for trust (Shubik, 1999); an analogous role for the NQA principle – collateral is a substitute for questions – can be conjectured to deserve comparable relevance.
E59|Why private cryptocurrencies cannot serve as international reserves but central bank digital currencies can|"This paper begins by a recap on the ambition and mechanism behind Bitcoin, followed by an overview of the top 10 cryptocurrencies by market capitalization. Our focus is on their price dynamics and volatility relative to those of fiat paper money and gold, assets that have traditionally served the functions of money and international reserves. We then perform a counterfactual analysis using the Bank of England's foreign currency reserves to determine the hypothetical performance in terms of relative volatility of two alternative reserve portfolios consisting of 0.1%, 1%, or 10% holdings of either Bitcoin only, since July 2010, or of a portfolio of 50% Bitcoin and 50% Ethereum, since July 2015. Revisiting in this light the functions of money and international reserves, we expound on why private cryptocurrencies do not meet the inherent requirements for both money and international reserve assets, whereas central bank digital currencies do meet these requirements. We, finally, ""scale"" the magnitude and dynamics of the recent Bitcoin bubble into a historical perspective, and conclude by a discussion of areas where blockchain-based and FinTech technologies could be beneficial in international trade, payments, banking and finance."
E59|Oil prices and inflation expectations|In line with other recent studies, we find that oil price changes have had a statistically significant impact on long-term inflation expectations in the euro area since the global financial crisis. However, over the same period, (i) oil prices have shifted together with economic indicators, such as stock prices, and (ii) the correlation between short- and long-term expectations has increased. Once these factors are taken into account, the effect of oil prices on long-term inflation expectations is no longer significant. This suggests that the link between oil prices and long-term inflation expectations is not direct, but rather the result of underlying factors: the prolonged feeble economic conditions and the possible de-anchoring of long-term inflation expectations from the objective of price stability.
E59|Transmission of monetary policy through global banks: Whose policy matters?|This paper explores the basic question of whose monetary policy matters for banks’ international lending. In the international context, monetary policies from several countries could come into play: the lender’s, the borrower’s, and that of a third country, the issuer of the currency in which cross-border lending is denominated. Using the rich dimensionality of the BIS international banking statistics, we find significant effects for all three policies. US monetary easing fuels cross-border lending in US dollars, as befits a global funding currency. At the same time, a tightening in the lender or the borrower country reinforces international dollar lending as global banks turn to the greenback for cheaper funding and toward borrowers abroad. Our results also show that stronger capitalization and better access to funding sources mitigate the frictions underpinning the transmission channels. Analogous results for euro-denominated lending confirm that global funding currencies play a key role in international monetary policy transmission.
E59|Transmission of Monetary Policy and Bank Heterogeneity in Colombia|This study provides evidence of bank heterogeneity in Colombiafor the period 2002-2014 and analyzes how bank-specific character-istics determine the bank-lending channel for monetary policy. Toanalyze bank heterogeneity, this study estimates technical (cost) effi-ciency using Stochastic Frontier Analysis, which also allows for themeasurement of Returns to Scale and a Lerner Index to proxy mar-ket power in the loans market. This study also provides measuresof capitalization, liquidity, and the commonly used ratios of financialand operational efficiency with bank’s balance-sheet data. Further-more, using a long and unbalanced panel, this study finds evidence ofthe existence of a bank-lending channel and finds that this transmis-sion mechanism is determined by bank-specific characteristics. Theresults suggest higher technical and operational efficiency, capitaliza-tion, liquidity and market power, increase the sensitivity of loans dis-bursements to monetary policy shocks, while higher returns to scalelowers this sensitivity.
E59|Transmission of Monetary Policy and Bank Heterogeneity in Colombia|No abstract is available for this item.
E59|Fiscal implications of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet normalization|The paper surveys the recent literature on the fiscal implications of central bank balance sheets, with a special focus on political economy issues. It then presents the results of simulations that describe the effects of different scenarios for the Federal Reserve's longer-run balance sheet on its earnings remittances to the U.S. Treasury and, more broadly, on the government's overall fiscal position. We find that reducing longer-run reserve balances from $2.3 trillion (roughly the current amount) to $1 trillion reduces the likelihood of posting a quarterly net loss in the future from 30 percent to under 5 percent. Further reducing longer-run reserve balances from $1 trillion to precrisis levels has little effect on the likelihood of net losses.
E59|Fiscal Implications of the Federal Reserve's Balance Sheet Normalization|The paper surveys the recent literature on the fiscal implications of central bank balance sheets, with a special focus on political economy issues. It then presents the results of simulations that describe the effects of different scenarios for the Federal Reserve's longer-run balance sheet on its earnings remittances to the U.S. Treasury and, more broadly, on the government's overall fiscal position. We find that reducing longer-run reserve balances from $2.3 trillion (roughly the current amount) to $1 trillion reduces the likelihood of posting a quarterly net loss in the future from 30 percent to under 5 percent. Further reducing longer-run reserve balances from $1 trillion to precrisis levels has little effect on the likelihood of net losses.
E59|Entrepreneurial Error Does Not Equal Market Failure|Abstract Barnett and Block (2015) claim that Bagus and Howden (2012b) support indirectly the concept of market failure. In this paper, we show that maturity mismatching in an unhampered market may imply entrepreneurial error but cannot be considered a market failure. We demonstrate why fractional-reserve banking leads to business cycles even if there is no central bank and why maturity mismatching does not per se lead to clusters of errors in a free market. Finally, in contrast to the examples provided by Barnett and Block, we assure that maturity mismatching does not imply the creation of two incompatible contracts due to the fungible nature of money.
E59|Bank Lending Behavior and Business Cycle in Dual Banking System: Evidence from Indonesia|This study examines bank-lending channel over the business cycle for Indonesian dual banking system by ascertaining to what extent Islamic banks have a role in the credit smoothing. In this context, we utilize Indonesian dual banking system unbalanced panel data for the period 2001-2015. By employing two-step dynamic GMM estimators, the study shows that the bank lending behaviour are procyclical. However, when we categorize the lending behaviour into conventional and Islamic banks, the cyclicality of bank lending affects only conventional banks. As for the Islamic banks, the business cycle does not affect their financing decision. Specifically, large Islamic banks are more counter-cyclical in their financing behavior than small and medium size Islamic banks. Robustness tests using different measures of loans and model specifications confirm the results that Islamic bank is more stable and less procyclical in the case of Indonesian banking system.
E59|Assessing Islamic Banking System Vulnerabilities in Pakistan: Evidence from ‘Bankometer’ Model|Recent global financial crises affected not only conventional banking, but also Islamic banks to some extent due to the absence of early warning systems. To avoid such vulnerabilities, there must be efficient measures that could identify in advance the emergence of susceptibility of financial crises. This study proposes the ‘Bankometer’ model as an early warning tool to help Islamic banks overcome such challenges by providing them with useful Shari’ah-compliant guidelines and to desist from vulnerabilities of future financial crises. Using published unbalanced quarterly data of all Islamic banks operating in Pakistan, we use regression models to examine the impact of global financial crisis on the banking system. The results suggest that regulatory capital, funding cost, size, return on assets and return on equity are associated with crisis period. The evidences also suggest that ‘Bankometer’ as an early warning tools could be useful for assessing Islamic banking system vulnerabilities in Pakistan.
E59|Lessons from the money mania for money creation|The first attempt in the human history to consciously create money ended in a collapse in 1720, well-known as the money mania. This unfortunate start raises doubt on money creation as a whole such that today there are still voices questioning created money even though it is now indispensible for the world economy. But this misfortune also has the bright side in that it delivers an extensive example of risks which created money has to consider. In this paper, I review the central facts from the money mania and highlight lessons we can still learn from it.
E59|Public debt, central bank and money: Some clarifications|The purchase of securities, and more specifically government bonds, belongs to the monetary policy implementation framework of many central banks, the Eurosystem being no exception for that matter. However, as for the euro zone, that tool remained unused until 2010, while present in the Eurosystem’s toolkit since its creation. Its implementation in times of crisis raised many debates, comments and even resorts to courts of justice. One of the central issues relates to the monetary financing of the public sector which in turn questions the relations between public debt, central banks and money. This paper does not aim at providing a definite answer to the many questions, or to offer an arbitrage between the different arguments and schools of thoughts. More simply, in view of the often confused state of discussions, it goes back to the basic concepts of money creation, more specifically to the one of money creation by central banks for the benefit of the public sector. Through a series of “typical cas es” of interactions between central banks, commercial banks, public sector and households, the paper favours a better understanding of the quite complex mechanic of money creation through the purchase of public bonds by central and commercial banks. It also addresses a connected topic, i.e. the article 123 of the treaty on the Functioning of the European Union that prohibits the direct purchase by central bank on the primary market of debt instruments issued by the public sector.
E59|Expanding Global Liquidity Insurance: Myths and Realities of the IMF’s Precautionary Credit Lines - Working Paper 449|Despite increasing volatility in the global economy, the uptake of the IMF’s two precautionary credit lines, the Flexible Credit Line (FCL) and the Precautionary and Liquidity Line (PLL), has remained limited—currently to just four countries. The two new lending instruments were created in the wake of the global financial crisis of 2008 to enable IMF member states to respond quickly and effectively to temporary balance of payment needs resulting from external shocks. Both credit lines offer immediate access to considerable sums—over 10 times a country’s IMF quota in some cases with no (FCL) or very limited (PLL) conditionality. This paper addresses four misconceptions (or ‘myths’) that have likely played a role in the limited utilization of the two precautionary credit lines: 1) too stringent qualification criteria that limit country eligibility; 2) insufficient IMF resources; 3) high costs of precautionary borrowing; and 4) the economic stigma associated with IMF assistance. We show, in fact, that the pool of eligible member states is likely to be seven to eight times larger than the number of current users; that with the 2016 quota reform IMF resources are more than adequate to support a larger precautionary portfolio; that the two IMF credit lines are among the least costly and most advantageous instruments for liquidity support countries have; and that there is no evidence of negative market developments for countries now participating in the precautionary lines.
E59|Transmisión de la política monetaria en Colombia: El carácter heterogéneo del canal de préstamos bancarios|Este documento encuentra que un aumento en la tasa interbancaria (proxy de la tasa de intervención) tiene como respuesta una caída en el crecimiento de la cartera total de los bancos en Colombia. Al desagregar por tipo de política, se observa que el canal de préstamos bancarios actúa con más fuerza en momentos de contracción monetaria, exhibiendo mayores reacciones en los bancos con bajos niveles de solvencia frente a los de alta solvencia. En contraste, cuando la política es expansiva el segmento de alta solvencia es el único que exhibe la presencia del canal de préstamos bancarios, mientras que en los bancos con indicadores inferiores no se evidencia ningún efecto de dicho mecanismo.
E59|Risk indicators for financial market infrastructure: from high frequency transaction data to a traffic light signal|This paper identifies quantitative risks in financial market infrastructures (FMIs), which are inspired by the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures. We convert transaction level data into indicators that provide information on operational risk, changes in the network structure and interdependencies. As a proof of concept we use TARGET2 level data. The indicators are based on legislation, guidelines and their own history. Indicators that are based on their own history are corrected for cyclical patterns. We also define a method for setting the signaling threshold of relevant changes. For the signaling, we opt for a traffic light approach: a green, yellow or red light for a small, moderate or substantial change in the indicator, respectively. The indicators developed in this paper can be used by overseers and operators of FMIs and by financial stability experts.
E59|Cyclical patterns in risk indicators based on financial market infrastructure transaction data|This paper studies cyclical patterns in risk indicators based on TARGET2 transaction data. These indicators provide information on network properties, operational aspects and links to ancillary systems. We compare the performance of two different ARIMA dummy models to the TBATS state space model. The results show that the forecasts of the ARIMA dummy models perform better than the TBATS model. We also find that there is no clear difference between the performances of the two ARIMA dummy models. The model with the fewest explanatory variables is therefore preferred.
E59|On collateral: implications for financial stability and monetary policy|This paper examines the role of collateral in the financial system, with special emphasis on the implications for financial stability and the conduct of monetary policy. First, we review what drives the demand and supply for both real and financial collateral assets. Then we examine financial stability issues and the case for regulating the use of collateral. We discuss the role and design of market infrastructures such as central clearing counterparties (CCPs). Finally, we examine the interaction of standard and non-standard monetary policy and the functioning of private collateralised markets. We show that the use of collateral is neither a sufficient nor a necessary condition for financial stability. To ensure the stability of collateralised markets a mix of micro- and macro-prudential regulation, as well as a sufficient supply of safe public assets that can be used as collateral, are needed. JEL Classification: E59, E44, G18
E59|Determinants of Islamic Banks Acceptance in Oman|This paper discusses about the inception of Islamic banking in Oman. This paper would discuss the Islamic Banking Regulatory Framework (IBRF) under which the Islamic banking system is operating. The two full fledged banks which are working in Oman are Alizz Islamic Bank, Bank Nizwa and there are 6 Islamic windows which are working in Oman. The study would be related to the factors which influence the customers’ attraction towards Islamic banking in Oman
E59|The Federal Reserve’s Evolving Monetary Policy Implementation Framework: 1914-1923|The Federal Reserve has relied upon a number of different monetary policy implementation frameworks throughout its history. This paper describes the original implementation framework that evolved between 1914 and 1923 in response to new policy objectives and changing market conditions.
E59|Optimal Simple Rule for Monetary Policy and Macroprudential Policy in a Financial Accelerator Model|This paper examines an optimal simple rule for monetary policy and macroprudential policy in a New Keynesian DSGE model with a Bernanke et al. (1999) financial accelerator mechanism. Macroprudential policy is given by countercyclical bank capital regulation or loan-to-value (LTV) ratio regulation. Macroprudential policy can mitigate the inefficiencies arising from financial friction, by reducing the uncertainty related with the solvency risk. It is optimal to separate monetary policy from macroprudential concern and use only macroprudential policy for credit stabilization. Using monetary policy for credit stabilization is sub-optimal because of its tradeoff with inflation stability.
E59|Pledgeability, Industry Liquidity, and Financing Cycles|Why are downturns following high valuations of firms long and severe? Why do firms choose high debt when they anticipate high valuations, and underperform subsequently? We propose a theory of financing cycles where the importance of creditors’ control rights over cash flows (“pledgeability”) varies with industry liquidity. Firms take on more debt when they anticipate higher future industry liquidity. However, both high anticipated liquidity and the resulting high debt limit their incentives to enhance pledgeability. This has prolonged adverse effects in a downturn. Higher anticipated liquidity can, in fact, reduce a firm’s current access to finance.
E59|Optimization of Russia’s international reserves structure: Theoretical approaches, practical implementation|The article analyzes the transformation of theoretical principles that underlie the formation of the international reserves structure over the past few centuries. It is concluded that these principles are based on the postulates of different schools of economic thought that perpetuate unequal exchange of goods in international trade, stimulate export of raw materials from developing countries and accumulation of international reserves, and also contribute to improving the level of consumption in developed countries. In addition, the article presents the results of studying the structure of Russia’s international reserves portfolio using the method of H. Markowitz. The implementation of this approach would make it possible to increase the income generated by the Russian reserves, and reduce the risk of fluctuations in their value.
E59|Impulse on the Aggregate Demand in Bolivia through the Coordination of the Monetary and Fiscal Policy in Crisis Time|At the end of 2014, the Bolivian economy, despite facing negative external shocks (falling oil prices), registered a high economic growth in the region of Latin America. Monetary policy was aimed at keeping the government bond rate close to zero and raising liquidity levels in the economy (monetary policy expansive). On the part of the government, the two main sources of income of the nonfinancial public sector (SPNF) are: i) tax revenues and ii) the sale of hydrocarbons (gas), at that time Bolivia's fiscal policy was countercyclical To the behavior of the Latin American Product (increases in fiscal expenditure in infrastructure). These antecedents, aid to the interest of the study of the coordination of the economic policy in Bolivia. The structure of a Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium Model (DSGE) helps us to understand the transmission channels of shocks (in Taylor rule, Phillips curve and public investment) and how the monetary and fiscal policy reacts to these shocks.
E59|Macroprudential Policy and Financing Behaviour in Dual Banking System: Bank-Level Evidence from Indonesia|The loan-to-funding ratio based reserve-requirement (called as RR-LFR) is a macroprudential instrument used by Bank Indonesia to maintain the stability of Indonesian financial system by considering the bank liquidity condition. This paper examines the impact of RR-LFR on financing behaviour in Indonesian dual banking system. The paper uses generalized method of moment estimation (GMM) technique to address the endogeneity of explanatory variables and reduce the possible biases from residual correlation. Using a bank-level data for both Islamic and conventional banks covering the period 2001-2015, we analyze the reaction of bank financing behavior toward RR-LFR policy. The findings indicate that RRLFR is observed to be effective in curtailing financing behaviour of banking institutions. Further, we show that RR-LFR exerts more impacts in managing credit expansion of conventional banks as compared to Islamic banks.
E59|The Impact of Monetary and Financial Freedom on Monetary Policy Transparency in Low, Middle and High Income Countries|Theoretically speaking, monetary policy transparency refers to the informational symmetry between the central bank and the private sector. High degree of transparency reduces uncertainty, improves the private-sector inference about central bank goals, and increases the effectiveness of monetary policy. This study analyzes the impact of financial and monetary freedom on monetary policy transparency. A set of 102 countries -categorized in low, middle and high income groups have been investigated for the period 1998-2010, since the monetary policy transparency data are not available from 2010 onwards. The panel cointegation test suggests that the long run relationship between variables exists. The empirical findings suggest that while GDP per capita and trade freedom have a positive effect on transparency, the impact of financial freedom on transparency varieties in different income groups. Furthermore the monetary freedom exerts significant positive effect merely on middle income countries. These results imply that the reaction of monetary policy transparency to financial and monetary freedom might be depended to different economic structures.
E59|Money and Credit: Lessons of the Irish Bank Strike of 1970|In Ireland, there was a bank strike that led to a complete shut-down of the main part of the banking system from May to November 1970. The effects of this strike were surprisingly limited. This had led some observers to conclude that trade credit can easily substitute for bank deposits as a means of payment. In this paper, it is shown how cash and cheques were used as substitutes and complements allowing for “business as usual” for an extended period of time. This paper argues that such a situation would not have prevailed much longer. The lack of a proper settlement mechanism implied that risks were rising for almost all transactors. In order to contain risks the use of trade credit would have declined and economic performance would have deteriorated progressively.
E59|The Bank Lending Channel of Monetary Policy: Does the Financial Structure of Banks Matter|This paper tests the impact of the financial structure of banks on the bank lending channel of monetary policy transmission in Colombia. Using a monthly panel of 51 commercial banks for the period 1996:4-2014:8, we find that an increase in the monetary policy interest rate significantly reduces bank loan growth. The magnitude of this effect critically depends on banks’ financial structure. Additionally, we identify an asymmetric effect depending on the monetary policy stance. The bank lending channel is stronger in times of monetary contraction than during expansions. We show that this asymmetric behavior is due to the heterogeneous response of banks with different levels of solvency to the monetary policy stance. We discuss the policy implications of our findings.
E59|Digital Currency In The Current Cyber Security Environment|This paper presents a view over the development of new technologies and infrastructures that lead to the rise of decentralized digital currencies such as Bitcoin. In the context of an evolving cyber security environment and increasing dependence on computer systems, such solutions present not only interesting applications, but also challenges to developers, regulators and even users. We analyze several financial applications branching out of this technology and various derivatives from the initial developments, such as smart contracts. Also, we look at several limitations that have to be addressed in order for these technologies to be sustainable for the future and succeed.
E59|Evaluación de la transmisión de la tasa de interés de referencia a las tasas de interés del sistema financiero Colombiano|En este documento se analiza la transmisión de la política monetaria a las tasas de interés de mercado del sistema financiero utilizando diferentes herramientas estadísticas. La relación existente entre la tasa de política y las tasas de interés de colocación es positiva y significativa, y se presenta una transmisión completa para las diferentes modalidades de crédito después de 8 meses. La transmisión de la tasa de interés de referencia a las tasas de crédito difiere según las distintas modalidades de préstamo. Se observa una mayor transmisión y más rápida a las tasas comerciales que a las ofrecidas a los hogares. En particular, la transmisión a las tasas de crédito preferencial es más rápida y completa. En cuanto a las tasas de tarjetas de crédito e hipotecarias, la transmisión es más débil debido a su naturaleza, regulación (tasa límite) y rigideces de las mismas.
E59|Exposure to interbank market and risk-taking by Mexican banks|Banks can avoid bank runs and panic using the interbank market as a type of coinsurance. Moreover, because of the possibility of losing financial assets, they theoretically have incentives to monitor their peers, borrowing in this market. This paper examines whether bank risks are explained by their exposure to the interbank market. The market discipline hypothesis suggests that bankers are well equipped to monitor their peers, and the interbank borrowing is par excellence an uninsured deposit. Consequently, banks with a larger exposure to the interbank market should present strong bank fundamentals. Using a sample of 37 Mexican banks, from December 2008 to September 2012, and dynamic panel models based on the SYS GMM estimator, I did not find evidence in favor of the market discipline hypothesis. These results are robust to different indicators of bank risk and exposure to interbank markets. This is a wake-up call for policymakers, who should restore market discipline in interbank operations, following the disclosure policy in Basel III.
E59|Monetary Policy With Constant Real Stock Of Bonds|The equilibrium growth path stated in this paper is based on the IS-LM- SRAS model augmented with the dynamics of expected inflation and real wealth, developed by Sidrauski and Turnovski . In our previous papers, we computed the IS-LM equilibrium for the linear model and defined the dynamic system. In this work, we estimated the parameters using statistical data for Romania during 2001Q2-2014Q2 and computed the multipliers. These parameters and multipliers were further used to compute the coefficients of the two dimensional dynamic system. We further augmented the dynamic system, with an objective function, reflecting the sum of the square differences of the real actual government expenditures, from the values established by fiscal policy. We applied the Pontryagin’s Principle in order to compute the optimal conditions of the optimal control problem. The overall dynamics of the economy is computed for short run, considering the monetary policy of constant stock of bound, using Runge-Kutta algorithm in MATLAB. The dynamics of the system was analyzed via phase diagram. The results reflect the fact that the economy is in an unstable zone, with expected inflation decreasing and real wealth increasing, fact that determines us to add an objective function for minimizing the square differences of the government expenditures from the stationary ones during 2016Q1-2017Q4.
E59|Taking financial frictions to the data|We estimate a Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium (DSGE) model with various financial frictions and analyze how well the model explains the Great Recession. Predictive analysis shows that the model can only slightly better explain the large deviation from trend during the crisis relative to a model without financial frictions. Specifically, the risk premium shock, which is a shock to the external finance premium of the entrepreneurs׳ leverage, explains the largest part of the investment downfall during the crisis. However, the ‘balance sheet’ channel of financial frictions in the model, which structurally links balance sheet conditions of financial intermediaries and nonfinancial borrowers to their borrowing rates, is estimated to be weak. We examine alternative prior specifications for how the financial frictions enter the model and continue to find a limited role for these frictions. Rolling-window estimation provides evidence for substantial time variation in parameters governing financial frictions. We conclude that the well-known financial frictions studied in this paper are not able to explain the financial crisis in a linearized and estimated model.
E59|Can information be locked up? Informed trading ahead of macro-news announcements|Government agencies routinely allow pre-release access to information to accredited news agencies under embargo agreements. Using high-frequency data, we find evidence consistent with informed trading during embargoes of Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) scheduled announcements. The E-mini Standard & Poor’s 500 futures’ abnormal order imbalances are in the direction of subsequent policy surprises and contain information that predicts the market reaction to the policy announcements. The estimated informed trades’ profits are arguably large. Notably, we find no evidence of informed trading prior to the start of FOMC news embargoes or during lockups ahead of nonfarm payroll, US Producer Price Index, and gross domestic product data releases.
E59|New empirics of monetary policy dynamics: evidence from the CFA franc zones|Purpose - – A major lesson of the European Monetary Union crisis is that serious disequilibria in a monetary union result from arrangements not designed to be robust to a variety of shocks. With the specter of this crisis looming substantially and scarring existing monetary zones, the purpose of this paper is to complement existing literature by analyzing the effects of monetary policy on economic activity (output and prices) in the CEMAC and UEMOA CFA franc zones. Design/methodology/approach - – VARs within the frameworks of Vector Error-Correction Models and Granger causality models are used to estimate the long- and short-run effects, respectively. Impulse response functions are further used to assess the tendencies of significant Granger causality findings. A battery of robustness checks are also employed to ensure consistency in the specifications and results. Findings - – Practical implications - – First, compared to the CEMAC region, the UEMOA zone’s monetary authority has more policy instruments for offsetting output shocks but fewer instruments for the management of short-run inflation. Second, the CEMAC region is more inclined to non-traditional policy regimes while the UEMOA zone dances more to the tune of traditional discretionary monetary policy arrangements. A wide range of policy implications are discussed. Inter alia: implications for the long-run neutrality of money and business cycles; implications for credit expansions and inflationary tendencies; implications of the findings to the ongoing debate; country-specific implications and measures of fighting surplus liquidity. Originality/value - – The paper’s originality is reflected by the use of monetary policy variables, notably money supply, bank and financial credits, which have not been previously used, to investigate their impact on the outputs of economic activities, namely, real GDP output and inflation, in developing country monetary unions.
E59|What Is The Central Bank Effectively Targeting In Practice? Svensson’S Concept Of Inflation Forecast Targeting And Measures Of Inflation Projections-The Experiences Of Selected European Countries|This article presents a comparative study of central paths’ projections of Consumer Price Index (CPI index), core inflation and monetary policy-relevant inflation measure (MPRI) in the central banks of Sweden, Norway and Czech Republic. The analysis refers to the possibility of using core and MPRI inflation projections as a tool (intermediate goal) for the implementation of Svensson’s concept of optimal inflation forecast targeting strategy (IFT) and determines what the chosen central banks are effectively targeting in practice. The study includes a reference of the central paths of the CPI, core inflation and MPRI inflation projections, based on the endogenous rate, to the inflation target. The analysis has allowed us to determine that the central paths of core inflation projections have converged with the inflation target as the time horizon became longer, but still remained medium-term. Such a result is not given for all of the CPI projections. The implications for the implementation of the Svensson’s concept of optimal IFT strategy are that a projection of core inflation may be a typical, operational tool which anchors inflation expectations; as such (as CPI projection), it should be published, treated and used as an intermediate goal of monetary policy.
E59|Financial maturity, diffusion of telecommunications technology, and economic growth in Asia|This paper employs Granger causality tests to examine linkages between economic growth, measured by changes in real per capita GDP, financial maturity, measured by an index – calculated by using principal component analysis, and the diffusion of telecommunications technology (DTT) in 21 Asian countries over the period 1961-2012. We advance on previous studies with (a) advanced estimation procedures (panel cointegration techniques and panel Granger causality tests); and (b) the inclusion of all three potentially two-way interacting variables conjointly. Our findings are not uniform: they vary based on the region and country that is studied. We find that in the case of Bangladesh, Philippines, Singapore, Saudi Arabia, and United Arab Emirates and for Total Asia, financial maturity leads to economic growth, lending support to the supply-leading hypothesis. This implies that economic growth depends upon the level of financial maturity of the countries. In the case of Hong Kong, South Korea, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Indonesia, and Vietnam, economic growth leads to financial maturity, lending support to the demand-following hypothesis. This implies that economic growth determines the level of financial maturity. For Bangladesh, Philippines, Singapore, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, and Total Asia, financial maturity leads to economic growth, in line with the supply-leading hypothesis. In case of China, Hong Kong, Japan, India, Iran, Thailand, Kuwait, East Asia, South Asia, and West Asia, economic growth and financial maturity cause each other, lending support to both the demand-following and supply-leading hypotheses. Furthermore, in the case of India, Malaysia, and Philippines, economic growth leads to DTT, congruent with the demand-following hypothesis. On the other hand, in the case of Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Singapore, Thailand, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, South Asia, South East Asia, and Total Asia, DTT leads to economic growth, lending support to the supply-leading hypothesis. By contrast, for China, Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea, Qatar, and East Asia, economic growth and DTT are self-reinforcing and subject to feedback consistent with both the demand-following and supply-leading hypotheses. Finally, in the case of Hong Kong, Pakistan, Indonesia, Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam, United Arab Emirates, South East Asia, and Total Asia, DTT leads to financial maturity, lending support to the supply-leading hypothesis, while for China, India, Kuwait, Qatar, and West Asia, financial maturity leads to DTT, lending support to the demand-following hypothesis. In case of Malaysia, financial maturity and DTT cause each other thus supporting both the demand-following and supply-leading hypotheses.
E59|The Cost of Low Inflation in Case of Pakistan|It is a debatable issue that high and variable inflation causes the well fare loss while on the other side reducing inflation generally has some cost and the amount of that cost is measured by the sacrifice ratio. Therefore inflation output trade off is important for central banks when formulating policy. Sacrifice ratio is the main indicator to measure the real cost of disinflation, calculated as the ratio of the cumulative percentage output loss (the difference between actual and potential output) to the size of disinflation. Thus, the sacrifice ratio measures the real output cost per unit of permanent decrease in inflation. Sacrifice ratio is basically divided into two main categories, time invariant sacrifice ratio and episode specific sacrifice ratio. In time invariant sacrifice ratio we took Philips Curve, structural VAR and in episode specific ratio we took Ball method of sacrifice ratio and Zhang method of sacrifice ratio. We found positive sacrifice ratio in almost all the methods but the magnitude of the sacrifice ratio is not large and the estimates of sacrifice ratio are sensitive to different estimation method.
E59|Causality between Monetary Expansion and the Price Level in India since 1950s – A Re-Examination|This paper has tested short run causality between broad money supply and whole-sale price index (WPI) in India during 1951-2013 adopting a Toda-Yamamoto (1995) modified Granger causality approach under a VAR environment. Exponentially detrended annual time series data on broad money supply and the whole-sale price index are used for this purpose. Alternative tests for structural breaks reveal significant but dissimilar breaks in the variables. The empirical results are suggestive of a uni-directional causality from broad money supply to WPI. The study further finds that broad money supply and WPI in India have a long-run co-integrating relationship and short run causal relations could hence be expected.
E59|Evaluating Nigeria Cashless Policy Implementation|The Central Bank of Nigeria introduced cashless policy initiative to accomplish two main macro-socio-economic policy objectives of increased convenience and greater financial inclusion in Nigeria. This study evaluates Nigeria cashless policy implementation using a four point Likert scale questionnaire administered to six hundred respondents. The results of the study show that the twin policy objectives investigated were partially achieved. Also the study reveals that social infrastructures in power and telecommunications need improvement and expansion and the need to create more awareness to encourage the unbanked to embrace banking culture. This study recommends vigorous investments on cyber security, strengthening of internet protocol and controls in the banks and enactment of relevant legislative laws to curb cybercrimes.
E59|Achieving Efficiency in Gas Pipeline Connection: Evidence from Ghana|The demand for the use of natural gas is on the increase as an energy source. Natural gas transportation requires a continuous pipeline network from the source of gas across long distance to the various destinations. The main objective involves extending gas pipelines from Takoradi to all the regional capital towns in Ghana to meet the growing demands of its citizenry in order to provide economy and efficiency with regards to cost and environmental sustainability by developing a straight forward method of locating pipeline facilities and designing pipeline networks. The problem is formulated as a network of distances and the solution is presented based on Primâ€™s Algorithm for minimum connections. Data on distances are obtained from the Ghana Highways Authority. The total distance covered by the pipe line network if the existing road networks were used from Takoradi to all the regional capitals towns in Ghana is 5,094km. After Primâ€™s Algorithm was used, the total distance covered decreased to 1,590km which is about 68.8% reduction in the distance covered with regards to cost and the environmental damage caused by construction of pipelines (soil, forest, rivers, wetlands, noise from compressor stations during pipeline discharge and risk of pipeline leakage).
E59|Transformation of the international and European project finance market as a result of the crisis|Project financing is not a new form of funding in Hungary or in other countries. Many consider it as a product of the pre-crisis abundance of money, when relatively ample liquidity encouraged banks to enter into transactions where safe repayment could not always be seen clearly. In many cases, this excessive risk-taking resulted in defaults on project financing loans, which was also exacerbated by lack of prudence in the evaluation of transactions. The objective of this article is to present the history of project financing between 2005 and 2014 on the basis of the amounts of loan mobilised by mandated lead arrangers (MLAs) and the project bond amounts subscribed by the organisations involved in the bond issue, with special regard to Europe. The study also aims to highlight those milestones and factors that sometimes reduced and sometimes increased the project value implemented through project financing. The analysis is based on the official database of IJGlobal, using fundamental statistical methods, ratios and rates. The analysis pays special attention to the financial institutions that played the main roles before, in and after the crisis.
E59|The controversial treatment of money and banks in macroeconomics|This paper offers a basic overview of the practical aspects of money creation. A brief presentation of the history of money and a critical summary of the commonly accepted theories highlight the current understanding of the emergence and operating characteristics of money in the modern economy. We follow the distinction between inside and outside money creation. Inside money is jointly determined by the private sector’s need for money, together with the banking system’s money creation potential. This paper focuses on inside money along the lines of the endogenous money theory. We demonstrate the main features of money flows and the money created by banks. Outside money is created by the state (not the private sector), and its creation can only be indirectly influenced by the money demand of the private sector. A brief overview of the historical process of the emergence of money provides a framework to assess and compare the main elements of the chartalist and metallist concepts of money. Concerning the current debates about the role of the banks in money creation, we compare three theories focusing on money creation. These three theories treat the role of banks in money creation differently. The endogenous money theory based on a convincing description of money flows offers a reliable interpretation of the current monetary policy. One striking conclusion of the endogenous money theory is that banks do not need savings in advance to lend, as lending in itself is considered money creation.
E59|Impact of the Funding for Growth Scheme on the Hungarian economy|In this paper, I examine the efficiency of the Funding for Growth Scheme (hereinafter FGS or Scheme), based on the loans disbursed until the end of 2015. The FGS is an unconventional instrument of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, launched in 2013, the purpose of which is to provide micro, small- and medium-sized enterprises (SME) sector with loans on favourable terms. The efficiency of the Scheme means, on the one hand, to what extent the problem addressed by the Scheme was relevant, and on the other hand, the type of solution provided by it, and whether it did not involve excessive cost and risk compared to the anticipated results. I regard these as the two main pillars based on which its efficiency can be judged. I also present the Scheme’s descriptive data and practical implementation. According to the conclusions, the Scheme offered an adequate solution for a problem of national economy significance, it has set lending to SMEs on a growth path and also contributed to economic growth, with relatively low costs and risks compared to the achievements.
E59|Fan chart – a tool for NBP’s monetary policy making|In this note we describe, in substantial detail, the methodology behind the construction of NBP’s fan chart. This note is meant to help the readers interpret information contained in the mid-term projection, understand the differences in the predicted uncertainty between the projection rounds, and the usefulness of the projection for the monetary policy conduct. We describe the process which leads to the final projection, the methodology of estimation of the variance of the final forecast probability distribution, the method used for quantifying asymmetry of the fan chart and the role the two-piece normal distribution plays in it. Finally, we describe the analysis of the changes in the fan charts between the projection rounds and explain how the narrative associated with the projection is consistent with its assessment of risk.
E59|2015 Summing-Up Of Banking Financial Sector Of The Republic Of Moldova|"Economic and political uncertainty in recent years has adversely affected the activity of Moldovan banks unfavoring the dynamics of the national economy. The 2015 year can be considered a ""rigid"" year for the Republic of Moldova, built by the liquidation of three financial institutions at the NBM decision (CB ""Unibank"" SA, CB ""Banca Sociala"" SA and BC ""Banca de Economii"" SA), and the tightening of the monetary policy. That has led to mistrust of the population in this sector, creating problems with bank loans and deteriorating of bank asset. However, commercial banks during 2015 remained sufficiently liquid and capitalized (exception is CB ""Unibank"" SA, CB ""Banca Sociala"" SA and BC ""Banca de Economii"" SA). This article aims to research the financial and banking sector from the Republic of Moldova in 2015 in terms of uncertainty. Therefore, the novelty of the article lies in the analysis of the banking sector from the Republic of Moldova under the main financial prudential indicators. The main research methods were: systemic analysis, synthesis, monographic, logic, etc. The main scientific results obtained in the article, as a conclusion of the research are the identification, analysis of the main activity of the banking sector and the proposed set of recommendations on strengthening the financial stability framework in the Republic of Moldova."
E59|"Who can better monitor a bank than another bank? Mechanisms of discipline in the Mexican interbank market ||¿Quién mejor que un banco para monitorear otro banco? Mecanismos de disciplina en el mercado interbancario mexicano"|"Basel III proposes market discipline (banking disclosure requirements) as a key instrument to achieve soundness in the banking system. Consequently, it is necessary to test the presence of responses to bank risk on the part of the economic agents. This article empirically studies the mechanisms of market discipline (price, quantity, and maturity) in the interbank market: whether higher risk banks have to pay higher interest rate, and have less access to credit in the interbank market, especially for long maturity borrowing. Theoretically, bankers are well equipped to monitor other banks, but the interbank market also is a channel for contagion. Using a sample of 37 Mexican banks, from December 2008 to September 2012, and a dynamic panel model (SYS GMM estimator), I did not find evidence for discipline induced by peers.|| Basilea III propone disciplina de mercado (requisitos de revelación de información bancaria) como herramienta clave para alcanzar un sistema bancario sólido. Consecuentemente, es necesario vericar la presencia de reacciones al riesgo bancario por parte de los agentes económicos. Este artículo empíricamente estudia los mecanismos de disciplina de mercado (precio,cantidad y vencimiento) en el mercado interbancario: si los bancos más riesgosos tienen que pagar tasas de interés más altas y tienen menor acceso al crédito interbancario, especialmente de préstamos con vencimiento de largo plazo. Teóricamente, los banqueros están bien equipados para monitorear otros bancos, pero el mercado interbancario también es un canal para contagio. Usando una muestra de 37 bancos mexicanos, de diciembre de 2008 a septiembre de 2012, y un modelo dinámico con datos de panel (el estimador SYS GMM), no se encontró evidencia a favor de la disciplina inducida por pares bancarios."
E59|The macroeconomics effects of the implementation of the euro in Poland in relation to the experience of other countries|In the chapter attempts have been taken to assess the potential impact of Polish accession to the euro zone. The analysis covers costs and benefits of monetary integration which are mostly pointed in literature, alluding to the experience of European Union countries. The analysis covers the years 1996-2004. A comparison was made between countries which have adopted the euro in 1999, and those that remained with the national currencies. There are differences between these two groups of countries in increments of GDP per capita, since the introduction of the euro in paper form, despite an earlier convergence of this indicator, however much smaller differences occurred in the case of the inflation rate. Both groups of countries have recorded a significant increase in foreign trade turnover since the inception of the euro area. The data used in the analysis come from the European Statistical Office (Eurostat) and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD).
E59|Dissemination of Information by the Federal Reserve System: An Overview and Benchmark|This paper examines the Federal Reserve System’s dissemination of information strategy to see how well it has worked and how it can be improved. The System provides information to a broad spectrum of individuals and organizations. The evidence collected, for the first time, shows a high level of discrepancy in relation to the use of social media channels to disseminate information among Banks in the Federal Reserve System. Overall, the Federal Reserve System adopts and makes available to stakeholders the same platforms for the dissemination of information. They use the same general structure of alternatives, but with significant differences in accessibility, availability, and quality. There are many options to improve the current offerings in these three attributes when one takes into account not only the best practice within the System but also that adopt by central banks in other jurisdictions, and even organizations in the private sector.
E59|Central Bank Balance Sheet Analysis|Balance sheet analysis is standard practice for assessing private sector businesses. No such analysis has been applied to central banks previously. We provide the theoretical foundation and rationale for such analysis. This foundation is rooted in the quality theory of money which places special emphasis on subjective factors as a complement to the more conventional quantitative factors that determine money’s purchasing power. The balance sheet of a central bank reveals the quality of the assets backing a currency and serves as an indicator of future monetary policy. Several accounting ratios proxy the quality of money in terms of assets held by the central bank, alluding to potential shifts in its purchasing power. These ratios can also be used to estimate the scope of future monetary policies that are feasible by the central bank.
E59|Revize monetárního modelu Marca Lavoieho endogenizací parametru gama|Revision of Marc Lavoie’s Monetary Model by the Endogenization of the Parameter γ This paper tries to point out a fallacy in Lavoie’s (2006) conclusion that incorporation of deep endogeneity of parameters into the PKA model suffices to bring about irreversibility of such a system. The arguments of the authors are supported by Setterfield’s (1998a, 2008) concept of hysteresis as path-dependence in the long-run outcome of systems with direct shocks. The paper shows that extension of Lavoie’s PKA model by deep endogeneity of the parameter γ causes the fulfillment of the necessary condition of hysteresis - Setterfi eld’s condition (a) ensuring deep endogeneity of the alleged exogenous parameter and, by means of this, path dependence in the long-run output - but not the fulfi llment of the sufficient condition of hysteresis - condition (c) ensuring the presence of adjustment asymmetry and, by means of this, irreversibility. Thus, deependogenisation of the parameter γ does not bring about Setterfi eld’s hysteresis and, in effect, does not cause irreversibility.
E59|European Funds Fraud: The Impact on the Process of Absorption of Structural and Cohesion Funds in Romania|The increase of the degree of absorption of European funds offered to Romania by the European Union represents one of its main objectives in the present and future situation. One of the main reasons that the funds are so important is the fact that, taking into consideration the microeconomic and macroeconomic situation that Romania is in, it represents an alternative financing mechanism of the economy that Romania can benefit in very advantageous conditions. Even under these conditions Romania- within 2007-2013 period of programming – couldn’t benefit from it by attracting as many structural and cohesion funds as possible, at least in comparison to other member states. In our opinion, that of the authors’ one of the reasons that led to such a low rate of absorption, alongside with the low administrative capacity of the state is the excessive bureaucracy, an inefficient legislative framework which is not harmonized with the European one, the lack of experience in using and administrating of European funds, the beneficiaries’ incapacity to sustain the financial support of the project (to assure the co-financing of the project), a low involvement of Romanian banking institutions in the process of supporting the beneficiaries of European funds. Another cause is the European funds fraud that happened in Romania. In the present article, the authors have decided to analyze the influence of European funds fraud on the degree of absorption of structural and cohesion funds in Romania. Classification-JEL: E10, E19, E29, E59, E60, E69, G23, K49, O20, O52, P50.
E59|ANFA – nationale Geldschöpfung als Sprengsatz für die Währungsunion?<BR>[ANFA – National Money Creation as an Explosive Device for the Currency Union?]|Zusammenfassung Die Unterscheidung zwischen gemeinsamen durch die EZB verantworteten geldpolitischen Maßnahmen des Eurosystems und eigenen, nicht-geldpolitischen Operationen der nationalen Notenbanken der Euro-Mitgliedstaaten stellt eine Besonderheit der Europäischen Währungsunion dar. Das jetzt veröffentlichte ANFA (Agreement on Net Financial Assets)- Geheimprotokoll hat die bislang nur wenig beachtete Möglichkeit nationaler Notenbanken zur Geldschöpfung in das öffentliche Interesse gebracht. Der Beitrag zeigt das unterschiedliche Ausmaß der Inanspruchnahme dieser Regelung durch die Mitgliedstaaten auf.
E59|Title A New Architecture Of The Banking System|The present thesis is meant to be a study which intends to define a different architecture of the banking system and the way this architecture could replace the actual system. The new type of banking system identifies itself with a new type of relation between banks and depositors and creditors, on one hand, and on the other hand, between banks and borrowers. This new kind of relation implies a change of both the administration of the liquidity within the banking system, and of the assessment and the management of the risks. The main concern of the new system is to strengthen the protection of the depositors/creditors and to give them the liberty to decide over the risks they are taking. The new system also deals with the increase of the stability in all the areas concerned.
E59|The New European Recovery And Resolution Framework|The Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive define a common set of rules to establish when and how the authorities should intervene to stabilize troubled banks. It establishes the principle that shareholders and creditors are the first to bear the losses of a failing bank, before authorities and taxpayers. This addresses the moral hazard, increasing the market discipline of banks and limiting the risks they are taking. The Directive introduces also the concept no creditor worse off to protect the shareholders and creditors. It is also provided a framework for orderly resolution, even for banks operating across borders. The gradual mutualisation of the resolution scheme requires political compromises that have not been achieved yet and there cannot be a banking union without a mutualisation.
E59|Simulation of the term structure. An application for measuring the interest rate risk|In order to provide a tool for risk management improvement and appropriate regulation, a methodology for measuring interest rate risk is applied in this paper. After estimating and simulating the interest rate term structure, the value at risk and expected shortfall are calculated on a portfolio. An application of alpha-stable distributions has allowed representing the asymmetric, leptokurtic and heavy tailed shape of financial returns and occurrence of extreme scenarios.
E59|Evaluación de la transmisión de la tasa de interés de referencia a las tasas de interés del sistema financiero|En este documento se analiza la transmisión de los cambios en la tasa de interés de referencia del Banco de la República hacia las tasas de interés activas del sistema financiero. Para tal efecto se utilizan análisis descriptivo, modelos de regresión, modelos de corte transversal y de duración. Se controla por otros factores macroeconómicos y características propias de las entidades financieras. Se encuentra heterogeneidad en la transmisión a las tasas de interés de las diferentes modalidades de crédito y plazos. Por otro lado, no se encuentra una reacción asimétrica en las tasas de mercado a alzas y reducciones en la tasa de intervención para ninguna de las modalidades de crédito.
E59|Evaluación de la transmisión de la tasa de interés de referencia a las tasas de interés del sistema financiero|En este documento se analiza la transmisión de los cambios en la tasa de interés de referencia del Banco de la República hacia las tasas de interés activas del sistema financiero. Para tal efecto se utilizan análisis descriptivo, modelos de regresión, modelos de corte transversal y de duración. Se controla por otros factores macroeconómicos y características propias de las entidades financieras. Se encuentra heterogeneidad en la transmisión a las tasas de interés de las diferentes modalidades de crédito y plazos. Por otro lado, no se encuentra una reacción asimétrica en las tasas de mercado a alzas y reducciones en la tasa de intervención para ninguna de las modalidades de crédito.
E59|Hawks and Doves at the FOMC|In this paper we estimate ideal points of Bank Presidents and Board Governors at the FOMC. We use stated preferences from FOMC transcripts and estimate a hierarchical spatial voting model. We find a clear difference between the average Board Governor and Bank President. We find little evidence for difference in ideal points according to the appointing president in case of Bank Governors. Similarly career background has no clear effect on the ideal points. We find that the median ideal point at the FOMC has been fairly stable over our sample period (1989-2007) emphasizing the lack of a political appointment channel. We also show that there was considerable variation in the median ideal point of Bank Presidents and Board Governors, but that these seem to cancel each other out. Also the dispersion of opinions (the spread between the lowest and highest ideal point) varies over time, suggestion variation in agreement at the FOMC.
E59|Different Types of Central Bank Insolvency and the Central Role of Seignorage|A central bank is insolvent if its plans imply a Ponzi scheme on reserves so the price level becomes infinity. If the central bank enjoys fiscal support, in the form of a dividend rule that pays out net income every period, including when it is negative, it can never become insolvent independently of the fiscal authority. Otherwise, this note distinguishes between intertemporal insolvency, rule insolvency, and period insolvency. While period and rule solvency depend on analyzing dividend rules and sources of risk to net income, evaluating intertemporal solvency requires overcoming the difficult challenge of measuring the present value of seignorage.
E59|Collateral damage? Micro-simulation of transaction cost shocks on the value of central bank collateral|Transaction cost shocks in financial markets are known to affect asset prices. This paper analyses how changes in transaction costs may affect the value of assets that banks use to collateralise borrowings in monetary policy operations. Based on a simple asset pricing model and employing a dataset of hypothetical Eurosystem collateral positions, we simulate and quantify the resulting change in collateral value pledged by counterparties to the Eurosystem, resulting from a transaction cost shock. A 10 basis point increase in transaction costs entails a direct -0.30% decrease of collateral value and a -0.07% decrease when adjusted for the expected reduction in the number of trades of each asset. We conclude that banks will on average suffer small collateral losses while selected institutions could face a considerably larger collateral decrease. JEL Classification: C15, E59, G12
E59|Survey on Financial Market Frictions and Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium Models|This survey reviews the research regarding the general frameworks used for the specification of financial market frictions in dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) models. Within the related literature, financial frictions are considered to be the prime candidates for endogenous amplification of small transitory non-financial shocks. The latest financial crisis has changed a number of macroeconomic paradigms and DSGE models were not left untouched. Pre-crisis macroeconomic models neglected the financial markets due to the fact the most economists considered them to function perfectly. As economic events pointed out the contrary, numerous research papers that tackle this problem are available in literature, therefore, this rapidly growth of literature motivates this survey.
E59|Liquidity provision during the crisis of 1914: Private and public sources|Caught between the end of the National Banking Era and the beginning of the Federal Reserve System, the crisis of 1914 provides an example of a banking panic avoided. We investigate how this outcome was achieved by examining data on the issues of Aldrich-Vreeland emergency currency and clearing house loan certificates to New York City institutions that identify the borrower and the quantity requested for each type of temporary liquidity measure. The extensive provision of temporary credit to a wide array of financial intermediaries was, in our opinion, essential to the successful alleviation of financial distress in 1914. Empirical results indicate an important role for clearing house loan certificates that is distinct from the influence of Aldrich-Vreeland emergency currency issues.
E59|When does a central bank׳s balance sheet require fiscal support?|Using a simple, general equilibrium model, we argue that it would be appropriate for a central bank with a large balance sheet composed of long-duration nominal assets to have access to, and be willing to ask for, support for its balance sheet by the fiscal authority. Otherwise its ability to control inflation may be at risk. This need for balance sheet support — a within-government transaction — is distinct from the need for fiscal backing of inflation policy that arises even in models where the central bank׳s balance sheet is merged with that of the rest of the government.
E59|Comment on: “when does a central bank’s balance sheet require fiscal support?” by Marco Del Negro and Christopher A. Sims|central bank is insolvent if its plans imply a Ponzi scheme on reserves so the price level becomes infinity. If the central bank enjoys fiscal support, in the form of a dividend rule that pays out net income every period, including when it is negative, it can never become insolvent independently of the fiscal authority. Otherwise, this note distinguishes between intertemporal insolvency, rule insolvency, and period insolvency. While period and rule solvency depend on analyzing dividend rules and sources of risk to net income, evaluating intertemporal solvency requires overcoming the difficult challenge of measuring the present value of seignorage.
E59|Evaluation of Impact of Changes of Bank Deposit Resources on Gross Domestic Product|The article says about investigation of the nature of bank deposit resources and substantiation of methodical bases for evaluation of impact of their changes on the value of gross domestic product. Formation of borrowed bank resources by conducting deposit operations is one of the most important components of financial and economic activity of banks, as deposit resources play a key role in covering the needs of bank in cash to implement profitable active operations. There are analyzed the volume of fixed-term deposits of the banking system of Ukraine and the gross domestic product for the period 2005-2014. There are revealed that fixed-term deposits are stable source of resources for the bank, and their relationship to gross domestic product in Ukraine is an average of 25 %. In order to establish distress communication between fixed-term deposits of domestic banks and to identify their impact on gross domestic product there is carried out the correlation analysis by the methods of economic-mathematical modelling.
E59|Challenges in educational reform: An experiment on active learning in mathematics|This paper reports the results of an experiment designed to improve secondary school students’ ability to reason and argue using mathematics. A structured pedagogical intervention was created to foster a more active role of students in the classroom. The intervention was implemented with high fidelity and was internally valid. Surprisingly, students in the control group learned significantly more than those who received treatment.
E59|Monetary Policy Transmission in Emerging Asia: The Role of Banks and the Effects of Financial Globalization|Given the heavy reliance on bank lending as the main source of financing in most Asian economies, banks could potentially play a pivotal role in monetary policy transmission. However, we find that Asia?s bank lending channel or, more broadly, credit channel of domestic monetary policy is not very strong at the aggregate level. Using bank-level data for nine Asian economies during 2000?2013, we show that heterogeneity of bank characteristics (e.g., ownership type, financial position), degree of foreign bank penetration of the domestic banking sector, and global financial conditions all have a bearing on the response of domestic credit to changes in domestic monetary policy, and may account for the apparently weak credit channel at aggregate level.
E59|An empirical analysis of import demand function for Turkey: An ARDL bounds testing approach|Since the 1980’s, Turkish economy has revealed a dramatic growth. The purpose of the present study is to develop the import demand behavior of Turkey as an emerging economy and discover the long-run relation between the import demand and the components of GDP. One of the main reasons we adopt a disaggregated model to test aggregated import demand function estimation is that it deals with the potential aggregation bias when the different macro components have different import contents. The second reason is we believe that elimination of the biasedness will produce better forecasting results. This study examines the long-run and short-run elasticities of Turkey’s disaggregate import demand using an annual dataset that covers the period of 1980 to 2011. The error-correction modeling and cointegration analysis are the appropriate techniques since we try to discover the long-run relation between the import demand and components of GDP. First we determine the degree of integration of each variable in the model to apply the cointegration test that is known as an autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL). We collect the dataset from United Nations Statistical Division National Accounts Official Country Data and World Bank’s Development Indicators. This paper is one of the first studies to estimate import demand function of Turkey using the recent data which makes it different from earlier studies. Our results suggest that there is a long run relationship between the dependent variable and the control variables in the import demand function. All the explanatory variables are statistically significant in the long-run and the short-run as well. Our results also suggest that in the long run all of the included variables in the model are statistically significant. All the independent variables have inelastic effects on imports except total consumption. Relative price variable has a positive effect which may suggest in the short run importers cannot adjust price changes faster, consequently causing an increase in import expenditure bills. Thus, Turkish trade balance may get worsen if imports exceeds exports.
E59|Different types of central bank insolvency and the central role of seignorage|A central bank is insolvent if its plans imply a Ponzi scheme on reserves so the price level becomes infinity. If the central bank enjoys fiscal support, in the form of a dividend rule that pays out net income every period, including when it is negative, it can never become insolvent independently of the fiscal authority. Otherwise, this note distinguishes between intertemporal insolvency, rule insolvency, and period insolvency. While period and rule solvency depend on analyzing dividend rules and sources of risk to net income, evaluating intertemporal solvency requires overcoming the difficult challenge of measuring the present value of seignorage.
E59|On Inflation Targeting|"The article discusses the fundamental issues of monetary policy in the context of implemented by the Bank of Russia transition to inflation targeting. It is shown that the result of the actions of the monetary authorities was the growth of inflation, worsening management of the financial market, falling investment and business activity, loss of control over the main macroeconomic indicators. It is revealed that ""inflation targeting"" actually refers to limiting the tools of monetary policy to manipulations by the key rate. It is proved that in conditions of free international movement of capital this approach does not achieve the inflation target due to supercritical dependence of the money market on foreign speculators. The necessity of a systematic approach to monetary policy with a set of control parameters corresponding to the complexity of monetary circulation is underlined."
E59|Learning and Model Validation|This paper studies adaptive learning with multiple models. An agent operating in a self-referential environment is aware of potential model misspecification, and tries to detect it, in real-time, using an econometric specification test. If the current model passes the test, it is used to construct an optimal policy. If it fails the test, a new model is selected. As the rate of coefficient updating decreases, one model becomes dominant, and is used “almost always”. Dominant models can be characterized using the tools of large deviations theory. The analysis is used to address two questions posed by Sargent's Phillips Curve model.
E59|Bitcoin Mission Statement. Or What does it mean Sharing Economy and Distributed Trust?|Technological advancements in the means of production are the driving force behind the changes in the prevailing system of socio-economic relations. Feudalism was transformed into capitalism as a result of such advancements. While man obtained physical freedom, the financial freedom remained under the control of the centralized authority. A deep level of collaboration is required to attain the next level of productivity provided by new technological advancements. However, the present system with a centralized control of governance and finance appears to constrain and restrain the value producing economy. This constriction becomes especially evident when the business environment requires collaboration to create, as it underlines the inherent conflict of centralized control. The most recent tech sector innovations, such as smart contracts and cryptocurrencies, are poised to disrupt the system of centralized control. The removal of a centralized authority from the position of control will change the fabric of the society to reflect the mesh network of shared resources. The society will transform to the new form of socio-economic relations – the era of Crypto-Socialism.
E59|Half-Forgotten Personalities of Economic Thought - Silvio Gesell|Silvio Gesell was a German tradesman, self-educated economist, globetrotter and social reformer with a nonconformist worldview. He is known for his proposals for monetary reform. He is famous for his experiments with interest-free currency. Gesell’s thought inspired a plenty of political and civil movements, and has a few followers even to this day.
E59|Monetary Policy Transmission in Emerging Asia; The Role of Banks and the Effects of Financial Globalization|Given the heavy reliance on bank lending as the main source of financing in most Asian economies, banks could potentially play a pivotal role in monetary policy transmission. However, we find that Asia’s bank lending channel or, more broadly, credit channel of domestic monetary policy is not very strong at the aggregate level. Using bank-level data for nine Asian economies during 2000–2013, we show that heterogeneity of bank characteristics (e.g., ownership type, financial position), degree of foreign bank penetration of the domestic banking sector, and global financial conditions all have a bearing on the response of domestic credit to changes in domestic monetary policy, and may account for the apparently weak credit channel at aggregate level.
E59|Análisis comparativo de microcréditos Banca pública Argentina y el Banco Grameen|El artículo desarrolla un análisis de tipo comparativo-descriptivo del principal precursor de los microcréditos a nivel mundial: el Banco Grameen y su reformulación, respecto a las Instituciones de la Banca Pública Argentina. Dados los contextos particulares de origen, cada sistema señala objetivos diferentes. No obstante, todos promulgan por la eliminación de la pobreza, desarrollo y equidad social y están englobados en el conjunto de las microfinanzas.
E59|Implementing Macroprudential Policies: Challenges, Pitfalls and Way Forward| Central banks have increasingly been given explicit financial stability mandates and as a result, macroprudential policies have become the buzz word in central bank and regulatory circles as well as in international financial institutions like the IMF and BIS. While macroprudential policies are a useful addition to the toolbox, there are various challenges that central banks and regulatory authorities would need to meet to obtain the intended outcomes. For example, there is a need to coordinate the use of macroprudential policies and traditional monetary policy so they complement each other in achieving desired policy objectives and outcomes. To overcome challenges and potential pitfalls, the implementation of macroprudential policies requires a disciplined and transparent process, in particular effective communication with the public. Transparency and clear communication are essential to instill public and market confidence and to promote accountability. Moreover, central bank implementation of macroprudential policy measures needs to be timely and decisive to curtail the build-up of systemic risks. Policy actions and discretion should be supported by clear legal authority and the same degree of autonomy and independence that pertains to monetary policy actions. Macroprudential policy decisions also need to be well-designed and supported by sound analysis, while avoiding “analytical paralysis,” since time is usually a factor in successfully controlling the build-up of systemic risk. The efficacy of macroprudential policy actions is difficult to prove as they remain largely a judgmental process, although experience will provide more empirical underpinnings to the macroprudential policy formulation process, and allow more granular data to assist researchers in this area. Regionally, it is useful to continue sharing experiences on macroprudential policy decision-making, and collaborate in related research.
E59|Collateral Damage? Micro-Simulation of Transaction Cost Shocks on the Value of Central Bank Collateral|Transaction cost shocks in financial markets are known to affect asset prices. This paper analyses how changes in transaction costs may affect the value of assets that banks use to collateralise borrowings in monetary policy operations. Based on a simple asset pricing model and employing a dataset of hypothetical Eurosystem collateral positions, we simulate and quantify the resulting change in collateral value pledged by counterparties to the Eurosystem, resulting from a transaction cost shock. A 10 basis point increase in transaction costs entails a direct -0.30% decrease of collateral value and a -0.07% decrease when adjusted for the expected reduction in the number of trades of each asset. We conclude that banks will on average suffer small collateral losses while selected institutions could face a considerably larger collateral decrease.
E59|Hawks and Doves at the FOMC|In this paper we estimate ideal points of Bank Presidents and Board Governors at the FOMC. We use stated preferences from FOMC transcipts and estimate a hierarchical spatial voting model. We find a clear difference between the average Board Governor and Bank President. We find little evidence for difference in ideal points according to the appointing president in case of Bank Governors. Similarly career background has no clear effect on the ideal points. We find that the median ideal point at the FOMC has been fairly stable over our sample period (1989-2007) emphasizing the lack of a political appointment channel. We also show that there was considerable variation in the median ideal point of Bank Presidents and Board Governors, but that these seem to cancel each other out. Also the dispersion of opinions (the spread between the lowest and highest ideal point) varies over time, suggestion variation in agreement at the FOMC.
E59|Financial Innovations, Money Demand, and the Welfare Cost of Inflation| In the 1990s, the empirical relationship between money demand and interest rates began to fall apart. We analyze to what extent financial innovations can explain this breakdown. For this purpose, we construct a microfounded monetary model with a money market that provides insurance against liquidity shocks by offering short‐term loans and by paying interest on money market deposits. We calibrate the model to U.S. data and find that the introduction of the sweep technology at the beginning of the 1990s, which improved access to money markets, can explain the behavior of money demand very well. Furthermore, by allowing a more efficient allocation of money, the welfare cost of inflation decreased substantially.
E59|Angels Without Borders:Trends and Policies Shaping Angel Investment Worldwide|"""Angel investors"" provide small amounts of capital ($100k–$3m) to early stage, high-risk ventures. In recent years, they have not only grown in numbers and sophistication, they have garnered the attention of larger investors and governments throughout the world who are interested in the phenomenal power of startups to bring innovative products to consumers, create jobs and economic value, and sustain macroeconomic growth."
E59|Sources of Capital for Start-Ups|Financing start-up ventures is only one piece of the entrepreneurial puzzle and surely not as important as the quality of the management team or perhaps other aspects of venture creation. However, raising money is critical to success for many of the high-growth new companies that fuel job and wealth creation around the world. Angel investing is one source of financing for entrepreneurs. But understanding the importance of angel capital requires an appreciation of the entire capital food chain for start-up ventures. These sources are covered below, essentially in the order that entrepreneurs seek certain types of capital, from idea stage to the stage of rapid revenue growth.
E59|Women Angel Investors|The following sections are included:GOLDEN SEEDS EMPOWERING WOMENEndnotes
E59|Angel Impact Investing|The following sections are included:OVERVIEWSPECTRUM OF IMPACT INVESTMENTSCALVERT SPECIAL EQUITIESINVESTORS' CIRCLEPATIENT CAPITAL COLLABORATIVECALVERT DEALS THROUGH INVESTORS' CIRCLEGRAY GHOST VENTURESVILLAGE CAPITALCHINATONIICASPEN NETWORK OF DEVELOPMENT ENTREPRENEURSSOCIAL VENTURE NETWORKIMPACTASSETSSOCAP CONFERENCEEVENTSCROWDFUNDINGMETRICS AND ASSESSMENTCONCLUSIONEndnotes
E59|Crowdfunding and Angel Investing|The following sections are included:OVERVIEWDEFINITIONSDONATION-BASED CROWDFUNDINGREWARD-BASED CROWDFUNDINGPEER-TO-PEER LENDINGINTRASTATE CROWDFUNDINGJOBS ACT TITLE II: GENERAL SOLICITATIONJOBS ACT TITLE III: SECURITIES-BASED CROWDFUNDING FOR ALLJOBS ACT TITLE IV: REGULATION A+ “STREAMLINED IPO'S”WHAT IT ALL MEANS—THE POSITIVESCONCERNSCONCLUSION
E59|Israel|The following sections are included:START-UP NATIONINCUBATORS, ISRAELI-STYLEMEASURING SUCCESSSTART-UP ACCELERATORSINVESTOR EVENTS AND COMPETITIONSANGEL INVESTMENT ACTIVITY TODAYCROWDFUNDINGPITCHING TO FOREIGN ANGELSGOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR EARLY-STAGE COMPANIESTHE PROGNOSISEndnotes
E59|France|The following sections are included:A BRIEF HISTORY OF ANGEL ACTIVITIESANGEL NETWORK TYPESANGELS' ROLE IN THE INNOVATION ECOSYSTEMCROWDFUNDING PLATFORMSGOVERNMENT POLICIESGOVERNMENT SUBSIDIESPUBLIC CO-INVESTMENT FUNDS
E59|South Africa|The following sections are included:OVERVIEWHISTORY OF ANGEL INVESTMENT IN SOUTH AFRICAANGEL GROUP STRUCTURES AND ORGANIZATIONSPOLICIES TO PROMOTE BUSINESS ANGEL INVESTINGANGEL INVESTMENT TRENDSEndnotes
E59|Hong Kong|The following sections are included:OVERVIEWTHE ECOSYSTEMANGEL GROUP STRUCTURES AND ORGANIZATIONSGOVERNMENT POLICIES TO PROMOTE ANGEL INVESTINGTHE FUTURE OF ANGEL INVESTING IN HONG KONG
E59|United States|Angel investing has become “serious finance” in the United States. In 2014 an estimated 300,000 angels invested about $24.1 billion in more than 70,000 high-growth companies. For the last two decades, angel investors have invested in hundreds of thousands of promising start-ups in a wide variety of sectors, and particularly in technology, healthcare, and mobile & telecom. It comes as a surprise to many that angels have provided roughly the same amount of capital as venture capitalists during these decades—and the bigger surprise is that angels have supported more than ten times the number of companies…
E59|Germany|Angels are the most important investors for early stage companies in Germany. According to an estimate by Zentrum für Europäische Wirtschaftsentwicklung (zew) there are currently between 2,700 and 5,400 active angels in Germany. They annually invest between €300 and €400 million, €190 of which goes to the first round of high-tech companies. Angels are estimated to hold around four investments on average, translating into an average investment per engagement of between €50,000 and €150,000. The zew study shows that financing of young technology companies by third party equity is still underdeveloped, with only 4.1 percent accessing angels and 0.9 percent accessing venture capital. The proportion of university spinoffs among these is a high 42 percent. Start-ups that receive funding from third parties are larger, grow faster and are more innovative.
E59|Scotland|The following sections are included:INTRODUCTIONTHE EARLY YEARSPOLICY DEVELOPMENT AND MEDIA AWARENESSTHE RISE OF ANGEL GROUPSTAXATIONPOLICY DEVELOPMENT: AN EVOLUTIONARY APPROACHPUBLIC POLICY LESSONSCASE STUDY - UK TAX INCENTIVES FOR ANGELS AND ENTREPRENEURSCASE STUDY - BRAVEHEART: ANGEL GROUP TO VENTURE CAPITAL FUNDCASE STUDY - ARCHANGELS INFORMAL INVESTMENTCASE STUDY - LINC SCOTLAND INVESTOR READY FUNDEndnotes
E59|China|Informal angel investors who are neither family nor friends of an entrepreneur, can be an excellent financing channel for start-ups. Over the past 20 years angel investment has been developing in tandem with the exponential growth of science and technology start-ups in the US and Europe. Chinese angel investing emerged at the end of the 20th century with the expansion of the internet and high-tech enterprises. In recent years more and more entrepreneurs, investors and professionals have taken part in angel activity. The standardization and institutionalization of angel investment is also speeding up. Various angel associations, groups and networks have been formed in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and other cities. Numerous policies promoting angel investment have been enacted, particularly in local governments such as Jiangsu province, Hubei province, Ningbo, Wenzhou, Chengdu, Chongqing and Luoyang…
E59|Turkey|The following sections are included:THE ANGEL ENTREPRENEURIAL ECOSYSTEMANGEL INVESTMENT ECOSYSTEM IN TURKEYGOVERNMENT POLICIES TO PROMOTE BUSINESS ANGELSANGEL INVESTMENT TRENDSAcknowledgementsEndnotes
E59|Italy|The following sections are included:ITALIAN ASSOCIATION OF BUSINESS ANGELSSTATE OF THE ART OF ANGEL INVESTING IN ITALYINTEGRATION OF CROWDFUNDING AND ANGEL INVESTINGPUBLIC POLICIES TO PROMOTE ANGEL INVESTMENTEndnotes
E59|Australia|Angel investing started in Australia in the mid-1990s. Bob Beaumont, an Australian engineer and businessman, returned from a prolonged period living in the US, where he had pursued an entrepreneurial career before becoming a venture capitalist and merchant banker. Along the way, he became familiar with the emerging practice of angel investing and was intimately involved in the early years of the movement in the US and Europe. When he returned to Australia, Bob established its first formal angel group. That first angel group started in Melbourne, Victoria, and continued for 15 years based on a five-year commitment cycle from its members…
E59|Belgium|Seven angel networks emerged in Belgium in the 1998–2001 period. Together they completely covered the Belgian area: four in Flanders, two in Wallonia and one in Brussels. In the beginning of 2004, the four Flemish networks merged into one private non-profit organization: BAN Vlaanderen. In 2007, one of the Walloon networks merged with the one in Brussels to become a single private entity: Be Angels. As of April 2015, there are now two remaining networks in Belgium, one in Flanders and one in Wallonia. Together these represent around 400 angels and receive over 750 projects annually. Approximately 200 of these projects are presented at 35 investment events, resulting in 40-50 annual deals and a total of €8 million. Both networks also organize entrepreneur and investor training activities, such as business angel days.
E59|Spain|Angel investment, in particular organized through networks, is a recent phenomenon in Spain. Despite a slow take-off in the early 2000s, more than 50 networks had been created by 2013 and the number is expected to grow. The last years of the economic crisis, as well as increasing media coverage of entrepreneurship, have brought attention to angel financing. Incubators, accelerators, and crowdfunding platforms are sprouting, offering angel investors opportunities and multiplying deal flow. In Spain, the best years of angel investment are yet to come…
E59|United Arab Emirates|The following sections are included:A BRIEF HISTORY OF ANGEL ACTIVITIESENTREPRENEURIAL ECOSYSTEM IN THE UAEKNOWLEDGE GAPGOVERNMENT REGULATIONWOMEN: A NEW ASSET CLASS FOR ANGEL INVESTORSTHE FUTURE OF ANGEL INVESTMENT IN THE UAE
E59|United Kingdom|The following sections are included:A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE UK BUSINESS ANGELS ASSOCIATIONRECENT EVOLUTION OF THE UK ANGEL MARKETTECHNICAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORKSCALE OF THE ANGEL MARKETSECTORS ATTRACTING ANGEL INVESTMENTINFLUENCERS AND DRIVERS FOR ANGEL INVESTMENTSYNDICATION AND CO-INVESTMENT FUNDSTHE CHANGING LANDSCAPEACCELERATORSCROWDFUNDINGONLINE PLATFORMSSUMMARYEndnotes
E59|India|As pioneers of groundbreaking technology that now covers a myriad of industries, the financial equivalent of the “angels of Broadway” have come a long way. This chapter examines the evolution of this avant garde investment movement through the experience of India. Academic literature has volumes on venture capital and its efficacy, but there is little on angel investing, which accounts for more than half of the equity financing for new projects. VC started before the development of the stock market when wealthy families supported emerging businesses. In India it took off in 1987 when the government-funded Indian Industrial Development Bank (idbi) set up a VC scheme. Over the years, venture capital has maintained an elitist and quantitative approach to investment…
E59|The Netherlands|The following sections are included:THE SCOPE OF ANGEL ACTIVITIESMARKET DEVELOPMENTSTRENDS IN THE DUTCH ANGELS MARKETGOVERNMENT POLICIES TO PROMOTE ANGEL INVESTMENTEndnotes
E59|Singapore|The following sections are included:BRIEF HISTORY OF ANGEL ACTIVITIESDEVELOPMENT OF THE ANGEL INVESTMENT COMMUNITYFORMATION OF BANSEAGOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR ANGEL INVESTINGCONCLUSIONEndnotes
E59|Canada|Angel investing was reported as early as 1994 in Canada, in an article of The Financial Post. At that time, information about early stage investing was largely anecdotal and tended to focus on the practice as if it were the domain of the privileged few. There appeared to be no links, either in existence or in development, between Canadian angels, venture capital firms, merchant banks, and other private investors. The Canadian mutual fund industry was in its infancy, and Canadians themselves had yet to wholeheartedly embrace direct investing as a means of creating and preserving wealth…
E59|Portugal|The following sections are included:A BRIEF HISTORY OF ANGEL ACTIVITIESENTREPRENEURIAL ECOSYSTEMANGEL GROUP STRUCTURES AND ORGANIZATIONSPOLICIES PROMOTING ANGEL INVESTINGPOLICY SUGGESTIONSTHE PROGNOSIS FOR ANGEL INVESTING IN PORTUGALAcknowledgments
E59|New Zealand|The following sections are included:BRIEF HISTORY OF ANGEL ACTIVITIESENTREPRENEURIAL ECOSYSTEMANGEL NETWORKSPROGNOSIS FOR THE FUTUREGOVERNMENT POLICIES TO PROMOTE ANGEL INVESTINGANGEL INVESTMENT TRENDSEndnotes
E59|Russia|In the last few years the Russian venture capital market has reached a number of important milestones. In 2013 Russia was the fastest growing venture capital (VC) market in Europe and fourth in size. The number of high-risk, high-reward investment opportunities continues to grow, despite generally unfavorable economic conditions in the country. The VC community has a long way to go before these achievements are sustainable, however. Russia is in the investment phase of the cycle, with the large funds that were established in the 2006-2008 period just reaching maturity and starting to look for exits…
E59|Colombia|The following sections are included:EARLY ANGEL ACTIVITIESTHE ENTREPRENEURIAL ECOSYSTEMINNOVATION COMPETITIONSANGEL GROUP STRUCTURES AND ORGANIZATIONSPOLICIES TO PROMOTE ANGEL INVESTINGPUBLIC FUNDINGPLATFORMS FOR INVESTINGAcknowledgements
E59|Austria|The following sections are included:AUSTRIA WIRTSCHAFTSSERVICE GESELLSCHAFTTHE AUSTRIAN BUSINESS ANGEL NETWORK (ABAN)I2 SERVICES AND INVESTMENT FOCUSSCREENING PROCEDUREI2 TRACK RECORDALTERNATIVE FINANCING AND EQUITYEndnotes
E59|Finland|Angel investing is probably almost as old as trade. In Finland people started supporting each other's businesses as soon as they had formed their first communities and built their first ships. The term “business angel” is young, however, and was adopted in the early 21st century in line with the US model. A substantial advantage of Finland's angel ecosystem is its open taxation regulations, which make it easy to find potential angels and grow networks. Tax information is publicly available. At the end of the tax year, people know who has sold a company and how much was earned. Bigger events are covered in the news media…
E59|Switzerland|The following sections are included:OVERVIEWENTREPRENEURIAL ECOSYSTEMACCELERATORS AND INCUBATORSINCUBATORSPRIVATE VENTURE COMMUNITYANGEL COMMUNITYPROGNOSISEndnotes
E59|How Would Monetary Policy Matter In The Proposed African Monetary Unions? Evidence From Output And Prices|We analyze the effects of monetary policy on economic activity in the proposed African monetary unions. Findings broadly show that: (1) but for financial efficiency in the EAMZ, monetary policy variables affect output neither in the short-run nor in the long-term and; (2) with the exception of financial size that impacts inflation in the EAMZ in the short-term, monetary policy variables generally have no effect on prices in the short-run. The WAMZ may not use policy instruments to offset adverse shocks to output by pursuing either an expansionary or a contractionary policy, while the EAMZ can do with the ‘financial allocation efficiency’ instrument. Policy implications are discussed.
E59|On The Possibility Of Informationally Efficient Markets| This paper presents conditions for a resolution of the Grossman–Stiglitz paradox of informationally efficient markets. We display a market with asymmetric information where a privately revealing equilibrium obtains in a competitive framework and where incentives to acquire information are preserved as long as the correlation in traders’ valuations is not too large. The equilibrium is efficient, and the problems associated with fully revealing rational expectations equilibria are precluded without resorting necessarily to noise traders. The robustness of the results to general information structures is established and the effect of market power is examined in a large market approximation to the competitive economy. The model is applied to explain changes in bidding behavior in central bank liquidity auctions in the crisis period. (JEL: D82, D84, G14, E59)
E59|Evaluando las intervenciones cambiarias en Colombia: 2004-2012|Esta investigación tiene como propósito evaluar la efectividad de las intervenciones en el mercado cam- biario colombiano, utilizando el modelo teórico canal de coordinación bajo la metodología red neuronal de regresión cuantil. Con este objetivo se estima el efecto de los inversionistas no informados, informados y el emisor en diferentes cuantiles de la distribución del retorno de la tasa de cambio en el largo plazo. Se encuentra que la autoridad cambiaria tiene una mayor influencia en los cuantiles inferiores de la distribución, como son los de 5 y 25%, que recogen efectos asociados con la revaluación del peso.
E59|Assessing the effectiveness of monetary policy in Kenya: Evidence from a macroeconomic model|This paper examines the effectiveness of monetary policy in Kenya based on policy simulations from a structural macroeconometric model. The analysis is conducted using the policy rate, i.e. the central bank rate (CBR) and the cash reserve ratio (CRR) with respect to the interest rate and bank lending channels, respectively. The results indicate that whereas a change in the policy rate is effective in influencing short term rates, the long term lending rates respond marginally. Consequently, the transmission to the real economy and the overall impact on inflation is minimal. However, a change in CBR has a comparatively higher impact on inflation while a change in CRR has a relatively larger impact on aggregate demand. Enhancing the effectiveness of the CBR and strengthening of the interest rate channel have the potential of anchoring inflation expectations and boosting the effectiveness of monetary policy in Kenya.
E59|Dichotomy between macroprudential policy and monetary policy on credit and inflation|This paper compares macroprudential policy and monetary policy using a simple New Keynesian model with credit. Macroprudential policy is effective in stabilizing credit with limited impact on inflation. Monetary policy stabilizes inflation, but is ‘too blunt’ for credit stabilization.
E59|Does money matter in Africa?: New empirics on long- and short-run effects of monetary policy on output and prices|Purpose - – The purpose of this paper is to examine the effects of monetary policy on economic activity using a plethora of hitherto unemployed financial dynamics in inflation-chaotic African countries for the period of 1987-2010.Although in developed economies, changes in monetary policy affect real economic activity in the short-run, but only prices in the long-run, the question of whether these tendencies apply to developing countries remains open to debate. Design/methodology/approach - – Vector autoregresion (VARs) within the frameworks of Vector Error Correction Models and simple Granger causality models are used to estimate the long- and short-run effects, respectively. A battery of robustness checks are also used to ensure consistency in the specifications and results. Findings - – The tested hypotheses are valid under monetary policy independence and dependence, except few exceptions. Practical implications - – A wide range of policy implications are discussed. Inter alia: the long-run neutrality of money and business cycles, credit expansions and inflationary tendencies, inflation targeting and monetary policy independence implications. Country-/regional-specific implications, the manner in which the findings reconcile the ongoing debate, measures for fighting surplus liquidity and caveats and future research directions are also discussed. Originality/value - – By using a plethora of hitherto unemployed financial dynamics (that broadly reflect monetary policy), we provide significant contributions to the empirics of money. The conclusion of the analysis is a valuable contribution to the scholarly and policy debate on how money matters as an instrument of economic activity in developing countries.
E59|Evaluación del cumplimiento de los objetivos de inflación y el papel de las expectativas: evidencia para México, 1995-2012|Después de más de una década de operación de los objetivos de inflación, resulta relevante evaluar sus alcances en relación con las metas inflacionarias establecidas por el Banco de México, y el papel que en dicho proceso han desempeñado las expectativas como ancla nominal de los precios. De manera particular, se contrasta con qué frecuencia el banco se aleja de su objetivo y se investiga sobre la estabilización de las expectativas de inflación en un ambiente de inflación baja y estable, aunque sujeta a choques que generan presiones inflacionarias. La evaluación de estos choques sobre las expectativas de inflación se realiza a través de un modelo VAR. Además, se lleva a cabo un análisis de correlación entre las expectativas inflacionarias y sus valores efectivos, basado en la metodología Rolling Windows. Los resultados sugieren que el grado de asociación entre la inflación efectiva y sus expectativas ha disminuido en el tiempo, y que los efectos de los choques macroeconómicos sobre las expectativas, son menos intensos en el periodo de objetivos de inflación.
E59|The Linkages Between Monetary And Financial Stability: Some Policy Perspectives|In this paper I discuss various underlying aspects of the linkage between monetary and financial stability and a number of central issues that still need to be analyzed further, particularly in relation to the practical significance of risktaking behavior in reshaping the workings of the monetary policy transmission mechanism. The discussion leads us to the understanding that there are several strategic and tactical challenges facing central banks in terms of designing policy strategy to integrate the monetary and macroprudential policy framework, especially to meet the dual objectives of monetary stability (price) and financial stability. Given the fact that the nexus between monetary and financial stability, whether they are substitutes or complements, is still an open debate, it is important to draw implications, especially related to the central bank'spolicy mandate.
E59|Renewable Energy-Solar Power in India|Renewable energy is basically the energy that comes from natural sources such as wind, sunlight, tides, rain, and geothermal heat. Generally renewable energy projects are used on a large scale, however, this does not mean that renewable energy cannot be used in smaller areas such as villages or more generally rural areas. A clear example can be seen in Kenya, where it is estimated that roughly 30,000 small solar power units with a capacity of 20 to 100 watts are sold every year. This is the largest solar ownership rate in the world for residential communities. Even though energy from renewable energy sources is growing rapidly, with markets such as solar cells, wind and bio-diesel experiencing annual double digit growth, the overall share is only expected to increase marginally over the coming decades as the demand for energy also grows rapidly, particularly in many developing countries. In India, the scientific focus is deliberately moving towards transforming coal into clean energy as well as harnessing hydropower. The recent surge in nuclear energy is also diverting focus from the solar energy enhancement. In all probability, the Indian government will support off-grid solar energy production through a decentralized manner. In spite of this, India needs to focus research on solar energy and cheaper photovoltaic to provide affordable energy to all.
E59|Performance Appraisal of Mutual Funds Operating in India|Mutual funds provide a mechanism to invest in the stock market without knowing the complexities of stock market. It provides the best option to the investors who have no knowledge of the stock market. It is just the connecting bridge that allows a group of investors to pool their money together with a predetermined investment objective. Over the past decade, mutual funds have increasingly become the investor’s vehicle of choice for long-term investment. It becomes pertinent to study the performance of the mutual fund. The relation between risk-return determines the performance of a mutual fund scheme. As risk is commensurate with return, therefore, providing maximum return on the investment made within the acceptable associated risk level helps in segregating the better performers from the laggards. Many asset management companies are working in India, so it is necessary to study the performance of it which may be useful for the investors to select the right mutual fund. Therefore, the author has taken the performance of mutual fund as the main thrust area for the present research entitled, “Performance Appraisal of Mutual Funds Operating in India.” Secondary data is taken as a basis of analysis in this research. Top five asset management companies is selected as per AUM as on 30th September 2014. Thus, it can be said that of all 5 sample companies, HDFC Equity Fund is the best performer and give positive results.
E59|How many currencies in Saarc countries? a multivariate structural var approach|This paper examines whether or not the South Asian Association Regional Cooperation (SAARC), can introduce a single currency across the region. A four-variable structural vector autoregressive (SVAR) model is used to identify the underlying shocks and to examine the correlation in shocks for a specified sample period of 1974-2010. The results show asymmetric correlations among domestic shocks, which do not suggest forming a common currency area across the region. The paper also finds lower factor mobility; lower degree of intra-regional trades, and lack of political cooperation, suggesting the SAARC countries are not yet ready to introduce a common currency.
E59|Runs, panics and bubbles: Diamond–Dybvig and Morris–Shin reconsidered|The basic two-noncooperative-equilibrium-point model of Diamond and Dybvig is considered along with the work of Morris and Shin utilizing the possibility of outside noise to select a unique equilibrium point. Both of these approaches are essentially nondynamic. We add an explicit replicator dynamic from evolutionary game theory to provide for a sensitivity analysis that encompasses both models and contains the results of both depending on parameter settings. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
E59|Sanctions of the USA and the Policy of Bank of Russia: Double Blow to the National Economy|This article examines fundamental questions of monetary policy in the context of challenges to the national security of Russia in connection with the imposition of economic sanctions by the US and the EU. It is proved that the policy of the Russian monetary authorities, particularly the Central Bank, artificially limiting the money supply in the domestic market and pandering to the export of capital, compounds the effects of economic sanctions and plunges the economy into depression. The article presents practical advice on the transition from external to domestic sources of long-term credit with the simultaneous adoption of measures to prevent capital flight.
E59|Inflation,Inflation Variability, and Output Performance. Venezuela 1951-2002|This paper explores the relationship between the level of inflation, inflation variability, and output performance in the Venezuelan economy for the period 1951-2002. The paper examines the mechanism through which higher inflation translates into lower non-oil real GDP growth. We find empirical evidence that supports Friedman's (1977) contention that higher inflation produces more inflation volatility /uncertainty that leads to relative price variability that in turn, is harmful for the proper functioning of the market as the best system for allocating resources.
E59|The long-run relationship between money and prices in Mexico: 1969-2010|This paper performs a spectral analysis (univariate and bivariate) of monthly series of growth in money (a narrow and a broad aggregate) and in prices for Mexico. This analysis allows the identification of the most important frequencies for each series, as well as of some measures of association between the series, at different frequencies. In particular, zero frequency measures, typically used for identifying the long-run relationship between money and prices, are obtained. In addition to the analysis of the entire series (1969-2010), a rolling sample analysis for the zero frequency is also carried out to allow for changes in the long-run relationships.
E59|Floor Systems for Implementing Monetary Policy: Some Unpleasant Fiscal Arithmetic|An increasing number of central banks implement monetary policy via a channel system or a floor system. We construct a general equilibrium model to study the properties of these systems. We find that a floor system is weakly optimal if and only if the target rate satisfies the Friedman rule. Unfortunately, the optimal floor system requires either transfers from the fiscal authority to the central bank or a reduction in seigniorage payments from the central bank to the government. This is the unpleasant fiscal arithmetic of a floor system. When the central bank faces financing constraints on its interest expense, we show that it is strictly optimal to operate a channel system. (Copyright: Elsevier)
E59|The Interrelationship between the FED’s Profit and Selected Macroeconomic Variables - L’interrelazione tra profitti della Federal Reserve e alcune variabili macroeconomiche|In this paper we provide the first empirical study on the interrelationship between the Fed’s profit and selected macroeconomic variables i.e. policy interest rate, real gross domestic product (real GDP) and price level. We extract these macroeconomic variables from a simple theoretical model. For the empirical part, we employ the unrestricted vector autoregressive (VAR) approach over the period (1959-2007). The results display that the above mentioned macroeconomic variables have statistically significant positive relationships with the Fed’s profit, with a clear dominant effect of real GDP. Moreover, the results reveal that the Fed’s profit has only a statistically significant negative relationship with the interest rate as a feedback effect. A possible policy conclusion from these results is that the Fed needs to concentrate on the expansionary monetary policy to guarantee permanent profits. - Questo studio rappresenta la prima analisi empirica sull’interrelazione tra i profitti della Federal Reserve e alcune variabili macroeconomiche quali la politica del tasso di interesse, il PIL reale e il livello dei prezzi. Per l’analisi è stato impiegato il modello VAR non ristretto per il periodo 1959-2007. Il risultato dimostra che le variabili summenzionate hanno relazioni positive statisticamente significative con i profitti della Federal Reserve, con un effetto dominante del PIL reale. Si evidenzia inoltre che l’unica relazione negativa statisticamente significativa è quella tra profitti e tasso di interesse, come effetto di retroazione. Una possibile conclusione da questi risultati potrebbe essere quella per cui la Federal Reserve dovrebbe concentrarsi su una politica monetaria espansiva se vuole ottenere profitti permanenti.
E59|A note on the long-run neutrality of monetary policy: new empirics|Economic theory traditionally suggests that monetary policy can influence the business cycle, but not the long-run potential output. Despite well documented theoretical and empirical consensus on money neutrality in the literature, the role of money as an informational variable for monetary policy decision has remained opened to debate with empirical works providing mixed outcomes. This paper addresses two substantial challenges to this debate: the neglect of developing countries in the literature and the use of new financial dynamic fundamentals that broadly reflect monetary policy. The empirics are based on annual data from 34 African countries for the period 1980 to 2010. Using a battery of tests for integration and long-run equilibrium properties, results offer overall support for the traditional economic theory.
E59|Market discipline: a review of the Mexican deposit market|This paper studies the mechanisms of market discipline in the Mexican deposit market. It tests the hypothesis that low-quality banks pay higher interest rates on deposits, receive fewer deposits, and shift their deposit agreements from long to short term. This hypothesis was assessed with positive evidence in Mexico during the period 1991–1996, but was not checked again. This research uses a dynamic panel model and a sample of 37 banks from December 2008 to September 2012 to re-evaluate the market discipline hypothesis. The findings suggest a weak presence of discipline induced by depositors. Principally, market discipline is absent within market sectors. Copyright The Author(s) 2014
E59|The Relationship between Inflation Targeting and Exchange Rate Pass-Through in Turkey with a Model Averaging Approach|Turkey, as an emerging economy, has a unique experience regarding to the relationship between the rate of inflation and the exchange rate. As opposed to developed countries, the effects of exchange rate fluctuations are felt significantly on inflation dynamics and these fluctuations also influence many other macroeconomic variables via different channels with different magnitudes in developing countries. Therefore, the main concern of the paper, which is to evaluate the exchange rate pass-through (ERPT), has an important role in the success of inflation targeting regime. Using correlation coefficients between exchange rates and inflation differentials, single equation regressions, vector auto-regressions (VAR) and Markov switching regression methods; the determinants of ERPT to producer and consumer prices are quantitatively analyzed between January 1986 and August 2013. Error correction models are used to estimate the exchange rate pass-through. According to the estimation results, it is found that, similar to other developing countries, there is a substantial degree of ERPT for Turkey the greater part of which is realized almost instantaneously. Comparing to the studies on industrial countries, it is found that ERPT is higher but there are additional transmission channels just like the other emerging economies. The higher degree of ERPT in Turkey is found in those studies conducted for industrialized countries implies that there are additional transmission channels for Turkey. ERPT for producer price-index-based inflation is found to be higher than for consumer-price-index-based inflation. We also found that the degree of ERPT increases as the data frequency falls. We also determined an asymmetry in pricing behavior : while exchange rates increase, this increase is passed on to prices, yet decreases in exchange rates. Estimation results also indicate that the main factors contributing to high pass-through are past currency crises and the high degree of openness of the economy. These factors are the basis for the indexation behavior of agents. Although, the aforementioned factors are the main determinants of the degree of exchange rate pass-through, the persistency and the volatility of exchange rates can significantly affect the short run dynamics of the pass-through. The results also imply that, even if the pass-through slows down due to changing pattern of exchange rates, in order to achieve a low and stable inflation in the long run, fundamental factors that exacerbate the link between exchange rates and prices should change. Another crucial point is that according to Markov switching regression results of ERPT coefficients of domestic prices, the exchange rate pass-through coefficients vary significantly between different states.
E59|Is Sustainable Banking A Solution?|The financial crisis highlighted the negative impact of a damaged banking system on the real economy. In this context, there is a real need for the improvement of the banking system quality, to ensure support for the real economy particularly, this being now the focus of the banking regulation. The question is that a back-to-basics approach that relies on traditional measures of capital strength and liquidity and on traditional products can replace the sophisticated model used by the Global Systemically Important Financial Institutions (GSIFIs). So the question is can sustainable banks which are focused on “people, planet, prosperity”, grounded in communities, serving the real economy, long-term relationships with clients and a direct understanding of their economic activities and the risks involved cope better with a changing environment, innovation and globalisation to ensure a sound banking system?
E59|Degreasing The Wheels Of Finance| Can there be too much trading in financial markets? We construct a dynamic general equilibrium model, where agents face idiosyncratic liquidity shocks. A financial market allows agents to adjust their portfolio of liquid and illiquid assets in response to these shocks. The optimal policy is to restrict access to this market because portfolio choices exhibit a pecuniary externality: Agents do not take into account that by holding more of the liquid asset, they not only acquire additional insurance against these liquidity shocks, but also marginally increase the value of the liquid asset, which improves insurance for other market participants.
E59|Contingent Convertibles [CoCos]:A Potent Instrument for Financial Reform|Contingent Convertibles (CoCos) represent debt that is subject to being converted automatically into common equity under pre-specified terms of conversion if the chosen regulatory capital ratio falls to a level triggering conversion. CoCos are that subspecies of contingent capital that references regulatory (Basel III) concepts in its triggers. From 2014, trigger points are set by common equity (Common Equity Tier 1 [CET1]) in percent of risk-weighted assets [RWA] or of more complicated measures of total exposure to a variety of risks, particularly credit risk. This is the first comprehensive book on CoCos, an innovative instrument that has attracted growing attention since it was first issued in 2009. The book is mostly concerned with going-concern ¡®recovery-¡¯ rather than ¡®resolution-¡¯ CoCos, because avoiding failure and costly disruption of financial networks without government financing is the first order of business. CoCos hold a high promise of providing fully loss-absorbing equity capital when it is most needed and least available to financial institutions. Yet, having grown out of the 2007¨C2009 financial crisis, they are still an ¡®infant¡¯ reform instrument in many respects. Few of the instrument's design features (or even the rating, regulatory, and tax treatments) are entirely settled. This book seeks to move the discussion toward, and then past, the main decision points so that CoCos can prove their value for contingency planning and self-insurance all over the world. It is intended to increase the ability of issuers and investors to analyze and understand the different kinds of CoCos. Contents: Foundations: Introduction Overview of Basel III Implementation Most Relevant for Cocos Cocos and the Struggle to Preserve Going-Concern Value The Treatment of TBTF Financial Institutions in the Last Crisis Strategic Policy Objectives in Privatizing the TBTF Backstop Why Cocos?: High-Trigger Cocos Compared with Other Bailinable Debt Self-Insurance with Cocos Compared to Common Equity Automatic Cocos Conversion vs. Voluntary Restructuring Reasons for Having Cocos Liabilities on the Balance Sheet Varieties of Cocos Design and Rationales: Determining Conversion Price and Risk Premium in Cocos Write-Down-Only Cocos Actual or Prospective Recovery Rates from Converting Cocos Government Capital Injections and Bailout Cocos Misuses of Cocos in Government-Led Recapitalizations of Banks Policy Choices and Essentials for Cocos' Success: The Tax Treatment of the Interest Paid on Cocos Major Credit Rating Agencies' Approaches to Rating Cocos Regulatory Requirements at Cross-Purposes Conclusions and Recommendations for Cocos Design and Evaluations Readership: Researchers in Banking, Finance, and Financial Service, Finance Professionals, Law Firms, Accounting, and Financial-Consulting Firms; Portfolio and Wealth Management Specialists; Fixed-Income Investors and Fund Managers; Government Regulators of Financial Services; Libraries and Members of Research and Capital Markets Divisions at National and International Financial Institutions.
E59|Bank Lending, Risk Taking, and the Transmission of Monetary Policy: New Evidence for Colombia|We study the existence of a monetary policy transmission mechanism through banks in Colombia, using monthly banks’ balance sheet data for the period 1996:4 – 2012:12. We obtain results which are consistent with the basic postulates of the bank lending channel (and the risk-taking channel) literature. The impact of short-term interest rates on the growth rate of loans is negative, indicating that increases in these rates lead to reductions in the growth rate of loans. This impact is stronger for consumer loans than for commercial loans. We find important heterogeneity in the monetary policy transmission across banks depending on banks-specific characteristics.
E59|Deposits, Loans, and Banking: Clarifying the Debate|The relationship between banking deposits and loans remains a contentious topic. While the defense of a 100 percent reserve clause to eliminate fractional reserves has commonly been asserted on economic and ethical grounds, new legal arguments found in Jesús Huerta de Soto (2006) remain largely ignored. We address Michael S. Rozeff’s (2010) recent article as a case in point of this ignorance. Contrary to supporters of fractional reserve demand deposits, we show that such a contract – one treating a loan and a deposit interchangeably – is impermissible due to both established and a priori legal principles. At best, a fractional reserve demand deposit contract may be considered an aleatory contract. Based on an uncertain future event, we find this type of contract wholly incompatible with the reason individuals hold money – the mitigation of uncertainty. Despite what defenders of fractional reserve banking claim, deposit and loan contracts are distinct, and may not be contractually melded together.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E59|Changes in Reserve Requirements and Brazilian Banks' Stocks|In this study we tested the hypothesis that part of reserve requirements’ costs is paid by banks’ stockholders, instead of only by depositors and borrowers. Through an event study of fourteen regulatory changes between 1998 and 2010, we investigated the existence of abnormal returns. The results suggest that stockholders share the costs.
E59|Effects And Evolution Of Foreign Direct Investments On The Emergent Economies|FDIs have also entailed a series of political implications in addition to the economic effects, especially in the context of the accession of Central and Eastern European countries to the European Union.According to the specialists, for a given country, intense growth periods are characterized by the attraction of important flows of foreign direct investments (Lipsey, 2000, page 72). Although Romania has experienced high economic growth rates, it was not supported to the same degree by foreign direct investments.For the countries with developing or in transition economies, these resources can not be provided from the domestic economy, and therefore, these states elaborate their policies to attract foreign investors capable to provide the best possible investment structure.
E59|Modelando el esquema de intervenciones del tipo de cambio para Colombia. una aplicación empírica de la técnica de regresión del cuantil bajo redes neu|En este artículo se determina la eﬁciencia de las intervenciones realizadas por el Banco de la República empleando el modelo teórico de canal de coordinación. En este modelo, el efecto que tiene un diferencial de tasas de interés, la variable de intervenciones construida por medio de un modelo Markov-switching y el proceder de los inversionistas técnicos y fundamentalistas sobre diferentes cuantiles del retorno de la tasa representativa del mercado (TRM) son evaluados. Usando una función de impulso respuesta, se encontró que la variable intervenciones genera elmayor impacto en el retorno de la TRM en los cuantiles del 5 % y 25 %, pero sin alcanzarse una reversión media completa en el cuantil del 50 %.
E59|Bank Lending, Risk Taking, and the Transmission of Monetary Policy: New Evidence for Colombia|We study the existence of a monetary policy transmission mechanism through banks in Colombia, using monthly banks’ balance sheet data for the period 1996:4 – 2012:12. We obtain results which are consistent with the basic postulates of the bank lending channel (and the risk-taking channel) literature. The impact of short-term interest rates on the growth rate of loans is negative, indicating that increases in these rates lead to reductions in the growth rate of loans. This impact is stronger for consumer loans than for commercial loans. We find important heterogeneity in the monetary policy transmission across banks depending on banks-specific characteristics.
E59|Inferring hawks and doves from voting records|We analyze revealed policy preferences of the Monetary Policy Committee of the Bank of England. From the voting records we estimate the policy preferences with spatial models of voting. We find that internal committee members tend to hold centrist policy preferences, while more extreme policy preferences, both hawkish and dovish, are generally held by external members. An industry background is associated with more hawkish preferences.
E59|Estimating the Preferences of Central Bankers : An Analysis of Four Voting Records|Abstract: This paper analyzes the voting records of four central banks (Sweden, Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic) with spatial models of voting. We infer the policy preferences of the monetary policy committee members and use these to analyze the evolution in preferences over time and the differences in preferences between member types and the position of the Governor in different monetary policy committees.
E59|Surprising similarities: recent monetary regimes of small economies|In contrast to earlier recessions, the monetary regimes of many small economies have not changed in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. This is due in part to the fact that many small economies continue to use hard exchange rate fixes, a reasonably durable regime. However, most of the new stability is due to countries that float with an inflation target. Though a few have left to join the Eurozone, no country has yet abandoned an inflation targeting regime under duress. Inflation targeting now represents a serious alternative to a hard exchange rate fix for small economies seeking monetary stability. Are there important differences between the economic outcomes of the two stable regimes? I examine a panel of annual data from more than 170 countries from 2007 through 2012 and find that the macroeconomic and financial consequences of regime-choice are surprisingly small. Consistent with the literature, business cycles, capital flows, and other phenomena for hard fixers have been similar to those for inflation targeters during the Global Financial Crisis and its aftermath.
E59|Determinantes Del Número De Relaciones Bancarias En Colombia|En este documento se realiza una exploración inicial sobre los determinantes del número de rela¬ciones bancarias del sector corporativo privado de Colombia. Siguiendo otros estudios similares reali¬zados para distintos países, se utilizan modelos de datos de cuenta y se estima un modelo de regre¬sión de Poisson y un modelo de regresión binomial negativa para hallar los determinantes de la variable de interés. Encontramos que los datos presentan sobredispersión, razón por la cual el modelo de regresión binomial negativa es más adecuado que el modelo de regresión de Poisson en este contexto. Dentro de este ejercicio se encuentra que las varia¬bles de liquidez, tamaño de la firma, composición de la deuda, eficiencia, la tasa activa real y la tasa de crecimiento del PIB, resultan ser importantes en la determinación del número de relaciones bancarias. El hecho de que las relaciones bancarias sean afec¬tadas por la actividad económica, podría sugerir que durante los tiempos de desaceleración econó¬mica las empresas buscan fuentes alternativas de financiamiento.
E59|Decizia de Politica Monetara : Intre Teorie si Intuitie|Any decision is eventually the product of a procedure which requires assembling a multitude of primary information, passed through reiterative processes both of organisation and of analysis. The procedures also regard “pushing” these transformed/processed towards preparatory levels only to reach in the end the direct decision-makers. The decision of monetary policy also submits to these rules but, like in other fields, the simple information, irrespective of its level of organisation and hierarchical processing, doesn’t seem to be sufficient to make a decision. The special and very sensitive domain of central bank policy brings imponderable elements into the decision-making process which belong to the decision-makers themselves through education, profession, expertise, passion, devotion, perception of reality, own measure and interpretation of the monetary and macroeconomic phenomenology, etc. Of course, all these imponderables draw sap from the knowledge of economic theory, but their practical application transcends theory and becomes an extremely interesting exercise, a game of intuition which simply happens. The role of intuition in monetary policy decisions ended by being interpreted even as an “obscure art”. Trying to explain the interference of intuition in the monetary policy decisions is exactly the purpose of this paper, from author’s own angle and understanding. This attempt doesn’t preclude the existence of other opinions emerging from similar experiences.
E59|Inflación y finanzas públicas|El propósito de este artículo es mostrar que, en contra de lo que muchos analistas preveían hace pocos años, las finanzas públicas en Colombia obtuvieron un beneficio significativo del proceso reciente de reducción de la inflación. El menor ritmo de crecimiento de los precios estimuló la demanda de saldos monetarios reales y aumentó por esa vía el señoreaje total generado por el Banco de la República. Por esa razón, la magnitud del señoreaje se mantuvo en niveles relativamente altos, pese a la contracción de los encajes requeridos al sistema financiero que tuvo lugar desde mediados de la década de los noventa y a la consiguiente reducción en esta fuente de señoreaje. Por su parte, los cambios en la utilización del señoreaje han permitido que la porción que beneficia directamente al Gobierno -el señoreaje fiscal- aumente de manera notoria en el período reciente. Este beneficio fiscal, sin embargo, puede verse afectado negativamente en la medida en que una porción mayor del señoreaje total se destine a la compra de divisas para acumulación de reservas internacionales. Finalmente, el artículo cuantifica el beneficio que ha tenido la caída de la inflación sobre las necesidades de financiamiento del Gobierno y la magnitud del déficit fiscal, a través del impacto de menores tasas nominales de interés.
E59|Inflación Y Finanzas Públicas|El propósito de este artículo es mostrar que, en contra de lo que muchos analistas preveían hace pocos años, las finanzas públicas en Colombia obtuvieron un beneficio significativo del proceso reciente de reducción de la inflación. El menor ritmo de crecimiento de los precios estimuló la demanda de saldos monetarios reales y aumentó por esa vía el señoreaje total generado por el Banco de la República. Por esa razón, la magnitud del señoreaje se mantuvo en niveles relativamente altos, pese a la contracción de los encajes requeridos al sistema financiero que tuvo lugar desde mediados de la década de los noventa y a la consiguiente reducción en esta fuente de señoreaje. Por su parte, los cambios en la utilización del señoreaje han permitido que la porción que beneficia directamente al Gobierno -el señoreaje fiscal- aumente de manera notoria en el período reciente. Este beneficio fiscal, sin embargo, puede verse afectado negativamente en la medida en que una porción mayor del señoreaje total se destine a la compra de divisas para acumulación de reservas internacionales. Finalmente, el artículo cuantifica el beneficio que ha tenido la caída de la inflación sobre las necesidades de financiamiento del Gobierno y la magnitud del déficit fiscal, a través del impacto de menores tasas nominales de interés.
