E62|High Marginal Tax Rates on the Top 1%? Lessons from a Life Cycle Model with Idiosyncratic Income Risk|In this paper we argue that very high marginal labor income tax rates are an effective tool for social insurance even when households have preferences with high labor supply elasticity, make dynamic savings decisions, and policies have general equilibrium effects. To make this point we construct a large scale Overlapping Generations Model with uninsurable labor productivity risk, show that it has a wealth distribution that matches the data well, and then use it to characterize fiscal policies that achieve a desired degree of redistribution in society. We find that marginal tax rates on the top 1% of the earnings distribution of close to 90% are optimal. We document that this result is robust to plausible variation in the labor supply elasticity and holds regardless of whether social welfare is measured at the steady state only or includes transitional generations.
E62|The Motives to Borrow|Governments issue debt for good and bad reasons. While the good reasons-intertemporal tax-smoothing, fiscal stimulus, and asset management-can explain some of the increases in public debt in recent years, they cannot account for all of the observed changes. Bad reasons for borrowing are driven by political failures associated with intergenerational transfers, strategic manipulation, and common pool problems. These political failures are a major cause of overborrowing. Budgetary institutions and fiscal rules can play a role in mitigating governments' tendencies to overborrow. While it is difficult to establish a clear causal link from high public debt to low output growth, it is likely that some countries pay a price-in terms of lower growth and greater output volatility-for excessive debt accumulation.
E62|An assessment of IPA public investment in R&I in Albania|The European Commission's Joint Research Centre (JRC) is supporting an Innovation Agenda for the Western Balkans (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Montenegro, Republic of North Macedonia and Serbia). Smart Specialisation is the European Union (EU) place-based policy aiming at more thematic concentration in research and innovation (R&I) investments via the evidence-based identification of the strengths and potential of a given economy. Access to data and economic analysis are key to a better identification of both current and future socio-economic policy challenges. The EU Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA) supports reforms in the enlargement countries with financial and technical help. Out of the almost â‚¬650 million destined to Albania over the programming period 2014-2022, â‚¬44 are supporting competitiveness and innovation. Policy simulations using CGE modelling techniques show positive macro-economic effects of the IPA funds for competitiveness and innovation both in the short run and in the long run thanks to productivity improvements.
E62|The euro at twenty: Follies of youth?|This paper overviews the early history of the euro and argues that the euro was suboptimally designed, without monetary sovereignty of Eurozone (EZ) Member States, in order to comply with political goals set by wealthier Member States. Given this constraint, the euro architects designed a single currency in which its irreversibility is achieved through the EZ banking system, with recourse to the TARGET2 payment system. This allowed the banking systems of deficit Member States to fund large cumulative current account deficits in the first decade of the euro. The euro crisis led EZ policy makers to define new far more demanding fiscal rules and a new Banking Union to constrain the ability of EZ banking systems to fund sovereigns and current account deficits. Thus, the euro at twenty has become more fragile.
E62|Stock Flow Adjustments in Sovereign Debt Dynamics: The Role of Fiscal Frameworks|We assess, via system GMM, how Stock Flow Adjustments (SFA) affect the debt-to-GDP ratio in 65 countries (covering developed and emerging and low-income countries) between1985-2014. We find that SFAs positively contribute to the change in the debt-to-GDP ratio with a coefficient close to one. The existence of fiscal rules with monitor compliance contributes to lower the debt level. The fall in the debt ratio due to fiscal rules before the crisis was between 1.7%-4.2% of GDP while after the crisis, revenue and debt-based rules did not contribute to the reduction of debt, which was reinforced with large SFAs.
E62|The effects of macroeconomic, fiscal and monetary policy announcements on sovereign bond spreads: an event study from the EMU|We assess the impact of announcements corresponding to different fiscal and monetary policy measures on the 10-year sovereign bond yield spreads (relative to Germany) of the 10 EMU countries during the period 01:1999 - 07:2016. Implementing pooled and country-fixed effects OLS regressions, we find that the European Commission’s (EC) releases of the excessive deficit procedure significantly affect the yield spreads. The EC releases of higher debt and better budget balance forecasts contribute to the rise and the decline of spreads, respectively. Moreover, we find that the announcements of the ECB’s key interest rates together with the longer-term refinancing operations (LTROs) and the first covered bond purchase programme (CBPP1) negatively affect sovereign yield spreads in our sample of EMU countries.
E62|How “big” should government be?|We assess how “big” government should reasonably be in a number of advanced countries. First, we will link the recent findings of Data Envelope Analysis on efficient public expenditure with the question of the size of the government. Second, we report descriptive analysis of various government performance indicators in relation to public expenditure to provide indications of overall “optimal” across spending categories. In principle, the highest savings potential is in the biggest expenditure categories, public consumption and social expenditure.
E62|NDC : The Generic Old-Age Pension Scheme|This paper defines a universal public pension scheme (UPPS) as a government mandated lifecycle longevity insurance scheme that transfers individual consumption from the working years to retirement. It discusses the differences in four UPPS designs designated as either defined contribution (DC) or defined benefit (DB), and financial or nonfinancial. With individual DC accounts, the ball is in the individual?s court. The transparent link between contributions and retirement income is the enabler of efficiency that through marginal decisions to choose formal work over informal work or leisure and to postpone retirement marginally toward the end of the working life, supports affordability and sustainability for a chosen level of adequacy. Hence, UPPS-DC designs are found superior to UPPS-DB designs.
E62|Government Deficit Shocks and Okun's Coefficient Volatility: New Insights on the Austerity versus Growth Debate|This paper connects two salient economic features: (i) Fiscal shocks have asymmetric effects across business cycle phases (Gechert et al., 2019); (ii) Okun's coefficient is time varying and may be unstable. The intertwined dynamic behavior of fiscal shocks and unemployment-output trade-offs are studied in this paper using state-of-the-art TVP-VAR modelling techniques applied to the analysis of six selected economies: France, Japan, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom (UK), and the Unites States of America (USA). We confirm the heterogeneity of Okun's coefficient across country, and its time-varying nature across time, showing in addition its fluctuation around a reference long-run value. We document a significant short-run impact of fiscal shocks on Okun's trade-off which, based on the experience of the Global Financial Crisis, becomes larger in periods of economic turmoil. Okun's coefficient is most volatile in Spain and most stable in Sweden and Japan, with France, UK and USA in between. Policy wise, we claim that austerity policies may have unexpected adverse effects on job creation if implemented during slumps, precisely when the labor market sensitivity with respect to the performance of the product market is likely to be more acute.
E62|Tax Rules to Prevent Expectations-driven Liquidity Trap|This paper demonstrates that a simple Ricardian tax policy responding to inflation can prevent expectations-driven liquidity trap (ELT) using a standard New Keynesian model. I show that the extent to which tax rates must respond to inflation is affected by the persistence of remaining at the ELT and higher persistence requires larger response to inflation. I further find that if the ELT is assumed to be recurrent, the tax rate needs to respond to inflation by a larger extent compared to the case where the targeted regime is assumed to be absorbing. This last finding indicates that it is crucial for the fiscal authority to entertain the possibility of moving back to the ELT when it sets their policy parameters.
E62|Fiscal Austerity in Ambiguous Times|"This paper analyzes optimal fiscal policy with ambiguity aversion and endogenous government spending. We show that, without ambiguity, optimal surplus-to-output ratios are acyclical and that there is no rationale for either reduction or further accumulation of public debt. In contrast, ambiguity about the cycle can generate optimally policies that resemble ""austerity"" measures. Optimal policy prescribes higher taxes in adverse times and front-loaded fiscal consolidations that lead to a balanced primary budget in the long-run. This is the case when interest rates are sufficiently responsive to cyclical shocks, that is, when the intertemporal elasticity of substitution is sufficiently low."
E62|Spending multipliers with distortionary taxes: Does the level of public debt matter?|We investigate the link between the size of government indebtedness and the effectiveness of government spending shocks in normal times and at the Zero Lower Bound (ZLB). We develop a New Keynesian model with capital, distortionary taxes and public debt in which the ZLB constraint on the nominal interest rate may be binding. In normal times, high steady-state levels of government debt to GDP lead to reduced output multipliers. After a negative capital quality shock that pushes the economy at the ZLB however, high steady-state debt levels produce larger output multipliers. Our results rely on the fact that fiscal policy becomes self-financing at the ZLB, and that distortionary taxes rise (respectively fall) after a spending shock at the steady state (resp. ZLB). Our results have non-trivial consequences on the design of optimized spending policies in the event of large economic downturns.
E62|Debt Hangover in the Aftermath of the Great Recession|Following the Great Recession, U.S. government debt levels exceeded 100% of output. We develop a macroeconomic model to evaluate the role of various shocks during and after the Great Recession; labor market shocks have the greatest impact on macroeconomic activity. We then evaluate the consequences of using alternative fiscal policy instruments to implement a fiscal austerity program to return the debt-output ratio to its pre-Great Recession level. Our welfare analysis reveals that there is not much difference between applying fiscal austerity through government spending, the labor income tax, or the consumption tax; using the capital income tax is welfare-reducing.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E62|Episodes of War and Peace in an Estimated Open Economy Model|We analyze the effects of large war episodes (world wars) on the macroeconomic dynamics of four advanced countries (France, Germany, the UK and the U.S.) by means of an estimated open-economy model. The model allows wars to produce specific effects on the economy through capital depreciation, sovereign default and a military draft. These effects, together with large surges in public spending and debt, and significant drops in labor taxes, account for the bulk of fluctuations during wars. We also use our estimations to discuss the size and state-dependence of output multipliers, and the size of welfare losses from fluctuations.
E62|Increasing Returns, Balanced-Budget Rules, and Aggregate Fluctuations|In a seminal contribution, Guo and Harrison (2004, JET) showed that, under a balanced-budget rule, the neoclassical growth model exhibits saddle-path stability when the adjustment is based on wasteful public spending. The present paper challenges this result in an endogenous growth framework with non-trivial dynamics of the debt-to-GDP ratio. We show that the emergence of aggregate instability dramatically depends on the strength of social labor externalities. If the labor demand is positively sloped and steeper than the labor supply, two reachable balanced-growth paths appear-a no growth trap, and a positive growth solution-that gives birth to both local and global indeterminacy, hence aggregate instability driven by self-fulfilling beliefs (sunspots). In addition, we show that a fiscal rule such that the tax rate strongly responds to public-debt increases can remove the no-growth trap, and secure positive long-run growth. JEL classification: E62; O41
E62|Investigating fiscal and monetary policies coordination and public debt in Kenya: Evidence from regime-switching and self-exciting threshold autoregressive models|This study explored the nature of fiscal and monetary policy coordination and its impact on long-run sustainability in Kenya. The study employed annual time series data from 1963 to 2014. Two objectives were investigated. (i) The determinants ofmonetary and fiscal policy rules under different policy regimes. (ii) The nature of fiscal and monetary policy regimes coordination in Kenya. Markov switching models were used to determine fiscal and monetary policy regimes endogenously. The fiscal policy regime was regarded as passive if the coefficient of debt in the MS model was significant and negative. This fiscal policy regime is regarded as unsustainable since the rise in debt is associated with a deterioration of the fiscal balance. On the other hand, the active monetary policy is synonymous with contractionary monetary policy since real in interest rate reacts positively to an increase in inflation. Robust analysis conducted using self-exciting threshold models confirms that monetary and fiscal policy reaction functions are nonlinear. The study findings show that passive or unsustainable fiscal regime was more dominant over the study period. There is evidence to support coordination between fiscal and monetary policy. There is a tendency for monetary policy to actively and prudently respond to unsustainable fiscal policy. Secondly, monetary policy sequentially responds to fiscal policy. The study recommended the adoption of systematic monetary response to a periodic deviation of fiscal policy from a long-run sustainability path.
E62|Production Network and International Fiscal Spillovers|This paper analyzes the impact of fiscal spending shocks in a multi-country model with international production networks. In contrast to standard results suggesting that production network linkages are unimportant for the aggregate response to macro shocks in a closed economy, we show that network structures may place a central role in the international propagation of fiscal shocks, particularly when wages are slow to adjust. The paper first develops a simple general equilibrium multi-country model and derives some analytical results on the response to fiscal spending shocks. We then apply the model to an analysis of fiscal spillovers in the Eurozone, using the calibrated sectoral network structure from the World Input Output Database (WIOD). In a version of the model with sticky wages, we find that fiscal spillovers from Germany and other some other large Eurozone countries may be large, and within the range of empirical estimates. More importantly, we find that the Eurozone production network very important for the international spillovers. In the absence of international production network linkages, spillovers would be only a third as large as predicted by the baseline model. Finally, we explore the diffusion of identified German government spending at the sectoral level, both within and across countries. We find that government expenditures have both significant upstream and downstream effects when these links are measured by the direction of sectoral production linkages.
E62|The Swedish Fiscal Framework – The Most Successful One in the EU?|This paper discusses the history and future of the Swedish fiscal framework. First, we claim that the fiscal framework has contributed to a sharp decline in the debt-to-GDP ratio, from one of the highest to one of the lowest in the European Union. Next, we focus on the future. Despite its success, we argue that the framework is unsustainable. Running large surpluses over the long run is not a steady-state solution. We recommend two changes to the framework. First, that the public pension system is excluded, and second that the Swedish fiscal authorities shift attention from maintaining a budget surplus of 1/3 percent of GDP over the business cycle to sustaining a stable debt-to-GDP ratio of 25 percent of GDP +/- 5 percentage points. A debt anchor at this level will provide sufficient insurance in case of a future major economic crisis judging from recent cross-country evidence. In addition, a debt anchor around 25 percent of GDP would contribute to political stability in time of crises. In a world, where populism and austerity fatigue are rampant, we stress the importance of a fiscal framework allowing successful consumption and tax smoothing in case of major negative shocks to the fiscal space. We conclude with a set of recommendations for the fiscal governance of the EU.
E62|The Interaction Between Fiscal and Monetary Policies: Evidence from Sweden|This paper estimates the interaction between monetary- and fiscal policy using a structural VAR model with time-varying parameters. For demand and supply shocks, the two policies are estimated to be complementary, while for monetary and fiscal policies shocks the two policies act as substitutes. The budget elasticity varies between 0.3–0.6, indicating that an economic downturn can get a non-negligible negative impact on public finances. The fiscal multiplier is estimated to be stable and higher than one suggesting that fiscal policy can be used to support monetary policy to stabilize the economy in case monetary policy is constrained by the lower effective bound.
E62|世代内・世代間の受益・負担構造に関する研究 : 全国消費実態調査を用いた世代会計モデルを軸に|本研究では、政府を通じた個人の生涯にわたる受益と負担を所得階層・年齢階級別のコーホートに分けて推計し、受益と負担が、世代間のみならず、世代内の所得階層の違いによってどの程度異なるのかを明らかにした。その結果、我が国の現在世代及び将来世代が直面する世代内及び世代間の生涯純負担率は、（１）同一世代内で見ると高所得層ほど生涯純負担率が大きく、所得再分配機能が機能していること、（２）世代間では総じてみれば若年世代ほど負担が大きくなっており世代間格差は22～25ポイント（０歳世代と90歳世代との比較）となっていること、（３）現在世代（０歳世代）と将来世代間の格差は16～60ポイントとなっており現在世代内の格差の３倍弱にのぼる、つまり、現在世代内の世代間格差よりも将来性世代と現在世代との間の世代間格差の方が大きいこと、が明らかになった。また、消費増税と所得増税による財政再建シミュレーションの結果からは、消費増税は、相対的に高所得の若年世代に有利であるものの、その他の世代では不利であることが分かった。
E62|Forecasting Public Investment Using Daily Stock Returns|This paper investigates the predictability of public investment in Japan using the daily excess stock returns of the construction industry, to contribute to the recent discussion on fiscal foresight. To examine the relationship between monthly public investment and daily stock returns without any prior time aggregation, we employ the VAR model with MIDAS regression and estimate the optimal weights for connecting high-frequency and low-frequency data in addition to VAR coefficients and the variance-covariance structure. We find that the VAR model with MIDAS regression reduces the mean square prediction error in out-of-sample forecasting by approximately 15% and 2.5% compared to the no-change forecast and VAR model forecasting with prior time aggregation, respectively. Moreover, using the local projection method, we find evidence of the fiscal news shock estimated in our proposed model delaying positive effects on output, consumption, hours worked, and real wage when news shocks actually result in increasing public investment. This finding suggests the New Keynesian structure of the Japanese economy.
E62|Public Debt and Low Interest Rates|This lecture focuses on the costs of public debt when safe interest rates are low. I develop four main arguments. First, I show that the current US situation, in which safe interest rates are expected to remain below growth rates for a long time, is more the historical norm than the exception. If the future is like the past, this implies that debt rollovers, that is the issuance of debt without a later increase in taxes, may well be feasible. Put bluntly, public debt may have no fiscal cost. Second, even in the absence of fiscal costs, public debt reduces capital accumulation, and may therefore have welfare costs. I show that welfare costs may be smaller than typically assumed. The reason is that the safe rate is the risk-adjusted rate of return to capital. If it is lower than the growth rate, it indicates that the risk-adjusted rate of return to capital is in fact low. The average risky rate however also plays a role. I show how both the average risky rate and the average safe rate determine welfare outcomes. Third, I look at the evidence on the average risky rate, i.e., the average marginal product of capital. While the measured rate of earnings has been and is still quite high, the evidence from asset markets suggests that the marginal product of capital may be lower, with the difference reflecting either mismeasurement of capital or rents. This matters for debt: the lower the marginal product, the lower the welfare cost of debt. Fourth, I discuss a number of arguments against high public debt, and in particular the existence of multiple equilibria where investors believe debt to be risky and, by requiring a risk premium, increase the fiscal burden and make debt effectively more risky. This is a very relevant argument, but it does not have straightforward implications for the appropriate level of debt. My purpose in the lecture is not to argue for more public debt, especially in the current political environment. It is to have a richer discussion of the costs of debt and of fiscal policy than is currently the case.
E62|Tax Incentives for Investment: Evidence from Japan's High-Growth Era|Tax devices have occasionally been adopted as policy tools to promote economic growth in major industrialized countries after the Second World War. In Japan, various accelerated depreciation schemes under the name 'special depreciation' were employed as major devices to stimulate investments. In this paper, we manually collect firm-level data series in the heyday of the device from the mid-1950s to the early 1970s. The findings from firm-level data are as follows: the aggregated special depreciation hit two peaks when the schemes were expanded, applying special depreciation tax incentives prevailed among listed companies, and the actual amounts varied across firms with strong upward biases. A detailed examination of each firm's financial statements indicates that each firm retained its discretion when applying the scheme and sometimes chose not to enjoy the full benefits. An empirical analysis reveals that firms with relatively less capital to labor tended to use larger special depreciation, hinting at the probability of intended effects of policy devices. Increases in the number of designated machines for the scheme- once considered to represent its inefficiency-actually activated the usage of schemes by firms.
E62|Why Do Fiscal Multipliers Depend on Fiscal Positions?|The fiscal position can affect fiscal multipliers through two channels. Through the Ricardian channel, households reduce consumption in anticipation of future fiscal adjustments when fiscal stimulus is implemented from a weak fiscal position. Through the interest rate channel, fiscal stimulus from a weak fiscal position heightens investors'concerns about sovereign credit risk, raises economy-wide borrowing cost, and reduces private domestic demand. The paper documents empirically the relevance of these two channels using an Interactive Panel Vector Auto Regression model. It finds that fiscal multipliers tend to be smaller when fiscal positions are weak than strong.
E62|Returns to Investment in Education: The Case of Turkey|This paper estimates private and social returns to investment in education in Turkey, using the 2017 Household Labor Force Survey and alternative methodologies. The analysis uses the 1997 education reform of increasing compulsory education by three years as an instrument. This results in a private rate of return on the order of 16 percent for higher education and a social return of 10 percent. Using the number of children younger than age 15 in the household as an exclusion restriction, the analysis finds that returns to education for females are higher than those for males. Contrary to many findings in other countries, private returns to those working in the public sector are higher than those in the private sector, and private returns to those who followed the vocational track in secondary education are higher than those in the general academic track. The paper discusses the policy implications of the findings.
E62|Pension, Retirement, and Growth in the Presence Heterogeneous Elderly|This study explores the linkage between the labor force participation of the elderly and the long-run performance of the economy in the context of a two-period-lived overlapping generations model. We assume that the old agents are heterogeneous in their labor efficiency and they continue working if their income exceeds the pension that can be received in the case of full retirement. We inspect the long-run effects of changes in key factors that determine the labor force participation of the elderly. While the main part of the study treats a neoclassical growth model, we also discuss a model with endogenous growth.
E62|Defaultnomics: Making Sense of the Barro-Ricardo Equivalence in a Financialized World|The 2008 crisis created a need to rethink many aspects of economic theory, including the role of public intervention in the economy. On this issue, we explore the Barro-Ricardo equivalence, which has played a decisive role in molding the economic policies that fostered the crisis. We analyze the equivalence and its theoretical underpinnings, concluding that: (1) it declares, but then forgets, that it does not matter whether the nature of debt and investment is public or private; (2) its most problematic assumption is the representative agent hypothesis, which does not allow for an explanation of financialization and cannot assess dangers coming from high levels of financial leverage; (3) social wealth cannot be based on any micro-foundation and is linked to the role of the state as provider of financial stability; and (4) default is always the optimal policy for the government, and this remains true even when relaxing many equivalence assumptions. We go on to discuss possible solutions to high levels of public debt in the real world, inferring that no general conclusions are possible and every solution or mix of solutions must be tailored to each specific case. We conclude by connecting different solutions to the political balance of forces in the current era of financialization, using Italy (and, by extension, the eurozone) as a concrete example to better illustrate the discussion.
E62|Real Effective Exchange Rates determinants and growth: lessons from Italian regions|In this paper we analyse the price competitiveness of the Italian regions by computing the Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER) for each region, deflated by CPI and vis-à-vis the main partner countries. We use them to look for the medium-term determinants, finding significant heterogeneities in the role of government consumption and investment expenditure. Government consumption has an extremely negative effect on competitiveness in North-Eastern Italy, Southern Italy and Lazio. Investment plays a negative role especially in the North-West, while it can be positive for competitiveness in Lazio and Southern Italy. We also find that the transfer theory does not necessarily hold and it even behaves in the opposite direction in case of North-Eastern Italy and Lazio. Lastly, we show that an increase in the regional price competitiveness influences regional growth positively only in the long run and spillovers may play a role.
E62|Euro Area Government Bond Yield and Liquidity Dependence during different Monetary Policy Accommodation Phases|In this paper, we analyze the relationship between various risk factors and euro area government bond yield spreads, focusing particularly on the monetary policy stance. Our results show that credit and common risk factors are consistently priced in government bond yield spreads, while liquidity differentials are relevant especially during periods of stressed market conditions. We demonstrate that the liquidity component has been more prominent during periods of declining interest rates and increasing reserves, while it has diminished on announcement days of monetary policy decisions related to PSPP. Overall, the liquidity component has been statistically insignificant since the announcement of accommodative non-standard monetary policy measures.
E62|Does It Matter When Labor Market Reforms Are Implemented? The Role of the Monetary Policy Environment|Do labor market reforms initiated in periods of loose monetary policy yield different outcomes from those that were introduced in periods when monetary tightening prevailed? Since economic theory usually pays attention to the steady state change and ignores business cycle interactions of structural reforms, we connect local projection methodology with the Mallow’s Cp averaging criterion to arrive at an inference that does not require knowledge of the exact functional form, is robust to mis-specification, admits non-linearities, and cross-sectional dependence and addresses uncertainty regarding interactions between labor reforms and macroeconomy. We also develop a test to check the importance of monetary policy for any horizon and the entire impulse response function, taking the multiple testing problem into account. We document that replacement rates deliver substantially different outcomes on real GDP, inflation and real effective exchange rate, whereas labor activation schemes bear different effects on unemployment in low- and high-interest rate environments. There is also evidence of monetary policy trend playing an important role as well as increasing synchronized monetary and labor market policies across European countries.
E62|The Impact of Fiscal Policy on Income Distribution in Tanzania: A Computable General Equilibrium Analysis|The Tanzanian government has established a goal to transform the country into a middle-income and semi-industrialized state by 2025. To promote this transformation, the government exempted the Value Added Tax on capital commodities in FY 2017-2018 as a way to promote utilization of these commodities by manufacturing industries and generate growth, employment, and increased incomes. This study analyzes the impact of a reduction in Value Added Tax on capital commodities (electricity, vehicles, machinery, and equipment) under two different closure rules: (1) fixed governmental expenditures and flexible governmental savings (2) flexible governmental expenditures and fixed governmental savings. Under the first regime, government savings declined and industries that depended heavily on government investments suffered. In the second, output increased for all industrial sectors, leading to a decrease in average unemployment. Real consumption increased for all but the richest household categories.
E62|Impact of Fiscal Consolidation on the Mongolian Economy|The Government of Mongolia began implementing an IMF program under the Extended Fund Facility agreement (EFF) in May 2017. Under the program, the government has decreased expenditures and increased taxes to achieve debt sustainability via fiscal consolidation and stable growth. At the same time, the government has faced challenges because of its commitment of fiscal consolidation to the IMF: the rising price of fuel and its own fuel-subsidy policies. We used the PEP standard static CGE model to examine the impact of fiscal consolidation on the Mongolian economy under various conditions. Moreover, we used a poverty (microsimulation) model to analyze those impacts at a household level. Our analysis of the impact of fiscal consolidation under pessimistic and optimistic mineral-commodity-price scenarios showed that Mongoliaâ€™s economy was closely tied to international commodity prices. Our examination of the governmentâ€™s alternative policies on fuel subsidies in an environment of fiscal consolidation demonstrated that the effect of increased fuel prices on the economy depended upon government fuel-subsidy policy.
E62|The Economic and Environmental Impact of Foreign Direct Investment on the Mongolian Coal-Export Sector|This paper examines the impact of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) intended to increase the exporting capacity of the coal sector on the Mongolian economy and environment by using a recursive dynamic Computable General Equilibrium model. FDI was used to expand the coal-export sector as well as to construct a railway line connecting the Mongolian main coal reserve and the Chinese border. FDI had a positive impact on macroeconomic variables such as GDP, employment, investment, and household consumption but produced a Dutch disease effect in some sectors. The new railway reduced the environmental impact of transporting coal.
E62|Desperate times call for desperate measures: government spending multipliers in hard times|We investigate state-dependent effects of fiscal multipliers and allow for endogenous sample splitting to determine whether the US economy is in a slack state. When the endogenized slack state is estimated as the period of the unemployment rate higher than about 12 percent, the estimated cumulative multipliers are significantly larger during slack periods than non-slack periods and are above unity. We also examine the possibility of time-varying regimes of slackness and find that our empirical results are robust under a more flexible framework. Our estimation results points out the importance of the heterogenous effects of fiscal policy.
E62|Financing a Renewable Energy Feed-in Tariff with a Tax on Carbon Dioxide Emissions: A Dynamic Multi-Sector General Equilibrium Analysis for Portugal|Renewable energy production subsidies alleviate the pressure on electricity prices associated with carbon and energy pricing policies in the process of decarbonization and electrification of the Portuguese economy. Our simulation results show that a feed in tariffs financed by a carbon tax leads to adverse macroeconomic as well as adverse and regressive distributional welfare effects. On the flip side, however, we show that use of the carbon tax revenues to finance a feed in tariff is an improvement over the simple carbon tax case along all the relevant policy dimensions. The feed in tariff mechanism when added to the carbon tax leads to better environmental outcomes at lower costs both in terms of the economic and social justice implications. The policy implications are clear. First, because of its adverse economic and distributional effects a carbon tax should not be used in isolation. The use of the revenues to finance a feed in tariff dominates the simple carbon tax case in all dimensions. Second, the search for the appropriate recycling mechanisms in addition to feed in tariffs is an issue as relevant as the carbon tax itself as it pertains to the potential reversal of the adverse effects of such a tax.
E62|Regulated Early Closures of Coal-Fired Power Plants and Tougher Energy Taxation on Electricity Production: Synergy or Rivalry?|This article examines the economic, budgetary, distributional and environmental impacts of the interaction between regulated early closure of coal-fired power plants and new energy taxation rules on fossil fuel-operated power plants using a multi-sector and multi-household dynamic general equilibrium model of the Portuguese economy. Simulation results show first that regulated early closures will lead to meaningful reductions in emissions. They will also induce significant detrimental macroeconomic and distributional effects. Second, when the new energy taxation rules are applied to the coal-operated power plants no significant environmental gains or macroeconomic or distributional losses are observed in addition to what already induced by the forced closures. Only the public sector seems to benefit in the form of additional tax revenues. A different situation occurs, however, if the operators of the coal-fired power plants react to the new energy taxes levied on them by unilaterally deciding to decommission their installations. In this case, although the environmental effects will improve, the adverse macroeconomic and distributional effects will substantially deteriorate. Noticeably, the adverse budgetary effects will also be substantially larger. Overall, we find no synergies between the two policies and, actually, the potential for the opposite to be true.
E62|Picking Our Environmental Battles: Removal of Harmful Subsidies or Carbon Taxation?|In this paper, we compare the effects of removing harmful fossil fuel subsidies with the replacement of the energy taxation by a carbon tax in Portugal. Since energy taxes focus on the energy content of the different energy products eliminating these provisions only brings their prices in line with their energy content. On the other hand, replacing the energy tax system with a tax on the emissions content of the energy products aligns the fossil fuel prices with their emissions content. We show that while replacing the energy with a carbon tax is a policy of a magnitude about eight times as large as the removal of the harmful subsidies, the effects of emissions are twenty times larger and the adverse economic and distributional effects only about twice as large. Accordingly, replacing the energy tax with a carbon tax is a much more cost-effective way of reducing emissions. This may suggest that focusing on the removal of harmful fossil fuel subsidies may be an environmental red herring.
E62|Financing Future Feed-in Tariffs from Currently Installed RES-E Generating Capacity|In this paper, we address the issue of how to finance the excess costs of electricity generation from currently installed renewable energy production capacity. We do so using a multi-sector and multi-household dynamic computable general equilibrium model of the Portuguese economy. We consider three issues: the effects of the existence of these excess-costs; the effects of annuitizing such costs; and, the effects of different financing mechanisms. Following the logic of the tariff deficit, we recommend the annuitizing of these excess costs. This strategy can be justified on distributional grounds. We also find that financing through carbon taxation is a better alternative than passing these excess costs through to electricity consumers in the form of higher future electricity prices. This is consistent with the idea that renewable electricity production is not an issue pertaining exclusively to the electricity market but rather a part of the national quest for decarbonization. Finally, we show that there is little reason from an environmental perspective to extend such preferential financing mechanisms to any future renewable capacity installation.
E62|Austerity in the Aftermath of the Great Recession|Cross-country differences in austerity, defined as government purchases below forecast, account for 75 percent of the observed cross-sectional variation in GDP in advanced economies during 2010-2014. Statistically, austerity is associated with lower GDP, lower inflation and higher net exports. A multi-country DSGE model calibrated to 29 advanced economies generates effects of austerity consistent with the data. Counterfactuals suggest that eliminating austerity would have substantially reduced output losses in Europe. Austerity was so contractionary that debt-to-GDP ratios in some countries increased as a result of endogenous reductions in GDP and tax revenue.
E62|Fiscal cyclicality in South African public expenditures: Do asymmetries explain inconsistencies?|The most recent sub-prime crisis, the Euro-debt crisis and the global recessionary period have resurrected a debate on the nature of fiscal cyclicality in the South African economy. Our study questions whether the cyclicality of public policy has evolved asymmetrically and holds differently over the recessionary and expansionary phases of the South African business cycle for a quarterly period of 2001:01 – 2018:04. To ensure that the business cycle is inherent to our estimation process we rely on the nonlinear autoregressive distributive lag (N-ARDL) model as empirical framework. Our empirical results point to nonlinear cyclicality in fiscal expenditures where government behaves procyclical in the upswing of the business cycle whilst behaving countercyclical during economic downswings. These findings are robust to alternative specifications, inclusion of control variables and estimations across different subsamples. Policy implications are also offered.
E62|The Dynamic Effects of Monetary Policy and Government Spending Shocks on Unemployment in the Peripheral Euro Area Countries|In this paper we study the response of unemployment to monetary policy and fiscal shocks in the peripheral Euro-area countries. By applying the structural near-VAR methodology, we jointly model Euro area-wide and national variables while preserving the invariance of the set of Euro-area common shocks. Our main finding is that fiscal multipliers vary across countries and the results are consistent with the prediction of the standard New Keynesian model only in Italy and Greece. Instead, the multipliers exhibit a nonKeynesian sign in Ireland, Portugal and Spain. These results seem to be robust to alternative identification strategies. As far as the monetary policy shock is concerned, we find that it plays an important role, jointly with the other Euro-area wide shocks, as a long-term driver of national unemployment.
E62|The Dynamic Effects of Monetary Policy and Government Spending Shocks on Unemployment in the Peripheral Euro Area Countries|In this paper we study the response of unemployment to monetary policy and fiscal shocks in the peripheral Euro-area countries. By applying the structural near-VAR methodology, we jointly model Euro area-wide and national variables while preserving the invariance of the set of Euro-area common shocks. Our main finding is that fiscal multipliers vary across countries and the results are consistent with the prediction of the standard New Keynesian model only in Italy and Greece. Instead, the multipliers exhibit a nonKeynesian sign in Ireland, Portugal and Spain. These results seem to be robust to alternative identification strategies. As far as the monetary policy shock is concerned, we find that it plays an important role, jointly with the other Euro-area wide shocks, as a long-term driver of national unemployment.
E62|Forward guidance with preferences over safe assets|I develop a New Keynesian model with preferences over safe assets (POSA) calibrated using evidence on the wedge between household discount rates and market interest rates. POSA attenuate intertemporal consumption smoothing and thus the household’s responsiveness to future interest rates, the more so the more distant in time they are located, and imply a consumption wealth effect. Therefore, POSA substantially lower the macroeconomic effect of forward guidance policies. By contrast, POSA does not substantially change the effect of the standard shocks of Smets/Wouters (2007) type DSGE models. The results carry over to a model with Iacoviello (2005,2014)-type collateral constraints. Such constraints in themselves tend to strongly amplify the effect of forward guidance.
E62|State dependent fiscal multipliers with preferences over safe assests|I examine the eﬀect of ﬁscal policy at the zero lower bound if households have preferences over safe assets (POSA) calibrated consistent with evidence on household savings behavior and individual discount rates, and empirical estimates of the eﬀect of the supply of US government debt on government bond yields. POSA attenuate the eﬀect of changes in the household’s permanentincome on her consumption today and implies a wealth eﬀect from government bonds. It therefore strongly increases the multiplier of a permanent expenditure change, moving it much closer to the multiplier of temporary expenditure changes. The result becomes even stronger with credit constrained households and ﬁrms.
E62|Local Fiscal Multipliers and Fiscal Spillovers in the United States|We estimate local fiscal multipliers and spillovers for the United States using a rich dataset based on U.S. Department of Defense contracts and a variety of outcome variables relating to income and employment. We find strong positive spillovers across locations and industries. Both backward linkages and general equilibrium effects (e.g., income multipliers) contribute to the positive spillovers. Geographical spillovers appear to dissipate fairly quickly with distance. Our evidence points to the relevance of Keynesian-type models that feature excess capacity.
E62|Taxes, Incorporation, and Productivity|U.S. businesses can choose to be C-corporations or pass-through entities in the forms of S-corporations, partnerships (notably LLCs), and sole proprietorships. C-corporate status conveys benefits from perpetual legal identity, limited liability, potential for public trading of shares, and ability to retain earnings. However, legal changes have enhanced pass-through alternatives, for example, through the invention of the S-corporation in 1958 and the improved legal status of LLCs at the end of the 1980s. C-corporate form is subject to a time varying tax wedge, which offsets the productivity benefits. In a theoretical framework, firms’ productivities associated with C-corporate and pass-through status are distributed as bivariate log-normal. The tax wedge then determines the fraction of firms that opt for C-corporate status, the level of economy-wide output (productivity), the share of total output generated by C-corporations, and the sensitivity of this share to the tax wedge. This framework underlies the empirical analysis of C-corporate shares of business economic activity. Long-difference regressions for 1968-2013 show that a higher tax wedge reduces the C-corporate share of net capital stocks, equity (book value), gross assets, and positive net income, as well as the corporate share of gross investment. The C-corporate shares also exhibit downward trends, likely reflecting underlying legal changes. We infer from the quantitative findings that the downward movement in the tax wedge since 1968 has expanded economy-wide productivity by about 4%.
E62|Ten Years after the Financial Crisis: What Have We Learned from the Renaissance in Fiscal Research?|"This paper takes stock of what we have learned from the ""Renaissance"" in fiscal research in the ten years since the financial crisis. I first discuss the new innovations in methodology and various strengths and weaknesses of the main approaches to estimating fiscal multipliers. Reviewing the estimates, I come to the surprising conclusion that the bulk of the estimates for average spending and tax change multipliers lie in a fairly narrow range, 0.6 to 1 for spending multipliers and -2 to -3 for tax change multipliers. However, I identify economic circumstances in which multipliers lie outside those ranges. Finally, I review the debate on whether multipliers were higher for the 2009 Obama stimulus spending in the United States or for fiscal consolidations in Europe."
E62|Tax Policy and Local Labor Market Behavior|Since 2002, the US government has encouraged business investment using accelerated depreciation policies that significantly reduce investment costs. We provide the first in-depth analysis of this stimulus on employment and earnings. Our local labor markets approach exploits cross-industry differences in policy generosity interacted with county-level variation in industry concentration. Places that experience larger decreases in investment costs see a level increase in employment that implies a $53,000 cost-per-job. We find no positive effects on average earnings. In contrast, we document a persistent growth in capital. These results imply a capital-labor substitution elasticity that grows over time and can exceed unity.
E62|The Fiscal Multiplier|This paper studies the size of the fiscal multiplier in a model with incomplete markets and rigid prices and wages. Allowing for incomplete markets instead of complete markets---the prevalent assumption in the literature---comes with two advantages. First, the incomplete markets model delivers a realistic distribution of the marginal propensity to consume across the population, whereas all households counterfactually behave according to the permanent income hypothesis if markets are complete. Second, in our model the response of prices, output, consumption and employment is uniquely determined by fiscal policy for any monetary policy including the zero-lower bound (ZLB) as opposed to most of the previous literature, where an infinite number of equilibria exists, leaving the researcher to arbitrarily pick one. Our preliminary findings indicate that the impact multiplier is quite large between 2 and 3 depending on whether tax or deficit financing is used and increase to values above 3 in a liquidity trap.
E62|Optimal Time-Consistent Monetary, Fiscal and Debt Maturity Policy|We develop a New Keynesian model with government bonds of mixed matu- rity and solve for optimal time-consistent policy using global solution techniques. This reveals several non-linearities absent from LQ analyses with one-period debt. Firstly, the steady-state balances an inflation and debt stabilization bias to gener- ate a small negative debt value with a slight undershooting of the inflation target. This falls far short of first-best (`war chest') asset levels. Secondly, starting from debt levels consistent with currently observed debt to GDP ratios the optimal pol- icy will gradually reduce that debt, but the policy mix changes radically along the transition path. At high debt levels there is a reliance on a relaxation of monetary policy to reduce debt through an expanded tax base and reduced debt service costs, while tax rates are used to moderate the increases in inflation. However, as debt levels fall, the use of monetary policy in this way diminishes and the authority turns to fiscal policy to continue debt reduction. This endogenous switch in the policy mix occurs at higher debt levels, the longer the average debt maturity. Allowing the policymaker to optimally vary debt maturity in response to shocks and across varying levels of debt, we find that variations in maturity are largely used to sup- port changes in the underlying time-consistent policy mix rather than the speed of fiscal correction. Finally, introducing a mild degree of policy maker myopia can re- produce steady-state debt to GDP ratios and inflation rates not dissimilar to those observed empirically, without changing any of the qualitative results presented in the paper.
E62|Fiscal Space and the Aftermath of Financial Crises: How It Matters and Why|In OECD countries over the period 1980–2017, countries with lower debt-to-GDP ratios responded to financial distress with much more expansionary fiscal policy and suffered much less severe aftermaths. Two lines of evidence together suggest that the relationship between the debt ratio and the policy response is driven partly by problems with sovereign market access, but even more so by the choices of domestic and international policymakers. First, although there is some relationship between more direct measures of market access and the fiscal response to distress, incorporating the direct measures attenuates the link between the debt ratio and the policy response only slightly. Second, contemporaneous accounts of the policymaking process in episodes of major financial distress show a number of cases where shifts to austerity were driven by problems with market access, but at least as many where the shifts resulted from policymakers’ choices despite an absence of difficulties with market access. These results may have implications for the conduct of policy both in normal times and in the wake of a financial crisis.
E62|Did the 2017 Tax Reform Discriminate against Blue State Voters?|The Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) made significant changes to corporate and personal federal income taxation, including limiting the SALT (state and local property, income and sales taxes) deductibility to $10,000. States with high SALT tend to vote Democratic. This paper estimates the differential effect of the TCJA on red- and blue-state taxpayers and investigates the importance of the SALT limitation to this differential. We calculate the effect of permanent implementation of the TCJA on households using The Fiscal Analyzer: a life-cycle, consumption-smoothing program incorporating all major federal and state fiscal policies. We find that the average percentage increase in remaining lifetime spending under the TCJA is 1.6 percent in red states versus 1.3 percent in blue states. Among the richest 10 percent of households, this differential is larger. Rich households in red states enjoyed a 2.0 percent increase compared to a 1.2 percent increase among the rich in blue-state households. This gap is driven almost entirely by the limitation on the SALT deduction. Excluding the SALT limitation from the TCJA results in a spending gain of 2.6 percent for rich red-state households compared to 2.7 percent for rich blue-state households.
E62|Long-Run Tax Incidence in a Human Capital-based Endogenous Growth Model with Labor-Market Frictions|In a second-best optimal growth setup with only factor taxes, it is in general optimal to fully replace capital by labor income taxation in the long run. We revisit this important issue by developing a human capital-based endogenous growth model with frictional labor search, allowing each firm to create multiple vacancies and each worker to determine market participation. We find that the conventional efficient bargaining condition is necessary but not sufficient for achieving constrained social optimality. We then conduct tax incidence exercises in balanced growth by calibrating to the U.S. economy with a pre-existing 20% flat tax on capital and labor income. Our quantitative results suggest that, due to a dominant channel via the interactions between vacancy creation and market participation, it is optimal to switch only partially from capital to labor taxation in a benchmark economy where human capital formation depends on both physical and human capital stocks. This main finding is robust even along the transition with time-varying factor tax rates. Moreover, our quantitative analysis under alternative setups suggest that while endogenous human capital and labor market frictions are essential for obtaining a positive optimal capital tax, endogenous leisure, nonlinear human capital accumulation and endogenous growth are not crucial.
E62|Tax Mechanisms and Gradient Flows|We demonstrate how a static optimal income taxation problem can be analyzed using dynamical methods. We show that the taxation problem is intimately connected to the heat equation and derive a new property of the optimal tax which we call the fairness principle. The optimal tax at a given income is equal to the weighted by the heat kernels average of optimal taxes at other incomes and income densities. The fairness principle arises not due to equality considerations but represents an efficient way to smooth the burden of taxes and generated revenues across incomes. Just as nature distributes heat evenly, the optimal way for a government to raise revenues is to distribute the tax burden and raised revenues evenly among individuals. We then construct a gradient flow of taxes – a dynamic process changing the existing tax system in the direction of the increase in tax revenues – and show that it takes the form of a heat equation. The fairness principle holds also for the short-term asymptotics of the gradient flow. The gradient flow is a continuous process of a reform of the nonlinear tax and thus unifies the variational approach to taxation and optimal taxation
E62|Optimal Positive Capital Taxes at Interior Steady States|We generalize recent results of Bassetto and Benhabib (2006) and Straub and Werning (2018) in a model with endogenous labor-leisure choice where all agents are allowed to save and accumulate capital. In particular, using a neoclassical infinite horizon model with standard balanced growth preferences and agents heterogeneous in their initial wealth holdings, we provide a sufficient condition under which optimal redistributive capital taxes can remain at their allowed upper bound forever, even if the resulting equilibrium trajectory converges to a unique steady state with positive and finite consumption, capital, and labor. We first generate some simple parametric examples which satisfy our sufficient condition and for which closed form solutions exist. We then provide an interpretation of our sufficient condition for equilibria induced by general constant returns neo-classical production functions. Using recent evidence on wealth distribution in the United States, we argue that our sufficient condition is empirically plausible.
E62|The Macroeconomics of the Greek Depression|The Greek economy experienced a boom until 2007, followed by a prolonged depression resulting in a 25 percent shortfall of GDP by 2016. Informed by a detailed analysis of macroeconomic patterns in Greece, we estimate a rich dynamic general equilibrium model to assess quantitatively the sources of the boom and bust. Lower external demand for traded goods and contractionary fiscal policies account for the largest fraction of the Greek depression. A decline in total factor productivity, due primarily to lower factor utilization, substantially amplifies the depression. Given the significant adjustment of prices and wages observed throughout the cycle, a nominal devaluation would only have short-lived stabilizing effects. By contrast, shifting the burden of adjustment away from taxes toward spending or away from capital taxes toward other taxes would generate longer-term production and consumption gains. Eliminating the rise in transfers to households during the boom would significantly reduce the burden of tax adjustment in the bust and the magnitude of the depression.
E62|Persistent Government Debt and Aggregate Risk Distribution|When government debt is sluggish, consumption exhibits lower expected growth, more long-run uncertainty, and more long-run downside risk. Simultaneously, the risk premium on the consumption claim (Koijen et al. (2010), Lustig et al. (2013)) increases and features more positive (adverse) skewness. We rationalize these findings in an endogenous growth model in which fiscal policy is distortionary, the value of innovation depends on fiscal risk, and the representative agent is sensitive to the resulting distribution of consumption risk. Our model suggests that committing to a rapid reduction of the debt-to-output ratio can enhance the value of innovation, aggregate wealth, and welfare.
E62|The Effects of a Money-Financed Fiscal Stimulus|I analyze the effects of a money-financed fiscal stimulus and compare them with those resulting from a conventional debt-financed stimulus. I study the effects of both a tax cut and an increase in government purchases, with and without a binding zero lower bound (ZLB) on the nominal interest rate. When the ZLB is not binding, a money-financed fiscal stimulus is shown to have much larger multipliers than a debt-financed fiscal stimulus. That difference in effectiveness persists, but is much smaller, under a binding ZLB. Nominal rigidities are shown to play a major role in shaping those effects
E62|Hitting the Elusive Inflation Target|Since the 2001 recession, average core inflation has been below the Federal Reserve’s 2% target. This deflationary bias is a predictable consequence of a low nominal interest rates environment in which the central bank follows a symmetric strategy to stabilize inflation. The deflationary bias increases if macroeconomic uncertainty rises or the natural real interest rate falls. An asymmetric rule according to which the central bank responds less aggressively to above-target inflation corrects the bias and allows inflation to converge to the central bank’s target. We show that adopting this asymmetric rule improves welfare and reduces the risk of self-fulfilling deflationary spirals. This approach does not entail any history dependence in setting the policy rate or any commitment to overshoot inflation after periods in which the lower bound constraint was binding.
E62|Use It or Lose It: Efficiency Gains from Wealth Taxation|This paper studies the quantitative implications of wealth taxation (as opposed to capital income taxation) in an incomplete markets model with return rate heterogeneity across individuals. The rate of return heterogeneity arises from the fact that some individuals have better entrepreneurial skills than others, allowing them to obtain a higher return on their wealth. With such heterogeneity, capital income and wealth taxes have different efficiency and distributional implications. Under capital income taxation, entrepreneurs who are more productive and, as a result, generate more income pay higher taxes. Under wealth taxation, on the other hand, entrepreneurs who have similar wealth levels pay similar taxes regardless of their productivity. Thus, in this environment, the tax burden shifts from productive entrepreneurs to unproductive ones if the capital income tax were replaced with a wealth tax. This reallocation increases aggregate productivity. Second, and at the same time, it increases wealth inequality in the population. To provide a quantitative assessment of these different effects, we build and simulate an overlapping generations model with individual-specific returns on capital income and with idiosyncratic shocks to labor income. Our results indicate that switching from a capital income tax to a wealth tax increases welfare by almost 8% through better allocation of capital. We also study optimal taxation in this environment and find that, relative to the benchmark, the optimal wealth tax increases welfare by 9.6% while the optimal capital income tax increases it by 6.3%.
E62|Fiscal Stimulus under Sovereign Risk|"The excess procyclicality of fiscal policy is commonly viewed as a central malaise in emerging economies. We document that procyclicality is more pervasive in countries with higher sovereign risk and provide a model of optimal fiscal policy with nominal rigidities and endogenous sovereign default that can account for this empirical pattern. Financing a fiscal stimulus is costly for risky countries and can render countercyclical policies undesirable, even in the presence of large Keynesian stabilization gains. We also show that imposing austerity can backfire by exacerbating the exposure to default, but a well-designed ""fiscal forward guidance"" can help reduce the excess procyclicality."
E62|Practising Subnational Public Finance in an Emerging Economy: Fiscal Marksmanship in Kerala|Abstract Our paper analyses the subnational public finance practices in one of the States in India –Kerala- and estimate the fiscal marksmanship. Fiscal marksmanship is the analysis of fiscal forecasting errors. Kerala, though well known for its achievements in human development outcomes, is facing fiscal stress within the rule-based fiscal framework and innovating policy tools to achieve a revenue-led fiscal consolidation. We have examined the Budget Estimates, Revised Estimates and Actuals for the macro-fiscal variables from the Kerala State Budgets, during the period 2011-12 to 2016-17 to analyse the significant deviation between the projections and realizations of the State finances. We found that the magnitude of forecasting errors was relatively significant in case of tax revenue. While partitioning the sources of errors in the budgetary forecasting in Kerala, we found that the random components of the error were larger than the systematic components for all the macro-fiscal variables, except for own revenue, grants and capital expenditure. This has three macro policy implications. One, the volatility in intergovernmental fiscal transfers can affect the stability of finances at subnational level. Two, the State needs to identify innovative policy tools in Additional Resource Mobilisation (ARM) to maintain the human development achievements. Three, within the rule-based fiscal framework, State has to innovate financing strategies for strengthening growth-inducing capital infrastructure formation.
E62|Gender Budgeting as PFM in OECD Countries: Empirical Evidence from Sweden|"One of the most significant changes in the labour markets of OECD countries especially Sweden - over the past decades has been the reduction in the gender gaps in tertiary education and earnings, and the increasing female labour force participation rates. This paper analyses how Sweden has endeavored to reduce the gender gaps in labour markets and other socio-economic gender disparities using gender budgeting as a tool of accountability. The analysis revealed that despite progress made by Sweden in improving gender equality, there is still gender gap in a few areas. The empirical evidence suggests that Sweden follows a ""dual approach"" in gender budgeting within the Public Financial Management (PFM) practices. While ""gender mainstreaming"" within PFM is an essential tool for the ex-post budget analysis through a ""gender lens"", Sweden has realized that it must be combined with :ex-ante gender assessments"" to frame specifically targeted budgetary allocations for tackling gender equality. This Swedish dual approach of gender budgeting within the PFM is a comprehensive model for gender budgeting within the OECD countries. A systematic evolution of :gender neutral"" parental leave policy has also been a significant policy ingredient in Sweden towards increasing the work force participation of women."
E62|Budget Credibility of Subnational Governments: Analyzing the Fiscal Forecasting Errors of 28 States in India|Budget credibility, the ability of governments to accurately forecast the macro-fiscal variables, is crucial for effective Public Financial Management (PFM). Fiscal marksmanship analysis captures the extent of errors in the budgetary forecasting. The fiscal rules can determine fiscal marksmanship, as effective fiscal consolidation procedure affects the fiscal behaviour of the states in conducting the budgetary forecasts. Against this backdrop, applying Theil's technique, we analyse the fiscal forecasting errors for 28 States (except Telangana) in India for the period 2011-12 to 2015-16. There is a heterogeneity in the magnitude of errors across subnational governments in India. The forecast errors in revenue receipts have been greater than revenue expenditure. Within revenue receipts, the errors are pronounced more significantly in grants component. Within expenditure budgets, the errors in capital spending are found greater than revenue spending in all the States. Partitioning the sources of errors, we identified that the errors were more broadly random than systematic bias, except for a few crucial macro-fiscal variables where improving the forecasting techniques can provide better estimates.
E62|Using probit models of downturn risk to calibrate GDP Fan charts for New Zealand|Macroeconomic forecasters typically forecast fewer recessions than the number experienced, which means economic growth tends to be over-predicted on average. Consequently, forecast errors are not normally distributed, making it difficult to convey the uncertainty and risks based on the historical forecast track record. To characterise this risk, recent OECD work constructed fan charts parameterised on historical forecast errors and the probability of a future downturn estimated from a probit model comprising a range of potential macroeconomic and financial early warning indicators. As the probability of a downturn increases the associated fan chart is wider, reflecting increased uncertainty, and more skewed to the downside, reflecting greater downside risks. This paper applies this methodology to New Zealand; although one important difference compared to other OECD economies is that the time span of macroeconomic data without major structural change is significantly shorter. Forecast errors for GDP by the OECD, Reserve Bank of New Zealand and New Zealand Treasury all appear to be non-normally distributed. Fan charts for GDP forecasts from the mid-year 2018 OECD Economic Outlook are symmetric due to the low probability of a downturn. Fan charts estimated for the period preceding the global financial crisis using currently-available data have a downwards skew. However, those estimated using data only available in the lead up to the crisis have many insignificant coefficients, likely due to the structural changes that have occurred in the New Zealand economy since the 1980s.
E62|Political-Business Cycles in BRICS Economies: Evidence from Brazil|" This paper uses a DSGE model with political-regime-dependent fiscal and monetary policies so as to examine political-business cycles in an emerging market such as Brazil under three different regimes – an ""opportunistic regime"" and ""two partisan ones"". The former regime seeks to identify whether within the period of seven quarters prior to the elections, the government manipulated the economy to increase the chances of getting reelected (or securing a successor). As for the latter two, they try to verify whether the macroeconomic strategies pursued by the ""more leftist"" governments differed from their ""more right-wing"" predecessors’ monetary and fiscal policies. Our results show that there exists an opportunistic behavior by all the governments studied as regards fiscal policy, and that from a macroeconomic viewpoint, President Rouseff’s administration fared differently than previous governments. However, monetary policy turns out to be independent of the regimes considered."
E62|The Redistributive Effects of a Money-Financed Fiscal Stimulus|This paper analyzes the redistributive channel of a money financed fiscal stimulus (MFFS). It shows that the way in which this regime is implemented is crucial to determine its redistributive effects and consequently its effectiveness. In normal times, the most effective regime is a MFFS with no additional intervention by the Central Bank to stabilize the real public debt using infiation, whereas a MFFS accompanied by real debt stabilization - through the adjustment of seigniorage - is the most effective one in a ZLB scenario. In a TANK model this regime is so effec- tive to avoid the recessionary effects implied by the ZLB. This result does not hold in a RANK model, where the redistributive channel is absent. Remarkably, contrary to the common wisdom a MFFS is followed by a moderate increase of infiation, which is only temporarily higher than the target.
E62|Firm beliefs and long-run demand effects in a labor-constrained model of growth and distribution|One of the most debated questions in alternative macroeconomics regards whether demand policies have permanent or merely transitory effects. While Kaleckian ecoomists have argued that demand matters even in the long run, both economists operating within other Keynesian traditions (e.g. Skott, 1989) as well as Classical economists argue that in the long-run output growth is constrained by the so-called natural rate. This paper attempts to bridge the gap by analyzing the role of firm beliefs about the state of the economy in a labor-constrained growth and distribution model based on Kaldor (1956) and Goodwin (1967) but featuring an explicitly dynamic choice of capacity utilization. We show that: (i) the relevance of such beliefs generates an inefficiently low utilization rate and labor share in equilibrium; but (ii) the efficient utilization rate can be implemented through fiscal policy. Under exogenous technical change, (iii) the inefficiency does not affect equilibrium employment and growth, but expansionary fiscal policy has positive level effects on both GDP and the labor share. Conversely, (iv) with an endogenous bias of technical change, fiscal policy will have not just level effects but also long-run effects on labor productivity growth and the employment rate. Finally, (v) the fact that the choice of utilization responds to income shares has a stabilizing effect on growth cycles, even under exogenous technical change, that is analogous to factor substitution.
E62|Macroeconomics vs Modern Money Theory: Some unpleasant Keynesian arithmetic|The last decade has witnessed a significant revival of belief in the efficacy of fiscal policy and mainstream economics is now reverting to the standard positions of mid-1970s Keynesianism. On the coattails of that revival, increased attention is being given to the doctrine of Modern Money Theory (MMT) which makes exaggerated claims about the economic costs and capability of money-financed fiscal policy. MMT proponents are now asserting society can enjoy a range of large government spending programs for free via money financed deficits, which has made it very popular with progressive policy advocates. This paper examines MMT’s assertion and rejects the claim that the US can enjoy a massive permanent free program spree that does not cause inflation. As has long been known by Keynesians, in a static economy money financed deficits can be used to finance programs when the economy is away from the full employment - inflation boundary. However, that window will be temporary to the extent that those deficits drive the economy to full employment. Since the programs are permanent they have to be paid for with taxes or they will generate inflation. That is the economic logic behind the unpleasant Keynesian arithmetic.
E62|Fiscal policy and ecological sustainability: A post-Keynesian perspective|Fiscal policy has a strong role to play in the transition to an ecologically sustainable economy. This paper critically discusses the way that green fiscal policy has been analysed in both conventional and post-Keynesian approaches. It then uses a recently developed post-Keynesian ecological macroeconomic model in order to provide a comparative evaluation of three different types of green fiscal policy: carbon taxes, green subsidies and green public investment. We show that (i) carbon taxes reduce global warming but increase financial risks due to their adverse effects on the profitability of firms and credit availability; (ii) green subsidies and green public investment improve ecological efficiency, but their positive environmental impact is partially offset by their macroeconomic rebound effects; and (iii) a green fiscal policy mix derives better outcomes than isolated policies. Directions for future heterodox macroeconomic research on the links between fiscal policy and ecological sustainability are suggested.
E62|When Governments Promise to Prioritize Public Debt: Do Markets Care?|During the European sovereign debt crisis of 2011-13, some nations faced with rising borrowing costs adopted commitments to treat bondholders as priority claimants. That is, if there was a shortage of funds, bondholders would be paid first. In this article, we analyze the prevalence and variety of these types of commitments and ask whether they impact borrowing costs. We examine a widely-touted reform at the height of the Euro sovereign debt crisis in 2011, in which Spain enshrined in its constitution a strong commitment to give absolute priority to public debt claimants. We find no evidence that this reform had any impact on Spanish sovereign bond yields. By contrast, our examination of the U.S. Commonwealth of Puerto Rico suggests that constitutional priority promises can have an impact, at least where the borrower government is subject to supervening law and legal institutions.
E62|Revenue Based Fiscal Consolidation and Economic Growth in Sri Lanka|No abstract is available for this item.
E62|Progressive Taxation, Nominal Wage Rigidity, and Business Cycle Destabilization|In the context of a prototypical New Keynesian model, this paper examines the theoretical interrelations between two tractable formulations of progressive taxation on labor income versus (i) the equilibrium degree of nominal wage rigidity as well as (ii) the resulting volatilities of hours worked and output in response to a monetary shock. In sharp contrast to the traditional stabilization view, we analytically show that linearly progressive taxation always operates like an automatic destabilizer which leads to higher cyclical fluctuations within the macroeconomy. We also obtain the same business cycle destabilization result under continuously progressive taxation if the initial degree of tax progressivity is sufficient low.
E62|Has French budgetary policy since the 1970s been truly Keynesian?|The article shows that budgetary policy in France since the 1970s cannot be characterized as Keynesian. To prove this, two rules of behaviour compatible with Keynesian teaching are proposed and then compared with changes in budgetary balances and with a battery of stylized facts. The article calls for a fiscal stimulus allowing production capacities to be fully used for the first rule, or the return to full employment for the second. The article also points to potential ways of showing that the objective of full employment is not incompatible with the ecological transition and can be more easily reachable with a reduction in work hours.
E62|Threefold policies for bank development: Do independence and transparency matter?|A well-developed banking sector is crucial to achieve a sustained economic growth. To attain this goal, both central banks and government have embraced operational and institutional arrangements. In this paper, I offer an empirical lookup on how monetary independence and transparency of macroprudential and fiscal policies are linked to bank development. Drawing upon a panel dataset for the period 1998-2014, I find that both macroprudential transparency (proxied by central bank financial stability transparency) and fiscal transparency are positively related to the share of credit granted by banks to the private sector, implying that more transparency enhances bank development. More independence from central banks seems, however, to decrease the ratio of bank credit to GDP. By considering interactions, the marginal effect of central bank financial stability transparency on bank credit/GDP, conditional on the levels of independence, is positive but decreases under a particular range of independence values. If central bank independence interacts with fiscal transparency, the marginal effect of fiscal transparency is positive and significant over a specific range of the degree of central bank independence but there is no statistical support that the marginal effect decreases within the same range unless I use the independence index of Garriga (2016).
E62|Revisiting the AA-DD model in Zero Lower Bound|This paper proposes a simple model of a mechanism through which exchange rate can affect the link between output and government spending in zero lower bound (ZLB) periods. In our proposed model, the expected near-future interest rate is added as an endogenous variable. Unlike existing AA-DD models in ZLB, the nominal exchange rate is no longer constant. Our model predicts that the output effect of an increase in government spending in a ZLB period is deflected by an appreciation of the current exchange rate. The AA-DD model is taught in almost all economic departments. The model is also generally used by many central banks and governments. The existing AA-DD model can be misleading. Our new AA-DD model may help to update the existing model in ZLB periods. Our AA-DD model is also consistent with recent dynamic stochastic general equilibrium models in open economies in ZLB periods.
E62|Taxation Optimale et Croissance Economique au Togo : une Evidence Empirique en Séries Temporelles<BR>[Optimal Taxation and Economic Growth in Togo: Empirical Investigation in Time Series]|This paper examines the optimal level of taxation in Togo. After checking for stationarity and structural breaks, we estimate two integrated structural equations for dummy variables constructed to account for significant structural shocks. In fact, the two structural models estimated highlight a U-shaped curve and confirm that the effects exerted by the level of taxation on economic activity in Togo are non-linear. The results from the estimates, covering the period from 1960 to 2016, argue that the optimal tax rate in Togo would be 22.6% of GDP. These results imply that the levels of real GDP and economic growth still achieved by the Togolese economy have remained below their potential.
E62|Effet de l’aide publique au développement sur la mobilisation des ressources fiscales dans les pays de l’UEMOA<BR>[Effect of foreign aid on fiscal resources mobilization in WAEMU countries]|In WAEMU countries, the lack of consistent domestic resources for financing development is a real financial handicap. Foreign aid is necessary. However, economic literature is not unanimous on the ability of foreign aid to promote fiscal resources mobilization. In this paper, we analyze the effect of different forms and components of international aid on tax revenues of WAEMU countries using WDI, OECD and BDSM databases. We apply the instrumental variable method to a panel data set covering the period 1985-2016. In our analyzes, we first distinguish bilateral and multilateral aid. Then we also differentiate concessional aid, technical assistance and grants or loans contained in international aid. The results indicate firstly that multilateral aid has a positive and significant impact on tax revenues, while bilateral aid does not. Secondly, with axamine the decomposed effect of aid. Our results show that concessional form of aid and technical assistance enhance fiscal resources mobilization. But loans reduce tax effort. Finally, these results reveal that when aid is taken in aggregate form, its effect on tax revenues is ambiguous. As economic policies implications, we argue that improving institutional quality would make foreign aid efficient in tax collection. We also recommend that foreign aid would be redirected towards investment for effective tax systems in these countries. Moreover, to remedy the disincentive effect created by loans, we particularly argue that they should be channelled more to non-governmental organisations or to the private sector rather than to governments of these countries.
E62|A Bayesian Estimation of HANK models with Continuous Time Approach:Comparison between US and Japan|Abstract This paper estimates heterogeneous agent New Keynesian (HANK) model for US and Japan through three aggregate observations: real GDP, inflation and interest rate, by adopting combination of easy-to-use computational method for solving the model, developed by Ahn, Kaplan, Moll, Winberry and Wolf (2019), and sequential Monte Carlo (SMC) method with Kalman filter applied for Bayesian estimation with parallel computing. The combination make us enjoy the estimation of HANK just using a Laptop PC, e.g., Mac Book Pro, with MATLAB, neither many-core server computer nor FORTRUN language. We show estimation results of one Asset HANK model, i.e., impulse response, fluctuations of distributions of heterogeneous agent as well as historical decomposition for both countries. Even though using the same model, different data draws different pictures.
E62|Optimal Capital Taxation in an Economy with Innovation-Driven Growth|"This paper examines whether the Chamley-Judd result of a zero optimal capital tax rate is valid in an innovation-driven growth model. We examine how the optimal capital tax rate varies with externalities associated with R&D and innovation. Our results show that the optimal capital tax rate is higher when (i) the ""stepping on toes effect"" is smaller, (ii) the ""standing on shoulders effect"" is stronger, or (iii) the extent of creative destruction is greater. By calibrating our model to the US economy, we find that the optimal capital tax rate is positive, at a rate of around 11.9 percent. We also find that a positive optimal capital tax rate is more likely to be the case when there is underinvestment in R&D."
E62|Time-varying Fiscal Multipliers Identified by Systematic Component: A Bayesian Approach to TVP-SVAR model|Abstract This study estimates time varying fiscal multipliers from the aspect of fiscal policy rules derived from the systematic component along the line of “Agnostic Identification Procedure” proposed by Caldara and Kamps (2017) for the US economy between 1952:Q1-2018:Q1. To do so, we adopt time-varying parameter structural vector autoregressive (TVP-SVAR) with MCMC procedure by a Bayesian approach, and identify both of government spending and tax cut shocks using the zero and sign restrictions method proposed by Arias, Rubio-Ramirez and Waggoner (2018). And we compare those values with time varying version identified by standard sign restriction along the line of Mountford and Uhlig (2009). Our estimation reports that time-varying fiscal multipliers of output by government spending rule could be nearly double for one year but decline to unity after eight years, and seem to have been very stable for long terms such as sixty years. By contrast, those of tax cut rule are more fluctuate and negative for long run except the 1990’s.
E62|FIR-GEM: A SOE-DSGE Model for fiscal policy analysis in Ireland|This paper presents FIR-GEM: Fiscal IRish General Equilibrium Model. FIR-GEM is a small open economy DSGE model designed as fiscal toolkit for fiscal policy analysis in Ireland. To illustrate the model's potential for fiscal policy analysis, we conduct three types of experiments. First, we analyse the fiscal transmission mechanism through which Irish fiscal policy affects the Irish economy. Second, we compute fiscal multipliers for the main tax-spending instruments, namely government consumption, public investment, public wage bill, public transfers, consumption, labour and capital tax. We focus on a fiscal policy stimulus that is either implemented through spending increases or tax cuts. Third, we perform robustness analysis on key structural characteristics that can affect quantitatively the size of fiscal multipliers. We find that the size of fiscal multipliers in the Irish economy heavily depends on its degree of openness, the method of fiscal financing employed, the elasticity of the sovereign risk premia to Irish debt dynamics and the flexibility of Irish labour and product markets.
E62|Modeling the Internal Revenue Code in a heterogeneous-agent framework: An application to TCJA|Macroeconomic models used for tax policy analysis often simultaneously abstract from two features of the US tax code: special tax treatment for preferential capital income, and the joint tax treatment of ordinary capital and labor income. In this paper, we explore the extent to which explicitly accounting for these tax details has macroeconomic implications within a heterogeneous-agent model. We do this by expanding the Moore and Pecoraro (2018) overlapping generations model to include distinct corporate and non-corporate firms so that the business income distributed to households can be separated into ordinary and preferred capital income. Household income tax treatment is then determined by an internal tax calculator that fully accounts for interaction among income bases while conditioning on idiosyncratic household characteristics. Relative to a conventional approach where household income taxation is determined by independent labor and capital income tax functions that do not distinguish between ordinary and preferred capital income, we find that our innovations have implications for household behavior and economic aggregates - especially the tax consequences of changes to the returns to labor and capital - when analyzing a subset of tax provisions from the recently enacted “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act”. Our findings imply that the abstracting from tax detail may come at the expense of correctly accounting for incentives and estimating macroeconomic responses to tax policy changes.
E62|Household Heterogeneity and the Value of Government Spending Multiplier: an Analytical Characterization|This paper provides an analytical formula for the government spending multiplier in economy populated with heterogeneous households that face uninsured idiosyncratic risk. To derive this expression I use the canonical Bewley-Huggett-Aiyagari model extended to capture frictional product market. In my analysis I relax several assumptions that were made in the literature to obtain closed-form solutions in heterogeneous agent models such as: partial equilibrium (e.g., Auclert (2017)), extreme illiquidity (e.g., Krusell et al. (2011)) and constant real interest rates (e.g., Auclert et al. (2018)). The resulting formula for the multiplier is decomposed into interpretable, model-based channels. Calibrated model is used to estimate their magnitude under alternative fiscal and monetary policy rules. Quantitative exploration indicates that household heterogeneity plays a crucial role in the propagation of government expenditures shocks.
E62|Asset Liquidity and Fiscal Consolidation Programs|We argue that the relationship between wealth inequality and fiscal multipliers depends crucially on the type of fiscal experiment used as well as on the measure of the wealth distribution. We calibrate an incomplete-markets, overlapping generations model to different European economies and use Household Finance and Consumption Survey (HFCS) data to compare fiscal multipliers when models are calibrated to match the distribution of liquid vs. net wealth. We find a negative relationship between fiscal multipliers and wealth inequality when considering fiscal consolidation programs, in contrast to fiscal expansions experiments which are standard in the literature. The underlying mechanism relies on the relationship between the distribution of wealth and the share of credit constrained agents. We examine the role of households’ balance sheet compositions regarding asset liquidity and find that when calibrating the model to match liquid wealth, the relationship between wealth inequality and fiscal multipliers is much stronger.
E62|Optimal Paternalistic Savings Policies|We study optimal savings policies when there is a dual concern about undersaving for retirement and income inequality. Agents differ in present bias and earnings ability, both unobservable to a planner with paternalistic and redistributive motives. We characterize the solution to this two-dimensional screening problem and provide a decentralization using realistic policy instruments: mandatory savings at low incomes but a choice between subsidized savings vehicles at high incomes—resembling Social Security, 401(k), and IRA accounts in the US. Offering more savings choice at higher incomes facilitates redistribution. To solve large-scale versions of this problem numerically, we propose a general, computationally stable, and efficient active-set algorithm. Relative to the current US retirement system, we find significant welfare gains from increasing mandatory savings and limiting savings choice at low incomes.
E62|Fiscal policy for full-employment and debt dynamics: An attempt of mathematical analysis of MMT|We examine the effects of a fiscal policy which realizes full-employment from a state of under-employment (a sate with deflationary GDP gap). We show that the larger the growth rate of real GDP or the government expenditure by a fiscal policy over the ordinary growth rate is, the smaller the debt-to-GDP ratio at the time when full-employment is realized is, and an aggressive fiscal policy for full-employment can reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio. Therefore, full-employment can be realized by a fiscal policy with smaller debt-to-GDP ratio than before the fiscal policy. An increase in the government expenditure may induce a rise of the interest rate. Since the higher the interest rate is, the larger the debt-to-GDP ratio is, we need an appropriate monetary policy which maintains the low interest rate. Also we show that the condition about propensity to consume for realization of full-employment within one year from under-employment state without increasing the debt-to-GDP ratio before fiscal policy is not demanding. This paper is an attempt of mathematical analysis in a spirit of Modern Monetary Theory.
E62|Continuous time debt dynamics and fiscal policy for full-employment: A Keynesian approach by mathematics and simulation|We present a continuous time version of a dynamic analysis of debt-to-GDP ratio, and examine the effects of a fiscal policy which realizes full-employment from a state of under-employment or with deflationary GDP gap. We show that the larger the extra growth rate of real GDP by a fiscal policy is, the smaller the debt-to-GDP ratio at the time when full-employment is realized is, and a fiscal policy for full-employment can reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio. Therefore, full-employment can be realized by an aggressive fiscal policy with smaller debt-to-GDP ratio than before the fiscal policy. An increase in the government expenditure may induce a rise of the interest rate. Since the higher the interest rate is, the larger the debt-to-GDP ratio is, we need an appropriate monetary policy which maintains the low interest rate. Also we show that even if the propensity to consume is very small, an aggressive fiscal policy can realize full-employment without increasing debt-to-GDP ratio.
E62|Tax reduction for full-employment and debt dynamics: A Keynesian analysis by mathematics and simulation|We examine the effects of a fiscal policy by tax reduction which realizes full-employment from a state of under-employment or with deflationary GDP gap. We show that the larger the growth rate of real GDP by tax reduction is, the smaller the debt-to-GDP ratio at the time when full-employment is realized is, and an aggressive fiscal policy by tax reduction for full-employment can reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio. Therefore, full-employment can be realized with smaller debt-to-GDP ratio than before the tax reduction policy. However, for this result we need that the marginal propensity to consume is considerably large.
E62|Real level of public investment: how to manage the inflation?|When the government collects a supplementary indirect tax on an output, the price of that output increases by consequence. Then, using the resulting revenue for public investments will lead to an underconsumption of the total revenue invested. This is due to an inflation that has been created by this mechanism. This paper investigates the determination of the net amount of investment projects taking into account the effect of inflation. We use the computable general equilibrium model to test our hypothesis. As result, we show that, some simulations are needed in order to reach the equilibrium.
E62|Budget Credibility of Subnational Governments: Analyzing the Fiscal Forecasting Errors of 28 States in India|Budget credibility, the ability of governments to accurately forecast the macro-fiscal variables, is crucial for effective Public Finance Management (PFM). Fiscal marksmanship analysis captures the extent of errors in the budgetary forecasting. The fiscal rules can determine fiscal marksmanship, as effective fiscal consolidation procedure affects the fiscal behaviour of the states in conducting the budgetary forecasts. Against this backdrop, applying Theil’s technique, we analyse the fiscal forecasting errors for 28 States (except Telengana) in India for the period 2011-12 to 2015-16. There is a heterogeneity in the magnitude of errors across subnational governments in India. The forecast errors in revenue receipts have been greater than revenue expenditure. Within revenue receipts, the errors are pronounced more significantly in grants component. Within expenditure budgets, the errors in capital spending are found greater than revenue spending in all the States. Partitioning the sources of errors, we identified that the errors were more broadly random than systematic bias, except for a few crucial macro-fiscal variables where improving the forecasting techniques can provide better estimates.
E62|Multiple equilibria in Lucas (1990)'s optimal capital taxation model with endogenous learning|In the paper we solve the general case of the Lucas (1990) optimal capital taxation model with endogenous growth driven by endogenous learning. We prove Lucas (1990)'s conjecture on zero limiting capital tax and display the possibility of multiple equilibria (i.e., multiple BGPs) in the model.
E62|Fiscal Policy Uncertainty and Economic Activity in South Africa: An Asymmetric Analysis|This paper examined the asymmetric effect of fiscal policy uncertainty on real economic activity in South Africa. Quarterly time series data spanning from 1990:Q1 to 2018:Q2 are used. Fiscal policy uncertainty is defined as the GARCH (1,1) conditional variance in capital tax, consumption tax, labour income tax and government spending. The results based on linear projection models that allow for asymmetry show that in general high fiscal policy uncertainty exhibits a negative effect on real GDP while low fiscal uncertainty exhibits a positive effect on real GDP. High volatility (bad news) has larger effect in general than low volatility (good news).This disparity is significant especially for the response of real GDP to capital tax uncertainty and spending uncertainty. Therefore fiscal policy uncertainty has asymmetric effect on real economic activity in South Africa.
E62|Short and Long Run Asymmetric Effects of Monetary and Fiscal Policy Uncertainty on Economic Activity in the U.S|This paper extends the ongoing literature on the macroeconomic effects of monetary and fiscal policy uncertainty. It examined the asymmetric effects of monetary and fiscal policy uncertainty on economic activity in the short and long run using U.S. monthly data from 1985M1 to 2017M2. The industrial production index is used as a measure of economic activity while the Baker et al (2016) news based monetary and fiscal policy uncertainty were used as measures of uncertainty. To analyse asymmetry, the paper employed the nonlinear autoregressive distributed lag (NARDL) model which allows one not only to capture the effects of positive and negative uncertainty but to do so in both short and long run. Hence this paper provides new evidence of possible existence of a nonlinear and asymmetric relationship between policy uncertainty and economic activity in the short and long run. The results show that monetary and fiscal policy uncertainty share long run relationship with economic activity. Further, the effect of monetary and fiscal policy uncertainties in the long run is asymmetric. Asymmetric effect in the short run was supported only for monetary policy uncertainty. These findings have important practical and policy implications.
E62|Economic consequences of high public debt and challenges ahead for the euro area|The aim of this paper is to reflect on the economic consequences of high public debt and the challenges ahead for the euro area. The paper reviews the economic risks associated with regimes of high public debt through DSGE model simulations and stresses the need for comprehensive solutions to mitigate such risks in the future. While the large public debt build-up following the global financial and economic crisis acted as a shock absorber for output, keeping public debt at high levels is a source of vulnerability in itself, particularly given the arising fiscal and economic pressures from ageing. Moreover, in the euro area, where monetary policy focuses on the area-wide aggregate, countries with high levels of indebtedness are poorly equipped to withstand asymmetric shocks. Looking at the historical evidence, the paper reviews the menu of tools at hand for euro area governments to further reduce their debt ratios. It posits that the urgency of efforts in this respect depends on risks to public debt sustainability. In the context of the broader reform agenda on how to strengthen EMU resilience, the paper acts as a reminder that further risk reduction and institutional reform is needed.
E62|The new ESCB methodology for the calculation of cyclically adjusted budget balances: an application to the Portuguese case|The analysis of public finance developments relies, amongst other indicators, on estimates of cyclically adjusted budget balances (CABs), which correct headline government balances for business cycle fluctuations. The European System of Central Banks (ESCB) endorsed in late 2018 a new aggregate methodology for the calculation of CABs, developed by Bouabdallah et al., 2019. This paper presents the application of this new cyclical adjustment methodology to the Portuguese case, providing details on the calculation of the underlying fiscal-to-base and base-to-output elasticities. Additionally, it describes the output gap estimations used to assess the cyclical position of the economy. The paper also presents the analytical tool developed by Bouabdallah et al., 2019 to disentangle the drivers of structural fiscal developments, providing details on its application to Portugal.
E62|Euro area fiscal policy changes: stylised features of the past two decades|The paper provides a narrative of euro area fiscal policy changes since 1997, the year when Maastricht criteria were met for inception of the euro. Changes in the budget balance are decomposed into a discretionary component, a cyclical component and a net residual, with each component broken down in turn into broad categories of expenditure and revenues. The paper then examines the output effects of fiscal changes. We summarise our findings in six stylised features. In brief, fiscal changes and fiscal effects are relatively large. They stem in similar proportions from discretionary actions and from the automatic stabilisers. Discretionary changes tend to involve both revenue and expenditure measures and do not appear systematically driven by cyclical developments. Fiscal changes as a whole have contributed to smooth the euro area growth path, but mostly due to the automatic stabilisers.
E62|Regional fiscal equalization. A simultaneous equation approach to assess the economic effects of fiscal policy|Regional fiscal equalization in Germany aims to reduce fiscal disparities by allocating financial resources to less promising regions in order to support the supply of public goods. This paper aims to analyse secondary economic effects of regional fiscal equalization on several economic in- and output variables. Additionally, the paper examines the potential regional characteristics to influence the transformation of fiscal inputs into economic outcomes. Lastly, I compare the effects of fiscal equalization to these of the major German structural funding program GRW. My findings reveal a significant positive effect of fiscal equalization on the regional employment rate. Moreover, the findings suggest different transmission channels of fiscal equalization in East and West Germany. Particularly, I find higher effects in right-wing CDU/CSU preferring regions on the employment, human capital and private-sector investment rate. Finally, while structural funding affects more economic variables significantly, the magnitude of the estimated economic responses of fiscal equalization compared to these of German structural funding are not statistically different.
E62|Saving Constraints, Debt, and the Credit Market Response to Fiscal Stimulus: Theory and Cross-Country Evidence|We document that the interest rate response to fiscal stimulus is lower in countries with high inequality or high household debt. To interpret this evidence we develop a model in which households take on debt to maintain a minimum consumption threshold. Now debt-burdened, these households use additional income to deleverage. In economies with more debt-burdened households, increases in government spending tighten credit conditions less (relax credit conditions more), leading to smaller increases (larger declines) in the interest rate. To validate our mechanism we confirm that the pre-Global Financial Crisis consumption response to fiscal stimulus is lower in countries with high inequality or household debt and in U.S. counties with high household debt. An implication of our theoretical and empirical results is that the sign of the debt-dependence of the effects of fiscal stimulus varies with credit conditions.
E62|Job Creation in Tight and Slack Labor Markets|Do investment programs create more jobs in tight or in slack labor markets? We study this question using data from a large, long-term photovoltaic investment scheme in Germany. Comparing counties with high and low unemployment both over time and across space, we find that photovoltaic installations created at least twice as many jobs in slack than in tight labor markets. Our results suggest that the differences in job-creation are not driven by changes in the composition or prices of investment, capital-labor substitution, or regional migration. This leaves crowding-out as the most plausible mechanism.
E62|Entrepreneurs, managers and inequality|Income concentration in the U.S. rose sharply since the 1970s. But the share of wealth held by the top 1 percent increased less. This can be partially accounted for by a quantitative model of occupational choice, in which rich individuals choose to become entrepreneurs or managers. Collateral constraints induce entrepreneurs to hold more wealth, while managers earn higher wages as a result of competitive assignments to firms. Declining tax progressivity from 1970 to 2000 replaces top entrepreneurs with top managers, which can account for 65% and 30% of the increase in the share of wages and income earned by the top 1 percent, respectively. At the same time, the share of wealth held by the top 1 percent remains stable, as entrepreneurs decumulate but managers accumulate wealth. (Copyright: Elsevier)
E62|Tax Progressivity in Australia: Facts, Measurements and Estimates|We study the progressivity of Australia's personal income tax system after the introduction of a New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999. We use two data sets: administrative data from Australian Tax Office (ATO) 2004-16 and survey data from the Household Income and Labour Dynamics in Australia (HILDA) survey 2001-16. We first document the distributions of income and tax liabilities, properties of the joint distributions of taxes paid and income, and discuss how taxes are varied across households and over time. We next provide estimates of tax progressivity using two approaches: one based on tax liability progression and one based on tax liability distribution relative to income distribution. The result obtained from the tax progression approach implies a significant decline in the average level of tax progressivity since 2004. Meanwhile, the result obtained from the tax distribution approach indicates a tax progressivity cycle with a modest decline up to 2006, then a sharp increase until 2010, and a slight decline thereafter. The personal income tax cuts for all taxpayers in early 2000s and the introduction of tax offset for low income earners (LITO) are main driving forces. Moreover, the evolution of income distribution and its interactions with bracket creep strongly affect the overall progressivity level of Australia's income tax system. Hence, our findings provide new insights into the dynamics of income growth and tax progressivity, which has implications for tax policy debates in Australia.
E62|Working Paper 310 - Tax Policy, Foreign Direct Investment and Spillover Effects|JEL Code : C23, E62, F21, H25.Keywords: FDI, statutory corporate tax rate, panel data, spatial econometrics.
E62|Production Network and International Fiscal Spillovers|This paper analyzes the impact of fiscal spending shocks in a multi-country model with international production networks. In contrast to standard results suggesting that production network linkages are unimportant for the aggregate response to macro shocks in a closed economy, we show that network structures may place a central role in the international propagation of fiscal shocks, particularly when wages are slow to adjust. The paper first develops a simple general equilibrium multi-country model and derives some analytical results on the response to fiscal spending shocks. We then apply the model to an analysis of fiscal spillovers in the Eurozone, using the calibrated sectoral network structure from the World Input Output Database (WIOD). In a version of the model with sticky wages, we find that fiscal spillovers from Germany and other some other large Eurozone countries may be large, and within the range of empirical estimates. More importantly, we find that the Eurozone production network very important for the international spillovers. In the absence of international production network linkages, spillovers would be only a third as large as predicted by the baseline model. Finally, we explore the diffusion of identified German government spending at the sectoral level, both within and across countries. We find that government expenditures have both significant upstream and downstream effects when these links are measured by the direction of sectoral production linkages.
E62|Fiscal rules and budget forecast errors of Italian Municipalities|We study the impact of the domestic stability pact on the budget forecast errors of Italian municipalities. The identification of the causal effect exploits a quasi-natural experiment generated by the removal in 2001 of the fiscal restraints on budget decisions for municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants and by stricter budgetary restrictions and severe penalties for noncompliers in 2002. We find that relaxing fiscal rules had a sizeable impact on budget forecast errors, especially in 2002. Revenue (expenditure) forecast errors for municipalities below 5,000 inhabitants became indeed 26% (22%) larger than in the past.
E62|Un modelo DSGE bayesiano para la heterogeneidad en shocks de impuestos como política fiscal en la reactivación económica del Perú|Durante los últimos años, el Perú atravesó recesiones debido a la dependencia externa estableciendo políticas fiscales para la reactivación económica. Sin embargo, la diversidad de impuestos y su escaso estudio no permitieron definir una política adecuada debido a la no consideración de heterogeneidad de sus efectos. Esta investigación estima el impacto de shocks del IGV y el IR considerando las limitaciones anteriores. Asimismo, a través del modelo de Equilibrio General Dinámico Estocástico (DSGE) Bayesiano se evidenció que un shock por IGV incrementa la economía en 2.2%, disminuye el empleo, aumenta el consumo en el periodo inicial y retrae la inversión. Por otra parte, un shock de IR impulsa la economía en 4.8%, retrae el consumo pero eleva el empleo casi proporcionalmente, e incrementa la inversión. Finalmente, se concluyó que una reforma tributaria de IR tiene efectos más satisfactorios, logrando una recaudación de 12.3% del PBI, en comparación del IGV (8.9%).
E62|Resolving New Keynesian Anomalies with Wealth in the Utility Function|The New Keynesian model makes several anomalous predictions at the zero lower bound: collapse of output and inflation, and implausibly large effects of forward guidance and government spending. To resolve these anomalies, we introduce wealth into the utility function. The justification is that wealth is a marker of social status, and people value social status. Since people save not only for future consumption but also to accrue social status, the Euler equation is modified. As a result, when the marginal utility of wealth is sufficiently large, the dynamical system representing the equilibrium at the zero lower bound becomes a source instead of a saddle-which resolves all the anomalies.
E62|The Effects of Government Spending Over the Business Cycle: A Disaggregated Analysis for OECD and Non-OECD Countries|Using a panel of OECD and non-OECD economies, we estimate the effects of three types of government expenditure (compensation of government employees, government use of goods and services and government investment) and social benefits on output, private consumption and investment. In OECD economies, we find that compensation of government employees and government investment generate significantly positive multipliers, whereas government use of goods and services does not. However, only the multipliers of compensation of government employees are found higher during recessions and only for horizons of up to two years ahead. In non-OECD economies, the multipliers of compensation of government employees and government investment are positive but smaller than those for the OECD group and they do not tend to differ in recessions and in expansions. We also provide evidence that social benefits generate increases of private consumption, for both OECD and non-OECD countries.
E62|Populism, Economic Policies, Political Pressure And Central Bank (In)Dependence|This article discusses the relationships between populism, economic policy design and central bank independence (CBI). Assuming that 1) a macro (banking) shock can occur, 2) the incumbent government can face a trade - off between bail-out and bail-in and can finance its public spending choosing between taxes and debt; 3) an independent central bank design the monetary policy strategy assuming a long run perspective – i.e. welfare function maximization; 3) labour and financial assets represent the citizens endowment, with the possibility of monetary and banking externalities, it is possible that the majority of citizens prefer an overall policy design – including monetary policy - that are different from the social optimal ones. Then if the incumbent government wishes to please the voters, the political pressure measures the difference between the government goals and the central bank choices. The political pressure can be considered a proxy for a contingent demand of CBI reform – a metrics for de facto CBI. If we define as populist any policy that guarantees anti- elites redistribution without regard for longer term distortions, a populist pressure that promote a more politically dependent central bank can arise when the elites are sophisticated investors, while the majority of citizens are unsophisticated investors.
E62|Analyse de la soutenabilité de la dette publique au Luxembourg|Cette étude vise à évaluer les risques portant sur la soutenabilité de la dette publique au Luxembourg. Elle repose sur l’utilisation d’un outil DSA (« Debt Sustainability Analysis ») développé par l’Eurosystème, dont la méthodologie est adaptée et appliquée au cas du Luxembourg. Les résultats obtenus suggèrent que, en l’absence de chocs négatifs et en considérant que le Luxembourg respecte les critères du Pacte de Stabilité et de Croissance, les risques pesant sur la soutenabilité de la dette semblent être faibles dans l’horizon considéré. Néanmoins, bien que le niveau de dette publique soit relativement bas, les résultats permettent d’identifier certains risques susceptibles d’exercer une pression à la hausse sur la trajectoire de la dette et ainsi menacer sa soutenabilité.
E62|La mejora de la situación de las finanzas públicas de las corporaciones locales en la última década|Las Corporaciones Locales han registrado desde 2012 un superávit fiscal, que contrasta con el déficit registrado en el resto de las Administraciones Públicas. A pesar de la heterogeneidad en la composición del sector, esta mejora en las finanzas públicas se extiende a una amplia mayoría de municipios. Su origen se remonta a la reducción y a la posterior contención de los gastos no financieros surgidas en 2012, especialmente relevantes en el caso del gasto en inversión pública. Las Corporaciones Locales han utilizado esta evolución favorable de sus presupuestos para mejorar significativamente su situación financiera. En particular, desde 2012 el sector ha iniciado un proceso de desendeudamiento, que, si bien presenta cierto grado de heterogeneidad, ha supuesto una reducción notable de su stock de deuda. Esta reducción del pasivo ha venido acompañada de una sustancial mejora de los activos financieros, materializada, en particular, en la acumulación de efectivo y depósitos. Si bien a escala agregada el sector presenta una situación financiera saneada, holgadamente compatible con los límites de deuda establecidos en la Ley Orgánica de Estabilidad Presupuestaria y Sostenibilidad Financiera, aún muestra cierto margen de mejora, en particular en el caso de los ayuntamientos de tamaño medio.
E62|The Spanish personal income tax: facts and parametric estimates|In this paper, we use administrative data on tax returns to characterize the distributions of before and after-tax income, tax liabilities, and tax credits in Spain for individuals and households. We use the most recent available data, 2015 for individuals and 2013 for households, but also discuss how the income distribution and taxes have changed since 2002. We also estimate effective tax functions that capture the underlying heterogeneity of the data in a parsimonious way. These parametric functions can be used to calculate after-tax incomes in surveys where this information is not directly available, and can also be used in quantitative work in macroeconomics and public finance.
E62|Jobs multipliers: evidence from a large fiscal stimulus in Spain|We estimate the employment effect of a large fiscal stimulus in Spain (PlanE), in which the national government transferred funds to municipalities to carry out local investment projects. Using a difference-in-difference approach by exploiting variation in the timing of the execution of projects across municipalities, we find that 100,000 euros of stimulus reduced unemployment by 0.62 jobs per year. We allow for possible spatial effects, i.e. the propagation of the stimulus to neighboring municipalities, and find that these are sizable, representing 8.4% of the “local” effect. We also present evidence on the transmission mechanism, finding that the effect was: (i) initially concentrated in the construction and industrial sectors, but later spilled over to the broader economy, (ii) larger for males than females, (iii) larger when the shock represented a higher share of the budget, and (iv) not larger for municipalities headed by more educated mayors. Our estimate of the multiplier falls in the lower range of previous work.
E62|Fear of taxes|This paper documents that Mexican households anticipated the fiscal reform of 2014 several months before enacted. This change in expectations is documented using a novel source of information available in Google Trends, among other sources. It then analyzes the economic consequences of this change using a general equilibrium growth model with taxes and uncertainty. The model also considers the presence of generic distortions in the form of wedges in the first order conditions to isolate the effect of taxation. The paper provides an explanation for the unusual trajectories of investment and GDP of the Mexican economy around 2013.
E62|Límite de la Deuda Pública y Espacio Fiscal: Análisis para Colombia y Otros Mercados Emergentes|En este documento se analiza el límite de la deuda pública y el espacio fiscal para Colombia y otras economías emergentes, bajo el enfoque de la fatiga fiscal (Ghosh et. al., 2013). El estado de fatiga se presenta en situaciones de incrementos continuos de la deuda y del pago de los intereses, que llevan a que los esfuerzos del gobierno para generar superávits primarios se deterioren. El trabajo utiliza la técnica de los splines para estimar la reacción del gobierno a la dinámica de deuda y plantea una prima de riesgo endógena a su evolución. Las estimaciones se realizan con un panel desbalanceado de trece economías, seis de la región, para el periodo 1985–2016. Los resultados sugieren que el límite de la deuda pública de país se situaría en 56% del PIB y el espacio fiscal ascendería a 7 p.p. del producto, el cual luce estrecho especialmente por la sensibilidad de la deuda a los choques externos. Frente a otros países de la región, Chile cuenta con el mayor espacio fiscal, al tiempo que México y Ecuador, con endeudamientos cercanos al colombiano, disponen de menor espacio. **** ABSTRACT: This paper assess the public debt limit and fiscal space for Colombia and some emerging economies, under the fiscal fatigue approach (Ghosh et. al., 2013). The fatigue phenomenon occurs under situations of continuous increases of both debt and interest payments, which lead to government´s efforts to obtain primary surpluses to deteriorate. The paper uses the spline technique to estimate the government's reaction function to debt dynamics and proposes a sovereign risk premium endogenous to the level of indebtedness. Estimates carry out with an unbalanced panel of thirteen economies, six of them from Latin America, for the period 1985-2016. Results suggest that the limit of Colombian public debt would be 56% of GDP and that fiscal space would amount to 7 points of GDP, which looks so narrow due to the debt sensitivity to external shocks. In front to other countries, Chile has the largest fiscal space, while Mexico and Ecuador, with comparable indebtedness to the Colombian, have lower spaces.
E62|¿Cómo y qué tanto impacta la deuda pública a las tasas de interés de mercado?|La relación entre la deuda pública y las tasas de interés de mercado ha sido un tema de amplia discusión en la literatura internacional, por sus implicaciones sobre los mercados financieros, las decisiones de ahorro e inversión de los agentes económicos y el agregado de la economía. En este artículo se analiza cómo y qué tanto impacta la deuda del pública la pendiente o spread de la estructura a plazos de las tasas de interés en Colombia en el periodo 2003-2017. Para alcanzar su objetivo, primero se estima el spread a diferentes plazos, mediante un modelo de estado-espacio. Posteriormente, se determina el impacto de la deuda sobre aquel; utilizando modelos de series de tiempo univariados y multivariados. Por último, se realiza una descomposición histórica de choques del spread. Los principales resultados obtenidos muestran que la deuda pública tiene un efecto positivo sobre el spread, tanto la emitida a tasa fija como a tasa variable. Así mismo se encuentra que la emisión de deuda a tasa variable tiene un mayor efecto sobre el spread de las tasas de interés de corto plazo, mientras la de tasa fija, más sensible a las condiciones del mercado, tiene un mayor impacto sobre el spread de las tasas de interés de largo plazo. La implicación de política más importante es el llamado a la reducción del endeudamiento público, con el objetivo de aminorar su impacto no deseado sobre el mercado financiero y la actividad económica. **** ABSTRACT: The relationship between public debt and market interest rates has been a subject of wide discussion in the international literature, due to its implications for the financial markets, saving and investment decisions of economic agents and for the aggregate of the economy. This article analyzes how and how much public debt impacts the slope or spread of the term structure of interest rates in Colombia in the period 2003-2017. To reach its objective, the spread is estimated at different terms, using a state-space model. Subsequently, the impact of the debt on the spread is determined; using univariate and multivariate time series models. Finally, a historical decomposition of the spread shocks is carried out. The main results obtained show that the public debt has a positive effect on the spread, both debts issued at a fixed rate and at a variable rate. It is also found that the issuance of debt at a variable rate has a greater effect on the spread of the short-term interest rates, while the fixed-rate debt, which is more sensitive to market conditions, has a greater impact on the spread of long-term rates. The most important policy implication is the call for the reduction of public indebtedness, with the aim of reducing its undesired impact on the financial market and economic activity.
E62|The Cost of Banking Crises: Does the Policy Framework Matter?|This paper empirically investigates how the stringency of macroeconomic policy frameworks impacts the unconditional cost of banking crises. We consider monetary, fiscal and exchange rate policies. A restrictive policy framework may promote stronger banking stability, by enhancing discipline and credibility, and by giving financial room to policymakers. At the same time though, tying the hands of policymakers may be counterproductive and procyclical, especially if it prevents them from responding properly to financial imbalances and crises. Our analysis considers a sample of 146 countries over the period 1970-2013, and reveals that extremely restrictive policy frameworks are likely to increase the expected cost of banking crises. By contrast, by combining discipline and flexibility, some policy arrangements such as budget balance rules with an easing clause, intermediate exchange rate regimes or an inflation targeting framework may significantly contain the cost of banking crises. As such, we provide evidence on the benefits of “constrained discretion” for the real impact of banking crises.
E62|Sovereign default and imperfect tax enforcement|We show that, in many countries, tax compliance is volatile and markedly responds to fiscal policy. To explore the consequence of this novel stylized fact, we build a model of sovereign debt with limited commitment and imperfect tax enforcement. Fiscal policy persistently affects the size of the informal economy, which impact future fiscal revenues and thus default risk. Thismechanism captures one key empirical regularity of economies with imperfect tax enforcement: the low sensitivity of debt price to fiscal consolidations. The interaction of imperfect tax enforcement and limited commitment strongly constrains the dynamics of optimal scal policy. During default crises, high tax distortions force the government towards extreme scal policies, notably including costly austerity spells.
E62|Professional Networks and their Coevolution with Executive Careers|This paper examines how networks of professional contacts contribute to the development of the careers of executives of North American and European companies. We build a dynamic model of career progression in which career moves may both depend upon existing networks and contribute to the development of future networks. We test the theory on an original dataset of nearly 73 000 executives in over 10 000 firms. In principle professional networks could be relevant both because they are rewarded by the employer and because they facilitate job mobility. Our econometric analysis suggests that, although there is a substantial positive correlation between network size and executive compensation, with an elasticity of around 20%, almost all of this is due to unobserved individual characteristics. The true causal impact of networks on compensation is closer to an elasticity of 1 or 2% on average, all of this due to enhanced probability of moving to a higher-paid job. And there appear to be strongly diminishing returns to network size.
E62|Modelling yields at the lower bound through regime shifts|"We propose a regime-switching approach to deal with the lower bound on nominal interest rates in dynamic term structure modelling. In the ""lower bound regime"", the short term rate is expected to remain constant at levels close to the effective lower bound; in the ""normal regime"", the short rate interacts with other economic variables in a standard way. State-dependent regime switching probabilities ensure that the likelihood of being in the lower bound regime increases as short rates fall closer to zero. A key advantage of this approach is to capture the gradualism of the monetary policy normalization process following a lower bound episode. The possibility to return to the lower bound regime continues exerting an influence in the early phases of normalization, pulling expected future rates downwards. We apply our model to U.S. data and show that it captures key properties of yields at the lower bound. In spite of its heavier parameterization, the regime-switching model displays a competitive out-of-sample forecasting performance. It can also be used to gauge the risk of a return to the lower bound regime in the future. As of mid-2018, it provides a more benign assessment than alternative measures."
E62|Monetary financing with interest-bearing money|Recent results suggesting that monetary financing is more expansionary than bond financing in standard New Keynesian models rely on a duality between policy rules for the rate of money growth and the short-term bond rate, rather than a special role for money. We incorporate two features into a simple sticky-price model to generalize these results. First, that money may earn a strictly positive rate of return, motivated by recent debates on the introduction of central bank digital currencies and the introduction of interest-bearing reserves. This allows money-financed transfers to be used as a policy instrument at the effective lower bound, without giving up the ability to use the short-term bond rate to stabilize the economy in normal times. Second, a simple financial friction generates a wealth effect on household spending from government liabilities. Though temporary money-financed transfers to households can stimulate spending and inflation when the short-term bond rate is constrained by a lower bound, similar effects could be achieved by bond-financed tax cuts. So our results do not provide compelling reasons to choose monetary financing rather than bond financing.
E62|Estimating a Markov Switching DSGE Model with Macroeconomic Policy Interaction|This paper estimates a Markov switching dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model (MS-DSGE) allowing for changes in monetary/fiscal policy interaction. The key feature of the model is that it seeks to quantitatively examine the impact of changes in monetary/fiscal policy interaction on economic outcomes even during a period when the ZLB is binding and unconventional monetary policy is implemented. To this end, we estimate our model using the shadow interest rate, which can be interpreted as an aggregate that captures the overall effect of unconventional monetary policies as well as conventional monetary policy. Applying our model to Japan, we identify changes in monetary/fiscal policy interaction even during the period when unconventional monetary policy has been implemented. We find that the introduction of Qualitative and Quantitative Easing (QQE) enables the Bank of Japan to actively respond to the inflation rate, which has helped to push up inflation.
E62|Monetary Policy in a Two-Agent Economy with Debt-Constrained Households (in Korean)|This paper examines monetary policy quantitatively in a two-agent and small-scale New-Keynesian economy with debt-constrained households who cannot smooth their consumption intertemporally and frictionlessly since highly indebted households are not allowed to borrow above a certain debt ceiling in incomplete financial markets without additional risk premiums due to information asymmetry between savers and borrowers. We find that, in the event of cost shocks, the asymmetric responses of borrowing households without and saving households with dividend incomes lead to different labor supplies and consumptions over heterogeneous households, and eventually to an extension of monetary policy transmission channels. The income effect and low elasticity of labor supply play key roles for such asymmetric responses over heterogeneous households. We also find that the social welfare in flexible inflation targeting (FIT) monetary policy, in which both the inflation gap and output gap are considered in an integrated way for policy-making, is similar to that of Ramsey optimal monetary policy (ROP), in which the shares of debt-constrained households as well as all economic states including both the inflation gap and output gap are considered comprehensively for policy-making, and greater than that of simple inflation targeting (SIT) monetary policy, in which only the inflation gap is considered mechanically for policy-making. Such social welfare implies that FIT policy may still work well even in an economy with a sizable number of debt-constrained households. Further, the responses of cost shocks to consumption and labor supply are dying out more slowly in FIT and ROP policies than in SIT policy.
E62|Taxing Families: The Impact of Child-related Transfers on Maternal Labor Supply| Childbirth causes persistent gender differences in labor force participation and the difference in employment rates of married women with and without pre-school children varies substantially across countries. To what extent can child-related transfers account for this differential? To answer this question, I develop a life-cycle model of joint labor supply, in which female human capital evolves endogenously and a fraction of households has access to informal childcare. I calibrate the model to the US and Denmark, two countries in which the gap in employment rates of women with and without pre-school children differs in sign and magnitude: the gap is 13.2% in the US and -3.7% in Denmark. After taking the labor income tax treatment of married couples and variation in childcare fees into account, I find that child-related transfers are key to explaining the positive gap in the US and the negative gap in Denmark. I show that this mechanism is quantitatively important to account for variation in the maternal participation gap across other European countries as well.
E62|Taxing Families: The Impact of Child-related Transfers on Maternal Labor Supply| Childbirth causes persistent gender differences in labor force participation and the difference in employment rates of married women with and without pre-school children varies substantially across countries. To what extent can child-related transfers account for this differential? To answer this question, I develop a life-cycle model of joint labor supply, in which female human capital evolves endogenously and a fraction of households has access to informal childcare. I calibrate the model to the US and Denmark, two countries in which the gap in employment rates of women with and without pre-school children differs in sign and magnitude: the gap is 13.2% in the US and -3.7% in Denmark. After taking the labor income tax treatment of married couples and variation in childcare fees into account, I find that child-related transfers are key to explaining the positive gap in the US and the negative gap in Denmark. I show that this mechanism is quantitatively important to account for variation in the maternal participation gap across other European countries as well.
E62|Taxing Families: The Impact of Child-related Transfers on Maternal Labor Supply| The employment rate of married women with and without pre-school children varies substantially across countries. To what extent can child-related transfers account for this variation? I develop a life-cycle model in which married couples jointly decide their labor supply, female human capital evolves endogenously, and some couples have access to grandparental childcare. I show that child-related transfers can explain most of the variation in the employment rates of married women, even after taking the labor income tax treatment and cross-country variation in childcare fees into account.
E62|Sovereign Default and Imperfect Tax Enforcement|We show that, in many countries, tax compliance is volatile and markedly responds to fiscal policy. To explore the consequence of this novel stylized fact, we build a model of sovereign debt with limited commitment and imperfect tax enforcement. Fiscal policy persistently affects the size of the informal economy, which impact future fiscal revenues and thus default risk. This mechanism captures one key empirical regularity of economies with imperfect tax enforcement: the low sensitivity of debt price to fiscal consolidations. The interaction of imperfect tax enforcement and limited commitment strongly constrains the dynamics of optimal fiscal policy. During default crises, high tax distortions force the government towards extreme fiscal policies, notably including costly austerity spells.
E62|Long term Government Bonds|We study how the issuance of long bonds affects optimal fiscal policy. Long bonds are usually modelled as having two features that are not found in the data: a) zero coupons and b) previously issued bonds are repurchased each period regardless of their time to maturity. The literature has found that under a) and b) issuing long bonds provides fiscal insurance. We show that these assumptions are not innocuous. Specifically we find that long bonds may not complete the markets even in the absence of uncertainty and under certain assumptions long bonds introduce additional tax volatility that offsets the attractiveness they provide through fiscal insurance. We find that introducing coupons helps alleviate the additional tax volatility but does so by reducing the ability of long bonds to provide insurance. Under full commitment the government promises future tax changes in order to reduce current funding costs. This introduces additional tax volatility. If we remove assumptions a) and b) interest rate twisting takes a very different form, showing again that those assumptions matter.
E62|Union Debt Management|We study the role of government debt maturity in a monetary union in the absence of fiscal transfers across countries. Our key finding is that fi scal hedging is only possible when spending represents an aggregate shock in the union. In the case of idiosyncratic disturbances in spending it is not possible to target a portfolio which provides fi scal insurance to the governments: the allocation is one of incomplete financial markets. These implications are in line with the empirical evidence. Using a sample of 5 Euro area countries and historical holding period returns on government debt, we find that fiscal insurance is not signifi cant against country speci fic shocks however, it is signifi cant against aggregate shocks. Our analysis extends the theoretical results of the literature on optimal fiscal policy without state contingent debt to a two country model. We show that in the two country setup and under an incomplete market the optimal tax schedule, consumption and leisure follow a random walk.
E62|The mirror does not lie: Endogenous ?scal limits for Slovakia|We study the interactions among ?scal policy, ?scal limits and the associated sovereign risk premium. The ?scal limit distribution, which measures the ability of the government to service its debt, arises endogenously from dynamic Laffer curves. We assume a feedback loop between the ?scal limit distribution and the risk premium and determine them simultaneously using and ef?cient iterative scheme. A nonlinear relationship between the sovereign risk premium and the level of government debt then emerges in equilibrium. The model is calibrated to Slovak data assuming steeply growing age-related transfers and volatile business cycle. We study the impact of various model parameters on the conditional (state-dependent) and unconditional distributions of the ?scal limit. Fiscal limit distributions obtained via Markov–Chain–Monte–Carlo regime switching algorithm depend on the rate of growth of government transfers, the degree of countercyclicality of policy, and the distribution of the underlying economic conditions. We ?nd that both distributions are considerably more heavy-tailed compared with those usually obtained in the literature for advanced economies, and are very sensitive to the size and rate of growth of transfers, the business cycle phase and the ?scal policy credibility. The main policy message is that the Maastricht debt limit of 60 percent of GDP is not safe enough for Slovakia. Furthermore, credible reforms reining in age-related spending and thus stabilising public ?nance in the long-run, should be a priority.
E62|The 2019 Long-Term Budget Outlook|If current laws generally remained unchanged, CBO projects, large budget deficits over the next 30 years would drive federal debt held by the public to unprecedented levelsâ€”from 78 percent of gross domestic product in 2019 to 144 percent by 2049. That level of debt would be the highest in the nationâ€™s history by far, and it would be on track to increase even more.
E62|An Update to the Budget and Economic Outlook: 2019 to 2029|CBO estimates that the federal budget deficit for 2019 will be $960 billion. Under current law, budget deficits are projected to average $1.2 trillion a year between 2020 and 2029, boosting debt held by the public to 95 percent of GDP in that yearâ€”its highest level since just after World War II. Economic output is projected to grow by 2.3 percent in 2019, supporting strong labor market conditions that feature low unemployment and rising wages. After 2019, in CBOâ€™s projections, economic growth averages 1.8 percent per year, which is less than the historical average.
E62|The Effect of Government Debt on Interest Rates: Working Paper 2019-01|Under current law, the level of federal debt relative to gross domestic product (GDP) is projected to rise significantly over the next decade. The relationship between debt and interest rates plays a key role in CBO's economic and budget projections (especially long-term projections) and for dynamic analyses of fiscal policy, where the sensitivity of interest rates with respect to changes in the level of debt is vitally important. In this analysis, we use a reduced-form regression to estimate the relationship between projected federal debt and expected long-term
E62|La dinámica de los precios de la gasolina en Colombia, su regulación y estructura tarifaria|El consumo de combustibles refinados en la sociedad actual se comporta como determinante del desarrollo productivo diario de cada individuo, principalmente por su uso en los medios de transporte. Este bien está sujeto a diferentes factores regulatorios en su precio que aseguran que tanto el Estado, la sociedad y los productores se vean beneficiados por su producción y venta. El presente documento estudia la dinámica de los precios de la gasolina en Colombia y cómo se ve es afectada por factores externos como el precio internacional del petróleo. El análisis se lleva a cabo a través de la metodología de determinación de precios comparada con el panorama latinoamericano, por su cercanía y similitudes en costos. Se encuentra que la estructura actual es demasiado compleja e ineficiente si se quiere mejorar la competitividad y los precios en el mercado y que una política clara por parte del Gobierno podría no solo incentivar el sector sino también dinamizar la productividad del país, tomando en cuenta la transición hacia los combustibles renovables. The consumption of refined fuels in our current society works as a determinant in the daily productive development of every person mainly because of the use of transport issues. In this way, this good is subject to different regulatory factors in its price that ensure that the State, society and producers benefits by its production and sale. Thus, this document will study how the dynamics of prices in Colombia works by analyzing the operation of it in comparison with the Latin American panorama, due to its proximity and similarities in costs; and how this dynamic is affected by external factors such as movements in international oil prices. It is found that the current structure is too complex and inefficient if we want to improve competitiveness and prices in the market and that a clear policy by the Government could not only stimulate the sector but also boost the country's productivity taking into consideration the transition to renewable fuels.
E62|Determinantes del ahorro interno en Colombia: un acercamiento desde las Cuentas Nacionales Trimestrales para el período 1994-2017|Resumen: El presente trabajo es un intento, en primer lugar, para convalidar con información del Sistema de Cuentas Nacionales Trimestrales, algunos de los hallazgos de estudios nacionales e internacionales sobre los determinantes de la tasa de ahorro domestico o del componente cíclico de la tasa de ahorro doméstico que usan fundamentalmente información procedente del Sistema de Cuentas Nacionales Anuales (de agregados macroeconómicos y por agentes). Un problema crucial en el uso de las cuentas nacionales anuales consiste en que ellas no miden el ahorro consistentemente con definiciones teóricas; los investigadores del ahorro han tenido que realizar cálculos propios, tomando las cuentas nacionales anuales como materia prima y ajustándola con información suministrada por otras instituciones públicas y privadas, para tratar de obtener medidas más próximas a las nociones conceptuales. En ésta investigación no se realiza ninguna transformación de la información trimestral, pero si se usa la evidencia hallada en los estudios anuales. En segundo lugar, se trata de obtener evidencia sobre otro grupo de posibles determinantes del componente transitorio de la tasa de ahorro en el caso de la economía colombiana. Para los propósitos anteriores, se estimó una ecuación reducida por mínimos cuadrados para el componente cíclico de la tasa ahorro interno y como variables independientes a los componentes transitorios de: el crecimiento del PIB real, la profundización financiara (medida por el agregado monetario M2), de los impuestos, de la tasa de dependencia (aproximada por la proporción entre la tasa de ocupación y la tasa de desempleo), la tasa de inflación; las variables anteriores son comunes, aunque cuantitativamente medidas de forma diferente, en los estudios sobre el ahorro; las variables que adicionalmente se incluyen en la estimación son los componentes cíclicos de la tasa de interés de política monetaria, del precio internacional del petróleo, de la tasa de interés externa y de la tasa de cambio nominal. Los resultados son favorables para todas las variables (aunque los coeficientes para el precio internacional del petróleo y la tasa de cambio nominal son pequeños) y son robustos con R2 tendiendo a 1; no hay autocorrelación ni correlación serial, la especificación lineal del modelo es correcta según el test de Ramsey, los test cusum y cusum cuadrado indican estabilidad de los coeficientes, ausencia de multicolinealidad o ésta es moderada (ICJ=3.6), el test de Haussman (la versión de Davidson and MacKinnon (1989,1993) para la endogeneidad indica que ésta no existe o es débil. Igualmente, se destaca el rechazo a la hipótesis del ingreso permanente. / Abstract : The present work is an attempt to, firstly, to validate with information from the system of quarterly national accounts, some of the findings of national and international studies on the determinants of the rate of domestic savings or component cyclic rate of domestic savings, mainly using information from the system of annual national accounts (of macroeconomic aggregates and agents). A crucial problem in the use of annual national accounts is that they do not measure saving consistently with theoretical definitions; saving researchers have had to own calculations, taking the national accounts as raw and adjusting it with information provided by other public and private institutions, to try to obtain measurements closer to the conceptual notions. In this research there is no transformation of the quarterly information, but if used the evidence found in annual studies. Secondly, it is to obtain evidence about another group of possible determinants of the transitory component of the rate of savings in the case of the Colombian economy. For the above purposes, a reduced by least squares equation was estimated for the cyclical component of the rate saving internal and as independent variables to transient components of: the growth of real GDP, the deepening financial) as measured by the monetary aggregate M2), taxes, the dependency ratio (approximated by the ratio between the rate of occupation and the unemployment rate), the rate of inflation; the previous variables are common, although quantitatively measured differently, in studies on saving; the variables that are additionally included in the estimate are the cyclical components of interest rate in monetary policy, the international price of oil, the foreign interest rate and the nominal exchange rate. The results are favorable for all variables (although the coefficients for the international price of oil and the nominal exchange rate are small) and are robust with R2 tending to 1; There is no autocorrelation or serial correlation, the linear specification of the model is correct according to the Ramsey test, the test cusum and Cusum square indicate stability of the coefficients, absence of multicolinearity or this is moderate (ICJ = 3.6), the test of Haussman (the version of Davidson and MacKinnon (1989.1993) for endogeneity indicates that it does not exist or is weak. The rejection of the permanent income hypothesis is also highlighted.
E62|Impacto redistributivo de la tributación a los dividendos en Colombia|Colombia introdujo en 2017 un impuesto a los dividendos con una tarifa del 10% que se elevó al 15% a partir de 2019. Cuando se agoten las utilidades de las vigencias fiscales 2016 y anteriores, no sujetas al tributo, se espera que el impuesto recaude $1,2 billones, aproximadamente el 1% de los ingresos tributarios nacionales y 0,13% del PIB. Los contribuyentes del último decil de la renta asumen casi la totalidad del impuesto, pues en ese grupo se concentra el 94% de los dividendos. Su tarifa efectiva promedio pasa del 15,4% hasta el 17,1% con la aplicación del tributo. La tributación conjunta socio-sociedad se situaría en un intervalo comprendido entre 30% y 40,5% en 2022, explicado por la tarifa del 30% sobre la renta corporativa y del 15% sobre los dividendos. Sin embargo, los efectos redistributivos del impuesto a los dividendos son muy limitados, puesto que su tarifa es prácticamente única para cualquier nivel de renta y afecta tan solo a 158 mil personas, el 0,3% de la población colombiana o el 5% de las personas naturales que presentan declaración de renta. El índice de Gini no cambia cuando se introduce el impuesto a los dividendos. La desigualdad de la renta disponible de los contribuyentes pasa de 0,431 a 0,428. La progresividad del impuesto a los dividendos podría mejorar si el foco del impuesto sobre la renta se traslada al nivel individual y se gravan los dividendos con tarifas marginales crecientes. Sin embargo, esta ruta parece un poco riesgosa, porque requiere contar con una administración tributaria moderna, para afrontar de manera eficiente el control y servicio de millones de contribuyentes. Adicionalmente, la tarifa promedio que se aplica en la renta corporativa será del 30% a partir de 2022, mientras que en el nivel personal la tarifa nominal promedio apenas se acerca al 9%. Esta circunstancia eventualmente podría reducir la recaudación total del impuesto de renta. *** Colombia introduced a tax on dividends in 2017 with a tax rate of 10% that was raised to 15% starting in 2019. The profits of 2016 and previous fiscal periods, which are not covered by the dividend tax, will be gradually finished and then the dividend tax could raise COP$ 1.2 billion, approximately 1% of national tax revenues and 0.13% of GDP. Taxpayers located in the last decile of rent assume almost entire dividend tax, since in that group is concentrated 94% of dividends. Their effective average tax rate goes from 15.4% to 17.1%, as result of application of this tax. The partner-partnership joint taxation would be between 30% and 40.5% in 2022, explained by the tax rate of 30% on corporate income and 15% on dividends. However, the redistributive effects of dividend tax are very limited, because its tax rate is practically unique for any level of income and affects only 158 thousand people, 0.3% of Colombian population or 5% of personal income taxpayers who present an income tax statement. The Gini index does not change when dividend tax is introduced. The inequality of taxpayers' disposable income goes from 0.431 to 0.428. The progressivity of dividen tax could be improved if income tax focus is transferred to individual level and dividens are taxed with marginal tax rates are applied to the dividends. However, this route seems a little risky, because it requires a modern tax administration to efficiently face the control and service for millions of personal income taxpayers. Additionally, the average rate applied to corporate income will be 30% from 2022, while at the personal level the average nominal rate is only close to 9%. This circumstance could eventually reduce income tax overall collection.
E62|The economic impact and efficiency of state and federal taxes in Australia|The Henry Review of Australia's Future Tax System (2009), made several recommendations to promote resilience, fairness, and prosperity via tax reform. Some of the key reforms suggested include a reduction in Australia's federally-imposed corporate income tax rate from 30 to 25 per cent; and the removal of property transfer duties levied by state governments. The review by Henry et al. (2009) utilised a long-run, comparative static computable general equilibrium (CGE) model of the Australian economy to study the tax system. Implicit within this framework is a single layer of government. In reality, Australia's state government levied tax rates differ across the eight states and territories; some, such as state land tax, health insurance and life insurance levies, are applied in a subset of states and territories only. A general lack of interstate coordination is evident in setting, developing and reforming Australian tax policy. In this paper, we present a meticulous and detailed analysis of Australia's state and federal tax system, using a bottom-up multi-regional CGE model of Australia's states and territories, called VURMTAX. The general framework underlying VURMTAX is similar to the Monash multi-regional forecasting (MMRF) model and its successor VURM; see Adams et al. (2015). A state/local government agent therefore operates within each region, with an overarching federal government agent operating across all state and territories. VURMTAX differs from MMRF/VURM in several ways. For example, we include new theory to model the interaction between Australia's corporate and personal tax system via full dividend imputation. This involves the introduction of two types of investment agents: foreign and local investors. In VURMTAX, the tax rate levied on corporate profits accruing to these two classes of investor differ, because only the domestic investor can claim franking credits. We also give careful consideration to industry-specific foreign capital ownership shares. This means the mining sector, for example, has a larger foreign capital ownership share than the economy-wide average in VURMTAX. We also modify the standard Klein-Rubin utility function that governs the consumption choices facing region-specific representative households in MMRF/VURM, to take account of important distortions in consumer choice caused by Australia's tax system. More specifically, we model the impact of housing tenure choice distortions introduced by owner-occupied housing exemptions in state land taxes and personal income tax, using a nested CES framework. The elasticity of substitution between rented and owner-occupied housing is then calibrated based on findings from an appropriately specified discrete choice model of housing tenure choice. We also alter the standard household decision theory to properly account for the impact of property transfer duties on the demand for the bundle of goods typically consumed by households or businesses when moving house or factory/office. We call this bundle of goods moving services. These services include real estate services contracted to sell a house/buy a property, legal services contracted to prepare necessary transfer forms, and public administration services that are demanded to formally update title office documents. We also account for the impact of motor vehicle taxes on transport modal choice by households. As such, when the motor vehicle registration duty is increased in VURMTAX, we allow for direct modal substitution between, e.g, road passenger transport (taxis), and private transport. Among other theoretical developments, we account for the impact of jurisdiction-specific payroll tax thresholds in Australia on the output levels of monopolistically competitive firms, which yields insights into whether a reduction in payroll tax rates or a rise in payroll tax thresholds are more effective means of stimulating a regional economy. We also embed within VURMTAX a detailed equation system to account for Australia's goods and services tax (GST). We apply this new theory to quantify: (i) the relative economic efficiency of unilateral state tax policy reforms in a single Australian state, New South Wales (NSW); (ii) the excess burden of Australia's three main federally-imposed taxes; and (iii) the broader macroeconomic, state and industry impacts of federal tax policy, and unilateral state tax policy, reforms. Our assessment of the relative efficiency of NSW state and Australian federal taxes yields a set of marginal and average excess burdens, which are summarised and discussed. In total, we calculate excess burdens for nineteen major Australian taxes, of which sixteen are levied at the state/local government level. In addition to our study of the allocative efficiency impacts of the various state and federal taxes, detailed long-run (21 years postreform) results are provided and described, to quantify the economic and industry effects of Australian tax policy reforms. With regard to state taxes, we find residential property transfer duties to be the most damaging of the state government levied taxes. More specifically, we derive a marginal excess burden for residential property transfer duties that exceeds 100 cents per dollar of revenue raised. Contrary to many past studies of Australia's tax system, we also derive a negative marginal excess burden for company tax in Australia. We compare and contrast this result to past studies, and elucidate some key differences in parameter assumptions and modelling methodology that drive this result.
E62|Effects of Austerity: Expenditure- and Tax-Based Approaches|"We review the debate surrounding the macroeconomic effects of deficit reduction policies (austerity). The discussion about ""austerity"" in general has distracted commentators and policymakers from a very important result, namely the enormous difference, on average, between expenditure- and tax-based austerity plans. Spending-based austerity plans are remarkably less costly than tax-based plans. The former have on average a close to zero effect on output and lead to a reduction of the debt/GDP ratio. Tax-based plans have the opposite effect and cause large and long-lasting recessions. These results also apply to the recent episodes of European austerity, which in this respect were not especially different from previous cases."
E62|On the macroeconomic and fiscal effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act|There is substantial disagreement about the consequences of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017, which constitutes the most extensive tax reform in the United States in more than 30 years. Using a large-scale two-country dynamic general equilibrium model with nominal rigidities, the authors find that the TCJA increases GDP by about 2% in the medium-run and by about 2.5% in the long-run. The short-run impact depends crucially on the degree and costs of variable capital utilization, with GDP effects ranging from 1 to 3%. At the same time, the TCJA does not pay for itself. In the analysis, the reform decreases tax revenues and raises the debt-to-GDP ratio by about 15 percentage points in the medium-run until 2025. The show that combining the TCJA with spending cuts can dampen the increase in government indebtedness without reducing its expansionary effect.
E62|When Governments Promise to Prioritize Public Debt: Do Markets Care?|During the European sovereign debt crisis of 2011-13, some nations faced with rising borrowing costs adopted commitments to treat bondholders as priority claimants. That is, if there was a shortage of funds, bondholders would be paid first. In this article, we analyze the prevalence and variety of these types of commitments and ask whether they impact borrowing costs. We examine a widely-touted reform at the height of the Euro sovereign debt crisis in 2011, in which Spain enshrined in its constitution a strong commitment to give absolute priority to public debt claimants. We find no evidence that this reform had any impact on Spanish sovereign bond yields. By contrast, our examination of the U.S. Commonwealth of Puerto Rico suggests that constitutional priority promises can have an impact, at least where the borrower government is subject to supervening law and legal institutions.
E62|The Maturity of Sovereign Debt Issuance in the Euro Area|We use information on new sovereign debt issues in the euro area to explore the drivers behind the debt maturity decisions of governments. We set up a theoretical model for the maturity structure that trades off preference for liquidity services of short-term debt, roll-over risk and price risk. The average debt maturity is negatively related to both the level and the slope of the yield curve. A panel VAR analysis shows that positive shocks to risk aversion, the probability of non-repayment and the demand for the liquidity services of short-term debt all have a positive effect on the yield curve level and slope, and a negative effect on the average maturity of new debt issues. These results are partially in line with our theory. A forecast error variance decomposition suggests that changes in non-repayment risk as captured by credit default spreads are the most important source of shocks.
E62|The Motives to Borrow|Governments issue debt for good and bad reasons. While the good reasons—intertemporal tax-smoothing, fiscal stimulus, and asset management—can explain some of the increases in public debt in recent years, they cannot account for all of the observed changes. Bad reasons for borrowing are driven by political failures associated with intergenerational transfers, strategic manipulation, and common pool problems. These political failures are a major cause of overborrowing though budgetary institutions and fiscal rules can play a role in mitigating governments’ tendencies to overborrow. While it is difficult to establish a clear causal link from high public debt to low output growth, it is likely that some countries pay a price—in terms of lower growth and greater output volatility—for excessive debt accumulation.
E62|The Macroeconomics of the Greek Depression|The Greek economy has experienced three distinct phases in the past 20 years: a boom from 1999 to 2007, a crash from 2007 to 2012, and a flattening from 2012 to 2017. We explore these dynamics using a quantitative model of a two-sector small open economy with nominal frictions, collateral constraints, and endogenous utilization. We first evaluate the roles of shocks to productivity, financial conditions, fiscal policy, external demand, and disaster risk in contributing to the cycle. We then ask whether counterfactual policies such as an unexpected devaluation or an alternative mix of fiscal adjustments could have facilitated the recovery.
E62|Resolving New Keynesian Anomalies with Wealth in the Utility Function|At the zero lower bound, the New Keynesian model predicts that output and inflation collapse to implausibly low levels, and that government spending and forward guidance have implausibly large effects. To resolve these anomalies, we introduce wealth into the utility function; the justification is that wealth is a marker of social status, and people value social status. Since people save not only for future consumption but also to accrue social status, the Euler equation is modified. As a result, when the marginal utility of wealth is sufficiently large, the dynamical system representing the equilibrium at the zero lower bound transforms from a saddle to a source---which resolves all the anomalies.
E62|Does Drawing Down the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve Help Stabilize Oil Prices?|We study the efficacy of releases from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) within the context of fully specified models of the global oil market that explicitly allow for storage demand as well as unanticipated changes in the SPR. Using novel identifying strategies and evaluation methods, we examine seven questions. First, how much have exogenous shocks to the SPR contributed to the variability in the real price of oil? Second, how much would a one-time exogenous reduction in the SPR lower the real price of oil? Third, are exogenous SPR releases partially or fully offset by increases in private sector oil inventories and how does this response affect the transmission of SPR policy shocks? Fourth, how effective were actual SPR policy interventions, consisting of sequences of exogenous changes in the SPR, at lowering the real price of oil? Fifth, are there differences in the effectiveness of SPR emergency drawdowns and SPR exchanges? Sixth, how much did the creation and expansion of the SPR contribute to higher real oil prices? Finally, how much would selling half of the oil in the SPR, as recently proposed by the White House, lower the global price of oil (and hence the U.S. price of motor gasoline) and how much fiscal revenue would it generate.
E62|Persistent Government Debt and Aggregate Risk Distribution|When government debt is sluggish, consumption exhibits lower expected growth, more long-run uncertainty, and more long-run downside risk. Simultaneously, the risk premium on the consumption claim (Koijen et al. (2010), Lustig et al. (2013)) increases and features more positive (adverse) skewness. We rationalize these fi ndings in an endogenous growth model in which fi scal policy is distortionary, the value of innovation depends on fiscal risk, and the representative agent is sensitive to the resulting distribution of consumption risk. Our model suggests that committing to a rapid reduction of the debt-to-output ratio can enhance the value of innovation, aggregate wealth, and welfare.
E62|The Preference for Net Wealth|This paper provides a definition of the preference for wealth such that households do not su¤er from any wealth illusion from the ownership of government bonds. People understand that public indebtedness will translate into future taxes. Each household is therefore assumed to own a share government liabilities equal to the future taxes that these liabilities will cause. A household's net wealth is defined as the sum its private wealth and of its own share of public liabilities. The preference for net wealth ensures that the Ricardian equivalence holds. The endogeneity of the ownership share through distortionary taxes is carefully investigated.
E62|The Redistributive Effects of a Money-Financed Fiscal Stimulus|This paper analyzes the redistributive channel of a money fi?nanced fiscal stimulus (MFFS). It shows that the way in which this regime is implemented is crucial to determine its redistributive effects and consequently its effectiveness. In normal times, the most effective regime is a MFFS with no additional intervention by the Central Bank to stabilize the real public debt using in?fation, whereas a MFFS accompanied by real debt stabilization - through the adjustment of seigniorage - is the most effective one in a ZLB scenario. In a TANK model this regime is so effective to avoid the recessionary effects implied by the ZLB. This result does not hold in a RANK model, where the redistributive channel is absent. Remarkably, contrary to the common wisdom a MFFS is followed by a moderate increase of infl?ation, which is only temporarily higher than the target.
E62|Tax and Spending Shocks in the Open Economy: Are the Deficits Twins?|We present evidence on the open economy consequences of US fiscal policy shocks identified through proxy-instrumental variables. Tax shocks and government spending shocks that raise the government budget deficit lead to persistent current account deficits. In particular, the negative response of the current account to exogenous tax reductions through a surge in the demand for imports is among the strongest and most precisely estimated effects. Moreover, we find that the reduction of the current account is amplified when the tax reduction is due to lower personal income taxes and when the government increases its consumption expenditures. Historically, a much larger share of current account dynamics has been due to tax shocks than to government spending shocks.
E62|Monetary policy and the top one percent: Evidence from a century of modern economic history|This paper examines the distributional implications of monetary pol-icy from a long-run perspective with data spanning a century of modern economic history in 12 advanced economies between 1920 and 2015. We employ two complementary empirical methodologies for estimating the dynamic responses of the top 1% income share to a monetary policy shock: vector auto-regressions and local projections. We notably exploit the implications of the macroeconomic policy trilemma to identify exogenous variations in monetary conditions. The obtained results indicate that ex-pansionary monetary policy strongly increases the share of national income held by the top one percent. Our findings also suggest that this e?ect is arguably driven by higher asset prices, and holds irrespective of the state of the economy.
E62|Do fiscal rules constrain political budget cycles?|We examine whether fiscal rules constrain incumbent governments to use fiscal policy for re-election purposes. Using data on fiscal rules provided by the IMF for a sample of 77 (advanced and developing) countries over the 1984-2015 period, we find that after the Global Financial Crisis political budget cycles occur only in countries with weak fiscal rules. This conclusion is robust for the inclusion of other conditioning factors for political budget cycles identified in the literature (such as media freedom, the presence of checks and balances, and the maturity of democracy) and for controlling for the potential endogeneity of fiscal rules.
E62|Behavioral learning equilibria in the New Keynesian model|We introduce the concept of behavioral learning equilibrium (BLE) into a high dimensional linear framework and apply it to the standard New Keynesian model. For each endogenous variable, boundedly rational agents use a simple, but optimal AR(1) forecasting rule with parameters consistent with the observed sample mean and autocorrelation of past data. The main contributions of our paper are fourfold: (1) we derive existence and stability conditions of BLE in a general linear framework, (2) we provide a general method for Bayesian likelihood estimation of BLE, (3) we estimate the baseline NK model based on U.S. data and show that the relative model fit is better under BLE than REE, (4) we analyze optimal monetary policy under BLE and show that it differs from REE. In particular, we find that the transmission channel of monetary policy is stronger under BLE at the estimated parameter values.
E62|Economic structures 20 years into the euro|Well-functioning economic structures are key for resilient and prospering euro area economies. The global financial and sovereign debt crises exposed the limited resilience of the euro area’s economic structures. Economic growth was masking underlying weaknesses in several euro area countries. With the inception of the crises, significant efforts have been undertaken by Member States individually and collectively to strengthen resilience of economic structures and the smooth functioning of the euro area. National fiscal policies were consolidated to keep the increase in government debt contained and structural reform momentum increased notably in the second decade, particularly in those countries most hit by the crisis. The strengthened national economic structures were supported by a reformed EU crisis and economic governance framework. However, overall economic structures in euro area countries are still not fully commensurate with the requirements of a monetary union. Moreover, remaining challenges, such as population ageing, low productivity and the implications of digitalisation, will need to be addressed to increase economic resilience and long-term growth. JEL Classification: E31, E32, E60, E62, F10, J11, O43
E62|Do public wages in the euro area explain private wage developments? An empirical investigation|This paper investigates the relationship between public and private wages in the five largest euro area countries for the period 1997-2017. The analysis shows that there exists a positive and significant response of private wages to a public wage shock. This effect is found to be temporary and to differ across countries (positive and significant in France, Spain, Italy and non-significant in Germany and the Netherlands). Interestingly, the response of private wages is found to be asymmetric: a positive and statistically significant response is found in case of a positive shock to public wages, while no statistically significant effects are detected in case of a cut to public wages. As the public wage containment policies adopted during the sovereign debt crisis are expected to be gradually lifted in several euro area countries, the findings of this paper suggest that knock-on effects on private sector wages cannot be excluded in the years to come. JEL Classification: E24, E62, J30, C33, C11
E62|Fiscal multipliers and foreign holdings of public debt|This paper explores a natural connection between fiscal multipliers and foreign holdings of public debt. Although fiscal expansions can raise domestic economic activity through various channels, they can also have crowding-out effects if the resources used to acquire public debt reduce domestic consumption and investment. Thus, these crowding-out effects are likely to be weaker when public debt is purchased by foreigners. We test this hypothesis on (i) post-war US data and (ii) data for a panel of 17 advanced economies from the 1980’s to the present. To do so, we assemble a novel database of public debt holdings by domestic and foreign creditors for a large set of advanced economies. We combine this data with standard measures of fiscal policy shocks and show that, indeed, the size of fiscal multipliers is increasing in the share of public debt held by foreigners. In particular, the fiscal multiplier is smaller than one when the foreign share is low, such as in the U.S. in the 1950’s and 1960’s and Japan today, and larger than one when the foreign share is high, such as in the U.S. and Ireland today
E62|Expectations-Driven Liquidity Traps: Implications for Monetary and Fiscal Policy|We study optimal monetary and fiscal policy in a New Keynesian model where occasional declines in agents' confidence give rise to persistent liquidity trap episodes. There is no straightforward recipe for enhancing welfare in this economy. Raising the inflation target or appointing an inflation-conservative central banker mitigates the inflation shortfall away from the lower bound but exacerbates deflationary pressures at the lower bound. Using government spending as an additional policy instrument worsens allocations at and away from the lower bound. However, appointing a policymaker who is sufficiently less concerned with government spending stabilization than society eliminates expectations-driven liquidity traps.
E62|Modelling yields at the lower bound through regime shifts|We propose a regime-switching approach to deal with the lower bound on nominal interest rates in dynamic term structure modelling. In the “lower bound regime”, the short term rate is expected to remain constant at levels close to the effective lower bound; in the “normal regime”, the short rate interacts with other economic variables in a standard way. State-dependent regime switching probabilities ensure that the likelihood of being in the lower bound regime increases as short rates fall closer to zero. A key advantage of this approach is to capture the gradualism of the monetary policy normalization process following a lower bound episode. The possibility to return to the lower bound regime continues exerting an influence in the early phases of normalization, pulling expected future rates downwards. We apply our model to U.S. data and show that it captures key properties of yields at the lower bound. In spite of its heavier parameterization, the regime-switching model displays a competitive out-of-sample forecasting performance. It can also be used to gauge the risk of a return to the lower bound regime in the future. As of mid-2018, it provides a more benign assessment than alternative measures. JEL Classification: E31, E40, E44, E52, E58, E62, E63
E62|Understanding the relationship between inequalities and poverty: mechanisms associated with crime, the legal system and punitive sanctions|This paper outlines the various issues pertaining to how crime, the legal system and punitive sanctions may provide a mechanism through which inequality is positively related to poverty. We analyse trends in crime rates, review evidence on the determinants of criminal activity, trends in incarceration rates and prison populations, and the profile of prisoners. We explore relevant aspects of criminal justice policies, changes to Legal Aid, and legal reforms, and finish by outlining how the evidence suggests that crime, the legal system and punitive sanctions is one of the mechanisms that contributes to the positive link between economic inequality and poverty, before reviewing policy options.
E62|Identifying Global and National Output and Fiscal Policy Shocks Using a GVAR|The paper contributes to the growing global VAR (GVAR) literature by showing how global and national shocks can beidentified within a GVAR framework. The usefulness of the proposed approach is illustrated in an application to the analysis of the interactions between public debt and real output growth in a multicountry setting, and the results are compared to those obtained from standard single country VAR analysis. We find that on average (across countries) global shocks explain about one third of the long-horizon forecast error variance of output growth, and about one fifth of the long run variance of the rate of change of debt-to-GDP. Evidence on the degree of cross-sectional dependence in these variables and their innovations are exploited to identify the global shocks, and priors are used to identify the national shocks within a Bayesian framework. It is found that posterior median debt elasticity with respect to output is much larger when the rise in output is due to a fiscal policy shock, as compared to when the rise in output is due to a positive technology shock. The cross country average of the median debt elasticity is 1.58 when the rise in output is due to a fiscal expansion as compared to 0.75 when the rise in output follows from a favorable output shock.
E62|Expected Effects of the US Tax Reform on Other Countries: Global and Local Survey Evidence|The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act constitutes the largest change to the US tax system since the 1980s and thoroughly alters the way in which multinational companies are taxed. Current assessments on the reform’s international impact vary widely. This article sheds light on the tax reform’s expected effects on other countries. We first use representative German business survey data to analyse the impact of the reform on German firms. Many firms with substantial US revenues or production capacities in the US intend to expand US investment in response to the reform, in particular large firms and manufacturing companies. The effects on investment in Germany are ambiguous: While some firms substitute between investment locations, others expand in both countries. We subsequently extend our analysis to the global level using worldwide survey data. The results suggest a negative impact on tax revenues and investment in countries with close economic ties to the US.
E62|Can Government Demand Stimulate Private Investment? Evidence from U.S. Federal Procurement|We study the effects of federal purchases on firms’ investment using a novel panel dataset that combines federal procurement contracts in the United States with key financial firm-level information. We find that 1 dollar of federal spending increases firms’ capital investment by 7 to 11 cents. The average effect masks heterogeneity: Effects are stronger for firms that face financing constraints and they are close to 0 for unconstrained firms. In line with the financial accelerator model, our findings indicate that the effect of government purchases works through easing firms’ access to external borrowing. Furthermore, industry-level analysis suggests that that the increase in investment at the firm level translates into an industry-wide effect without crowding-out capital investment of other firms in the same industry.
E62|Does progressivity always lead to progress? The impact of local redistribution on tax manipulation|The goal of this paper is to study the effects of introducing income redistribution at the municipal level, with the adoption of local tax progressivity. In particular, we analyse whether this complex fiscal tool modifies the incentives of local politicians to be strategic leading to higher tax manipulation, in the form of political budget cycle. We exploit an Italian reform of the local personal income tax (PIT), which was flat before the intervention, that allows mayors to introduce progressive schemes. First, we make use of the staggered timing of local elections to estimate a Difference-in-Differences model and we find that the reform consistently amplifies political budget cycle of local PIT. In terms of mechanism, progressivity allows mayors to target diverse income groups and to play different strategies: high income rates, indeed, are subject to larger manipulation than the moderate ones. Second, we exploit the fact that income concentration level is a valid predictor for the introduction of progressivity. The main results are confirmed in a Triple-Differences analysis. And finally, we show that manipulation is rewarding from an electoral point of view. These results reveal a negative side of decentralizing income redistribution as it may lead to consistent tax manipulation and large distortions in fiscal policy.
E62|Ideologically-charged terminology: austerity, fiscal consolidation, and sustainable governance|Scholars have been active in investigating causes and consequences of austerity policies. We examine how economists use the term “austerity” in scientific studies and measure austerity in empirical analyses. The sample includes around 3,500 journal articles published in the top 400 journals (RePEc ranking) over the period 1990-2018. The results show that the term austerity is often used in heterodox journals. Papers published in mainstream journals use the term “fiscal consolidation” instead. The term austerity is ambiguous: scholars use manifold definitions of austerity and the empirical measures identify different country-year observations as periods of austerity. We employ panel data for 34 OECD countries over the period 1960-2014 and examine how austerity is associated with economic growth. The results show that depending on how austerity is measured, inferences change. Strategic selection of austerity measures allows scholars to arrive at any desired results about the economic effects of austerity periods.
E62|Macroeconomic effects of capital tax rate changes|We study aggregate, distributional, and welfare effects of a permanent reduction in the capital tax rate in a dynamic equilibrium model with capital-skill complementarity. Such a tax reform leads to expansionary long-run aggregate effects, but is coupled with an increase in the skill premium. Moreover, the expansionary long-run aggregate effects are smaller when distortionary labor or consumption tax rates have to increase to finance the capital tax rate cut. An extension to a model with heterogeneous households shows that consumption inequality increases in the long-run. We study transition dynamics and show that short-run effects depend critically on the monetary policy response: whether the central bank allows inflation to directly facilitate government debt stabilization and how inertially it raises interest rates. Finally, we contrast the long-term aggregate welfare gains with short-term losses, as well as in the model with heterogeneous households, show that welfare gains for the skilled go together with welfare losses for the unskilled.
E62|Does Drawing Down the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve Help Stabilize Oil Prices?|We study the efficacy of releases from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) within the context of fully specified models of the global oil market that explicitly allow for storage demand as well as unanticipated changes in the SPR. Using novel identifying strategies and evaluation methods, we examine seven questions. First, how much have exogenous shocks to the SPR contributed to the variability in the real price of oil? Second, how much would a one-time exogenous reduction in the SPR lower the real price of oil? Third, are exogenous SPR releases partially or fully offset by increases in private sector oil inventories and how does this response affect the transmission of SPR policy shocks? Fourth, how effective were actual SPR policy interventions, consisting of sequences of exogenous changes in the SPR, at lowering the real price of oil? Fifth, are there differences in the effectiveness of SPR emergency drawdowns and SPR exchanges? Sixth, how much did the creation and expansion of the SPR contribute to higher real oil prices? Finally, how much would selling half of the oil in the SPR, as recently proposed by the White House, lower the global price of oil (and hence the U.S. price of motor gasoline) and how much fiscal revenue would it generate?
E62|Fiscal-Financial Vulnerabilities|The paper analyses the linkages from financial developments to public finances. It maps and discusses the transmission channels to fiscal variables. These channels include asset prices, financing conditions, balance sheets of banks, non-banks and central banks and international linkages. The study argues that the fiscal effects via each and all these channels can be very serious in magnitude and can put the sustainability of public finances at risk. However, there is only limited in–depth analysis of these channels and risks.
E62|Does It Matter When Labor Market Reforms Are Implemented? The Role of the Monetary Policy Environment|Do labor market reforms initiated in periods of loose monetary policy yield different outcomes from those that were introduced in periods when monetary tightening prevailed? Since economic theory usually pays attention to the steady state change and ignores business cycle interactions of structural reforms, we connect local projection methodology with the Mallow’s Cp averaging criterion to arrive at an inference that does not require knowledge of the exact functional form, is robust to mis-specification, admits non-linearities, and cross-sectional dependence and addresses uncertainty regarding interactions between labor reforms and macroeconomy. We also develop a test to check the importance of monetary policy for any horizon and the entire impulse response function, taking the multiple testing problem into account. We document that replacement rates deliver substantially different outcomes on real GDP, inflation and real effective exchange rate, whereas labor activation schemes bear different effects on unemployment in low- and high-interest rate environments. There is also evidence of monetary policy trend playing an important role and increasing synchronized monetary and labor market policies across European countries.
E62|The Effects of Macroeconomic, Fiscal and Monetary Policy Announcements on Sovereign Bond Spreads: An Event Study from the EMU|We assess the impact of announcements corresponding to different fiscal and monetary policy measures on the 10-year sovereign bond yield spreads (relative to Germany) of the 10 EMU countries during the period 01:1999 - 07:2016. Implementing pooled and country-fixed effects OLS regressions, we find that the European Commission’s (EC) releases of the excessive deficit procedure significantly affect the yield spreads. The EC releases of higher debt and better budget balance forecasts contribute to the rise and the decline of spreads, respectively. Moreover, we find that the announcements of the ECB’s key interest rates together with the longer-term refinancing operations (LTROs) and the first covered bond purchase programme (CBPP1) negatively affect sovereign yield spreads in our sample of EMU countries.
E62|How “Big” Should Government Be?|We assess how “big” government should reasonably be in a number of advanced countries. First, we will link the recent findings of Data Envelope Analysis on efficient public expenditure with the question of the size of the government. Second, we report descriptive analysis of various government performance indicators in relation to public expenditure to provide indications of overall “optimal” across spending categories. In principle, the highest savings potential is in the biggest expenditure categories, public consumption and social expenditure.
E62|Tax Evasion as Contingent Debt|This paper studies income-tax evasion in a quantitative incomplete-markets setting with heterogeneous agents. A central aspect is that, realistically, evaded taxes are a form of contingent debt. Since evasion becomes part of a portfolio decision, risk and credit considerations play a central part in shaping it. The model calibrated to match estimated average levels of evasion does a good job in producing observed cross-sectional average evasion rates that decline with age and with earnings. The model also delivers implications for how evasion varies in the cross sectional distribution of wealth and tax arrears. Evasion has substantial effects on macroeconomic variables and welfare, and agent heterogeneity and general equilibrium are very important elements in the explanation. The analysis also considers the response of evasion to a flat-tax policy reform. In spite of the direct incentives to evade less under a flat tax rate, the reform causes households to save more, rendering the change in overall evasion modest.
E62|Self-fulfilling debt crises, fiscal policy and investment|This paper studies the circular relationship between sovereign credit risk, government fiscal and debt policy, and output. I consider a sovereign default model with fiscal policy and private capital accumulation. I show that, when fiscal policy responds to borrowing conditions in the sovereign debt market, multiple equilibria exist where the expectations of lenders are self-fulfilling. In the bad equilibrium, pessimistic beliefs make sovereign debt costly. The government substitutes borrowing with taxation, which depresses private investment and future output, increases default probabilities and verifies lenders’ beliefs. This result is reminiscent of the European debt crisis of 2010-12: while recessionary, fiscal austerity may be the government best response to excessive borrowing costs during a confidence crisis.
E62|Jordan: The Elements of a Growth Strategy|In the decade 1999-2009, Jordan experienced an impressive growth acceleration, tripling its exports and increasing income per capita by 38%. Since then, a number of external shocks that include the Global Financial Crisis (2008-2009), the Arab Spring (2011), the Syrian Civil War (2011), and the emergence of the Islamic State (2014) have affected Jordan in significant ways and thrown its economy out of balance. Jordan’s debt-to-GDP ratio has ballooned from 55% (2009) to 94% (2018). The economy has continued to grow amidst massive fiscal adjustment and balance of payments constraints, but the large increase in population – by 50% between 2008 and 2017 – driven by massive waves of refugees has resulted in a 12% cumulative loss in income per capita (2010-2017). Moving forward, debt sustainability will require not only continued fiscal consolidation but also faster growth and international support to keep interest payments on the debt contained. We have developed an innovative framework to align Jordan’s growth strategy with its changing factor endowments. The framework incorporates service industries into an Economic Complexity analysis, utilizing the Dun and Bradstreet database, together with an evaluation of the evolution of Jordan’s comparative advantages over time. Combining several tools to identify critical constraints faced by sectors with the greatest potential, we have produced a roadmap with key elements of a strategy for Jordan to return to faster, more sustainable and more inclusive growth that is consistent with its emerging comparative advantages.
E62|The Spanish Personal Income Tax: Facts and Parametric Estimates|In this paper, we use administrative data on tax returns to characterize the distributions of before and after-tax income, tax liabilities, and tax credits in Spain for individuals and households. We use the most recent available data, 2015 for individuals and 2013 for households, but also discuss how the income distribution and taxes have changed since 2002. We also estimate effective tax functions that capture the underlying heterogeneity of the data in a parsimonious way. These parametric functions can be used to calculate after-tax incomes in surveys where this information is not directly available, and can also be used in quantitative work in macroeconomics and public finance.
E62|Escenarios de ajuste al sistema pensional colombiano|Este documento expone un diagnóstico de los principales problemas en el diseño del sistema pensional colombiano y presenta una comparación de tres escenarios de ajuste posibles: (1) hacer ajustes paramétricos al sistema actual; (2) adoptar un sistema de pilares, con el primer pilar administrado por Colpensiones; y (3) hacer una reforma que cierre el acceso al régimen de prima media (RPM), vinculando a todos los nuevos afiliados al régimen de ahorro individual con solidaridad y garantía de pensión mínima (RAIS). Nuestras simulaciones al 2075 indican que, en valor presente neto, la reforma de cierre del acceso al RPM para nuevos afiliados es muy superior a las otras dos propuestas de reforma y que esta reforma complementada con incrementos en la edad de jubilación, incremento de dos puntos en la tasa de cotización y logrando una mayor formalización del mercado laboral, disminuye el déficit público de pensiones asociado a Colpensiones de 57,2% del PIB en 2075 a 23,2% del PIB. Adicionalmente, esta simulación permite incrementar el ahorro privado institucional en más de 10 puntos del PIB. Finalmente, dados estos resultados se hace una propuesta del escenario deseable de ajuste al sistema pensional colombiano.
E62|Money-financed fiscal stimulus: The effects of implementation lag|Previous studies argue that, based on the New Keynesian framework, a fiscal stimulus financed by money creation has a strong positive effect on output under a reasonable degree of nominal price rigidities. This paper investigates the effects of an implementation lag in a money-financed fiscal stimulus on output. We show that if a money-financed government purchase has a time lag between the decision and the implementation: (1) it may cause a recession rather than a boom when the economy is in normal times; (2) it may deepen a recession when the economy is in a liquidity trap; (3) the longer the implementation lag, the deeper the recession; and (4) the depth of the recession depends on the interest semi-elasticity of money demand. Our results imply that, if money demand is unstable, the money-financed fiscal stimulus with an implementation lag may have unstable effects on output, in contrast to the debt-financed fiscal stimulus.
E62|Stagnation vs singularity: The global implications of alternative productivity growth scenarios|Productivity growth has flat-lined in most economies despite rapid advances in technology. Economists suggest competing explanations for this paradox. Some argue the current stagnation will persist given deep structural challenges, arguing that recent technological advances are no match for those of the past. Others argue that the historical time-lag between technological advances and increased productivity means a productivity surge is just around the corner. The paper explores the implications of alternative productivity growth scenarios for the global economy, particularly for growth, labor markets and the flows of trade and capital. The paper explores the appropriate policy response under these alternative scenarios. It highlights the importance of productivity-enhancing reforms and the first-mover benefits that can flow to economies which move closer to the productivity frontier. It explores the factors that constrain an economy’s ability to reap the full benefits of any future productivity boom. It highlights the consequences of asymmetric increases in productivity across countries for both booming and non-booming economies and the role of monetary and fiscal policies, with particular warnings for the stability of the euro zone. Finally, it highlights the implications of asymmetric productivity changes across sectors and the importance of flexibility in labor, capital and product markets.
E62|Females, the Elderly, and Also Males: Demographic Aging and Macroeconomy in Japan|The speed and magnitude of the ongoing demographic aging in Japan are unprecedented. A rapid decline in the labor force and a rising fiscal burden to finance social security expenditures could hamper growth over a prolonged period. We build a dynamic general equilibrium model populated by overlapping generations of males and females who differ in employment type and labor productivity in addition to life expectancy. We study how changes in the labor market over the coming decades will affect the transition path of the economy and fiscal situation of Japan. We find that a rise in the labor supply of females and the elderly of both genders in extensive margin and in productivity can significantly mitigate the effects of demographic aging on the macroeconomy and reduce fiscal pressures, despite a decline in wages during the transition. We also quantify effects of alternative demographic scenarios and fiscal policies. The study suggests that a combination of policies that remove obstacles hindering the labor supply and that create a more efficient allocation of male and female workers of all age groups will be critical to keeping government deficits under control and raising incomes across the nation.
E62|Tax evasion as contingent debt|This paper studies income-tax evasion in a quantitative incomplete-markets setting with heterogeneous agents. A central aspect is that, realistically, evaded taxes are a form of contingent debt. Since evasion becomes part of a portfolio decision, risk and credit considerations play a central part in shaping it. The model calibrated to match estimated average levels of evasion does a good job in producing observed cross-sectional average evasion rates that decline with age and with earnings. The model also delivers implications for how evasion varies in the cross sectional distribution of wealth and tax arrears. Evasion has substantial effects on macroeconomic variables and welfare, and agent heterogeneity and general equilibrium are very important elements in the explanation. The analysis also considers the response of evasion to a flat-tax policy reform. In spite of the direct incentives to evade less under a flat tax rate, the reform causes households to save more, rendering the change in overall evasion modest.
E62|Self-Fulfilling Debt Crises, Fiscal Policy and Investment|This paper studies the circular relationship between sovereign credit risk, government fiscal and debt policy, and output. I consider a sovereign default model with fiscal policy and private capital accumulation. I show that, when fiscal policy responds to borrowing conditions in the sovereign debt market, multiple equilibria exist where the expectations of lenders are self-fulfilling. In the bad equilibrium, pessimistic beliefs make sovereign debt costly. The government substitutes borrowing with taxation, which depresses private investment and future output, increases default probabilities and verifies lenders’ beliefs. This result is reminiscent of the European debt crisis of 2010-12: while recessionary, fiscal austerity may be the government best response to excessive borrowing costs during a confidence crisis.
E62|Females, the elderly, and also males: Demographic aging and macroeconomy in Japan|The speed and magnitude of ongoing demographic aging in Japan are unprecedented. A rapid decline in the labor force and a rising fiscal burden to finance social security expenditures could hamper growth over a prolonged period. We build a dynamic general equilibrium model populated by overlapping generations of males and females who differ in employment type and labor productivity as well as life expectancy. We study how changes in the labor market over the coming decades will affect the transition path of the economy and fiscal situation of Japan. We find that a rise in the labor supply of females and the elderly of both genders in an extensive margin and in labor productivity can significantly mitigate effects of demographic aging on the macroeconomy and reduce fiscal pressures, despite a decline in wage during the transition. We also quantify effects of alternative demographic scenarios and fiscal policies. The study suggests that a combination of policies that remove obstacles hindering labor supply and that enhance a more efficient allocation of male and female workers of all age groups will be critical to keeping government deficit under control and raising income across the nation.
E62|Macroeconomic Responses to Fiscal Shocks in Portugal|This study analyses the impact of fiscal shocks on GDP, inflation and interest rates in Portugal over 1995-2017. In line with the relevant literature, we estimate multipliers using a structural VAR a' la Blanchard and Perotti (2002) based on OECD elasticities. As fiscal shocks, we include changes in direct and indirect taxes on the revenue side, and, on the expenditure side, changes in public consumption, investment and transfers. We find small tax multipliers and larger government consumption multipliers for growth, while short-term responses to shocks in transfer and investment spending are found to be negligible. We find an ambiguous impact of fiscal shocks on inflation, with both indirect and direct taxes having an inflationary impact but government consumption having the contrary impact. Fiscal shocks of an expansionary nature are found to trigger declines in real interest rates, possibly through the inflation channel. The results are robust to different orderings of the variables used in the structural VAR and to the selection of alternative time periods. Overall, the analysis of output multipliers compares well with some other studies conducted on the Portuguese economy and confirms the importance of the disposable income channel in the transmission of fiscal shocks to the rest of the economy.
E62|The Semi-Elasticities Underlying the Cyclically-Adjusted Budget Balance: An Update and Further Analysis|We update the semi-elasticities of the budget balance to output for the 28 EU Member States using new weights based on ESA2010 data (with unchanged elasticities for individual fiscal items). The revisions of the semi-elasticities are fairly small across Member States and leave the assessment of fiscal developments in the EU broadly unchanged. The revision of the Cyclically Adjusted Balance (CAB) is mainly driven by that in the headline balance and the estimated output gap, not by the update of the fiscal semi-elasticities. A sensitivity analysis shows that revenue and expenditure weights, if allowed to vary over time, can have a larger impact on the semi-elasticities than the present update would suggest, although this would affect the CAB only marginally. Based on the existing four vintages of the estimated semi-elasticities, exploratory panel data analysis confirms that semi-elasticities are country-specific structural parameters, mostly of fiscal nature: they are linked to the size of government, the share of unemployment-related spending, the share of non-tax revenue and tax progressivity. They can also be influenced by the belonging to specific country groupings and an emulation effect between neighbours.
E62|Fiscal Policy and Fiscal Fragility: Evidence from the OECD|In this paper, we use local projections to investigate the impact of consolidation shocks on GDP growh, conditional on the fragility of government finances. Based on the database of fiscal plans in OECD countries, we show that spending shocks are less detrimental than tax-based consolidation. In times of fiscal fragility, our results indicate strongly that governments should consolidate through surprise policy changes rather than announcements of consolidation at a later horizon.
E62|Did the 2017 Tax Reform Discriminate against Blue State Voters?|The Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) made significant changes to corporate and personal federal income taxation, including limiting the SALT (state and local property, income and sales taxes) deductibility to $10,000. States with high SALT tend to vote Democratic. This paper estimates the differential effect of the TCJA on red- and blue-state taxpayers and investigates the importance of the SALT limitation to this differential. We calculate the effect of permanent implementation of the TCJA on households using The Fiscal Analyzer: a life-cycle, consumption-smoothing program incorporating all major federal and state fiscal policies. We find that the average percentage increase in remaining lifetime spending under the TCJA is 1.6 percent in red states versus 1.3 percent in blue states. Among the richest 10 percent of households, this differential is larger. Rich households in red states enjoyed a 2.0 percent increase compared to a 1.2 percent increase among the rich in blue-state households. This gap is driven almost entirely by the limitation on the SALT deduction. Excluding the SALT limitation from the TCJA results in a spending gain of 2.6 percent for rich red-state households compared to 2.7 percent for rich blue-state households.
E62|Fiscal multipliers in advanced and developing countries: evidence from military spending|Using novel data on military spending for 129 countries in the period 1988–2013, this paper provides new evidence on the effects of government spending on output in advanced and developing countries. Identifying government-spending shocks with an exogenous variation in military spending, we estimate one-year fiscal multipliers in the range 0.75-0.85. The cumulative multipliers remain significantly different from zero within three years after the shock. We find substantial heterogeneity in the multipliers across groups of countries. We then explore three potential sources leading to heterogeneous effects of fiscal policy: the state of the economy, openness to trade, and the exchange-rate regime. We find that the multipliers are especially large in recessions, in closed economies, and under a fixed exchange rate. We also discuss other potential reasons for heterogeneous effects of fiscal policy, such as its implementation and coordination with the monetary authority. This paper is a significantly revised and extended version of Federal Reserve Bank of Boston Working Papers No. 15-9, circulated under the title “Output Response to Government Spending: Evidence from New International Military Spending Data.”
E62|The Politics of Flat Taxes|We study the political determination of flat tax systems using a workhorse macroeconomic model of inequality. There is significant variation in preferred tax policy across the wealth and income distribution. The majority voting outcome features (i) zero labor income taxation, (ii) simultaneous use of capital income and consumption taxation, and (iii) essentially zero transfers. This policy is supported by a coalition of low- and middle-wealth households. Zero labor income taxation is supported by households with below average wealth, while the middle-wealth households prefer to keep the transfer (and thus other tax rates) low. We also show that the outcome is sensitive to assumptions about the voting power of household groups, the degree of wealth and income mobility, and the forward-looking nature of votes.
E62|On the Optimality of Differential Asset Taxation|How should a utilitarian government balance redistributive concerns with the need to provide incentives for business creation and investment? Should they tax business profits, the (risk-free) savings of owners, or some combination of both? To address this question, this paper presents a model in which the desirability of differential asset taxation emerges endogenously from the presence of agency frictions. I consider an environment in which entrepreneurs hire workers and rent capital to produce output subject to privately observed shocks and have the ability to both divert capital to private consumption and abscond with a fraction of assets. To provide incentives to invest, the wealth of an agent must depend on the performance of his/her firm, leading to ex-post inequality in all efficient allocations. I show that the efficient stationary distribution of wealth exhibits a thick right (Pareto) tail, with the degree of inequality monotonically increasing in the number of workers per entrepreneur. The efficient allocation is then implemented in a general equilibrium model using history-independent linear taxes on risk-free savings and (reported) business profits. The tax on entrepreneurs’ savings may be positive or negative, while the tax on business profits depends solely upon the degree of private information and is independent of all technological and preference parameters.
E62|Risk Management for Sovereign Debt Financing with Sustainability Conditions|We develop a model of debt sustainability analysis with optimal financing decisions in the presence of macroeconomic, financial and fiscal uncertainty. We define a coherent measure of refinancing risk, and trade off the risks of debt stock and flow dynamics, subject to debt sustainability constraints and endogenous risk and term premia. We optimize both static and dynamic financing strategies, compare them with several simple rules and consol financing to demonstrate economically significant effects of optimal financing, and show that the stock-flow tradeoff can be critical for sustainability. We quantify the minimum refinancing risk and the maximum rate of debt reduction that a sovereign can achieve given its economic fundamentals, and extend the model to identify optimal timing for debt flow adjustments that allow the sovereign to go beyond these limits. We put the model to the data on three real-world cases: a representative euro zone crisis country, a low-debt country (Netherlands) and a high-debt country (Italy). These applications illustrate the use of the model in informing diverse policy decisions on sustainable public finance. The model is part of the European Stability Mechanism toolkit to assess debt sustainability and repayment capacity of member states in the context of financial assistance.
E62|Optimal Inflation Target with Expectations-Driven Liquidity Traps|In expectations-driven liquidity traps, a higher inflation target is associated with lower inflation and consumption. As a result, introducing the possibility of expectations-driven liquidity traps to an otherwise standard model lowers the optimal inflation target. Using a calibrated New Keynesian model with an effective lower bound (ELB) constraint on nominal interest rates, we find that even a very small probability of falling into an expectations-driven liquidity trap lowers the optimal inflation target nontrivially. Our analysis provides a reason to be cautious about the argument that central banks should raise their inflation targets in light of a higher likelihood of hitting the ELB.
E62|Credible Forward Guidance|We analyze credible forward guidance policies in a sticky-price model with an effective lower bound (ELB) constraint on nominal interest rates by solving a series of optimal sustainable policy problems indexed by the duration of reputational loss. Lower-for-longer policies---while effective in stimulating the economy at the ELB---are potentially time-inconsistent, as the associated overheating of the economy in the aftermath of a crisis is undesirable ex post. However, if reneging on a lower-for-longer promise leads to a loss of reputation and prevents the central bank from effectively using lower-for-longer policies in future crises, these policies can be time-consistent. We find that, even without an explicit commitment technology, the central bank can still credibly keep the policy rate at the ELB for an extended period---though not as extended under the optimal commitment policy---and meaningfully mitigate the adverse effects of the ELB constraint on economy activit y.
E62|Expectations-driven liquidity traps: implications for monetary and fiscal policy|We study optimal monetary and fiscal policy in a New Keynesian model where occasional declines in agents’ confidence can give rise to persistent liquidity trap episodes. Unlike in the case of fundamental-driven liquidity traps, there is no straightforward recipe for mitigating the welfare costs and the systematic inflation shortfall associated with expectations-driven liquidity traps. Raising the inflation target or appointing an inflation-conservative central banker improves inflation outcomes away from the lower bound but exacerbates the shortfall at the lower bound. Using government spending as an additional policy tool worsens stabilization outcomes both at and away from the lower bound. However, appointing a policymaker who is sufficiently less concerned with government spending stabilization than society can eliminate expectations-driven liquidity traps altogether. JEL Classification: E52, E61, E62
E62|Housing Choices and Their Implications for Consumption Heterogeneity|No abstract is available for this item.
E62|Fiscal Stimulus Under Sovereign Risk|"The excess procyclicality of fiscal policy is commonly viewed as a central malaise in emerging economies. We document that procyclicality is more pervasive in countries with higher sovereign risk and provide a model of optimal fiscal policy with nominal rigidities and endogenous sovereign default that can account for this empirical pattern. Financing a fiscal stimulus is costly for risky countries and can render countercyclical policies undesirable, even in the presence of large Keynesian stabilization gains. We also show that imposing austerity can backfire by exacerbating the exposure to default, but a well-designed ""fiscal forward guidance"" can help reduce the excess procyclicality."
E62|Sovereign Risk and Fiscal Information: A Look at the U.S. State Default of the 1840s|This paper examines how newspaper reporting affects government bond prices during the U.S. state default of the 1840s. Using unsupervised machine learning algorithms, the paper first constructs novel ``fiscal information indices'' for state governments based on U.S. newspapers at the time. The impact of the indices on government bond prices varied over time. Before the crisis, the entry of new western states into the bond market spurred competition: more state-specific fiscal news imposed downward pressure on bond prices for established states in the market. During the crisis, more state-specific fiscal information increased (lowered) bond prices for states with sound (unsound) fiscal policy.
E62|Don't Tax Capital---Optimal Ramsey Taxation in Heterogeneous Agent Economies with Quasi-Linear Preferences|"We build a tractable infinite-horizon Aiyagari-type model with quasi-linear preferences to address a set of long-standing issues in the optimal Ramsey taxation literature. The tractability of our model enables us to analytically establish several strong and novel results: (i) The optimal capital tax is exclusively zero in a Ramsey steady state regardless of the modified golden rule and government debt limits. (ii) Along the transition path toward a Ramsey steady state, optimal capital tax depends positively on the elasticity of intertemporal substitution. (iii) When a Ramsey steady state (featuring a non-binding government debt limit) does not exist but is erroneously assumed to exist, the modified golden rule always ""holds"" and the implied ""optimal"" long-run capital tax is strictly positive, reminiscent of the result obtained by Aiyagari (1995). (iv) Whether the modified golden rule holds depends critically on the government's capacity to issue debts, but has no bearing on the planner's long-run capital tax scheme. (v) The optimal debt-to-GDP ratio in the absence of a binding debt limit, however, is determined by a positive wedge times the modified-golden-rule saving rate; the wedge is decreasing in the strength of the individual self-insurance position and approaches zero when the idiosyncratic risk vanishes or markets are complete. The key insight behind our results is the Ramsey planner's ultimate concern for self-insurance. Since taxing capital in the steady state permanently hinders individuals' self-insurance positions, the Ramsey planner prefers (i) taxing capital only in the short run and (ii) issuing debt rather than imposing a steady-state capital tax to correct the capital-overaccumulation problem under precautionary saving motives. Thus, in sharp contrast to Aiyagari's argument, permanent capital taxation is not the optimal tool to achieve aggregate allocative efficiency despite overaccumulation of capital, and the modified golden rule can fail to hold in a Ramsey equilibrium whenever the government encounters a debt-limit."
E62|The Nonlinear Effects of Fiscal Policy|We argue that the fiscal multiplier of government purchases is increasing in the shock, in contrast to what is assumed in most of the literature: the fiscal multiplier is largest for large positive government spending shocks and smallest for large contractions in government spending. We empirically document this fact by analyzing two independent datasets and using two different empirical approaches. We find that a neoclassical, life-cycle, incomplete markets model calibrated to match key features of the US economy, including the distribution of wealth, can well explain this empirical finding. The mechanism works through the relationship between fiscal shocks, the distribution of wealth and the aggregate labor supply elasticity: liquidity constrained agents have less elastic labor supply responses to changes in future income. An increase (decrease) in government spending today acts as a negative (positive) shock to future income, as future wages will be lower (higher). A large increase (decrease) in government spending today will induce saving (borrowing) and move a larger fraction of the agents in the economy away from (towards) the borrowing limit. Analysis of micro-data confirms the mechanism.
E62|Optimal Cooperative Taxation in the Global Economy|We use the Ramsey and Mirrlees approaches to study how fiscal and trade policy should be set cooperatively when governments must raise revenues with distorting taxes. Free trade and unrestricted capital mobility are optimal. Efficient outcomes can be implemented with taxes only on final consumption goods and labor income. We study alternative tax systems, showing that uniform taxation of household asset returns, and not taxing corporate income yields efficient outcomes. Border adjustments exempting exports from and including imports in the tax base are desirable. Destination and residence based tax systems are desirable compared to origin and source based systems.
E62|On Financing Retirement, Health Care, and Long-Term Care in Japan|Japan is facing the problem of how to finance retirement, health care, and long-term care expenditures as the population ages. This paper analyzes the impact of policy options intended to address this problem by employing a dynamic general equilibrium overlapping generations model, specifically parameterized to match both the macro- and microeconomic level data of Japan. We find that financing the costs of aging through gradual increases in the consumption tax rate delivers better macroeconomic performance and higher welfare for most individuals relative to other financing options, including raising social security contributions, debt financing, and a uniform increase in health care and long-term care copayments.
E62|Decentralization and Overborrowing in a Fiscal Federation|We build an infinite horizon equilibrium model of fiscal federation, where anticipation of transfers from the central government creates incentives for local governments to overborrow. Absent commitment, the central government over-transfers, which distorts the central-local distribution of resources. Applying the model to fiscal decentralization, we find when decentralization widens local governments’ fiscal gap, borrowings by both local and central governments rise. Quantitatively, fiscal decentralization accounts for from 19 percent to 40 percent of changes in general government debt in Spain during 1988–2006. A macroprudential tax on local borrowing that implements Pareto optimal allocation would reduce debt by 27 percent and raise welfare by 3.75 percent.
