E63|In Fed Watchers’ Eyes: Hawks, Doves and Monetary Policy|"I construct a novel measure of policy preferences of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) as perceived in public. This measure is based on newspaper and financial media coverage of 130 FOMC members serving during 1960-2015. Narratives reveal that about 70percent of these FOMC members are perceived to have had persistent policy preferences over time, as either inflation-fighting hawks or growth-promoting doves. The rest are perceived as swingers, switching between types, or remained an unknown quantity to markets. Hawk and Dove perceptions capture ""true"" tendencies as expressed in preferred rates, forecasts and dissents of these FOMC members well. At the FOMC level the composition of hawks and doves varies significantly, featuring slow- and fast-switching hawkish and dovish regimes, due to the rotation of voting rights each year, members’ turnover and swings in preferences."
E63|Modelling yields at the lower bound through regime shifts|"We propose a regime-switching approach to deal with the lower bound on nominal interest rates in dynamic term structure modelling. In the ""lower bound regime"", the short term rate is expected to remain constant at levels close to the effective lower bound; in the ""normal regime"", the short rate interacts with other economic variables in a standard way. State-dependent regime switching probabilities ensure that the likelihood of being in the lower bound regime increases as short rates fall closer to zero. A key advantage of this approach is to capture the gradualism of the monetary policy normalization process following a lower bound episode. The possibility to return to the lower bound regime continues exerting an influence in the early phases of normalization, pulling expected future rates downwards. We apply our model to U.S. data and show that it captures key properties of yields at the lower bound. In spite of its heavier parameterization, the regime-switching model displays a competitive out-of-sample forecasting performance. It can also be used to gauge the risk of a return to the lower bound regime in the future. As of mid-2018, it provides a more benign assessment than alternative measures."
E63|Credit and Fiscal Multipliers in China|We jointly estimate credit and fiscal multipliers in China. We use the tenure of the provincial party secretary, interacted with the type of stimulus used in other provinces, to obtain separate instruments for provincial credit and government expenditure. We estimate a fiscal multiplier of 0.8 and a credit multiplier of 0.2 in 2001-2015. The multipliers have changed over time. The fiscal multiplier has increased from 0.75 in 2001-2008 to 1.4 in 2010-2015. The credit multiplier has declined from 0.17 to zero over the same periods. Our results suggest that reducing credit growth in China is unlikely to disrupt output growth, whereas fiscal policy may be effective in supporting macroeconomic adjustment.
E63|Macroeconomic effects of capital tax rate changes|We study aggregate, distributional, and welfare effects of a permanent reduction in the capital tax rate in a dynamic equilibrium model with capital-skill complementarity. Such a tax reform leads to expansionary long-run aggregate effects, but is coupled with an increase in the skill premium. Moreover, the expansionary long-run aggregate effects are smaller when distortionary labor or consumption tax rates have to increase to finance the capital tax rate cut. An extension to a model with heterogeneous households shows that consumption inequality increases in the long-run. We study transition dynamics and show that short-run effects depend critically on the monetary policy response: whether the central bank allows inflation to directly facilitate government debt stabilization and how inertially it raises interest rates. Finally, we contrast the long-term aggregate welfare gains with short-term losses, as well as in the model with heterogeneous households, show that welfare gains for the skilled go together with welfare losses for the unskilled.
E63|The Euro Crisis and Economic Growth: A Novel Counterfactual Approach|Macroeconomic adjustment in the euro area periphery was more recessionary than pre-crisis imbalances would have warranted. To make this claim, this paper uses a Propensity Score Matching Model to produce counterfactuals for the Eurozone crisis countries (Greece, Portugal, Ireland, Cyprus, Spain) based on over 200 past macroeconomic adjustment episodes between 1960-2010 worldwide. At its trough, between 2010 and 2015 per capita GDP had contracted on average 11 percentage points more in the Eurozone periphery than in the standard counterfactual scenario. These results are not dictated by any specific country experience, are robust to a battery of alternative counterfactual definitions, and stand confirmed when using a parametric dynamic panel regression model to account more thoroughly for the business cycle. Zooming in on the potential causes, the lack of an independent monetary policy, while having contributed to a deeper recession, does not fully explain the Eurozone’s specificity, which is instead to be traced back to a sharper-than-expected contraction in investment and fiscal austerity due to high funding costs.
E63|The Economy-Wide Impact of Subsidy Reform: A CGE Analysis|Oil prices fell from around $US110 per barrel in 2014 to less than $US50 per barrel at the start of 2017. This put enormous pressure on government budgets within the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) region. The focus of GCC economic policies quickly shifted to fiscal reform, including the removal of domestic subsidies on energy products. In this paper we use a dynamic Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model to investigate the economic impact of the gradual removal of subsidies on refined petroleum and electricity, with specific reference to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA). Our study shows that removing subsidies eliminates a large distortion in the economy. This improves the efficiency of resource use, so that even though employment and capital in most years fall relative to baseline levels, real GDP rises. In addition, we show that fully-funded compensation payments offset the increases in energy prices, leaving economic welfare of the Saudi-national population little affected. Removing the energy subsidies leads to an improvement in the net volume of trade, while leading to a mixed outcome for industries.
E63|The Euro Crisis in the Mirror of the EMS|Why was recovery from the euro area crisis delayed for a decade? The explanation lies in the absence of credible and timely policies to backstop financial intermediaries and sovereign debt markets. In this paper we add light and color to this analysis, contrasting recent experience with the 1992-3 crisis in the European Monetary System, when national central banks and treasuries more successfully provided this backstop. In the more recent episode, the incomplete development of the euro area constrained the ability of the ECB and other European institutions to do likewise.
E63|The Fiscal Multiplier|This paper studies the size of the fiscal multiplier in a model with incomplete markets and rigid prices and wages. Allowing for incomplete markets instead of complete markets---the prevalent assumption in the literature---comes with two advantages. First, the incomplete markets model delivers a realistic distribution of the marginal propensity to consume across the population, whereas all households counterfactually behave according to the permanent income hypothesis if markets are complete. Second, in our model the response of prices, output, consumption and employment is uniquely determined by fiscal policy for any monetary policy including the zero-lower bound (ZLB) as opposed to most of the previous literature, where an infinite number of equilibria exists, leaving the researcher to arbitrarily pick one. Our preliminary findings indicate that the impact multiplier is quite large between 2 and 3 depending on whether tax or deficit financing is used and increase to values above 3 in a liquidity trap.
E63|On the macroeconomic and fiscal effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act|There is substantial disagreement about the consequences of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017, which constitutes the most extensive tax reform in the United States in more than 30 years. Using a large-scale two-country dynamic general equilibrium model with nominal rigidities, the authors find that the TCJA increases GDP by about 2% in the medium-run and by about 2.5% in the long-run. The short-run impact depends crucially on the degree and costs of variable capital utilization, with GDP effects ranging from 1 to 3%. At the same time, the TCJA does not pay for itself. In the analysis, the reform decreases tax revenues and raises the debt-to-GDP ratio by about 15 percentage points in the medium-run until 2025. The show that combining the TCJA with spending cuts can dampen the increase in government indebtedness without reducing its expansionary effect.
E63|Helicopter Drops of Money under Secular Stagnation|What are the effects of helicopter drops of money under secular stagnation? This paper shows that, if the government cannot sustain a Ponzi debt scheme under full employment, then helicopter drops of money cannot transfer real wealth to households under secular stagnation. In that case, despite being in a permanent liquidity trap, a one-off helicopter drop triggers an upward jump in the price level, without any real effect on the economy. Conversely, if a Ponzi scheme can be sustained, then the helicopter drop can stimulate aggregate demand by raising household wealth. If the stagnation real interest rate is larger than the economic growth rate, the economy converges to full employment and a sustainable Ponzi scheme and, otherwise, it gradually reverts back to stagnation. Finally, continuous helicopter drops of money under stagnation must induce the economy to reach a full employment steady state, with or without a Ponzi scheme.
E63|Dynamic fiscal limits and monetary-fiscal policy interactions|This paper analyzes the impact of monetary policy on public debt sustainability through the lens of a general equilibrium model with fiscal limits. We find that the mere possibility of a binding ZLB may have detrimental effects on debt sustainability, as a kink in the Laffer curve induces a dead-weight loss in the present discounted value of future primary surpluses. Moreover, debt sustainability improves with monetary policy activeness, that is, with the elasticity of the interest rate to changes in inflation and the output gap. On this basis, we assess the trade-off between economic stabilization and debt sustainability depending on the monetary policy environment. In normal times, large public spending shocks may engender perverse debt dynamics and cause economic contractions. At the ZLB, a muted trade-off between stabilization and sustainability instead expands the fiscal margin, especially if coupled with a commitment to a more active monetary policy during normal times. JEL Classification: E52, E61, E63
E63|Modelling yields at the lower bound through regime shifts|We propose a regime-switching approach to deal with the lower bound on nominal interest rates in dynamic term structure modelling. In the “lower bound regime”, the short term rate is expected to remain constant at levels close to the effective lower bound; in the “normal regime”, the short rate interacts with other economic variables in a standard way. State-dependent regime switching probabilities ensure that the likelihood of being in the lower bound regime increases as short rates fall closer to zero. A key advantage of this approach is to capture the gradualism of the monetary policy normalization process following a lower bound episode. The possibility to return to the lower bound regime continues exerting an influence in the early phases of normalization, pulling expected future rates downwards. We apply our model to U.S. data and show that it captures key properties of yields at the lower bound. In spite of its heavier parameterization, the regime-switching model displays a competitive out-of-sample forecasting performance. It can also be used to gauge the risk of a return to the lower bound regime in the future. As of mid-2018, it provides a more benign assessment than alternative measures. JEL Classification: E31, E40, E44, E52, E58, E62, E63
E63|Optimal Inflation Target with Expectations-Driven Liquidity Traps|In expectations-driven liquidity traps, a higher inflation target is associated with lower inflation and consumption. As a result, introducing the possibility of expectations-driven liquidity traps to an otherwise standard model lowers the optimal inflation target. Using a calibrated New Keynesian model with an effective lower bound (ELB) constraint on nominal interest rates, we find that even a very small probability of falling into an expectations-driven liquidity trap lowers the optimal inflation target nontrivially. Our analysis provides a reason to be cautious about the argument that central banks should raise their inflation targets in light of a higher likelihood of hitting the ELB.
E63|Credible Forward Guidance|We analyze credible forward guidance policies in a sticky-price model with an effective lower bound (ELB) constraint on nominal interest rates by solving a series of optimal sustainable policy problems indexed by the duration of reputational loss. Lower-for-longer policies---while effective in stimulating the economy at the ELB---are potentially time-inconsistent, as the associated overheating of the economy in the aftermath of a crisis is undesirable ex post. However, if reneging on a lower-for-longer promise leads to a loss of reputation and prevents the central bank from effectively using lower-for-longer policies in future crises, these policies can be time-consistent. We find that, even without an explicit commitment technology, the central bank can still credibly keep the policy rate at the ELB for an extended period---though not as extended under the optimal commitment policy---and meaningfully mitigate the adverse effects of the ELB constraint on economy activit y.
E63|Hitting the Elusive Inflation Target|Since the 2001 recession, average core inflation has been below the Federal Reserve’s 2% target. This deflationary bias is a predictable consequence of a low nominal interest rates environment in which the central bank follows a symmetric strategy to stabilize inflation. The deflationary bias increases if macroeconomic uncertainty rises or the natural real interest rate falls. An asymmetric rule according to which the central bank responds less aggressively to above-target inflation corrects the bias and allows inflation to converge to the central bank’s target. We show that adopting this asymmetric rule improves welfare and reduces the risk of self-fulfilling deflationary spirals. This approach does not entail any history dependence in setting the policy rate or any commitment to overshoot inflation after periods in which the lower bound constraint was binding.
E63|The Monetary and Fiscal History of Bolivia, 1960-2017|After the economic reforms that followed the National Revolution of the 1950s, Bolivia seemed positioned for sustained growth. Indeed, it achieved unprecedented growth from 1960 to 1977. Mistakes in economic policies, especially the rapid accumulation of debt due to persistent deficits and a fixed exchange rate policy during the 1970s, led to a debt crisis that began in 1977. From 1977 to 1986, Bolivia lost almost all the gains in GDP per capita that it had achieved since 1960. In 1986, Bolivia started to grow again, interrupted only by the financial crisis of 1998–2002, which was the result of a drop in the availability of external financing. Bolivia has grown since 2002, but government policies since 2006 are reminiscent of the policies of the 1970s that led to the debt crisis, in particular, the accumulation of external debt and the drop in international reserves due to a de facto fixed exchange rate since 2012.
E63|Optimal Time-Consistent Monetary, Fiscal and Debt Maturity Policy|We develop a New Keynesian model with government bonds of mixed matu- rity and solve for optimal time-consistent policy using global solution techniques. This reveals several non-linearities absent from LQ analyses with one-period debt. Firstly, the steady-state balances an inflation and debt stabilization bias to gener- ate a small negative debt value with a slight undershooting of the inflation target. This falls far short of first-best (`war chest') asset levels. Secondly, starting from debt levels consistent with currently observed debt to GDP ratios the optimal pol- icy will gradually reduce that debt, but the policy mix changes radically along the transition path. At high debt levels there is a reliance on a relaxation of monetary policy to reduce debt through an expanded tax base and reduced debt service costs, while tax rates are used to moderate the increases in inflation. However, as debt levels fall, the use of monetary policy in this way diminishes and the authority turns to fiscal policy to continue debt reduction. This endogenous switch in the policy mix occurs at higher debt levels, the longer the average debt maturity. Allowing the policymaker to optimally vary debt maturity in response to shocks and across varying levels of debt, we find that variations in maturity are largely used to sup- port changes in the underlying time-consistent policy mix rather than the speed of fiscal correction. Finally, introducing a mild degree of policy maker myopia can re- produce steady-state debt to GDP ratios and inflation rates not dissimilar to those observed empirically, without changing any of the qualitative results presented in the paper.
E63|The Fiscal Roots of Inflation|Unexpected inflation devalues nominal government bonds. It must therefore correspond to a decline in expected future surpluses, or a rise in their discount rates, so that the real value of debt equals the present value of surpluses. I measure each component via a vector autoregression, in response to inflation, recession, monetary and fiscal policy shocks. Discount rates, rather than deficits, account for much inflation and deflation. Monetary policy smooths the inflationary response to fiscal shocks. I interpret the results through a fiscal theory of monetary policy.
E63|Using probit models of downturn risk to calibrate GDP Fan charts for New Zealand|Macroeconomic forecasters typically forecast fewer recessions than the number experienced, which means economic growth tends to be over-predicted on average. Consequently, forecast errors are not normally distributed, making it difficult to convey the uncertainty and risks based on the historical forecast track record. To characterise this risk, recent OECD work constructed fan charts parameterised on historical forecast errors and the probability of a future downturn estimated from a probit model comprising a range of potential macroeconomic and financial early warning indicators. As the probability of a downturn increases the associated fan chart is wider, reflecting increased uncertainty, and more skewed to the downside, reflecting greater downside risks. This paper applies this methodology to New Zealand; although one important difference compared to other OECD economies is that the time span of macroeconomic data without major structural change is significantly shorter. Forecast errors for GDP by the OECD, Reserve Bank of New Zealand and New Zealand Treasury all appear to be non-normally distributed. Fan charts for GDP forecasts from the mid-year 2018 OECD Economic Outlook are symmetric due to the low probability of a downturn. Fan charts estimated for the period preceding the global financial crisis using currently-available data have a downwards skew. However, those estimated using data only available in the lead up to the crisis have many insignificant coefficients, likely due to the structural changes that have occurred in the New Zealand economy since the 1980s.
E63| Políticas de estabilización vs Políticas de crecimiento en Perú 2011-2018| En base a la distinción necesaria entre choques económicos temporales y choques permanentes, en este trabajo se cuestiona algunas propuestas de políticas de reactivación ante la ocurrencia de choques a la economía. Se considera que estas políticas deben ser requeridas cuando los choques son temporales, pero ante choques permanentes o de larga duración lo recomendable es suavizar el proceso de hacia el nuevo equilibrio. Analizando a la economía peruana, se observa que los choques que experimentó, en particular, desde 2007 no tuvieron efectos comparables a los que experimentaron algunas de las economías más grandes del mundo. En particular, en lo relacionado con la tasa de inflación y la tasa de interés. Por esto, se cuestiona las recomendaciones de política monetaria y fiscal para Perú, que hacen algunos economistas y analistas. Como se ha vuelto frecuente denominar “inversión pública” a las políticas de expansión de gasto fiscal orientadas a compensar alguna percibida caída de la demanda agregada, en este trabajo enfatizamos la diferencia entre políticas de reactivación y políticas de crecimiento. JEL Classification-JEL:E63
E63|Macroeconomics vs Modern Money Theory: Some unpleasant Keynesian arithmetic|The last decade has witnessed a significant revival of belief in the efficacy of fiscal policy and mainstream economics is now reverting to the standard positions of mid-1970s Keynesianism. On the coattails of that revival, increased attention is being given to the doctrine of Modern Money Theory (MMT) which makes exaggerated claims about the economic costs and capability of money-financed fiscal policy. MMT proponents are now asserting society can enjoy a range of large government spending programs for free via money financed deficits, which has made it very popular with progressive policy advocates. This paper examines MMT’s assertion and rejects the claim that the US can enjoy a massive permanent free program spree that does not cause inflation. As has long been known by Keynesians, in a static economy money financed deficits can be used to finance programs when the economy is away from the full employment - inflation boundary. However, that window will be temporary to the extent that those deficits drive the economy to full employment. Since the programs are permanent they have to be paid for with taxes or they will generate inflation. That is the economic logic behind the unpleasant Keynesian arithmetic.
E63|Conversion Theory II: the case for Recession Bonds|In a previous paper: “Conversion Theory: the key to understanding economic developments before and after the 2008 financial crisis”, the author stated that: * By 2007, U.S. subprime mortgages comprised 14% of outstanding mortgages, equivalent to $1.46 trillion. The securitized element was $1.1 trillion, which was about 15% of all outstanding mortgage backed securities ($7.3 trillion). * Over the period 2007-2014 21.228 million U.S. households were confronted with foreclosure proceedings out of the 51.234 million households who had a mortgage: 41.4% of all mortgage holders! * U.S Federal Government debt increased by $4.8 trillion between 2007-2010, while real GDP still shrank. This represented by far the fastest growth in debt compared to GDP over the last 50 years, from 62.9% Q4 2007 to 92.0% by Q4 2010. * Between May 2007 and October 2009, nearly 7 million U.S. individuals lost their jobs. New housing starts dropped from 2.273 million in January 2006 (annualized) to 478,000 by April 2009. Real median household income dropped from $59,534 by 2007 to $54,569 by 2012 or by 9.2%. The financial alchemy employed by bankers of the age entailed a conversion process, which turned long-term mortgage debt into daily tradable securities. The process failed for the simple reason that the risks posed by doubtful underlying debtors was transferred to investors, without clear provisions taken for such doubtful debtors. Liquidity disappeared when the curtain was pulled back and investors ran for the hills. The conversion method can also be applied to government debt in order to help overcome an economic recession. The method suggested is to create or convert a series of long-term bonds: Recession Bonds. Their defining characteristic is that the repayment of interest and some principal amount is halted during a recession period. A government can apply to the IMF to declare that a recession risk is imminent. Pay-outs of interest and some principal will be halted over the recession bonds until the recession is declared by the IMF to be over. Recession Bonds give a government the means to spend substantial additional amounts during a recession period without having to increase its borrowings. It is a cash flow transfer mechanism from financial investors to the real economy, benefitting consumer demand, wages and employment levels. This transfer mechanism also supports share prices. A version of financial alchemy but unlike the 2008 variety, the audience will not be repulsed if the curtain is pulled back!
E63|﻿Monetary Policy with Non-Separable Government Spending|The significant role of government consumption in affecting economic conditions raises the necessity for monetary policy to take into account the behaviour of fiscal policy and to also take into account how the presence of the fiscal sector might affect the transmission mechanism of monetary policy in the economy. To test for this, we build an otherwise standard New Keynesian model that incorporates non-separable government consumption. The simulations of the model show that when government consumption has a crowding in effect on private consumption, it will dampen the transmission mechanism of monetary policy, and vice versa. The empirical estimations of the paper also support the theoretical findings of the model, as the panel regression show that, in OECD countries, government consumption dampens the effect of the policy rate on private consumption. These results are robust to the zero lower bound era.
E63|Monetary Policy in a Small Open Economy with Non-Separable Government Spending|To show how fiscal policy affects the transmission mechanism of monetary policy, we extend a standard new Keynesian model for a small open economy to allow for the presence of non-separable government consumption in the utility function. We show how monetary policy should optimally respond to demand and supply shocks when the government sector is incorporated into the model. The introduction of government consumption affects the transmission of monetary policy. When government consumption has a crowding in effect on private consumption, it will dampen the transmission mechanism of monetary policy, and vice versa. Nevertheless, the degree of openness will minimise the effect of the introduction of government consumption in a non-separable form. Data for 35 OECD countries empirically support these findings, and the empirical results are robust to the zero lower bound period. The theoretical model also shows that, once we model the rest of the world economy, domestic government consumption and foreign government consumption will have opposing effects on private consumption, which contradicts with the existing literature.
E63|The Heterogeneity Among Commodity-Rich Economies: Beyond the Prices of Commodities|The existing literature has always assumed that commodity-rich countries are a homogeneous group, resulting in the generalisation of any findings obtained from a single commodity-rich economy. This paper proposes a small open economy model for a commodity-rich country and studies the triggers of business cycles for four different commodity-rich economies to highlight the existence of heterogeneity among commodity-rich economies. The model introduces government consumption in a non-separable form to the utility function. Commodities have a central role in private consumption, production of final goods, and windfalls for the domestic government. We feed the model with a variety of shocks that were previously proposed by the previous literature. The estimations of the model show that oil-rich economies are more vulnerable to external shocks than their commodity-rich counterparts. This is mainly the result of the size of commodity windfalls in the economy, as the share of oil revenues are significantly higher than the revenues of other commodities, as a ratio of output. The results also show that there exists a policy crowding out effect of fiscal policy to monetary policy in oil-rich economies, all explaining the choice of an exchange rate peg regime in most oil-rich economies.
E63|The Neo-Fisherianism to Escape Zero Lower Bound|Sufficiently persistent rise in nominal interest increases inflation rate in short-run. This short-run comovement of nominal interest rate and inflation rate is known as Neo-Fisherianism. This paper proposes a policy based on Neo-Fisherianism to escape Zero Lower Bound (ZLB) using a textbook forward looking New Keynesian model. I have shown that proposed policy with properly chosen inflation target and persistence can stimulate economy and escape ZLB by raising nominal interest rate. I have also shown that the proposed policy is robust to varying degrees of price stickiness.
E63|Inflation: islam and conventional economic systems|Abstract A country is seen as successful or not, in solving the economic problems of its own country can be seen from the country's macro and micro-economy. Macroeconomics is a study of activities that discuss the economy of a country. One of the macroeconomic indicators used to see/measure a country's economic stability is inflation. Changes in this indicator will have an impact on the dynamics of economic growth. In an economic perspective, inflation is a monetary phenomenon in a country where inflation fluctuations tend to result in economic turmoil. Inflation is a phenomenon where the general price level increases continuously. The price increase of just one or two items cannot be said to be inflation unless the increase extends or results in an increase in prices for other goods. Both the conventional economic system and the Islamic economic system, the roles of both demand and supply are emphasized in pricing. In fact, Islamic scholars are aware of centuries that the importance of demand and supply caused inflation. From the problems above this study uses qualitative methods to describe the related problems and is reinforced with secondary data in the form of journals, books, and related articles.
E63|A European safe asset to complement national government bonds|This paper expands the growing literature on common safe assets in the context of the euro area financial system by employing credit risk simulation techniques to investigate the properties of different safe asset models and their impact on national bond markets. The paper explores in particular the E-bonds model, whereby a supranational institution would raise funds in the markets and provide bilateral senior loans to Member States corresponding to a fixed proportion of GDP, complementing the issuance of national government bonds, without risks of mutualisation. The main findings are that E-bonds could reach a volume of 15 to 30% of euro area GDP with a high degree of safety while becoming the reference safe asset for the banking sector, capital markets and monetary policy operations in the euro area. As regards the impact on remaining national bonds, such volumes would be consistent with Germany maintaining its top credit rating. The average funding costs of Member States would remain broadly stable, while marginal funding costs would tend to experience limited increases, which should enhance market discipline.
E63|Is Inflation Fiscally Determined?|This paper examines the relationship between fiscal variables and inflation for 46 countries from 1960–2017 using a linear identity that links inflation to fiscal and monetary variables and economic growth. The results indicate that inflation is affected by both monetary and fiscal policies. However, the relation between inflation and fiscal variables disappears when monetary policy is based on commitment strategies. We conclude that fiscal determinacy of inflation is only possible when central banks practice poorly structured discretion.
E63|Government Consumption and Investment: Does the Composition of Purchases Affect the Multiplier?|I show that a large and conventional class of macroeconomic models predicts that short-lived government investment shocks have a much smaller fiscal multiplier than government consumption shocks. I test this prediction in a panel of OECD countries using real-time forecasts of government consumption and investment to purify changes in purchases of their predicted components. Consistent with theory, I estimate a government investment multiplier near zero and a government consumption multiplier of approximately 0.8. These findings suggest that fiscal stimulus packages which contain large government investment components may not be as effective at stimulating aggregate demand as commonly thought.
E63|The Economic and Monetary Union: Past, Present and Future|Twenty years of euro history confirms the euro’s stability and position as the second global currency. It also enjoys the support of majority of the euro area population and is seen as a good thing for the European Union. The European Central Bank has been successful in keeping inflation at a low level. However, the European debt and financial crisis in the 2010s created a need for deep institutional reform and this task remains unfinished.
E63|Floating-rate bonds and monetary policy effectiveness: insights from a DSGE model|In Brazil, there exists a government bond whose return is directly indexed to short-term interest rate set by the Central Bank. Some economists suggest that its existence decreases the effectiveness of monetary policy, mainly by clogging the wealth transmission channel. We introduce a floating-rate bond as a new financial asset in a canonical DSGE model and analyze its effects on the model dynamics. The new bond does not seem to change the dynamics of any variable, even in the presence of rule-of-thumb agents. We interpret these results as evidence against the argument that floating-rate bonds lead to a weaker monetary policy.
E63|Balanced-budget fiscal stimuli of investment and welfare value|Is a fiscal stimulus of investment a viable complement to, or substitute for, monetary policy? We address this issue by means of real option valuation of a business investment which generates private as well as public benefits. A surge in uncertainty about private profitability delays investment to an extent that may not be offset by monetary policy (conventional or not). Turning to fiscal policy, we examine the welfare effects of different policy schemes: (i) a simple subsidy on investment, (ii) a balanced-budget stimulus where the subsidy is subsequently covered by profit taxation, and (iii) by taxing public benefits as well. We show that, under a balanced- budget stimulus, investment acceleration may come at the expense of decreased total (private and public) welfare and that the higher is uncertainty about private returns, the more likely is a net efficiency loss. However, the risk of such negative outcome strongly declines when the government spending is balanced by taxing both private and public returns on investment.
E63|The Welfare Cost of Business Cycles at the States’ Levels|ucas (1987, 2003) calculates the potential welfare gains to stabilization of business cycles to be surprisingly small. Welfare gain is measured by a compensation parameter which makes a household indifferent between a deterministic lifetime stream and a compensated, risky lifetime stream of consumption. Using a constant relative risk aversion utility function and a coefficient of risk aversion of one, Lucas calculates that the welfare gain in real per capita consumption is in the order of one-twentieth of 1 percent. This is equivalent to an increase of about $18.33 in real per capita consumption per year for 1947 – 2001, stated in 2016 dollars. The main focus of this paper is to examine the welfare cost of business cycles for the 50 states using the same preference function as Lucas (1987, 2003). To our knowledge, this is the first paper that examines the welfare cost of business cycles at the state level. Our results support the findings of Lucas (1987, 2003) and Otrok (2001) that further welfare gain from stabilization of business cycles are very small, ranging from one-eighth of 1 percent for Wyoming to one-forty-fifth of 1 percent for Iowa. Further results from additional analysis also suggest that welfare cost of business cycles varies considerably across regions of the country.
E63|Inflation Anchoring, Real Borrowing Costs, and Growth: Evidence from Sectoral Data|Central bankers often assert that anchoring of inflation expectations and reducing inflation uncertainty are good for economic outcomes. We test this claim and search for a relevant channel using panel data on sectoral growth for 22 manufacturing industries from 36 advanced and emerging market economies over the period 1990-2014. Our difference-in-difference strategy is based on the theoretical prediction that inflation uncertainty has larger effects in industries that are more credit constrained by increasing effective real borrowing costs. The results show that industries characterized by high external financial dependence, low asset tangibility, and high R&D intensity tend to grow faster in countries with well-anchored inflation expectations. The results are robust to controlling for the interaction between these characteristics and a broad set of macroeconomic variables over the sample period, including the level of inflation and output volatility. The results are also robust to IV techniques, using indicators of monetary policy transparency and independence as instruments.
E63|On the Macroeconomic and Fiscal Effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act|There is substantial disagreement about the consequences of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017, which constitutes the most extensive tax reform in the United States in more than 30 years. Using a large-scale two-country dynamic general equilibrium model with nominal rigidities, we find that the TCJA increases GDP by about 2% in the medium-run and by about 2.5% in the long-run. The short-run impact depends crucially on the degree and costs of variable capital utilization, with GDP effects ranging from 1 to 3%. At the same time, the TCJA does not pay for itself. In our analysis, the reform decreases tax revenues and raises the debt-to-GDP ratio by about 15 percentage points in the medium-run until 2025. We show that combining the TCJA with spending cuts can dampen the increase in government indebtedness without reducing its expansionary effect.
E63|Fiscal policy and the assessment of output gaps in real time: An exercise in risk management|Fiscal policymakers are expected to conduct countercyclical policies to mitigate cyclical fluctuations of output, but the assessment of cyclical conditions in real time is subject to considerable uncertainty. They face two types of risk: (i) launching discretionary measures to support or dampen aggregate demand when no measures are required (type I error), or (ii) not launching any stabilising measures when this is warranted by cyclical conditions (type II error). A rational policymaker could manage these risks by correcting real-time estimates for past errors, notably the apparent tendency to underestimate good times when they occur. In practice, however, fiscal policy has been largely pro-cyclical or a-cyclical at best. Using statistical decision theory, we calculate thresholds for realtime output gap estimates beyond which governments could launch stabilisation measures, so as to reduce the risk of running pro-cyclical policies. We consider different preferences for avoiding type I or type II errors, and for addressing upside and downside growth risks. We show that the tendency to run pro-cyclical fiscal policy and the ensuing deficit bias can reflect two factors: a preference for activism that is, attaching a lower cost to type I errors, combined with an inclination to be gloomy about cyclical conditions.
E63|The Monetary and Fiscal History of Bolivia, 1960–2017|After the economic reforms that followed the National Revolution of the 1950s, Bolivia seemed positioned for sustained growth. Indeed, it achieved unprecedented growth from 1960 to 1977. The rapid accumulation of debt due to persistent deficits and a fixed exchange rate policy during the 1970s led to a debt crisis that began in 1977. From 1977 to 1986, Bolivia lost almost all the gains in GDP per capita that it had achieved since 1960. In 1986, Bolivia started to grow again, interrupted only by the financial crisis of 1998–2002, which was the result of a drop in the availability of external financing. Bolivia has grown since 2002, but government policies since 2006 are reminiscent of the policies of the 1970s that led to the debt crisis, in particular, the accumulation of external debt and the drop in international reserves due to a de facto fixed exchange rate since 2012.
E63|The Monetary and Fiscal History of Argentina, 1960-2017|In this chapter, we review the monetary and fiscal history of Argentina for the period 1960–2017, a time during which the country suffered several balance of payments crises, three periods of hyperinflation, two defaults on government debt, and three banking crises. All told, between 1969 and 1991, after several monetary reforms, thirteen zeros had been removed from its currency. We argue that all these events are the symptom of a recurrent problem: Argentina’s unsuccessful attempts to tame the fiscal deficit. An implication of our analysis is that the future economic evolution of Argentina depends greatly on its ability to develop institutions that guarantee that the government does not spend more than its genuine tax revenues over reasonable periods of time.
E63|On the Risk of Leaving the Euro|Following the sovereign debt crisis of 2012, some southern European countries have debated proposals to leave the Euro. We evaluate this policy change in a standard monetary model with seigniorage financing of the deficit. The main novel feature is that we depart from rational expectations while maintaining full rationality of agents in a sense made very precise. Our first contribution is to show that small departures from rational expectations imply that inflation upon exit can be orders of magnitude higher than under rational expectations. Our second contribution is to provide a framework for policy analysis in models without rational expectations.
E63|The financial stability index (6) – Estimated by the Institute of Financial Studies|In each issue of the Financial Studies Review, we update and publish the Financial Stability Index (FSI) of our Institute of Financial Studies, which tracks the correlation between economic growth and macroeconomic and financial factors in Romania.We constructeda composite index using a linear combination of financial variables that are considered to have a significant impact on economic activity. These financial variables are weighted with respect to their cumulated two quarters impulse response on GDP growth, as estimated by a VAR model.Developing such a composite index of financial stability or financial stresshas two main utilities:•The analysis of the correlation between financial variables and the real economy placed in the context of different historical episodes of financial crisis. Also, this correlation analysis reveals, in each period, the significant positive or negative contribution of each financial variable to real economic growth. Following this analysis, the FSIcan measure the impact of economic and financial policy measures aimed at mitigating financial crises. The short-term prediction of real economic growth estimated by forecasting the next period evolution of the real economic activity (GDPt+1) using current period GDPtand FSItand economic and financial variables in the FSItcomposition.
E63|International credit markets and global business cycles|This paper stresses a new channel through which global financial linkages contribute to the co‐movement in economic activity across countries. We show in a two‐country setting with borrowing constraints that international credit markets are subject to self‐fulfilling variations in the world real interest rate. Those expectation‐driven changes in the borrowing cost in turn act as global shocks that induce strong cross‐country co‐movements in both financial and real variables (such as asset prices, gross domestic product, consumption, investment, and employment). When firms around the world benefit from unexpectedly low debt repayments, they borrow and invest more, which leads to excessive supply of collateral and of loanable funds at a low interest rate, thus fueling a boom both at home and abroad. As a consequence, business cycles are synchronized internationally. Such a stylized model thus offers one way to rationalize both the existence of a world business‐cycle component, documented by recent empirical studies through dynamic factor analysis, and the factor's intimate link to global financial markets.
E63|The Swedish Fiscal Framework – The Most Successful One in the EU?|This paper discusses the history and future of the Swedish fiscal framework. First, we claim that the fiscal framework has contributed to a sharp decline in the debt-to-GDP ratio, from one of the highest to one of the lowest in the European Union. Next, we focus on the future. Despite its success, we argue that the framework is unsustainable. Running large surpluses over the long run is not a steady-state solution. We recommend two changes to the framework. First, that the public pension system is excluded, and second that the Swedish fiscal authorities shift attention from maintaining a budget surplus of 1/3 percent of GDP over the business cycle to sustaining a stable debt-to-GDP ratio of 25 percent of GDP +/- 5 percentage points. A debt anchor at this level will provide sufficient insurance in case of a future major economic crisis judging from recent cross-country evidence. In addition, a debt anchor around 25 percent of GDP would contribute to political stability in time of crises. In a world, where populism and austerity fatigue are rampant, we stress the importance of a fiscal framework allowing successful consumption and tax smoothing in case of major negative shocks to the fiscal space. We conclude with a set of recommendations for the fiscal governance of the EU.
E63|The Interaction Between Fiscal and Monetary Policies: Evidence from Sweden|This paper estimates the interaction between monetary- and fiscal policy using a structural VAR model with time-varying parameters. For demand and supply shocks, the two policies are estimated to be complementary, while for monetary and fiscal policies shocks the two policies act as substitutes. The budget elasticity varies between 0.3–0.6, indicating that an economic downturn can get a non-negligible negative impact on public finances. The fiscal multiplier is estimated to be stable and higher than one suggesting that fiscal policy can be used to support monetary policy to stabilize the economy in case monetary policy is constrained by the lower effective bound.
E63|The Monetary and Fiscal History of Brazil, 1960-2016|Brazil has had a long period of high inflation. It peaked around 100 percent per year in 1964, decreased until the first oil shock (1973), but accelerated again afterward, reaching levels above 100 percent on average between 1980 and 1994. This last period coincided with severe balance of payments problems and economic stagnation that followed the external debt crisis in the early 1980s. We show that the high-inflation period (1960–1994) was characterized by a combination of fiscal deficits, passive monetary policy, and constraints on debt financing. The transition to the low-inflation period (1995–2016) was characterized by improvements in all of these features, but it did not lead to significant improvements in economic growth. In addition, we document a strong positive correlation between inflation rates and seigniorage revenues, although inflation rates are relatively high for modest levels of seigniorage revenues. Finally, we discuss the role of the weak institutional framework surrounding the fiscal and monetary authorities and the role of monetary passiveness and inflation indexation in accounting for the unique features of inflation dynamics in Brazil.
E63|Taylor rule implementation of the Optimal policy at the zero lower bound: Does the cost channel matter?|This paper analyzes the implementation of the optimal policies at the Zero Lower Bound (ZLB) by the Taylor rule in the presence of cost channel. We find that, the presence of cost channel significantly impairs the ability of the Taylor rule to implement optimal policies when economy is subject to the ZLB. The main findings of the paper are, (i) the Taylor rule with optimally chosen inflation target partially implements the optimal discretionary policy but cannot implement the optimal policy under commitment, and (ii) the T-only policy, which follows discretion after an optimally chosen exit date from the ZLB, is the best that can be implemented by the Taylor rule in the presence of cost channel.
E63|Tax Rules to Prevent Expectations-driven Liquidity Trap|This paper demonstrates that a simple Ricardian tax policy responding to inflation can prevent expectations-driven liquidity trap (ELT) using a standard New Keynesian model. I show that the extent to which tax rates must respond to inflation is affected by the persistence of remaining at the ELT and higher persistence requires larger response to inflation. I further find that if the ELT is assumed to be recurrent, the tax rate needs to respond to inflation by a larger extent compared to the case where the targeted regime is assumed to be absorbing. This last finding indicates that it is crucial for the fiscal authority to entertain the possibility of moving back to the ELT when it sets their policy parameters.
E63|Macroprudential Interventions in Liquidity Traps|We characterize the joint optimal implementation of macroprudential and monetary policies in a New Keynesian model where endogenous supply-side financial frictions generate inflationary credit spreads. State-contingent macroprudential interventions help to stabilize volatile spreads, and substantially alter the transmission of optimal monetary policy under both discretion and commitment. In 'normal times', macroprudential policies replicate the first-best allocation. In liquidity traps, financial interventions remove the zero lower bound restriction on the nominal policy rate, thus minimizing output costs following both deflationary (inflationary) demand (financial) shocks. Discretionary and commitment policies with macroprudential taxes deliver equivalent welfare gains.
E63|Fiscal Stabilization in the United States: Lessons for Monetary Unions|The debate about the use of fiscal instruments for macroeconomic stabilization has regained prominence in the aftermath of the Great Recession, and the experience of a monetary union equipped with fiscal shock absorbers, such as the United States, has often been a reference. This paper enhances our knowledge about the degree of macroeconomic stabilization achieved in the United States through the federal budget, providing a detailed breakdown of the different channels. In particular, we investigate the relative importance and stabilization impact of the federal system of unemployment benefits and of its extension as a response to the Great Recession. The analysis shows that in the United States, corporate income taxes collected at the federal level are the single most efficient instrument for providing stabilization, given that even with a smaller size than other instruments they can provide important effects, mainly against common shocks. On the other hand, Social Security benefits and personal income taxes have a greater role in stabilizing asymmetric shocks. A federal system of unemployment insurance, then, can play an important stabilization role, in particular when enhanced by a discretionary program of extended benefits in the event of a large shock, like the Great Recession.
E63|Monetary policy and liquid government debt|We examine the conduct of monetary policy in a world where the supply of outside money is controlled by the fiscal authority–a scenario increasingly relevant for many developed economies today. Central bank control over the long-run inflation rate depends on whether fiscal policy is Ricardian or Non-Ricardian. The optimal monetary policy follows a generalized Friedman rule that eliminates the liquidity premium on scarce treasury debt. We derive conditions for determinacy under both fiscal regimes and show that they do not necessarily correspond to the Taylor principle. In addition, Non-Ricardian regimes may suffer from multiplicity of steady-states when the government runs persistent deficits.
E63|Understanding Lowflation|Central banks are viewed as having a demonstrated ability to lower long-run inflation. Since the Financial Crisis, however, the central banks in some jurisdictions seem almost powerless to accomplish the opposite. In this article, we offer an explanation for why this may be the case. Because central banks have limited instruments, long-run inflation is ultimately determined by fiscal policy. Central bank control of long-run inflation therefore ultimately hinges on its ability to gain fiscal compliance with its objectives. This ability is shown to be inherently easier for a central bank determined to lower inflation than for a central bank determined to accomplish the opposite. Among other things, the analysis here suggests that for the central banks of advanced economies, any stated inflation target is more credibly viewed as a ceiling.
E63|Understanding HANK: Insights from a PRANK|Does market incompleteness radically transform the properties of monetary economies? Using an analytically tractable heterogeneous agent New Keynesian (NK) model, we show that whether incomplete markets resolve `policy paradoxes' in the representative agent NK model (RANK) depends primarily on the cyclicality of income risk, rather than incomplete markets per se. Incomplete markets reduce the effectiveness of forward guidance and multipliers in a liquidity trap only if risk is procyclical. Acyclical or countercyclical risk amplifies these puzzles relative to RANK. Cyclicality of risk also affects determinacy: procyclical risk permits determinacy even under a peg, while countercyclical income risk generates indeterminacy even if the Taylor principle holds. Finally, we uncover a new dimension of monetary-fiscal interaction. Since fiscal policy affects the cyclicality of income risk, it influences the effects of monetary policy even when `passive'.
E63|The financial stability index (4) – Estimated by the Institute of Financial Studies|In each issue of the Financial Studies Review, we update and publish the Financial Stability Index (FSI) of our Institute of Financial Studies, which tracks the correlation between economic growth and macroeconomic and financial factors in Romania.We constructeda composite index using a linear combination of financial variables that are considered to have a significant impact on economic activity. These financial variables are weighted with respect to their cumulated two quarters impulse response on GDP growth, as estimated by a VAR model.Developing such a composite index of financial stability or financial stress has two main utilities:•The analysis of the correlation between financial variables and the real economy placed in the context of different historical episodes of financial crisis. Also, this correlation analysis reveals, in each period, the significant positive or negative contribution of each financial variable to real economic growth. Following this analysis, the FSIcan measure the impact of economic and financial policy measures aimed at mitigating financial crises.•The short-term prediction of real economic growth estimated by forecasting the next period evolution of the real economic activity (GDPt+1) using current period GDPtand FSIt.
E63|The financial stability index (5) – Estimated by the Institute of Financial Studies|In each issue of the Financial Studies Review, we update and publish the Financial Stability Index (FSI) of our Institute of Financial Studies, which tracks the correlation between economic growth and macroeconomic and financial factors in Romania.We constructeda composite index using a linear combination of financial variables that are considered to have a significant impact on economic activity. These financial variables are weighted with respect to their cumulated two quarters impulse response on GDP growth, as estimated by a VAR model.Developing such a composite index of financial stability or financial stresshas two main utilities:•The analysis of the correlation between financial variables and the real economy placed in the context of different historical episodes of financial crisis. Also, this correlation analysis reveals, in each period, the significant positive or negative contribution of each financial variable to real economic growth. Following this analysis, the FSIcan measure the impact of economic and financial policy measures aimed at mitigating financial crises. The short-term prediction of real economic growth estimated by forecasting the next period evolution of the real economic activity (GDPt+1) using current period GDPtand FSItand economic and financial variables in the FSItcomposition.
E63|The Fiscal Theory of the Price Level in non-Ricardian Economy|The Fiscal Theory of the Price Level (FTPL) is an important theory that recognizes the interaction between monetary and fiscal policy. In its simplest form, the FTPL assumes that the government commits to a fixed and exogenous present value of primary surpluses implying the adjustment of the price level to equate the real government debt to the present value of primary surpluses. The FTPL relies on the presence of primary surpluses to work. We show that this condition is not necessary in a non-Ricardian economy. The FTPL still hold even when exogenous primary surpluses are null. We consider an overlapping generations of infinitely-lived dynasties model with simple fiscal and monetary policies, where the effective lower bound on nominal interest rates is taken into account. A bubble-like component of government debt appears inducing the determination of the price level by the fiscal policy, when the effective lower bound on nominal interest rates is binding and even when the government primary surpluses equal zero.
E63|The Fiscal Theory of the Price Level in non-Ricardian Economy|The Fiscal Theory of the Price Level (FTPL) is an important theory that recognizes the interaction between monetary and fiscal policy. In its simplest form, the FTPL assumes that the government commits to a fixed and exogenous present value of primary surpluses implying the adjustment of the price level to equate the real government debt to the present value of primary surpluses. The FTPL relies on the presence of primary surpluses to work. We show that this condition is not necessary in a non-Ricardian economy. The FTPL still hold even when exogenous primary surpluses are null. We consider an overlapping generations of infinitely-lived dynasties model with simple fiscal and monetary policies, where the effective lower bound on nominal interest rates is taken into account. A bubble-like component of government debt appears inducing the determination of the price level by the fiscal policy, when the effective lower bound on nominal interest rates is binding and even when the government primary surpluses equal zero.
E63|The Change Of Fiscal Multiplier When Switching From Managed Exchange Rate Regime To Thefloating One|This study investigated the change of government spending multiplier when switching from managed exchange rate regime to the floating exchange rate regime for emerging countries. It was found that on-impact multiplier in floating exchange rate regime is smaller by 0.5 than the one in the managed exchange rate regime. In addition, it was found that the openness of the economy affects values of government spending multipliers. Also, for the first time, micro-founded government spending multiplier was estimated for Russia. The study was conducted with the use of panel SVAR and DSGE models.
E63|Fiscal Policy and Inflation: Understanding the Role of Expectations in Mexico|This paper estimates a hidden Markov model where inflation is determined by government deficits financed through money creation and by expectations dynamics. The baseline model, proposed by Sargent et al. (2009) is able to distinguish between causes and remedies of hyperinflation, such as persistent or transitory shocks to fiscal deficits, and the de-anchoring of inflation expectations. The estimated sequence of monetized deficits provides an adequate account of inflation for the period 196994. The paper then extends the model to analyze the possibility that fiscal policy can affect inflation expectations in a context of Central Bank independence, as is the case of Mexico after 1994. Evidence is found that the exchange rate and sovereign interest rate spreads influence the evolution of inflation.
E63|The Indian fiscal-monetary framework: Dominance or coordination?|The worldwide move to constrain monetary and fiscal policy using rules is creating a switch from fiscal towards monetary dominance. India also implemented flexible inflation targeting and fiscal responsibility legislation. The theoretical arguments, openness to capital flows, and historical experience with the adverse effects of fiscal dominance that led to these changes are discussed. When output is demand determined, with a relatively greater impact of monetary policy on demand, while fiscal policy affects supply-side costs and therefore inflation, as in India, monetary dominance also has adverse effects. Since each policy acts more effectively on the other's objective, co-ordination is essential to achieve optimal outcomes. Under adverse movements in revenues and high interest rates public investment is the first to be cut. Growth can fall below potential while supply-side inflation persists. The paper examines one way of achieving better outcomes. Rules alone could be interpreted too strictly. Delegation to a more conservative fiscal and less conservative monetary authority, by removing the fears of non-cooperation, makes coordination with higher payoffs for both self-enforcing. Such constrained discretion gives the required long-term perspective, yet retains flexibility.
E63|Insights from Behavioral Economics on Current Policy Issues|The paper examines behavioral constraints in policy-making and in achieving coordination across policies. First it applies psychological concepts to understand policy inadequacies, and next examines how general reforms or better coordination can be achieved using psychological trigger strategies.
E63|The Policy Mix in the US and EMU: Evidence from a SVAR Analysis|We use a SVAR approach to the effects of fiscal and monetary policies, as well as their interactions (policy mix) for the US and the Euro Area (EMU). Overall, our results show that these two cases are different from each other. First, while in the case of the US there is evidence of Keynesian monetary policy, the same is not true in the case of the EMU. Second, considering the effects of the global economic and financial crisis, there is evidence of non-Keynesian fiscal policy in the case of the EMU (expansionary fiscal consolidation), while it does not hold in the case of the US. Third, there is evidence supporting the traditional inverse relationship between monetary policy interest rates and inflation in the case of the US, whereas in the case of the EMU there is a price puzzle (frequent in SVAR studies). Fourth, the baseline model seems to be robust in the case of the US, when considering the effects of the economic and financial crisis 2007-2009, while the opposite holds in the case of the EMU. However, in both cases, the policies seem to act as complements. Another similarity appears when analysing the relationship between public spending and taxation, where there is evidence supporting a fiscal retrenchment.
E63|Government Size, Unemployment, and Inflation Nexus in Eight Large Emerging Market Economies|Using a panel of eight large emerging market economies from 1980 to 2015, this paper seeks to assess the causal linkages between government size, unemployment, and inflation. Overall, our results suggest that the government size is positively associated with both unemployment and inflation. The Granger causality runs from the government size to unemployment and to inflation. From our analysis, two aspects stand out. First, the effects of government size on unemployment and inflation depend essentially on how the government size is measured. As long as government consumption spending is considered as the proxy measure of the government size, the government size is significantly and positively correlated with unemployment, and with inflation. Second, indirect taxes, like government consumption spending, have a positive as well as statistically significant association with unemployment. However, the direct taxes solely exert a strong effect on inflation in the countries considered.
E63|Optimal fiscal policy with labor selection|This paper characterizes long-run and short-run optimal fiscal policy in the labor selection framework. In a calibrated non-Ramsey decentralized equilibrium, labor market volatility is inefficient. Keeping fixed the structural parameters, the Ramsey government achieves efficient labor market volatility; doing so requires labor-income tax volatility that is orders of magnitude larger than the “tax-smoothing” results based on Walrasian labor markets, but a few times smaller than the results based on search and matching markets. We analytically characterize selection-model-consistent wedges and inefficiencies in order to understand optimal tax volatility.
E63|Twenty Years after the Fall of the Berlin Wall: Rethinking the Role of Money and Markets in the Global Economy|Many of the hopes arising from the 1989 fall of the Berlin Wall were still unrealized in 2010 and remain so today, especially in monetary policy and financial supervision. The major players that helped bring on the 2008 financial crisis still exist, with rising levels of moral hazard, including Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, the too-big-to-fail banks, and even AIG. In monetary policy, the Federal Reserve has only just begun to reduce its vastly increased balance sheet, while the European Central Bank has yet to begin. The Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 imposed new conditions on but did not contract the greatly expanded federal safety net and failed to reduce the substantial increase in moral hazard. The larger budget deficits since 2008 were simply decisions to spend at higher levels instead of rational responses to the crisis. Only an increased reliance on market discipline in financial services, avoidance of Federal Reserve market interventions to rescue financial players while doing little or nothing for households and firms, and elimination of the Treasury's backdoor borrowings that conceal the real costs of increasing budget deficits can enable the American public to achieve the meaningful improvements in living standards that were reasonably expected when the Berlin Wall fell.
E63|A Tale of Three Crises in Turkey: 1994, 2001 and 2008–09|Developing countries have encountered many economic crises since the 1980s, due mainly to structural problems related to their integration into the global economy. The Turkish economy is by no means an exception, and suffered significantly from the crises of 1994, 2001 and 2008–09. This paper investigates the tales of these three crises to shed light on the propagation mechanisms of crises and their implications for developing countries, given the Turkish experience. Our study is aiming at complementing existing studies by giving a very broad comparative picture of the main macroeconomic trends before and after the crises at the expense of ignoring many important details explained in other studies. This comparison can be also useful for understanding possible (and under current conditions highly unavoidable) implications of current developments in Turkish economy. Although there are many differences in the emergence of recent crises in Turkey, significant similarities can be found between the 1994 and 2001 crises. The crisis of 2008–09 can be considered exceptional in many aspects. The first two episodes were deemed to be mostly finance-led and finance-driven, with repercussions on the real sectors thereafter; but the 2008–09 crisis was a fully-fledged real sector crisis from the beginning, amid a direct collapse in employment and real economic productivity.
E63|A Theorem for Okun's Law|This paper has stated the theoretical framework of Okun's law (LO) and an integrated IS-LM-LO model to better understand the effects of economic policies on unemployment. Stated and demonstrated, the Okun law theorem confirms the existence of a negative link between economic growth and variation in the unemployment rate. However, this Okun relation cannot be considered stable. Among other things, demographic shocks, shocks onto the average real wage, real gross profits, importation duties and net taxes on goods and services induce structural changes in Okun's relation. The structural change in Okun's relation can be virtuous or vicious. When economic dynamic generates a vicious structural change in Okun's relation so that the Okun new threshold it induces is always higher than the observed economic growth rate, the unemployment rate increases. Economic growth has a greater impact on unemployment when it is strong and engenders a virtuous structural change in Okun's relation. Thus, analysis of the IS-LM-LO model shows that, though fiscal or monetary policy have a positive effect on economic growth, it would lead to an increasing unemployment if it engenders a vicious structural change in Okun’s relation. The most effective economic recovery policy to take on unemployment is the one that, in addition to accelerating economic growth, induces a virtuous structural change in Okun's relation. Ce papier a développé les fondements théoriques de la loi d’Okun (LO) et un modèle intégré IS-LM-LO permettant de mieux cerner les effets de politiques économiques sur le chômage. Enoncé et démontré, le théorème de la loi d’Okun confirme l’existence d’une relation négative entre le taux de croissance économique et la variation du taux de chômage. Cependant, cette relation d’Okun ne peut pas être considérée comme stable. Entre autres, les chocs démographiques, les chocs sur le salaire réel moyen, les profits bruts réels, les droits à l’importation et taxes nettes sur les biens et services induisent des changements structurels dans la relation d’Okun. Le changement structurel dans la relation d’Okun peut être vertueux ou vicieux. Lorsque la dynamique économique engendre un changement structurel vicieux dans la relation d’Okun de sorte que le nouveau seuil d’Okun qu’elle induit est toujours supérieur au taux de croissance observé, le taux de chômage augmente. La croissance économique a un impact plus important sur le chômage lorsqu’elle est forte et engendre un changement structurel vertueux dans la relation d’Okun. Ainsi, de l’analyse du modèle IS-LM-LO, il ressort que la politique budgétaire et/ou monétaire, bien qu’ayant un effet positif sur la croissance économique, entrainerait une hausse du chômage si elle engendre un changement structurel vicieux dans la relation d’Okun. La politique de relance économique la plus efficace dans la lutte contre le chômage est celle qui, en plus d’accélérer la croissance, induit un changement structurel vertueux dans la relation d’Okun.(Full text in english)
E63|Inequality and Aggregate Demand|We explore the quantitative effects of transitory and persistent increases in income inequality on equilibrium interest rates and output. Our starting point is a Bewley-Huggett-Aiyagari model featuring rich heterogeneity and earnings dynamics as well as downward nominal wage rigidities. A temporary rise in inequality, if not accommodated by monetary policy, has an immediate effect on output that can be quantified using the empirical covariance between income and marginal propensities to consume. A permanent rise in inequality can lead to a permanent Keynesian recession, which is not fully offset by monetary policy due to a lower bound on interest rates. We show that the magnitude of the real interest rate fall and the severity of the steady-state slump can be approximated by simple formulas involving quantifiable elasticities and shares, together with two parameters that summarize the effect of idiosyncratic uncertainty and real interest rates on aggregate savings. For plausible parametrizations the rise in inequality can push the economy into a liquidity trap and create a deep recession. Capital investment and deficit-financed fiscal policy mitigate the fall in real interest rates and the severity of the slump.
E63|Inequality, Business Cycles, and Monetary-Fiscal Policy|We study optimal monetary and fiscal policy in a model with heterogeneous agents, incomplete markets, and nominal rigidities. We develop numerical techniques to approximate Ramsey plans and apply them to a calibrated economy to compute optimal responses of nominal interest rates and labor tax rates to aggregate shocks. Responses differ qualitatively from those in a representative agent economy and are an order of magnitude larger. Taylor rules poorly approximate the Ramsey optimal nominal interest rate. Conventional price stabilization motives are swamped by an across person insurance motive that arises from heterogeneity and incomplete markets.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E63|Understanding and Confronting Uncertainty: Revisions to UK Government Expenditure Plans|We develop a simple model that motivates fiscal stabilisation policy, in the presence of economic and control uncertainty. An examination of a real-time database of economic variables and forecasts shows that our knowledge of the current and future state of the economy is subject to significant revisions over time. Multi-year government spending plans are also significantly revised over successive fiscal events. We show the risk for any given government expenditure plan by constructing measures of historical expenditure revisions. We also show that the most significant factor in explaining public expenditure revisions are changes to the expected path of GDP growth. We illustrate how to model the components of public expenditure and are thus able to remark on the extent to which expenditure is warranted. Finally we report on findings from interviews with key policymakers in the past 25 years on how fiscal expenditure was managed and uncertainty confronted.
E63|Euro Area unemployment insurance at the time of zero nominal interest rates|The discussion about a fiscal stabilisation capacity as a way of providing more fiscal integration in the euro area has strengthened in the aftermath of the European sovereign debt crisis. Among the instruments that can be used for temporary macroeconomic stabilisation in the presence of both asymmetric and area-wide shocks, a euro area unemployment insurance scheme has attracted increased attention. We build a two-region DSGE model with supply, demand and labour market frictions and introduce in it an area-wide unemployment insurance scheme that is entitled to borrow in financial markets. The model is calibrated to the euro area core and periphery data. For a country-specific negative demand shock hitting the periphery, we find the scheme to reduce the drop in Periphery output by about one fifth and the drop in union output by about a third. The scheme is effective when some households are cut from financial markets, and even more so when the national government also loses market access.
E63|Demand regimes, financialisation and hysteresis. New Keynesian and post-Keynesian macroeconomic underpinnings of the Varieties of Capitalism|The recent integration of post-Keynesian insights into Comparative Political Economy is an exciting development. Post-Keynesian theory differs from neoclassical and Marxist theories in its analysis of the role of income distribution and of finance. It allows for wage-led demand regimes and it regards finance to be endogenously created and a source of instability. The paper contributes to the debate on the integration of demand regimes in the Varieties of Capitalism analyses. It contrasts post-Keynesian theory to the New Keynesian three equation model. It highlights that post-Keynesian theory gives prominence to the role of income distribution and allows for wage-led demand regimes; financial variables play a key role, which gives rise to endogenous instability and financial cycles (Minskyan debt cycles); economic growth is regarded as a path dependent process (with unemployment hysteresis due to wage norms) and is not anchored in a supply side equilibrium. However, PKE has so far mostly provided a normative analysis of government interventions. The ability to generate income and wealth rather than competitiveness is regarded as key criteria for a viable variety of capitalism.
E63|Bringing the helicopter to ground: a historical review of fiscal-monetary coordination to support economic growth in the 20th century|In the face of the perceived high public and private debt levels and sluggish recovery that has followed the financial crisis of 2007-08, there have been calls for greater fiscal-monetary coordination to stimulate nominal demand. Policy debates have been focused upon the inflationary expectations that may be generated by monetary financing or related policies, consistent with New Consensus Macroeconomics theoretical frameworks. Historical examples of fiscal-monetary policy coordination have been largely neglected, along with alternative theoretical views, such as post-Keynesian perspectives that emphasise uncertainty and demand rather than rational expectations. This paper begins to address this omission. First, we provide an overview of the holdings of government debt by both central banks and commercial banks as an imperfect but still informative proxy for fiscal-monetary coordination in advanced economies in the 20th century. Second, we develop a new typology of forms of fiscal-monetary coordination that includes both direct and less direct forms of monetary financing, illustrating this with case-study examples. In particular, we focus on the 1930s-1970s period when central banks and ministries of finance cooperated closely, with less independence accorded to monetary policy and greater weight attached to fiscal policy. We find a number of cases where fiscal-monetary coordination proved useful in stimulating economic growth, supporting industrial policy objectives and managing public debt without excessive inflation.
E63|Nonlinear policy behavior, multiple equilibria and debt-deflation attractors|Abstract This paper analyzes global dynamics in a macroeconomic model where both monetary and fiscal policies are nonlinear, consistent with empirical evidence. Nonlinear monetary policy, in which the nominal interest rate features an increasing marginal reaction to inflation, interacting with nonlinear fiscal policy, in which the primary budget surplus features an increasing marginal reaction to debt, gives rise to four steady-state equilibria. Each steady state exhibits in its neighborhood a pair of ‘active’/‘passive’ monetary/fiscal policies à la Leeper-Woodford, and is typically investigated in isolation within linearized monetary models. We show that, when global nonlinear dynamics are taken into account, such steady states are endogenously connected. In particular, the global dynamics reveals the existence of infinite self-fulfilling paths that originate around the steady states locally displaying either monetary or fiscal ‘dominance’—and thus locally delivering equilibrium determinacy—as well as around the unstable steady state with active monetary-fiscal policies, and that converge into an unintended high-debt/low-inflation (possibly deflation) attractor. Such global trajectories—bounded by two heteroclinic orbits connecting the three out-of-the-trap steady states—are, however, obscured if the four monetary-fiscal policy mixes are studied locally and disjointly.
E63|Macroeconomic Policies and Transmission Dynamics in India|Against the backdrop of the move to an inflation targeting monetary policy framework beginning 2014 with consumer price index (CPI) inflation as the nominal anchor, this paper revisits monetary transmission dynamics. Rather than confining to the typical three equation New Keynesian model, this paper assesses transmission in a broader, disaggregated model incorporating external sector, fiscal policy, banking sector and financial market variables to capture the interactions among key macroeconomic policies and macroeconomic aggregates. The empirical analysis confirms the role of monetary policy in containing demand and inflationary pressures. In view of the ongoing structural reforms, deregulation and opening up of the Indian economy, as well as ongoing initiatives in the monetary policy operating framework to improve the efficacy of monetary transmission, the transmission dynamics can be expected to evolve over time.
E63|Política Fiscal, Ingresos y Desigualdad en Colombia (1990-2015)<BR>[Fiscal Policy, Income And Inequality In Colombia (1990-2015)]|Due to the supported economic growth of the first decade of the 21st century, Colombia managed to reduce the levels of poverty and inequality. Nevertheless, the country continued to present one of the most inequitable economies in the world maintaining a high income concentration. In that sense, this paper aims at analyzing the fiscal policy incident in the income distribution. To that effect, the redistributive impact of the fiscal action in Colombia, Latin America and the group of country members of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) were examined. Besides, a historical follow-up of the income and public expenditures behavior in Colombia was carried out from 1990 until 2015, highlighting two fundamental facts: 1) from the constitutional reform of 1991, the social public expenditure presented a remarkable growth as a response to the fiscal commitments acquired by the state and 2) the Income Tax and the Value-Added tax (VAT) have been the props on which the national tax structure has been supported. With these elements and the information supplied by the National Survey of Income and Home Expenses, there was approached the study of the distributive incident in Colombia, estimating Gini’s indicators, the income concentration, Kakwani and Reynolds-Smolensky. The results of the present investigation allow to conclude that though the Income Tax to natural people, the Value-Added Tax (VAT) and the public expenditure show a progressive behavior, their redistributive capacity is limited; that is why the Gini’s coefficient don’t present significant variations after the fiscal action.
E63|Empirical analysis of fiscal dominance and the conduct of monetary policy in Nigeria|The study empirically investigates fiscal dominance and the conduct of monetary policy in Nigeria, using quarterly data from 1986Q1 to 2016Q4. It adopts the vector error correction mechanism (VECM) and cointegration technique to analyze the data and make inference. The findings reveal that there is no evidence of fiscal dominance in Nigeria. The empirical results show that budget deficit, domestic debt and money supply have no significant influence on the average price level. However, budget deficit and domestic debt are shown to have significant influence on money supply, but only in the short-run. The policy implication is that the government should enforce fiscal discipline through the appropriate institution and the Central Bank should be given autonomy to perform the primary function of long-term price stability, among other functions.
E63|Credit Risk and Fiscal Inflation|Is inflation ‘always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon’ or is it fundamentally a fiscal phenomenon? This article augments a standard monetary model to incorporate fiscal details and credit market frictions. These ingredients allow for both interpretations of the inflation process in a financially constrained environment. We find that adding financial frictions to the model generates important identifying restrictions on the observed pattern between inflation and measures of financial and fiscal stress, to the extent that it can overturn existing findings about which monetary-fiscal policy regime produced the pre-crisis U.S. data.
E63|A Frequency-Domain Approach to Dynamic Macroeconomic Models|This article is concerned with frequency-domain analysis of dynamic linear models under the hypothesis of rational expectations. We develop a unified framework for conveniently solving and estimating these models. Unlike existing strategies, our starting point is to obtain the model solution entirely in the frequency domain. This solution method is applicable to a wide class of models and permits straightforward construction of the spectral density for performing likelihood-based inference. To cope with potential model uncertainty, we also generalize the well-known spectral decomposition of the Gaussian likelihood function to a composite version implied by several competing models. Taken together, these techniques yield fresh insights into the model’s theoretical and empirical implications beyond what conventional time-domain approaches can offer. We illustrate the proposed framework using a prototypical new Keynesian model with fiscal details and two distinct monetary-fiscal policy regimes. The model is simple enough to deliver an analytical solution that makes the policy effects transparent under each regime, yet still able to shed light on the empirical interactions between U.S. monetary and fiscal policies along different frequencies.
E63|New Frontiers in the Euro Debate in Iceland|The debate on currency arrangements and monetary policy frameworks in lceland has been motivated by developments in lceland and internationally in recent decades. Historically, lcelanders' colonial experience and struggle to retain control of vital natural resources made them hesitant participants in the European integration process. While sidestepping direct participation in the process leading to EU and EMU membership, they joined EFTA, the EEA and Schengen. Economic growth and development have been rapid, but the modernisation and liberalisation of the economy have been attended by signi:ficant volatility in nominal and real variables. At the same time, the European integration process has continued with its own set of challenges. It is in this context that a vibrant debate has taken place on the choice of currency and associated policies. The main emphasis has been on whether to adopt the euro (through EU membership) or retain the Icelandic króna with the most efficacious monetary policy framework possible. This article offers a review of salient contributions to the debate and the main lessons drawn from it. The key themes of the debate involve the impact currency choice would have on economic growth and resilience to shocks. While the early debate was mostly concerned with trade-theoretic issues, institutional factors have become increasingly important. A new theory concerning a heretofore overlooked policy variable, the evolution of inequality as measured by the wage-productivity gap, is discussed. It is shown to be potentially important for economic and financial outcomes, with implications for the debate.
E63|Dynamic Growth Rate of U.S. Economy|This paper reports the estimates of the dynamic growth rate of U.S. economy using exponential growth model, Cob-Douglas production function with a regression framework. The estimates indicates that 100% output growth is broken down into 58% technology growth, 19.10% labor growth, and 22.90% capital growth. Growth rates of U.S. production, capital, and employment are decreasing by 0.4%, 0.6%, and 0.01% respectively for each additional year regardless of recession while growth rate of technological changes in U.S. economy has been changing in a systematic way. It also shows that forecasted growth rate of U.S. output with restricted elasticity is lower than that with unrestricted elasticity.
E63|Modern financial repression in the euro area crisis: making high public debt sustainable?|The sharp rise in public debt-to-GDP ratios in the aftermath of the financial crisis of 2008 posed serious challenges for fiscal policy in the euro area countries and culminated for some member states in a sovereign debt crisis. This note examines the public policy responses to the euro area crisis through the lens of financial repression with a particular focus on how they contributed to easing government budget constraints. Financial repression is defined in this context as the government’s strategy – supported by monetary and financial policies – to gain privileged access to capital markets at preferential credit conditions and divert resources to the state with the aim to secure and, if necessary, enforce public debt sustainability. Following a narrative approach, this note finds that public debt management and resolution, European financial legislation, EMU crisis support and ECB monetary policy have significantly contributed to relieving sovereign liquidity and solvency stress and generated fiscal space through non-standard means. The respective authorities have in fact applied the tools of financial repression to restore stability after the euro area crisis.
E63|Financement Des Deficits Publics Et Comportement Du Secteur Financier En Zone Cemac<BR>[Financing Fiscal deficit and private sector behavior in CEMAC countries]|This paper has as objective to evaluate the impact of public deficits on domestic credit to the private sector in the CEMAC zone. The study is carried out over the period from 1985 to 2016, thanks to an autoregressive econometric model in panel data and distributed delays. The model estimates that, in the short term, domestic credit to the private sector is positively influenced by its past values, while for the other variables, the effects remain mixed. In the long term, the fiscal deficit positively influences the evolution of domestic credit to the private sector in the CEMAC zone because of the weak development of the financial markets.
E63|Sub-optimality of the Friedman rule with distorting taxes|We find that the Friedman rule is not optimal with government transfers and distortionary taxation. This result holds for heterogeneous agents, standard homogeneous preferences, and constant returns to scale production functions. The presence of transfers changes the standard optimal taxation result of uniform taxation. As transfers cannot be taxed, a positive nominal net interest rate is the indirect way to tax the additional income derived from transfers. The higher the transfers, the higher is the optimal inflation rate. We calibrate a model with transfers to the US economy and obtain optimal values for inflation substantially above the Friedman rule. JEL codes: E52, E62, E63
E63|Credit subsidies|Credit subsidies are an alternative to interest rate and credit policies when dealing with high and volatile credit spreads. In a model where credit spreads move in response to shocks to the net worth of financial intermediaries, credit subsidies are able to stabilize those spreads avoiding the transmission to the real economy. Interest rate policy can be a substitute for credit subsidies but is limited by the zero bound constraint. Credit subsidies overcome this constraint. They are superior to a policy of credit easing as long as the government is less efficient than financial intermediaries in providing credit. JEL Classification: E31, E40, E44, E52, E58, E62, E63
E63|The “New Fiscal Plan for Puerto Rico” (April 19, 2018): An Unrealistic and Misleading Path to Nowhere|The New Fiscal Plan for Puerto Rico, issued by the Fiscal Oversight and Management Board on April 19, 2018, is deeply flawed. It is based on two incompatible goals: establishing a foundation for growth of the Puerto Rican economy and assuring that the Puerto Rican government will move quickly toward meeting its debt obligations. As result of this incompatibility, the Plan is deeply flawed and should be abandoned. The Plan imposes an austerity program, which will undermine possibilities for growth, harm the well-being of the populace, and likely undermine the government’s ability to meet debt obligations. Also, the plan makes unrealistically optimistic assumptions about positive impacts of the structural reforms it imposes on economic relations in Puerto Rico. This paper: (1) explains the austerity nature of the Plan and its negative impacts; and (2) discusses the Plan’s proposed structure reforms—labor reforms, tax reforms, education and human capital reforms, and government regulations and the organization of government agencies.
E63|Time-Consistent Management of a Liquidity Trap with Government Debt|This paper studies optimal discretionary monetary and fiscal policy when the lower bound on nominal interest rates is occasionally binding in a model with nominal rigidities and long-term government debt. At the lower bound it is optimal for the government to temporarily reduce debt. This decline stimulates output, which is inefficiently low during liquidity traps, by lowering expected real interest rates following the lift-off of the nominal rate from the lower bound. Away from the lower bound, the long-run level of government debt increases with the risk of reaching the lower bound. The accumulation of debt pushes up inflation expectations so as to offset the opposite effect due to the lower bound risk.
E63|Understanding HANK: insights from a PRANK|We show analytically that whether incomplete markets resolve New Keynesian “paradoxes” depends primarily on the cyclicality of income risk, rather than marginal propensity to consume (MPC) heterogeneity. Incomplete markets reduce the effectiveness of forward guidance and multipliers in a liquidity trap only with procyclical risk. Countercyclical risk amplifies these “puzzles.” Procyclical risk permits determinacy under a peg; countercyclical risk generates indeterminacy even under the Taylor principle. MPC heterogeneity leaves determinacy and paradoxes qualitatively unaffected, but can change the sensitivity of GDP to interest rates. By affecting the cyclicality of risk, even “passive” fiscal policy influences the effects of monetary policy.
E63|Sticky Prices versus Sticky Information: Does it Matter for Policy Paradoxes?|This paper shows that under a strict inflation targeting regime, the government spending multiplier at the zero lower bound (ZLB) is larger under sticky information than under sticky prices. Similarly, well known paradoxes, e.g., the paradox of toil and the paradox of flexibility become more severe under sticky information. For the case of sticky information it is important to assume that the fiscal policy intervention coincides with the duration of zero interest rates, while such a distinction is less important for sticky prices. We unify and clarify results that may appear to contradict each other in the literature. (Copyright: Elsevier)
E63|Has Monetary Policy Changed? How the Crisis Shifted the Ground Under Central Banks|Central bank communication is more important than only a decade ago. This paper examines the results of a Survey begun in 2013, in cooperation with the BIS, to assess how and why central bank communication strategies have changed in light of the financial crisis of 2008-10. Existing metrics of central bank transparency are found to be relatively less informative about the role of financial stability in transparency. Inflation targeting central banks are more likely to incorporate market reactions to their policies and place greater weight on the modelling exercise used to generate macroeconomic forecasts. Central banks also believe that forward guidance is beneficial. Inflation targeting central banks are also more vocal in publicly explaining the role and function of macroprudential tools. Few differences in views about communicating in normal versus crisis times are observed. Therefore, communicating in normal versus crisis times are not seen as being very different.
E63|Fiscal policy Conditions for Government Budget Stability and Economic Recovery: Comparative Analysis of Japan and Greece|This paper first shows that the Domar condition is obtained only from the government budget constraint (namely the supply of government bonds) and does not take into account the demand for government bonds. Second, this paper reveals that Bohnâ€™s condition does not satisfy the condition of economic stability: even if this is satisfied, economic recovery may not be achieved. This paper will propose a new condition that satisfies both the stability of the government budget and the recovery of the economy. The paperâ€™s empirical findings from Japan demonstrate that in order to achieve fiscal sustainability, both sides of the Japanese government budget (expenditure and revenue) must be simultaneously adjusted while the decline in government expenditure has to exceed the increase in tax revenue. In addition, the paper provides a comparative analysis of Japan and Greece as evidence of the aforementioned condition, and proves that although Japanâ€™s debt-to-GDP ratio is higher than that of Greece, its bond market remains stable. This is because it comes from the demand side of the market and investors have greater confidence in this economy due to its lower credit risk rooted in the countryâ€™s macroeconomic strength and more auspicious economic future.
E63|After the Bazooka a Bonanza from Heaven – „Helicopter Money“ Now?|Helicopter money has once been proposed as a theoretical thought experiment by Milton Friedman in order to elucidate the effect of money injections into the macroeconomy over time. However, some Euro area member states nowadays consider helicopter money, i.e. permanent Quantitative Easing (QE), as a permanent ingredient of future EMU governance. We set helicopter money apart from QE monetary policy measures and also distinguish it from a traditional fiscal stimulus. We then deal with and critically assess further developments of the helicopter money idea à la Bernanke und Buiter. Furthermore, the paper then comes up with three practical variants of helicopter money, basically available for the European Central Bank. Taking this as a starting point, the pros and cons of helicopter money and its closely defined implementation conditions are discussed. Finally, we derive some implications of helicopter money implementation for the monetary system as a whole.
E63|New fiscal policy? Lesson from the crisis|The article aims to rethinking the role of fiscal policy in the process of macroeconomic stabilization which over 30 years has been strongly negated by neoliberal doctrine. The study is based on the analysis of premises for expansionary fiscal policy implementation both from theoretical and empirical perspective. In the face of strong economic shocks, such as the recent crisis, the special attention is paid on its size, instruments and time horizon. The content analysis of the literature supported by empirical evidence devoted to fiscal policy in context of its impact on the course of business cycles was conducted. The authors used Ameco and IMF data referring to the public finance with special focus on countries belonging to euro area and the US. It was claimed that the attempts to reduce increasing public debt via fiscal consolidation in early years of the crisis 2009-2011 have very likely resulted in a higher debt to GDP as euro area entered its second recession. At the same time, only countries with large fiscal space like the US could afford the bigger fiscal stimulus, and as a result registered output losses in these economies were smaller compared to Europe. In conclusion it should be emphasized that contractionary fiscal policy in a depressed economy had not only a negative short-term impact on GDP, but through hysteresis effects permanently affected the expected path of future growth. Despite this, the costs of expansionary fiscal policy are also worth to be taken into account and even in a depressed economy such policy surely should be timely, targeted and contemporary as sustainability of public finance in the long-term is recommended.
E63|Confederation debt management since 1970|This paper presents new data vintages on marketable debt emissions and total outstanding debt. The data are used to analyze the Swiss Confederation’s issuing behavior and debt management. Issuing behavior became more regular and demand-oriented during the early 1990s. The Treasury actively manages roll-over risk by increasing bond maturity with increasing marketable debt to GDP levels. Furthermore, the Treasury engages in active but asymmetric, one-sided interest rate positioning. In other words, the Treasury uses only bonds to affect debt maturity and does so only when the interest rate environment is favorable to lock-in interest rates by issuing longer-term bonds.
E63|Time-Consistent Management of a Liquidity Trap with Government Debt|This paper studies the effects of government debt under optimal discretionary monetary and fiscal policy when the lower bound on nominal interest rates is occasionally binding. This issue is addressed in a model with the labor income tax and long-term government debt. The risk of a binding lower bound reduces steady-state inflation. This causes an increase in government debt in the steady state. The debt increase and associated tax rate increase mitigate the reduction in inflation by raising the marginal cost of production. At the lower bound, given a fall in output, it is optimal for the government to temporarily reduce debt. This debt reduction stimulates output by lowering expected real interest rates following the liftoff of the nominal rate from the lower bound.
E63|Fiscal Policy and Inflation: Understanding the Role of Expectations in Mexico|We exploit a hidden Markov model where inflation is determined by government deficits financed through money creation and/or by destabilizing expectations dynamics (expectations can potentially divorce inflation from fundamentals). The baseline model, proposed by Sargent et al. (2009), is used to analyze the interaction between fiscal deficits, inflation expectations, and inflation in Mexico. The model is able to distinguish between causes and remedies of hyperinflation, such as persistent or transitory shocks to seigniorage-financed fiscal deficits, deanchoring of inflation expectations from fiscal fundamentals, and cosmetic (non-fundamental) monetary reforms. The behavior of monetized deficits provides an adequate account of high inflation episodes and stabilizations for the period 1969-1994. We then extend the model to analyze the possibility that fiscal policy can affect inflation expectations in a context of Central Bank independence, as is the case in Mexico after 1994. We find evidence that the exchange rate and sovereign interest rate spreads influence the evolution of aggregate prices.
E63|Price Level Targeting with Evolving Credibility|We examine global dynamics under learning in a nonlinear New Keynesian model when monetary policy uses price-level targeting and compare it to inflation targeting. Domain of attraction of the targeted steady state gives a robustness criterion for policy regimes. Robustness of price-level targeting depends on whether a known target path is incorporated into learning. Credibility is measured by accuracy of this forecasting method relative to simple statistical forecasts. Credibility evolves through reinforcement learning. Initial credibility and initial level of target price are key factors influencing performance. Results match the Swedish experience of price level stabilization in 1920's and 30's.
E63|The power of forward guidance and the fiscal theory of the price level|Standard New Keynesian models predict implausibly large and favorable responses of inflation and output to expansionary forward guidance on interest rates. We find that the introduction of permanent or recurring active fiscal policy dampens the response of output and inflation to forward guidance in the New Keynesian model. Moreover, the presence of regime-switching policy introduces expectation e ects that cause forward guidance to be less stimulative in our regime-switching model's active money, passive fiscal policy regime. Finally, the introduction of long-term debt a ects the magnitude of the stimulus resulting from forward guidance in models with active fiscal policy.
E63|How important are the international financial market imperfections for the foreign exchange rate dynamics: A study of the sterling exchange rate|The UK has been a net debtor over the past two decades and the sterling exchange rates are sensitive to any chaos that might occur in the financial market. This paper examines the importance of the international financial imperfections in the sterling exchange rate dynamics. We build a small open economy DSGE model with the constrained international financial institutions that intermediate capital flows, and derive tractable analytical solutions. The constraint works to introduce a wedge between lending and borrowing rates, which compensates financiers for their currency risk-taking. The model has been estimated by using a simulation-based Indirect Inference approach, which provides a natural framework for testing the hypothesis implied by the model. We find that the model cannot be rejected by the UK data. Shocks to financial forces are the main driving forces behind the large and sudden depreciation of the Sterling exchange rates in the aftermath of the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the Brexit vote. Furthermore, the optimal policy rules have been proposed.
E63|Uncertainty and Hyperinflation: European Inflation Dynamics after World War I|Fiscal deficits, elevated debt-to-GDP ratios, and high inflation rates suggest hyperinflation could have potentially emerged in many European countries after World War I. We demonstrate that economic policy uncertainty was instrumental in pushing a subset of European countries into hyperinflation shortly after the end of the war. Germany, Austria, Poland, and Hungary (GAPH) suffered from frequent uncertainty shocks – and correspondingly high levels of uncertainty – caused by protracted political negotiations over reparations payments, the apportionment of the Austro-Hungarian debt, and border disputes. In contrast, other European countries exhibited lower levels of measured uncertainty between 1919 and 1925, allowing them more capacity with which to implement credible commitments to their fiscal and monetary policies. Impulse response functions show that increased uncertainty caused a rise in inflation contemporaneously and for a few months afterward in GAPH, but this effect was absent or much more limited for the other European countries in our sample. Our results suggest that elevated economic uncertainty directly affected inflation dynamics and the incidence of hyperinflation during the interwar period.
E63|How Much Binding Is the Bill?|We study whether and how much the interest bill conditions the size and composition of public expenditures. The group of EU 15 countries over the 1995-2016 period is the object of analysis. We study both total public expenditures and public expenditures by function of government in order to unveil which sectors are more responsive to an interest bill variation.
E63|Reserves For All? Central Bank Digital Currency, Deposits, and their (Non)-Equivalence|"I offer a macroeconomic perspective on the ""Reserves for All"" (RFA) proposal to let the general public use electronic central bank money. After distinguishing RFA from cryptocurrencies and relating the proposal to discussions about narrow banking and the abolition of cash I propose an equivalence result according to which a marginal substitution of outside for inside money does not affect macroeconomic outcomes. I identify key conditions on bank and government (central bank) incentives for equivalence and argue that these conditions likely are violated, implying that RFA would change macroeconomic outcomes. I also relate my analysis to common arguments in the discussion about RFA and point to inconsistencies and open questions."
E63|Fiscal Stimulus With Learning‐By‐Doing|Using a Bayesian structural vector autoregression analysis, we document that an increase in government purchases raises private consumption, the real wage, and total factor productivity (TFP) while reducing inflation. These three facts are hard to reconcile with both neoclassical and New Keynesian models. We extend a standard New Keynesian model to allow for skill accumulation through past work experience. An increase in government spending increases hours and induces skill accumulation and higher measured TFP and real wages in subsequent periods. Future marginal costs fall lowering expected inflation and, through the monetary policy rule, the real interest rate. Consumption increases as a result.
E63|The Monetary and Fiscal History of Brazil, 1960-2016|Brazil has had a long period of high inflation. It peaked around 100 percent per year in 1964, decreased until the first oil shock (1973), but accelerated again afterward, reaching levels above 100 percent on average between 1980 and 1994. This last period coincided with severe balance of payments problems and economic stagnation that followed the external debt crisis in the early 1980s. We show that the high-inflation period (1960-1994) was characterized by a combination of fiscal deficits, passive monetary policy, and constraints on debt financing. The transition to the low-inflation period (1995-2016) was characterized by improvements in all of these features, but it did not lead to significant improvements in economic growth. In addition, we document a strong positive correlation between inflation rates and seigniorage revenues, although inflation rates are relatively high for modest levels of seigniorage revenues. Finally, we discuss the role of the weak institutional framework surrounding the fiscal and monetary authorities and the role of monetary passiveness and inflation indexation in accounting for the unique features of inflation dynamics in Brazil.
E63|A minimal moral hazard central stabilisation capacity for the EMU based on world trade|Recent debate has focused on the introduction of a central stabilisation capacity as a completing element of the Economic and Monetary Union. Its main objective would be to contribute cushioning country-specific economic shocks, especially when national fiscal stabilisers are run down. There are two main potential objections to such schemes proposed so far: first, they may lead to moral hazard, i.e. weaken the incentives for sound fiscal policies and structural reforms. Second, they may generate permanent transfers among countries. Here we present a scheme that is relatively free from moral hazard, because the transfers are based on changes in world trade in the various sectors. These changes can be considered as largely exogenous, hence independent from an individual government’s policy; therefore, the scheme is better protected against manipulation. Our scheme works as follows: if a sector is hit by a bad shock at the world market level, then a country with an economic structure that is skewed towards this sector receives a (one-time) transfer from the other countries. The scheme is designed such that the transfers add up to zero each period, hence obviating the need for a borrowing capacity. We show that the transfers generated by our scheme tend to be countercyclical and larger when economies are less diversified. In addition, since transfers are based on temporary changes in world trade, the danger of permanent transfers from one set of countries to the other countries is effectively ruled out. Finally, we show that transfers are quite robust to revisions in the underlying export data. JEL Classification: E32, E62, E63
E63|Price level targeting with evolving credibility|We examine global dynamics under learning in a nonlinear New Keynesian model when monetary policy uses price-level targeting and compare it to inflation targeting. Domain of attraction of the targeted steady state gives a robustness criterion for policy regimes. Robustness of price-level targeting depends on whether a known target path is incorporated into learning. Credibility is measured by accuracy of this forecasting method relative to simple statistical forecasts. Credibility evolves through reinforcement learning. Initial credibility and initial level of target price are key factors influencing performance. Results match the Swedish experience of price level stabilization in 1920's and 30s.
E63|Prices and Inflation when Government Bonds are Net Wealth|In this paper I show that models in which government bonds are net wealth - that is, their value exceeds that of tax liabilities (Barro, 1974) - offer a new perspective on several issues in monetary economics. First and foremost, prices and inflation are jointly and uniquely determined by fiscal and monetary policy. In contrast to the conventional view, the long-run inflation rate here is, in the absence of output growth, and even when monetary policy operates an interest rate rule with a different inflation target, equal to the growth rate of nominal fiscal variables, which are controlled by fiscal policy. This novel theory also offers a different perspective on the fiscal and monetary transmission mechanism, policies at the zero-lower bound, U.S. inflation history, recent attempts to stimulate inflation in the Euro area and several puzzles which arise in New Keyensian models during a liquidity trap. To derive my findings, I first use a reduced form approach in which households derive utility from holding bonds. I prove how and for which policy rules the price level is globally determinate, then showing that the reduced form results carry over to a Bewley-Imrohoroglu-Huggett-Aiyagari heterogenous agent incomplete market model.
E63|Corporate Profit Taxes, Capital Expenditure and Real Wages: The analytics behind a contentious debate|"The recent reduction in the US corporate profit tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent has triggered renewed interest in the impact of a cut in the corporate tax rate on capital accumulation and real wages. This theoretical contribution demonstrates that the familiar proposition that a cut in the corporate profit tax rate boosts the capital intensity of production and the real wage is sensitive to a number of key assumptions. Even when the real interest rate is exogenously given, full deductibility of capital expenditure from the corporate profit tax base will result in no impact of a corporate profit tax rate cut on the incentive to invest. Adding deductibility of interest can result in a negative effect on the capital intensity of production of a corporate profit tax rate cut. When the real interest rate is endogenous, we use the ""perpetual youth"" OLG model to demonstrate that the effects on consumption demand of a corporate profit tax cut will reduce the impact on capital intensity of a corporate profit tax cut if the tax cut is funded by higher lump-sum taxes on ""permanent income"" households. We have not been able to find examples where the capital intensity impact is reversed. Alternative funding rules (e.g. lower public consumption purchases) and the introduction of ""Keynesian"" consumers could lead to a larger positive effect on capital intensity from a cut in the corporate profit tax rate."
E63|Uncertainty and Hyperinflation: European Inflation Dynamics after World War I|Fiscal deficits, elevated debt-to-GDP ratios, and high inflation rates suggest hyperinflation could have potentially emerged in many European countries after World War I. We demonstrate that economic policy uncertainty was instrumental in pushing a subset of European countries into hyperinflation shortly after the end of the war. Germany, Austria, Poland, and Hungary (GAPH) suffered from frequent uncertainty shocks – and correspondingly high levels of uncertainty – caused by protracted political negotiations over reparations payments, the apportionment of the Austro-Hungarian debt, and border disputes. In contrast, other European countries exhibited lower levels of measured uncertainty between 1919 and 1925, allowing them more capacity with which to implement credible commitments to their fiscal and monetary policies. Impulse response functions show that increased uncertainty caused a rise in inflation contemporaneously and for a few months afterward in GAPH, but this effect was absent or much more limited for the other European countries in our sample. Our results suggest that elevated economic uncertainty directly affected inflation dynamics and the incidence of hyperinflation during the interwar period.
E63|Reserves for All? Central Bank Digital Currency, Deposits, and their (Non)-Equivalence|"I offer a macroeconomic perspective on the ""Reserves for All"" (RFA) proposal to let the general public use electronic central bank money. After distinguishing RFA from cryptocurrencies and relating the proposal to discussions about narrow banking and the abolition of cash I propose an equivalence result according to which a marginal substitution of outside for inside money does not affect macroeconomic outcomes. I identify key conditions on bank and government (central bank) incentives for equivalence and argue that these conditions likely are violated, implying that RFA would change macroeconomic outcomes. I also relate my analysis to common arguments in the discussion about RFA and point to inconsistencies and open questions."
E63|A Monetary Business Cycle Model for India|We build and calibrate a New Keynesian monetary business cycle model to theIndian economy to understand why the aggregate demand channel of monetary transmission is weak. Our main Önding is that base money shocks have a larger and more persistent effect on output than an interest rate shock, as in the data. We show that Önancial repression, in the form of a statutory liquidity ratio and administered interest rates, does not weaken monetary transmission. This is contrary to the consensus view in policy discussions on Indian monetary policy. We show that the presence of an informal sector hinders monetary transmission.
E63|A minimal moral hazard central stabilisation capacity for the EMU based on world trade|Recent debate has focused on the introduction of a central stabilisation capacity as a completing element of the Economic and Monetary Union. Its main objective would be to contribute cushioning country-specific economic shocks, especially when national fiscal stabilisers are run down. There are two main potential objections to such schemes proposed so far: first, they may lead to moral hazard, i.e. weaken the incentives for sound fiscal policies and structural reforms. Second, they may generate permanent transfers among countries. Here we present a scheme that is relatively free from moral hazard, because the transfers are based on changes in world trade in the various sectors. These changes can be considered as largely exogenous, hence independent from an individual government's policy; therefore, the scheme is better protected against manipulation. Our scheme works as follows: if a sector is hit by a bad shock at the world market level, then a country with an economic structure that is skewed towards this sector receives a (one-time) transfer from the other countries. The scheme is designed such that the transfers add up to zero each period, hence obviating the need for a borrowing capacity. We show that the transfers generated by our scheme tend to be countercyclical and larger when economies are less diversified. Cumulated over time, a country's transfers generally tend to stabilise and to move towards zero, thus suggesting that permanent transfers are inherently ruled out under this scheme. Finally, we show that transfers are quite robust to revisions in the underlying export data.
E63|Designing QE in a fiscally sound monetary union|In response to the global financial crisis the central banks of many advanced economies have adopted large-scale asset purchase programmes, with particular prominence given to purchases of sovereign debt. These programmes – often labelled as quantitative easing or QE – are intended to overcome the lower-bound constraint on short-term interest rates in an environment of persistently low inflation rates. This article offers a conceptual perspective on a number of design issues of QE that are specific to monetary unions. In general, design options for QE depend on the degree of institutional completeness of a monetary union. This is illustrated with findings from a stylised model of a monetary union which assumes an environment in which the central bank can always be assured that national fiscal policies are sustainable. Such setting is conducive to a particularly effective design of QE. JEL Classification: E43, E52, E61, E63
E63|Monetary policy transmission in systemically important economies and China’s impact|This paper examinesthe monetary policy transmission mechanism in four systemically important economies. The impact of monetary policy is found to be broadly comparable for China, the US, the Eurozone, and Japan. Identifying a role for the financial sector is essential to unpacking various channels through which monetary policy operates. Global factors play a significant role and their impact is strongest for China and weakest for Japan. China’s impact is significant with the Eurozone displaying the most interdependence and Japan the least. Time-varying VARs suggest that contrasts in the responses to monetary policy shocks persist highlighting some of the remaining differences in the transmission mechanism. Finally, there is no apparent structural change in the estimated relationships around the time when the Fed intervened after 2008. It is conjectured that Quantitative Easing may well have prevented such a break.
E63|Fiscal Policy Conditions for Government Budget Stability and Economic Recovery: Comparative Analysis of Japan and Greece|In the literature on fiscal sustainability, the Domar condition and Bohn’s condition are often used to check whether a government’s debt situation is in a dangerous zone. We first show that the Domar condition is obtained only from the government budget constraint (namely the supply of government bonds) and does not take into account the demand for government bonds. Second, we reveal that Bohn’s condition does not satisfy the condition of economic stability: even if this is satisfied, economic recovery may not be achieved. We propose a new condition that satisfies both the stability of the government budget and the recovery of the economy. Our empirical findings from Japan demonstrate that to achieve fiscal sustainability, both sides of the Japanese government budget (expenditure and revenue) must be simultaneously adjusted while the decline in government expenditure has to exceed the increase in tax revenue. In addition, we provide a comparative analysis of Japan and Greece as evidence of the aforementioned condition and prove that although Japan’s debt-to-GDP ratio is higher than that of Greece, its bond market remains stable. This is because it comes from the demand side of the market and investors have greater confidence in this economy due to its lower credit risk rooted in the country’s macroeconomic strength and more auspicious economic future.
E63|Insights from behavioral economics on current policy issues|The paper examines behavioral constraints in policy-making and in achieving coordination across policies. First it applies psychological concepts to understand policy inadequacies, and next examines how general reforms or better coordination can be achieved using psychological trigger strategies.
E63|Competitive Permit Storage and Market Design: An Application to the EU-ETS|We develop a model of competitive inter-temporal emissions trading under uncertainty that features the core design elements of the EU-ETS to assess the recent market reform, essentially the market stability reserve. Modeling novelties include the introduction of myopia on the part of covered firms, of their ability to understand the interaction between their decisions and the MSR actions over time, as well as the implementation of a recursive procedure to solve for the certainty-equivalent market equilibrium solution. We calibrate the model on 2008-2017 market data to match observed price and banking paths. We find that the MSR always raises the permit price and never preserves the overall cap integrity, irrespective of the permit cancellation provision. Our results also suggest that the purported MSR responsiveness to demand shocks (e.g. recession, renewable deployment) would be limited, especially when firms are unable to anticipate future MSR-driven supply changes.
E63|A Promised Value Approach to Optimal Monetary Policy|This paper characterizes optimal commitment policy in the New Keynesian model using a novel recursive formulation of the central bank's infinite horizon optimization problem. In our recursive formulation motivated by Kydland and Prescott (1980), promised inflation and output gap---as opposed to lagged Lagrange multipliers---act as pseudo-state variables. Using three well known variants of the model---one featuring inflation bias, one featuring stabilization bias, and one featuring a lower bound constraint on nominal interest rates---we show that the proposed formulation sheds new light on the nature of the intertemporal trade-off facing the central bank.
E63|Inequality, Business Cycles, and Monetary-Fiscal Policy|We study optimal monetary and fiscal policy in a model with heterogeneous agents, incomplete markets, and nominal rigidities. We develop numerical techniques to approximate Ramsey plans and apply them to a calibrated economy to compute optimal responses of nominal interest rates and labor tax rates to aggregate shocks. Responses differ qualitatively from those in a representative agent economy and are an order of magnitude larger. Taylor rules poorly approximate the Ramsey optimal nominal interest rate. Conventional price stabilization motives are swamped by an across person insurance motive that arises from heterogeneity and incomplete markets.
E63|Reserves For All? Central Bank Digital Currency, Deposits and their (Non)-Equivalence|"I o er a macroeconomic perspective on the \Reserves for All"" (RFA) proposal to let the general public use electronic central bank money. After distinguishing RFA from cryptocurrencies and relating the proposal to discussions about narrow banking and the abolition of cash I propose an equivalence result according to which a marginal substitution of outside for inside money does not a ect macroeconomic outcomes. I identify key conditions on bank and government (central bank) incentives for equivalence and argue that these conditions likely are violated, implying that RFA would change macroeconomic outcomes. I also relate my analysis to common arguments in the discussion about RFA and point to inconsistencies and open questions."
E63|Shall We Twist?|In recent monetary history, central banks around the world have started to introduce unconventional monetary policy measures, such as extending or restructuring the asset side of their balance sheet. The origin of these mon- etary policy tools goes back to an intervention by the U.S. Federal Reserve System under the Kennedy administration in 1961 known as Operation Twist. Operation Twist serves as a perfect laboratory to study the e ectiveness of such balance sheet policies, because interest rates neither were at their lower bound nor was the economy in a historical turmoil. We assess the actions of the FED and the Treasury under Operation Twist based on balance sheet data and evaluate their success using modern time series techniques. We nd that, although being of rather moderate size, the joint policy actions were e ective in compressing the long-short spreads of the Treasury bond rates.
E63|Government financing, inflation, and the financial sector|We calculate the effects of an increase in government spending financed with labor income taxes or inflation. We consider government spending in the form of government consumption or transfers. We use a model in which agents increase the use of financial services to avoid losses from inflation, as empirically the financial sector increases with inflation. The financial sector size is constant in standard cash-in-advance models, which implies optimal positive inflation. We reverse this result when we take into account the increase in the financial sector. In our framework, it is optimal to use taxes to finance the government. This result is robust to alternative specifications and definitions of seigniorage and government spending. JEL codes: E52, E62, E63
E63|The German anti-Keynes? On Walter Eucken's macroeconomics|Germany's approach to solving the Eurozone crisis is supposedly based on the ideas of Walter Eucken (1891-1950), the founder of ordoliberalism. In this and other contexts, Eucken's work has been described as being in direct opposition to that of John Maynard Keynes. Our paper aims to clarify and differentiate the relationship between the two scholars by making two main points. First, we show that Eucken supported a proto-Keynesian stimulus programme at the height of the Great Depression, the so-called Lautenbach plan of 1931. Second, we critically examine Eucken's description of 'full employment policy', a strategy with obvious parallels to Keynesian economic policy. Additionally, the paper maintains that when comparing Eucken and Keynes, more emphasis should be given to the fact that the former favours a rule-based rather than discretionary approach to policy-making.
E63|The quest for global monetary policy coordination|"This paper puts forward a proposal to help monetary policies confront the challenge of the ""normalisation"" of money creation and interest rates. The difficult unwinding of years of unorthodox policies put financial stability at risk in major monetary centres and in EMEs. The authors argue that global coordination is crucial to facing this challenge. They propose to convene appropriate official meetings to coordinate in an explicit, formal, and well-communicated way the process of normalisation and the discussions on the needed long-term changes in the strategy and institutional setting of monetary policies."
E63|Notwendige Bedingung für das Überleben der Eurozone: Konsequente Demokratisierung|No abstract is available for this item.
E63|Währungskrise in der Türkei: Ursachen und Gefahren|"Die Krise in der Türkei ist überwiegend selbst verschuldet und hat nur oberflächlich mit den verschärften US-Handelssanktionen zu tun. Zahlreiche expansive wirtschaftspolitische Maßnahmen trugen zwar dazu bei, einen anhaltenden Wirtschaftseinbruch nach dem Putschversuch im Juli 2016 abzuwenden. Jedoch hielt die türkische Regierung die starke Konjunkturstimulierung vor wichtigen Wahlen zu lange aufrecht und verteilte vor allem vor der Präsidentschaftswahl im Juni 2018 umfangreiche Wahlgeschenke. Dies führte zu einer Überhitzung der Wirtschaft mit steigender Inflation und höheren Leistungsbilanzdefiziten. Problematisch ist zudem, dass es zu einem starken Anstieg der Verschuldung von Banken und nicht-finanziellen Unternehmen kam. Diese von politischem Wahlkalkül getriebene Konjunkturpolitik auf Pump und auf Kosten der Zukunft rächt sich nun. Denn mit der privaten Verschuldung wuchs auch die Auslandsverschuldung von Banken und nicht-finanziellen Unternehmen deutlich, sodass Solvenzrisiken drohen. Besorgnis erregt in dieser Hinsicht vor allem der sehr hohe Fremdwährungsanteil an der Auslandsverschuldung. Damit ist die Türkei äußerst anfällig für Währungsabwertungen, weil mit jeder Abwertung die Auslandsverschuldung in inländischer Währung steigt. Im Vergleich zum Jahresdurchschnitt 2017 hat die Abwertung der türkischen Lira gegenüber dem Euro bis zum 22. August 2018 die Fremdwährungsschulden ceteris paribus um über 70 Prozent erhöht. Im Gegensatz zu den Banken sind nicht-finanzielle Unternehmen gegen dieses Risiko bislang kaum abgesichert, hatten aber Ende Mai 2018 Fremdwährungsschulden von knapp 340 Milliarden US-Dollar (teils auch bei inländischen Gläubigern). Allein aufgrund der Wechselkursveränderung seit Ende Mai hat sich deren Gegenwert um rund 500 Milliarden türkische Lira auf gut 2.000 Milliarden türkische Lira erhöht. Es drohen zudem Liquiditätsrisiken. Denn die private Verschuldung von Banken und nicht-finanziellen Unternehmen ist zu knapp einem Drittel mit kurzfristigen und daher schnell reversiblen Kapitalzuflüssen aus dem Ausland finanziert. Bei einer Vertrauenskrise kann es daher schnell zu einem Versiegen dieser Finanzquellen und einer Liquiditätskrise (""sudden stop"") kommen, die bis hin zur Zahlungsunfähigkeit gehen kann. Dieses Risiko ist umso relevanter, weil die offiziellen Devisenreserven im internationalen Vergleich relativ gering sind und nur rund die Hälfte der kurzfristigen Auslandsverschuldung decken. Die türkische Regierung scheint bislang das Primat der Politik über die Erfordernisse der wirtschaftlichen Stabilität zu stellen. Die jüngsten Rating-Herabstufungen zeigen, dass vor allem deshalb das Vertrauen der Investoren im Ausland zu schwinden beginnt. Um dem entgegenzuwirken, muss die türkische Regierung die Unabhängigkeit der Zentralbank wieder garantieren und die Inflation konsequent bekämpfen lassen. In der Fiskalpolitik ist mehr Transparenz und Disziplin mit Blick auf die versteckten fiskalischen Risiken ebenso nötig wie eine baldige Beschneidung der ausgeuferten Subventionen und sonstigen Fiskalstimuli. Zentral ist auch die Sicherung der makrofinanziellen Stabilität angesichts der erheblichen Risiken, die sich aus dem Kreditboom und der gestiegenen Verschuldung ergeben. Eine restriktivere Geld-, Fiskal- und makroprudenzielle Politik wird die türkische Wirtschaft abbremsen und wohl auch zu einem Anstieg der ohnehin schon hohen Arbeitslosigkeit führen. Diese Anpassung muss die Politik hinnehmen, da sie unumgänglich ist, um die Überhitzung und die resultierenden Anfälligkeit aufgrund der hohen Auslands- und Fremdwährungsschuldenlast zu bekämpfen. Sollte es zu einer deutlichen Krisenverschärfung kommen, wird kein Weg daran vorbeiführen, den IWF zu Hilfe zu rufen."
E63|Forward Guidance at the Zero Lower Bound: Curse and Blessing of Time-Inconsistency|Forward guidance as a tool of unconventional monetary policy can be highly efficient to support aggregate demand and to steer the economy out of the zero lower bound (ZLB). However, the effect that stimulates the economy can give rise to a time-inconsistency problem: if the central bank promises to keep interest rates at the ZLB for long, the sub-sequent increase in inflation and economic activity may create a motive for the central bank to forego its promise and to exit the ZLB earlier than announced. We illustrate the time-inconsistency problem in a New Keynesian model with hand-to-mouth consumers. Using a novel and analytically tractable method for handling occasionally binding constraints, we contrast the case of commitment to forward guidance with the case in which monetary policy allows for an early exit of the ZLB. Our method is able to provide results on uniqueness and existence of (ZLB) equilibria. We study the equilibrium selection given different scenarios and conclude that central bankers should be careful when choosing the number of periods with low interest rates in order to avoid the inconsistency problem. Furthermore, we calculate government spending multipliers and argue that the multiplier is even larger if combined with forward guidance.
E63|Inequality, Redistributive Policies and Multiplier Dynamics in an Agent-based Model with Credit Rationing|Abstract We build an agent-based model populated by households with heterogenous and time-varying financial conditions in order to study how different inequality shocks affect income dynamics and the effects of different types of fiscal policy responses. We show that inequality shocks generate persistent falls in aggregate income by increasing the fraction of credit-constrained households and by lowering aggregate consumption. Furthermore, we experiment with different types of fiscal policies to counter the effects of inequality-generated recessions, namely deficit-spending direct government consumption and redistributive subsidies financed by different types of taxes. We find that the introduction of subsidies is in general associated with higher fiscal multipliers than cases with direct government expenditure alone, as they appear to be better suited to sustain consumption of lower income households after the shock.
E63|No such thing as a perfect hammer: comparing different objective function specifications for optimal control|Abstract Linear-quadratic (LQ) optimization is a fairly standard technique in the optimal control framework. LQ is very well researched, and there are many extensions for more sophisticated scenarios like nonlinear models. Conventionally, the quadratic objective function is taken as a prerequisite for calculating derivative-based solutions of optimal control problems. However, it is not clear whether this framework is as universal as it is considered to be. In particular, we address the question whether the objective function specification and the corresponding penalties applied are well suited in case of a large exogenous shock an economy can experience because of, e.g., the European debt crisis. While one can still efficiently minimize quadratic deviations around policy targets, the economy itself has to go through a period of turbulence with economic indicators, such as unemployment, inflation or public debt, changing considerably over time. We test four alternative designs of the objective function: a least median of squares based approach, absolute deviations, cubic and quartic objective functions. The analysis is performed based on a small-scale model of the Austrian economy and illustrates a certain trade-off between quickly finding an optimal solution using the LQ technique (reaching defined policy targets) and accounting for alternative objectives, such as limiting volatility in economic performance. As an implication, we argue in favor of the considerably more flexible optimization technique based on heuristic methods (such as Differential Evolution), which allows one to minimize various loss function specifications, but also takes additional constraints into account.
E63|Do Fiscal Multipliers Vary with Different Character of Monetary-Fiscal Interactions?|We investigate the fiscal multiplier in normal times and in the presence of a binding zero lower bound on interest rates with SVARs. We construct special shocks to interest rates that compensate their reactions to fiscal expansion and hold them constant and apply it to the Euro area and the United States. We find that for the former, the multiplier increases sharply in the ZLB, but it decreases in the ZLB for the latter. The sign of its change is determined by the coordination of fiscal and monetary policy i.e. whether the interest rates rise or drop in response to fiscal expansion. We applied this method to Slovak Republic as well and found that the change of the multiplier in ZLB in Slovak Republic is analogous to that in the Euro area.
E63|Yields on sovereign debt, fragmentation and monetary policy transmission in the euro area: A GVAR approach|The divergence in sovereign yields has been presented as a reason for the lack of traction of monetary policy. We use a GVAR framework to assess the transmission of monetary policy in the period 2005-2016. We identify sovereign yield divergence as a key mechanism by which the leverage channel of monetary policy worked. Unconventional monetary policy was successful in mitigating this effect. When exploring the channels through which yields may affect the heterogeneous transmission of monetary policy, we find that the reaction of bank leverage depended substantially on where the sovereign yield originated, thus providing a mechanism that explains this heterogeneity. Second, large spillover effects meant that yield divergence decreased the traction of monetary policy even in anchor countries. Third, the heterogeneity in the transmission mechanism can be in part attributed to contagion from euro area wide sovereign stress. Fiscal credibility, therefore, may be an appropriate tool to enhance the output effect of monetary policy. Given the importance of spillovers, this credibility may be achieved by changes in the institutional make-up and policies in the euro area.
E63|Uruguay en democracia: treinta años de evolución económica (1985-2015)|"After more than a decade of dictatorship (June-1973/Feb-1985), in March 1985 the new democratic government takes charge of the Uruguayan economy, which had suffered a deep crisis that bottomed out in 1982. From there the monetary, fiscal, wage policy was redefined, and entered with great hope in a new growth path. However, international and regional conditions greatly limited economic growth and macroeconomic stability, and comes to 1989 with GDP stagnation, high inflation and fiscal deficit. Under these conditions, since 1990 a new neoliberal government established a stabilization plan with exchange rate anchor, labor market flexibility and tried to achieve fiscal balance. The stabilization policies generated a strong currency appreciation, that combined with the Mercosur's creation and Argentinean convertibility policy and Brazil's ""Plan Real"" generated a high regional dependence. After Brazilian devaluation of January 1999, the Uruguayan economy began to shrink, and rushed to another deep crisis after Argentina abandoned convertibility in December 2001. These facts led to a bank run that lasted until August 2002, when a 3-day bank holiday and a change in the economic team managed to stop it, with tough measures: banks closures and deposit freeze. The living conditions of Uruguayans rapidly deteriorated, with high unemployment, sharp increase in poverty, which implied migration and different survival strategies. The economy began to grow in 2003, and in 2005 the left-wing party, for the first time in power, made structural reforms (tax, social security, health, labor market, etc.) and with favorable international conditions, the economic growth continued for more than a decade. At the same time, promoted social and labor market improvements, although in recent years appeared some macroeconomic imbalances, such as inflation above the target range and high fiscal deficit. Thus, in this paper we analyze the impact of different economic policies implemented and the results obtained in Uruguay, in the context of the changing international and regional situation."
E63|Austerity Measures: Do they avert solvency crises?|Many countries are adopting austerity measures, whereby governments aggressively raise taxes, with the hope to dispel future solvency crisis. This paper investigates the implications of austerity on the likelihood of solvency crisis. We derive the maximum level of debt consistent with solvency, labelled as the effective fiscal limit on debt, and we show that its position depends on austerity. We find that countries like Italy that undergo strict austerity could lower their effective fiscal limit and induce a solvency crisis in the near future.
E63|"The ""dark ages"" of German macroeconomics and other alleged shortfalls in German economic thought"|"Ordoliberalism is often accused as being responsible for Germany's policy stance during the Eurozone crisis. Ordoliberalism originates from the so-called Freiburg School of Economics, founded by Walter Eucken during the 1930s at the University of Freiburg, which is in fact in Germany. It is however neither true that ordoliberal thought has continuously been predominant and a prevailing idea in German macroeconomic policy, nor that it is responsible for Germany's policy stance during the crisis in EMU. In this paper, we show why a proper analysis must arrive at this conclusion by referring to Eucken's thinking and the development of German ordoliberalism across time in relation to the ""Rules vs. Discretion"" debate and to Constitutional Economics. Although ordoliberalism may have had some influence on the design of EMU, pragmatism, the status-quo and national interests are dominant in German economic policy."
E63|Fiscal consolidations and finite planning horizons|We analyze fiscal consolidations using a New-Keynesian model where agents have finite planning horizons and are uncertain about the future state of the economy. Both consumers and firms are infinitely lived, but only plan and form expectations up to a finite number of periods into the future. The length of agents' planning horizons plays an important role in determining how spending cuts or tax increases affect output and inflation. We find that for low degrees of relative risk aversion spending-based consolidations are less costly in terms of output losses, in line with empirical evidence. A stronger response of monetary policy to inflation makes spending-based consolidations more favorable as well. Interestingly, for short planning horizons, our model captures the positive comovement between private consumption and government spending observed in the data.
E63|Fiscal consolidations and heterogeneous expectations|We analyze fiscal consolidations using a New Keynesian model where agents have heterogeneous expectations and are uncertain about the composition of consolidations. We look at spending-based and tax-based consolidations and analyze their effects separately. We find that the effects of consolidations and the output multipliers are sensitive to heterogeneity in expectations before and after implementation of a specific fiscal plan. Depending on the beliefs about the type of consolidation prior to implementation, we show that heterogeneity in expectations may lead to optimism in the economy, improving thus the performance of a specific fiscal plan, or can work towards the opposite direction leading to pessimism, amplifying the contractionary effects of the consolidation. In general, we find that spending-based consolidations last longer and lead to deeper recessions when agents are boundedly rational compared to the rational expectations benchmark, while the opposite holds for tax-based consolidations.
E63|Scarcity effects of QE: A transaction-level analysis in the Bund market|This paper investigates the scarcity effects of quantitative easing (QE) policies, drawing on intra-day transaction-level data for German government bonds, purchased under the public sector purchase program (PSPP) of the ECB/Eurosystem. This paper is the first to match high-frequency QE purchase data with high-frequency inter-dealer data. We find economically significant price impacts at high (minute-by-minute) and low (daily) frequencies, highlighting the relevance of scarcity effects in bond markets. Asset purchase policies are not without side effects, though, as the induced scarcity has an adverse impact on liquidity conditions as measured by bid-ask spreads and inter-dealer order book depth. We further show that the price impact varies greatly with market conditions: it is considerably higher during episodes of illiquidity and when yields are higher.
E63|Time varying fiscal multipliers in an agent-based model with credit rationing|The authors build a simple agent-based model populated by households with heterogenous and time-varying financial conditions in order to study how fiscal multipliers can change over the business cycle and are affected by the state of credit markets. They find that deficit-spending fiscal policy dampens the effect of bankruptcy shocks and lowers their persistence. Moreover, the size and dynamics of government spending multipliers are related to the degree and persistence of credit rationing in the economy. On the contrary, in presence of balanced-budget rules, output permanently falls below pre-shock levels and the ensuing multipliers fall below one and are much lower than the ones emerging from the deficit-spending policy. Finally, the authors show that different conditions in the credit market significantly affect the size and the evolution of fiscal multipliers.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E63|U.S. Monetary-Fiscal Regime Changes in the Presence of Endogenous Feedback in Policy Rules|We investigate U.S. monetary and fiscal policy regime interactions in a model, where regimes are determined by latent autoregressive policy factors with endogenous feedback. Policy regimes interact strongly: Shocks that switch one policy from active to passive tend to induce the other policy to switch from passive to active, consistently with existence of a unique equilibrium, though both policies are active and government debt grows rapidly in some periods. We observe relatively strong interactions between monetary and fiscal policy regimes after the recent financial crisis. Finally, latent policy regime factors exhibit patterns of correlation with macroeconomic time series, suggesting that policy regime change is endogenous.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E63|Monetary policy and wandering overinvestment cycles in East Asia and Europe|The paper analyses the role of monetary policy for cyclical movements of investment and asset markets in East Asia and Europe based on a Mises-Hayek overinvestment framework. It is shown how the gradual global decline of interest rates has triggered wandering overinvestment cycles in Japan, Southeast Asia and China. Similarly, it is shown how a one-size monetary policy within the European Monetary Union has not preserved the European Monetary Union from idiosyncratic economic development and crisis because of uncoordinated fiscal policies. With monetary policy crisis management being argued to impede financial and economic restructuring, a timely exit from ultra-expansionary monetary policies is recommended for both East Asia and Europe to reconstitute economic stability and growth.
E63|Helicopter money: survey evidence on expectation formation and consumption behavior|"We fielded a representative survey among the German population randomly assigning respondents to various unconventional monetary policy scenarios that raise household income. We find that in all policy treatments people spend almost 40% of the transfer. Spending shares are independent of whether the transfer is debt financed and provided by the government or provided by the central bank as ""helicopter money""."
E63|Designing QE to overcome the lower bound constraint on interest rates in a fiscally sound monetary union|This paper develops a model of a fiscally sound monetary union and analyses central bank purchases of long-term debt (QE). Employing the portfolio balance channel, we show that there exists an interest rate rule augmented by QE at the lower bound which replicates the equilibrium allocation and the welfare level of a hypothetically unconstrained economy. We show further that the symmetry of QE depends on whether the monetary union is characterised by asymmetric shocks or asymmetric structures.
E63|Inside money, investment, and unconventional monetary policy|I develop a model that explicitly takes the role of financial institutions in the transmission mechanism of monetary policy into account. Within this model, I find various equilibrium environments, with one of them resembling a standard environment for monetary policy and another one akin to a liquidity trap. I analyze what the effects of various monetary policy measures such as quantitative easing, open-market operations, helicopter money and negative interest rates are in all of these environments. I find that open-market operations, quantitative easing, and negative interest rates on reserves are powerless in a liquidity trap, while helicopter money can be used to increase investment. The model also shows that a floor system allows a central bank to implement monetary policy with less side effects, but at the cost of losing control over inflation through open-market operations.
E63|Yields on sovereign debt, fragmentation and monetary policy transmission in the euro area: A GVAR approach|The divergence in sovereign yields has been presented as a reason for the lack of traction of monetary policy. We use a GVAR framework to assess the transmission of monetary policy in the period 2005-2016. We identify sovereign yield divergence as a key mechanism by which the leverage channel of monetary policy worked. Unconventional monetary policy was successful in mitigating this effect. When exploring the channels through which yields may affect the heterogeneous transmission of monetary policy, we find that the reaction of bank leverage depended substantially on where the sovereign yield originated, thus providing a mechanism that explains this heterogeneity. Second, large spillover effects meant that yield divergence decreased the traction of monetary policy even in anchor countries. Third, the heterogeneity in the transmission mechanism can be in part attributed to contagion from euro area wide sovereign stress. Fiscal credibility, therefore, may be an appropriate tool to enhance the output effect of monetary policy. Given the importance of spillovers, this credibility may be achieved by changes in the institutional make up and policies in the euro area.
E63|Twin Peaks And Central Banks: Economics, Political Economy And Comparative Analysis|One of the fundamental issue in implementing the twin peaks regime is deciding where the prudential supervisor should be housed, given that so far three options has been explored, i.e. the prudential supervisor could be outside the central bank, or be a subsidiary of the central bank, or be completely inside the central bank. In other words the key question is to define the central bank involvement in the twin peaks model. The aim of the chapter is twofold: first of all we offer a systematic review of the economics and politics of the central bank involvement in a twin peak regime. Therefore and secondly we analyse the central bank position in the countries that already adopted the twin peak model, in order to better understand how the general theoretical and empirical results already obtained in exploring the central bank involvement in supervision can be applied in analysing the actual twin peaks regimes. Analysing the establishment of the twin peaks regime in Australia, Belgium, the Netherlands, New Zealand and United Kingdom it has been confirmed the heterogeneity of the central bank involvement as prudential supervisor, and on average that two drivers seems to be relevant in motivating the incumbent policymakers in reforming their supervisory settings: the necessity to address and fix the consequences of a systemic crisis (crisis driver); the opportunity to implement a supervisory change when the share of peer countries undertaking reforms is higher (bandwagon driver). On this respect, the true outlier seems to the Australian case, where the relevance of the two drivers is completely absent. The inertia effect – i.e. lagged reform due to the risks in implementing it - seems to evident only in the UK case.
E63|Optimal Monetary Policy and Fiscal Policy Interaction in a Non-Ricardian Economy|This paper studies optimal discretionary monetary policy and its interaction with fiscal policy in a New Keynesian model with finitely lived consumers and government debt. Optimal discretionary monetary policy involves debt stabilization to reduce consumption dispersion across cohorts of consumers. The welfare relevance of debt stabilization is proportional to the debt-to-output ratio and inversely related to the household’s probability of survival that affects the household’s propensity to consume out of financial wealth. Debt-stabilization bias implies that discretionary optimal policy is suboptimal compared with the inflation-targeting rule that fully stabilizes the output gap and the inflation rate while leaving debt to freely fluctuate in response to demand shocks.
E63|Optimal Monetary Policy and Fiscal Policy Interaction in a non-Ricardian Economy|This paper studies optimal discretionary monetary policy and its interaction with fiscal policy in a New Keynesian model with fi?nitely-lived consumers and government debt. Optimal discretionary monetary policy involves debt stabilization to reduce consumption dispersion across cohorts of consumers. The welfare relevance of debt stabilization is proportional to the debt-to-output ratio and inversely related to the household?s probability of survival that affects the household?s propensity to consume out ?financial wealth. Debt stabilization bias implies that discretionary optimal policy is suboptimal compared with the infl?ation targeting rule that fully stabilizes the output gap and the in?flation rate while leaving debt to freely fl?uctuate in response to demand shocks.
E63|The Size Of Fiscal Multipliers And The Stance Of Monetary Policy In Developing Economies|Implementing fiscal programs during monetary policy expansions seems to improve significantly their economic stimulus. We find this result by estimating the effect of government consumption shocks on gross domestic product (GDP) using a panel of 23 developing economies. Our goal is to better understand the reasons for the low fiscal multipliers found in the literature by performing estimations for alternative exchange rate regimes, business‐cycle phases, and monetary policy stances. In addition, we perform counterfactual simulations to analyze the possible gains from fiscal‐monetary policy coordination. Our results also show lower multipliers in developing economies with flexible regimes, especially during economic slowdowns. (JEL E62, E63, F32)
E63|Long-term growth and productivity projections in advanced countries|In this period of high uncertainty about future economic growth, we have developed a growth projection tool for 13 advanced countries and the euro area at the 2100 horizon. This high uncertainty is reflected in the debate on the possibility of a “secular stagnation”, fueled by the short-lived Information and Communication Technology (ICT) shock and the current low productivity and GDP growth in advanced countries. Our projection tool allows for the modelling of technology shocks, for different speeds of regulation and education convergence, with endogenous capital growth and TFP convergence processes. We illustrate the benefits of this tool through four growth scenarios, crossing the cases of a new technology shock or secular stagnation with those of regulation and education convergence or of absence of reforms. Over the period 2015-2100, the secular stagnation scenario assumes yearly TFP growth of 0.6% in the US, leading to a 1.5% GDP growth trend. The technology shock scenario assumes that the third technological revolution will, in the US, provide similar TFP gains to electricity during the second industrial revolution, leading to a 1.4% TFP trend, to which we add a TFP growth wave peaking in 2040, and thus to an average GDP growth rate of 3%. In non-US countries, GDP growth will depend on the implementation of regulation reforms, the increase in education and on the distance to the country-specific convergence target, namely the US, as well. Over the period 2015-2060, for the euro area, Japan and the United Kingdom, benefits from regulation and education convergence would amount to a 0.1 to 0.4 pp yearly growth rate depending on the initial degree both of rigidity and the TFP distance to the US. JEL classification: O11, O33, O43, O47, O57 Keywords: Growth, productivity, long-term projections, structural reforms, innovation, education
E63|Can Fiscal Budget-Neutral Reforms Stimulate Growth? Model-Based Results|This paper focuses on growth enhancing budget-neutral fiscal reforms, i.e. changes in the composition of government revenues and spending that stimulate GDP growth while keeping the ratio of the fiscal budget to GDP constant. To this aim, we present simulation results using a multi-country DSGE model with three large economic regions, the US, the euro area and the rest of the world. The model features constrained and unconstrained non-Ricardian households and a detailed government sector; its multi-country nature allows investigating cross-country spillovers. The paper focuses on the most growth-friendly budget-neutral fiscal measures: (i) an incomplete fiscal devaluation (ii) a rise in government investment compensated by a fall in government consumption and (iii) a rise in government investment compensated by a rise in consumption and labor taxes. Dampening or amplifying effects due to coordination across policies (monetary and fiscal) and across economic regions are also considered. Three main results stand out. First, an increase in government investment financed by rising less distortionary taxes appears to be an effective growth-friendly budget-neutral reform in the sense that it generates both short- and long-run GDP growth and improves fiscal sustainability. Second, benefits and costs of budget-neutral reforms are not equally distributed across agents, giving rise to a policy trade-off between growth and distributional consequences. Third, budget-neutral reforms do not have large cross-border trade spillovers; however, reforms coordinated across all countries in periods of accommodative monetary policy do have amplified domestic effects.
E63|Should euro area countries cut taxes on labour or capital in order to boost their growth?|The large imbalances within the euro area have led to a renewed interest in tax policies that could reduce labour costs and thus improve competitiveness and growth. In this paper, we consider whether it would be more growth-enhancing for euro area countries to, instead, use capital income tax cuts. To address this issue, we focus on the open-economy dimension and make simplifying assumptions concerning the completeness of insurance markets. Using a DSGE model calibrated for France within the euro area, we show that the increase in output resulting from tax cuts on capital income would indeed be higher than the increase in output resulting from tax cuts on labour, both in the short and long run. Importantly, the strong response of output to capital income tax cuts appears to be partly explained by the particularly high level of capital income taxes in France. Moreover, such tax cuts would be less efficient if they were expected to be only temporary. Finally, we illustrate our main points through a recent fiscal package implemented in France, which combines labour and capital income tax cuts. After briefly assessing this package, we find that investment and real output would have been more strongly boosted in the medium run if this package had been focused to a larger extent on reductions in capital income taxes.
E63|Scarcity effects of QE: A transaction-level analysis in the Bund market|This paper investigates the scarcity effects of quantitative easing (QE) policies, drawing on intra-day transaction-level data for German government bonds, purchased under the Public Sector Purchase Program (PSPP) of the ECB/Eurosystem. This paper is the first to match high-frequency QE purchase data with high-frequency inter-dealer data. We find economically significant price impacts at high (minute-by-minute) and low (daily) frequencies, highlighting the relevance of scarcity effects in bond markets. Asset purchase policies are not without side effects, though, as the induced scarcity has an adverse impact on liquidity conditions as measured by bid-ask spreads and inter-dealer order book depth. We further show that the price impact varies greatly with market conditions: it is considerably higher during episodes of illiquidity and when yields are higher.
E63|Bond Convenience Yields and Exchange Rate Dynamics|This paper proposes a new explanation for the failure of Uncovered Interest Parity (UIP) that rationalize both the classic UIP puzzle and the evidence that the puzzle reverses direction at longer horizons. In the model, excess currency returns arise as compensation for endogenous fluctuations in bond convenience yield differentials. Due to the interaction of monetary and fiscal policy, the impulse response of the equilib- rium convenience yield is non-monotonic, which generates the reversal of the puzzle. The model fits exchange rate dynamics very well, and I also find direct evidence that convenience yields indeed drive excess currency returns.
E63|Controlling inflation with switching monetary and fiscal policies: expectations, fiscal guidance and timid regime changes|"Inflation depends on both monetary and fiscal policies and on how agents believe that these policies will evolve in the future. Can monetary policy control inflation, when both monetary and fiscal policies are allowed to change over time? To analyse this problem, we study a model in which both monetary and fiscal policies may switch according to a Markov process. Controlling inflation entails a unique and Ricardian solution. We propose a natural generalisation of the original Leeper (1991) taxonomy, introducing the concepts of globally active (or passive) and globally switching policies to define the conditions that allow monetary policy to control inflation under Markov switching. First, monetary and fiscal policies need to be globally balanced to guarantee a unique equilibrium: globally active monetary policies need to be coupled with globally passive fiscal policies, and switching monetary policies with switching fiscal policies. Second, this distinction characterises the nature of the solutions: a globally AM/PF regime is Ricardian, while a globally switching regime features expectation and wealth effects. Third, the strength of policy deviations across regimes is key, insofar a globally active (or passive) policy allows only timid deviations. Finally, our framework can rationalise the impulse responses from a Bayesian VAR on U.S. data for the recent zero lower bound period as being due to ""timidity"" in fiscal actions that have been unable to spur inflation."
E63|The Failure of ECB Monetary Policy from a Mises-Hayek Perspective|The paper analyses the common European monetary policy based on a Mises-Hayek overinvestment framework, which is combined with the theory of optimum currency areas. It shows how since the turn of the millennium a too expansionary monetary policy contributed to unsustainable overinvestment booms in the periphery of the European Monetary Union, and more recently in Germany, dependent on the national fiscal policy stances. It is argued that the ECB´s ultra-loose monetary policy as a crisis therapy puts a drag on long-term growth by conserving distorted economic structures. To preserve political stability a timely exit from the ultra-expansionary monetary policy is postulated.
E63|The Impact of Japanese Monetary Policy Crisis Management on the Japanese Banking Sector|The paper analyses the impact of Japanese monetary policy crisis management on the Japanese banking sector since the 1998 Japanese financial crisis. It shows how low-cost liquidity provision as a means to stabilize banks has created a growing gap between deposits above lending and has compressed interest margins as the traditional source of bank’s income. Efficiency scores are compiled to estimate the impact of monetary policy crisis management on the efficiency of banks. The estimation results provide evidence that the Japanese monetary policy crisis management has contributed to declining efficiency in the banking sector despite or because of growing concentration.
E63|Can the Central Bank Alleviate Fiscal Burdens?|Central banks affect the resources available to fiscal authorities through the impact of their policies on the public debt, as well as through their income, their mix of assets, their liabilities, and their own solvency. This paper inspects the ability of the central bank to alleviate the fiscal burden by influencing different terms in the government resource constraint. It discusses five channels: (i) how inflation can (and cannot) lower the real burden of the public debt, (ii) how seignorage is generated and subject to what constraints, (iii) whether central bank liabilities should count as public debt, (iv) how central bank assets create income risk, and whether or not this threatens its solvency, and (v) how the central bank balance sheet can be used for fiscal redistributions. Overall, it concludes that the scope for the central bank to lower the fiscal burden is limited.
E63|Fiscal Federalism in a Monetary Union: The Cooperation Pitfall|Fiscal federalism may not be a panacea in a monetary union if it does not address the non-cooperative behaviour between fiscal policymakers. To prove this, we assess the relative merits of a fiscal federalism scheme in a monetary union and intergovernmental fiscal cooperation without such a federal authority. Using a standard macroeconomic model commonly used for policy analysis we show that it is impossible to conclude that one solution is always preferable to the other. The benefits from an extra instrument and a policymaker with union-wide objectives may not compensate the adding of a non-cooperative player to the policy game. This result is sustained when an active monetary policy is introduced in the model or when shocks affect the functioning of the economy. The welfare ranking of these two options depends on the cross-border spillover effects, the objectives of policymakers and the variances of shocks.
E63|The Collateral Policy of Central Banks - An Analysis Focusing on the Eurosystem|Die vorliegende Dissertation wurde von Christopher Weber während seiner Tätigkeit als wissenschaftlicher Mitarbeiter am Center for Economic Studies (CES) an der Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität (LMU) München verfasst. Sie wurde im Juli 2016 an der volkswirtschaftlichen Fakultät der LMU eingereicht. Ziel der Arbeit ist es, die Ausgestaltung der Pfänderpolitik innerhalb des Zielsystems von Zentralbanken als Instrument der Zentralbankpolitik zu etablieren und praktische Ausgestaltung, Wirkungsweise sowie Auswirkungen darzulegen. Die Arbeit gliedert sich in drei Teile und neun Kapitel. Der erste Teil bespricht die Rolle von Pfändern in der Zentralbankpolitik. Die verschiedenen möglichen Aufgaben und Ziele von Zentralbanken werden historisch abgeleitet. Dann wird die Ausgestaltung der Pfänderpolitik innerhalb dieses Zielsystems besprochen und geschlussfolgert, dass Pfänderpolitik mit Blick auf alle Zentralbankziele von Bedeutung ist. Somit entsteht ein normativer Rahmen für die Rolle von Pfänderpolitik. Im zweiten Teil werden praktische Pfänderpolitikmaßnahmen mit Blick auf diesen Rahmen vorgestellt. Der Fokus liegt dabei auf der Pfänderpolitik des Eurosystems, deren Facetten im Detail erarbeitet werden. Während der Finanz- sowie der Eurokrise hat das Eurosystem seine Pfänderpolitik mit Blick auf verschiedene Zentralbankziele stark intensiviert. Vergleichend werden der historische Einsatz von Pfänderkriterien als Instrument der Zentralbankpolitik und die Ausgestaltung der Pfänderkriterien im Federal Reserve System sowie bei Bank of England und Bank of Japan während der jüngsten Krisenjahre gegenübergestellt. Im dritten Teil geht es zunächst darum, die Wirkungsweise von Pfänderpolitik innerhalb des Zielsystems einer Zentralbank theoretisch zu fundieren. Sie wird dazu in Haircut- und Quantitypolicy gegliedert und klassischer Zinspolitik gegenübergestellt. Der optimale Einsatz von Pfänderpolitik, je nach Zentralbankziel, wird hergeleitet. Anschließend werden Auswirkungen der Ausgestaltung der Pfänderpolitik des Eurosystems aufgedeckt: Ein Kapitel zeigt modelltheoretisch die einseitigen Förderung schlechter Qualitäten durch das Angebot von segmentweise gepoolten Refinanzierungsbedingungen (adverse Selektion der schlechten Pfandqualitäten). Ein weiteres Kapitel geht mit Hilfe eines schematischen Modells auf die Verteilungseffekte innerhalb der Währungsunion durch diesen Poolingansatz ein, die sich gegenüber einer Fiskalunion, wie den USA, dem Vereinigten Königreich oder Japan, wesentlich unterscheiden. Im Ergebnis kann für die Eurozone auf eine Umverteilung zugunsten der Krisenländer geschlossen werden. Schließlich widmet sich ein Kapitel der Suche nach Spuren im Marktverhalten, als Reaktion auf die Politik des Eurosystems. Dazu wird der Datensatz der zentralbankfähigen Sicherheiten im Eurosystem von 2007 bis 2013 angereichert und deskriptiv ausgewertet. Besonders für Pfänder aus Krisenländern und aus dem Bankensektor sind solche Marktreaktionen ableitbar.
E63|ifo Konjunkturumfragen und Konjunkturanalyse: Band II|Das ifo Institut begleitet seit seiner Gründung im Jahr 1949 das aktuelle Wirtschaftsgeschehen durch seine regelmäßigen Konjunkturumfragen und Konjunkturprognosen. Im Jahr 2007 hat das ifo Institut zur methodischen Basis seiner Konjunkturforschung einen ersten Sammelband mit ausgewählten Artikeln aus dem ifo Schnelldienst veröffentlicht. Der vorliegende zweite Band setzt diese Tradition fort und präsentiert Artikel aus den Jahren 2003 bis 2016 aus den Gebieten: Prognosemethodik, makroökonomische Analyse, monetäre Analyse, ifo Konjunkturtest und Ifo World Economic Survey. Die ausgewählten Artikel zur Prognosemethodik schlagen einen Bogen von den Spezifika der ifo Prognosetechnik zu den wirtschaftsstatischen Grundlagen wie der Volumenrechnung in den Volkswirtschaftlichen Gesamtrechnungen oder das vom ifo Institut eingesetzte Saisonbereinigungsverfahren. Ein weiterer Themenkreis befasst sich mit ausgewählten Aspekten der makroökonomischen Analyse. Darüber hinaus wird der monetären Analyse und speziell der Geldpolitik der EZB breiten Raum gegeben. Schließlich findet sich eine Palette von Aufsätzen zu den Spezifika des ifo Konjunkturtests für Deutschland bzw. des ifo World Economic Survey. Mit diesem Band soll die angesprochene Thematik, die bisher nur im ifo Schnelldienst veröffentlicht wurde, einem breiteren Leserkreis zugänglich gemacht werden. Alle Autoren waren oder sind Mitarbeiter des ifo Zentrums für Konjunkturforschung und Befragungen.
E63|The fiscal theory of the price level in a world of low interest rates|A central equation for the fiscal theory of the price level (FTPL) is the government budget constraint (or “government valuation equation”), which equates the real value of government debt to the present value of fiscal surpluses. In the past decade, the governments of most developed economies have paid very low interest rates, and there are many other periods in the past in which this has been the case. In this paper, we revisit the implications of the FTPL in a world where the rate of return on government debt may be below the growth rate of the economy, considering different sources for the low returns: dynamic inefficiency, the liquidity premium of government debt, or its favorable risk profile.
E63|Acuerdo de paz: reforma rural, cultivos ilícitos, comunidades y costo fiscal|En este estudio se analizan los puntos del Acuerdo de Paz de la Habana referentes a la Reforma Rural Integral (Punto 1) y a la Solución al Problema de las Drogas Ilícitas (Punto 4), con el fin de identificar los principales desafíos que éstos plantean en materia de políticas públicas y proponer recomendaciones para su implementación. En el análisis se da atención especial al carácter participativo del Acuerdo y en particular al papel de las comunidades. Adicionalmente, el estudio presenta un cálculo indicativo del costo fiscal asociado a los compromisos derivados de los puntos 1 y 4 del Acuerdo para los próximos 15 años. El presente informe está dividido en seis capítulos más un resumen ejecutivo que incluye la introducción y principales recomendaciones del estudio. El primer capítulo trata el tema de la tierra, punto neural del Acuerdo. El segundo capítulo se dedica al punto 4 del Acuerdo que trata sobre la sustitución de los cultivos de uso ilícito. En el tercer capítulo se analiza lo relacionado con los planes de desarrollo con enfoque territorial. El capítulo cuarto revisa los Planes Nacionales a los que se refiere el Punto 1 del Acuerdo. En el capitulo quinto se ahonda en el concepto de participación comunitaria y su papel en el desarrollo de los territorios rurales. En el sexto y último capítulo se presentan algunas reflexiones sobre el financiamiento de los puntos 1 y 4 del Acuerdo y los resultados del ejercicio de costeo. Entre las recomendaciones del estudio se destacan las siguientes: i) en el tema de tierras, se plantean propuestas relacionadas con el catastro, impuestos prediales, uso y tenencia de la tierra, creación de Zonas de Reserva Campesina y se sugiere adelantar un estudio que permita determinar la necesidad de compra de tierras para cumplir con las metas establecidas en el Acuerdo; ii) en lo referente a los cultivos de uso ilícito, se recomienda privilegiar la erradicación voluntaria pero sin descartar la erradicación forzosa, incluida la aspersión aérea. Asimismo, se sugiere llevar los programas de desarrollo alternativo a todas las zonas afectadas por estos cultivos y a todas las comunidades presentes en esos territorios; iii) con respecto a los planes de desarrollo con enfoque territorial PDET, se recomienda el fortalecimiento de las capacidades técnica, económica, financiera y administrativa de los entes regionales y locales, así como también la creación de instancias de coordinación entre los diferentes niveles de gobierno y entre los sectores público, privado y la sociedad civil; iv) sobre los Planes Nacionales, se propone la creación de una comisión intersectorial para el desarrollo rural para asegurar la adecuada coordinación en la ejecución de estos planes; v) en el tema de participación comunitaria, se señala su carácter flexible y la necesidad de que el gobierno haga una lectura adecuada de cada contexto para establecer cómo se puede dar esta participación; vi) por último, en lo referente al costo de los puntos 1 y 4 del Acuerdo, se estima que tendría un impacto fiscal neto anual de 0,49 por ciento del PIB durante los próximos 15 años.
E63|Acuerdo de paz: reforma rural, cultivos ilícitos, comunidades y costo fiscal|En este estudio se analizan los puntos del Acuerdo de Paz de la Habana referentes a la Reforma Rural Integral (Punto 1) y a la Solución al Problema de las Drogas Ilícitas (Punto 4), con el fin de identificar los principales desafíos que éstos plantean en materia de políticas públicas y proponer recomendaciones para su implementación. En el análisis se da atención especial al carácter participativo del Acuerdo y en particular al papel de las comunidades. Adicionalmente, el estudio presenta un cálculo indicativo del costo fiscal asociado a los compromisos derivados de los puntos 1 y 4 del Acuerdo para los próximos 15 años. El presente informe está dividido en seis capítulos más un resumen ejecutivo que incluye la introducción y principales recomendaciones del estudio. El primer capítulo trata el tema de la tierra, punto neural del Acuerdo. El segundo capítulo se dedica al punto 4 del Acuerdo que trata sobre la sustitución de los cultivos de uso ilícito. En el tercer capítulo se analiza lo relacionado con los planes de desarrollo con enfoque territorial. El capítulo cuarto revisa los Planes Nacionales a los que se refiere el Punto 1 del Acuerdo. En el capitulo quinto se ahonda en el concepto de participación comunitaria y su papel en el desarrollo de los territorios rurales. En el sexto y último capítulo se presentan algunas reflexiones sobre el financiamiento de los puntos 1 y 4 del Acuerdo y los resultados del ejercicio de costeo. Entre las recomendaciones del estudio se destacan las siguientes: i) en el tema de tierras, se plantean propuestas relacionadas con el catastro, impuestos prediales, uso y tenencia de la tierra, creación de Zonas de Reserva Campesina y se sugiere adelantar un estudio que permita determinar la necesidad de compra de tierras para cumplir con las metas establecidas en el Acuerdo; ii) en lo referente a los cultivos de uso ilícito, se recomienda privilegiar la erradicación voluntaria pero sin descartar la erradicación forzosa, incluida la aspersión aérea. Asimismo, se sugiere llevar los programas de desarrollo alternativo a todas las zonas afectadas por estos cultivos y a todas las comunidades presentes en esos territorios; iii) con respecto a los planes de desarrollo con enfoque territorial PDET, se recomienda el fortalecimiento de las capacidades técnica, económica, financiera y administrativa de los entes regionales y locales, así como también la creación de instancias de coordinación entre los diferentes niveles de gobierno y entre los sectores público, privado y la sociedad civil; iv) sobre los Planes Nacionales, se propone la creación de una comisión intersectorial para el desarrollo rural para asegurar la adecuada coordinación en la ejecución de estos planes; v) en el tema de participación comunitaria, se señala su carácter flexible y la necesidad de que el gobierno haga una lectura adecuada de cada contexto para establecer cómo se puede dar esta participación; vi) por último, en lo referente al costo de los puntos 1 y 4 del Acuerdo, se estima que tendría un impacto fiscal neto anual de 0,49 por ciento del PIB durante los próximos 15 años.
E63|Monetary-fiscal interactions and the euro area's malaise|When monetary and fiscal policy are conducted as in the euro area, output, inflation, and government bond default premia are indeterminate according to a standard sticky-price general equilibrium model extended to include defaultable public debt. With sunspots, the model mimics the recent euro area data. We specify an alternative configuration of monetary and fiscal policy, with a non-defaultable eurobond. If this policy arrangement had been in place since the onset of the Great Recession, output could have been much higher than in the data with inflation in line with the ECB's objective.
E63|Monetary-Fiscal Interactions and the Euro Area’s Malaise|When monetary and fiscal policy are conducted as in the euro area, output, inflation, and government bond default premia are indeterminate according to a standard general equilibrium model with sticky prices extended to include defaultable public debt. With sunspots, the model mimics the recent euro area data. We specify an alternative configuration of monetary and fiscal policy, with a non-defaultable eurobond. If this policy arrangement had been in place since the onset of the Great Recession, output could have been much higher than in the data with inflation in line with the ECB's objective.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E63|Revisiting Speculative Hyperinflations in Monetary Models|This paper revisits the debate on ruling out speculative hyperinflations in monetary models. Obstfeld and Rogoff (1983, 1986) argue that in pure fiat money models, where the government gives no backing whatsoever to currency, there is in fact no reasonable way to rule out speculative hyperinflations where the value of money goes to zero, even if the money supply itself is exogenous and constant. Such perverse equilibria are ruled out, however, if the government provides even a very small real backing to the currency, indeed the backing does not have to be certain. Cochrane (2011), however, argues that this result is wrong, and that fractional currency backing is a Maginot line that is insufficient to rule out hyperinflation. He goes on to claim that the fiscal theory of the price level provides a much better model of the price-level determination that avoids the multiplicity of problems that plague standard monetary models. We show here why, in fact, Cochrane's analysis is incorrect, and that the equilibrium he considers fails. Our baseline analysis uses a canonical money-in-the-utility-function setup building on Brock (1974, 1975); but following Wallace (1981), we show the same results go through in the overlapping-generations model of money. We go on to discuss why we believe that the fiscal theory of the price level simply sidesteps the problem of monetary determinacy but in no way resolves it.
E63|The dire effects of the lack of monetary and fiscal coordination|If the government’s willingness to stabilize debt is waning, while the central bank is adamant about keeping inflation low, the economy enters a vicious spiral of higher inflation, monetary tightening, recession, and further debt accumulation. The mere possibility of this conflict represents a drag on the economy. A commitment to inflate away the debt accumulated during a large recession leads to welfare improvements and lower uncertainty by separating long-run fiscal sustainability from the short-run fiscal stimulus. This strategy can be used to avoid the zero lower bound. As a technical contribution, we explain how to build shock-specific policy rules.
E63|A Central Bank's Optimal Balance Sheet Size?|Unlike other facets of monetary policy renormalisation, there has been little discussion yet of what principles should determine the optimum size of a Central Bank's balance sheet, the end-point to which on-going portfolio reductions should approach. In this note I start by addressing the arguments of those who would leave this balance sheet very large, much as now; and then continue with the counter-arguments, also stressing the nature of the relationships between monetary and fiscal policies, and between the Central Bank and the Treasury's Debt Management Office.
E63|Macroeconomic stabilization, monetary-fiscal interactions, and Europe's monetary union|The euro area recently experienced a prolonged period of weak economic activity and very low inflation. This paper reviews models of business cycle stabilization with an eye to formulating lessons for policy in the euro area. According to standard models, after a large recessionary shock accommodative monetary and fiscal policy together may be necessary to stabilize economic activity and inflation. The paper describes practical ways for the euro area to be able to implement an effective monetary-fiscal policy mix.
E63|The Combination of Monetary and Fiscal Policy Shocks: A TVP-FAVAR Approach|This paper analyzes jointly the effects of monetary and fiscal policy shocks in the US economy using a factor augmented vector autoregressive model with drifting coefficients and stochastic volatility. The time varying structure of the model allows to assess the impact of monetary policy shocks in the same periods when fiscal policy shocks identified via the narrative approach are also at play. In this way we study how the monetary policy transmission changes conditional on expansionary or contractionary exogenous fiscal policies, which are determined by the discretionary intervention of the fiscal authority and are not the response of business cycle fluctuations or the reaction to monetary policy. We find that fiscal policy strongly affects the impulse responses to monetary policy shocks through the aggregate demand channel. These results are relevant to understand the implications of different policy mixes.
E63|Fiscal federalism in a monetary union: the cooperation pitfall|Fiscal federalism may not be a panacea in a monetary union if it does not address the non-cooperative behaviour between fiscal policymakers. To prove this, we assess the relative merits of a fiscal federalism scheme in a monetary union and intergovernmental fiscal cooperation without such a federal authority. Using a standard macroeconomic model commonly used for policy analysis we show that it is impossible to conclude that one solution is always preferable to the other. The benefits from an extra instrument and a policymaker with union-wide objectives may not compensate the adding of a non-cooperative player to the policy game. This result is sustained when an active monetary policy is introduced in the model or when shocks affect the functioning of the economy. The welfare ranking of these two options depends on the cros-border spillover effects, the objectives of policymakers and the variances of shocks.
E63|Liquidity Traps and Monetary Policy: Managing a Credit Crunch|We study a model with heterogeneous producers that face collateral and cash-in-advance constraints. These two frictions give rise to a nontrivial financial market in a monetary economy. A tightening of the collateral constraint results in a recession generated by a credit crunch. The model can be used to study the effects on the main macroeconomic variables, and on the welfare of each individual of alternative monetary and fiscal policies following the credit crunch. The model reproduces several features of the recent financial crisis, such as the persistent negative real interest rates, the prolonged period at the zero bound for the nominal interest rate, and the collapse in investment and low inflation in spite of the very large increases in liquidity adopted by the government. The policy implications are in sharp contrast to the prevalent view in most central banks, which is based on the New Keynesian explanation of the liquidity trap.
E63|Liquidity Traps and Monetary Policy: Managing a Credit Crunch: Online Appendix|No abstract is available for this item.
E63|The financial stability index (3) – Estimated by the Institute of Financial Studies|There is a vast literature on developing a composite index of relevant macroeconomic indicators that predicts the real economic growth. This is of great importance not only for international financial institutions (e.g. IMF, ECB), central banks, and financial supervisory authorities, but also for the private sector (credit rating agencies). Our goal is to build a Financial Stability Index (FSI) or financial stress index that tracks economic growth in Romania. We constructed a composite index using a linear combination of financial variables that are considered to have a significant impact on economic activity. These financial variables are weighted with respect to their cumulated two quarters impulse response on GDP growth, as estimated by a VAR model. Developing such a composite index of financial stability or financial stress has two main utilities: • The analysis of the correlation between financial variables and the real economy placed in the context of different historical episodes of financial crisis. Also, this correlation analysis reveals, in each period, the significant positive or negative contribution of each financial variable to real economic growth. Following this analysis, the FSI can measure the impact of economic and financial policy measures aimed at mitigating financial crises. • The short-term prediction of real economic growth estimated by forecasting the next period evolution of the real economic activity (GDPt+1) using current period GDPt and FSIt. Keywords: composite index, financial stress index, economic growth, VAR model, shortterm prediction JEL Classification: E63; G01; G28
E63|Should the ECB Coordinate EMU Fiscal Policies?|In a monetary union where fiscal authorities act strategically, fiscal cooperation is unlikely to emerge as an equilibrium. Even when the cooperative outcome is the best for a national fiscal authority, it is either not a Nash equilibrium or only one of several Nash equilibriums. The monetary authority may have an important coordinating role; however, the Paretopreferred equilibrium will not necessarily involve cooperation.
E63|Central bank financial strength and inflation: an empirical reassessment considering the key role of the fiscal support|This paper re-examines whether weak central bank finances affect inflation by scrutinizing the key rationale for such a relationship: that the absence of Treasury support makes central bank finances relevant for price stability. Specifically, I ask whether central banks which are not likely to enjoy fiscal support when needed experience higher inflation as their inflation as their financial situation deteriorates. I find this to be true among a large sample of 82 countries between 1998 and 2008. De facto potential fiscal support appears relevant, while de jure fiscal support, which I survey analyzing 82 central bank laws, does not appear to matter. No link is found in a general context. The results bring forward an explanation for the conflicting results of the previous empirical studies, which neglected this key component
E63|Central Bank Digital Currency and the Future of Monetary Policy|We consider how a central bank digital currency (CBDC) could transform all aspects of the monetary system and facilitate the systematic and transparent conduct of monetary policy. In particular, we find that CBDC can serve as a practically costless medium of exchange, secure store of value, and stable unit of account. To achieve these criteria, CBDC would be account-based and interest-bearing, and the monetary policy framework would foster true price stability.
E63|Credit Supply in Venezuela: A Non-Conventional Bank Lending Channel?|This paper evaluates whether fiscal and foreign exchange policy shocks canexplain both credit and credit supply in Venezuela. Empirical evidence suggests that between 65 and 90 percent of credit growth is linked to the buildup of banks' deposits caused by the monetary effects of fiscal expansions. For these cases, since credit is provided at equal or reduced interest rates, credit supply takes place. Loan supply can occur either endogenously, when fiscal domestic spending increases with expansionary aggregate supply shocks, or exogenously, when fiscal policy shocks emerge. The role of exogenous fiscal shocks in accounting for credit supply is preponderant in the long run. This evidence suggests fiscal shocks represent a non-conventional bank lending channel. Because this exogenous fiscally-triggered credit supply does not significantly contribute to boosting real activity, its major cost might be associated with high credit volatility.
E63|Tight Money and the Sustainability of Public Debt|In the celebrated paper “Some Unpleasant Monetarist Arithmetic,” Sargent and Wallace (1981) show that tight monetary policy is not feasible unless it is supported by appropriate fiscal adjustment. In this paper, we explore a simple forwardlooking monetary model to show that an anticipated decrease in the growth rate of base money is not necessarily characterized by “unpleasant arithmetic.” This is due to a possible transitory gain in seigniorage supported by a temporal decrease in the real interest rate, which keeps public debt on a sustainable path. An important implication is that an increase in the present value of future budget deficits does not necessarily have inflationary consequences.
E63|Stagnation policy in the Eurozone and economic policy alternatives|Empirically, the macroeconomic institutions and the macroeconomic policy approach in the Eurozone have failed badly, both in terms of preventing the global financial and economic cri-sis from becoming a euro crisis and in generating a rapid recovery from the crisis, in particular. In this paper I will argue that the dominating macroeconomic policy regime in the Eurozone can be seen as a version of what Steindl (1979) had called ?stagnation policy?. To underline this argument, I will provide a simple Steindlian distribution and growth model in order to identi-fy the main channels through which stagnation policy affects accumulation and productivity growth. This will also provide a set of elements of a Steindlian anti-stagnation policy. Against this theoretical background I will then examine the macroeconomic institutions and the macro-economic policy approach of the Eurozone which has been based on the New Consensus Macroeconomics (NCM) and I will highlight its main deficiencies. This will then provide the grounds for an outline of an alternative macroeconomic policy approach for the specific institu-tional setup of the Eurozone based on a post-Keynesian/Steindlian/neo-Kaleckian approach.
E63|U.S. monetary-fiscal regime changes in the presence of endogenous feedback in policy rules|We investigate U.S. monetary and fiscal policy regime interactions in a model, where regimes are determined by latent autoregressive policy factors with endogenous feedback. Policy regimes interact strongly: Shocks that switch one policy from active to passive tend to induce the other policy to switch from passive to active, consistently with existence of a unique equilibrium, though both policies are active and government debt grows rapidly in some periods. We observe relatively strong interactions between monetary and fiscal policy regimes after the recent financial crisis. Finally, latent policy regime factors exhibit patterns of correlation with macroeconomic time series, suggesting that policy regime change is endogenous.
E63|Monetary and Fiscal Policy Coordination in Nigeria: A Set Theoretic Approach|In this article, we use the Set Theoretic Approach (STA) to determine the extent of coordination between monetary and fiscal policies in Nigeria from 1981 to 2015. Our main findings generally indicate a weak level of policy coordination estimated to be 17%. A further disaggregation of the results showed that the highest level of coordination of 36.4% occurred during the period of low growth and high inflation. However, there was no evidence of coordination during periods of high GDP growth and inflation. These findings point to the obvious need for fiscal and monetary authorities to strengthen policy coordination towards enhanced macroeconomic stability.
E63|Taxation, Credit Spreads and Liquidity Traps|We argue that optimal state-contingent variations in asset taxation increase welfare, alter the monetary policy transmission mechanism and insure against liquidity traps. These findings are explained by an endogenous relationship between taxation, the effective rate of return on assets, the inflationary output gap and credit spreads. Such unique link operates via a working-capital cost channel, and affords the policy maker an additional degree of freedom in stabilizing the economy. Optimal policy calls for lowering (increasing) asset taxation following adverse financial (demand) shocks. Severe financial contractions, nonetheless, warrant a more limited tax cut to minimize the occurrence of unintended liquidity traps induced by (otherwise optimal) large fiscal subsidies.
E63|Re-Evaluating The Keynesian Multiplier: Critiques And Evidence From Europe|This paper starts from Keynes’ General Theory to demonstrate the existence of a non-linear Keynesian multiplier on the grounds of cross-country data. Thus, we prove the effectiveness of short-run countercyclical exogenous stimuli during downturns. The role of fiscal spending is discussed in light of different schools of thought, including the well-known “expansionary fiscal contraction” theory. Moreover, we examine the European fiscal rules of convergence – aimed to sovereign debt sustainability – that affect the size of “fiscal space”. Empirical data from several Eurozone countries provide evidence of traditional multipliers. Furthermore, the Greek economy displays a non-linear case of multiplier. This leads to rejecting the assumption of a weak Keynesian setting, which supported instead the IMF-backed fiscal contraction.
E63|Correlation between Maltese and euro area sovereign bond yields|This paper investigates correlation in Malta government stock (MGS) yields and assesses correlation between these yields and those of Malta’s major euro area partners. Correlation coefficients are found to be high, indicating the existence of a long-run relationship in the setting of MGS yields with short-term deviations. The analysis also includes an MGARCH-DCC(1,1) system based on spreads over the German ten-year bond, which are modelled for eleven euro area countries. Dynamic conditional correlations (DCCs) confirm that Maltese ten-year bond yields tend to be broadly insulated from event specific volatility in other countries’ yields. Simple ‘benchmark’ regressions are estimated over the period 2007 – 2016, allowing the comparison of actual ten-year bond yields with composite equation outputs. The benchmarked yields based on euro area bonds track consistently actual MGS yields, while from mid-2015 onwards, MGS yields follow closely a benchmark derived on the basis of underlying economic fundamentals.
E63|Croissance économique et chômage : les fondements de la loi d'Okun et le modèle IS-LM-LO|Ce papier a développé les fondements théoriques de la loi d’Okun (LO) et un modèle intégré IS-LM-LO permettant de mieux cerner les effets de politiques économiques sur le chômage. Enoncé et démontré, le théorème de la loi d’Okun confirme l’existence d’une relation négative entre le taux de croissance économique et la variation du taux de chômage. Cependant, cette relation d’Okun ne peut pas être considérée comme stable. Entre autres, les chocs démographiques, les chocs sur le salaire réel moyen, les profits bruts réels, les droits à l’importation et taxes nettes sur les biens et services induisent des changements structurels dans la relation d’Okun. Le changement structurel dans la relation d’Okun peut être vertueux ou vicieux. Lorsque la dynamique économique engendre un changement structurel vicieux dans la relation d’Okun de sorte que le nouveau seuil d’Okun qu’elle induit est toujours supérieur au taux de croissance observé, le taux de chômage augmente. La croissance économique a un impact plus important sur le chômage lorsqu’elle est forte et engendre un changement structurel vertueux dans la relation d’Okun. Ainsi, de l’analyse du modèle IS-LM-LO, il ressort que la politique budgétaire et/ou monétaire, bien qu’ayant un effet positif sur la croissance économique, entrainerait une hausse du chômage si elle engendre un changement structurel vicieux dans la relation d’Okun. La politique de relance économique la plus efficace dans la lutte contre le chômage est celle qui, en plus d’accélérer la croissance, induit un changement structurel vertueux dans la relation d’Okun. This paper has stated the theoretical framework of Okun's law (LO) and an integrated IS-LM-LO model to better understand the effects of economic policies on unemployment. Stated and demonstrated, the Okun law theorem confirms the existence of a negative link between economic growth and variation in the unemployment rate. However, this Okun relation cannot be considered stable. Among other things, demographic shocks, shocks onto the average real wage, real gross profits, importation duties and net taxes on goods and services induce structural changes in Okun's relation. The structural change in Okun's relation can be virtuous or vicious. When economic dynamic generates a vicious structural change in Okun's relation so that the Okun new threshold it induces is always higher than the observed economic growth rate, the unemployment rate increases. Economic growth has a greater impact on unemployment when it is strong and engenders a virtuous structural change in Okun's relation. Thus, analysis of the IS-LM-LO model shows that, though fiscal or monetary policy have a positive effect on economic growth, it would lead to an increasing unemployment if it engenders a vicious structural change in Okun’s relation. The most effective economic recovery policy to take on unemployment is the one that, in addition to accelerating economic growth, induces a virtuous structural change in Okun's relation.(Full text in french)
E63|Does Central Bank Financial Strength Really Matter for Inflation? The Key Role of the Fiscal Support|Abstract This paper examines whether weak central bank finances affect inflation by scrutinizing the key rationale for such a relationship: that the absence of Treasury support makes central bank finances relevant for price stability. Specifically, I ask whether central banks which are not likely to enjoy fiscal support when needed experience higher inflation as their financial situation deteriorates. I find this to be true among a large sample of 82 countries between 1998 and 2008. De facto potential fiscal support appears relevant, while de jure fiscal support, which I survey analyzing 82 central bank laws, does not appear to matter. The results also bring forward an explanation for the conflicting results of the previous empirical studies, which neglected this key component.
E63|Fiscal devaluation and economic activity in the EU|In the aftermath of the global financial crisis, a fiscal devaluation (hereafter: FD), understood as a shift in taxation from labor to consumption, has been debated as a possible tool of restoring competitiveness in peripheral countries of the Euro area. We contribute to this debate. Based on a set of panel and spatial panel models for the EU 27 over the period 1995 – 2014, we find that FD increases value added in exports, improves net exports, accelerates GDP and employment growth, and decelerates labour costs growth. These effects are nonlinear: stronger in the members of the Euro area and weaker in countries with either more coordinated or more centralised wage bargaining process, or more generous unemployment benefits. Most importantly, FD turns out not to be a beggar thy neighbour policy, at least in the EU. In our sample ‘cooperative effect’ of unilateral FD, which is beneficial for neighbouring countries, dominates by far ‘competitive effect’, which goes at the expense of other countries’ competitiveness. Admittedly, FD implemented in one country can benefit other countries, provided that they are strongly integrated in global value chains. These findings are robust to changes in the estimation methods, the sample composition, the set of explanatory variables and the selection of a spatial weight matrix.
E63|Central Bank Digital Currency And The Future Of Monetary Policy|We consider how a central bank digital currency (CBDC) can transform all aspects of the monetary system and facilitate the systematic and transparent conduct of monetary policy. Drawing on a very long strand of literature in monetary economics, we find a compelling rationale for establishing a CBDC that serves as a stable unit of account, a practically costless medium of exchange, and a secure store of value. In particular, the CBDC should be universally accessible and interest-bearing, and the central bank should adjust its interest rate to foster true price stability.
E63|The Rise, the Fall, and the Resurrection of Iceland|This paper documents how the Icelandic banking system grew from 100 percent of GDP in 1998 to 9 times GDP in 2008 when it failed. We base the analysis on data from the banks that was made public when the Icelandic parliament lifted among others bank secrecy laws to investigate the run up to the financial crisis. We document how the banks were funded, and where the money went with a comprehensive analysis of their lending. We also analyze policies implemented after the crash, including emergency legislation, capital control, alleviation of balance of payment risks and preservation of the financial stability. We estimate the output costs of the crisis, which was about average relative to the 147 banking crisis documented Laeven and Valencia (2012) and the 100 banking crisis documented by Reinhart and Rogoff (2014). Our computation of the governments direct costs, reveals that the recently concluded negotiation with foreign creditors may leave the Icelandic government in net surplus as a consequence of the crisis, although there is still some uncertainty about the ultimate cost and our benchmark estimate is a cost corresponding to 5 percent of GDP. We summarize several lessons from the episode.
E63|The interest rate effects of government debt maturity|Federal Reserve purchases of bonds in recent years have meant that a smaller proportion of long-dated government debt has had to be held by other investors (private sector and foreign official institutions). But the US Treasury has been lengthening the maturity of its issuance at the same time. This paper reports estimates of the impact of these policies on long-term rates using an empirical model that builds on Laubach (2009). Lowering the average maturity of US Treasury debt held outside the Federal Reserve by one year is estimated to reduce the five-year forward 10-year yield by between 130 and 150 basis points. Such estimates assume that the decisions of debt managers are largely exogenous to cyclical interest rate developments; but they could be biased upwards if the issuance policies of debt managers are not exogenous but instead respond to interest rates. Central banks will face uncertainty not only about the true magnitude of maturity effects, but also about the size and concentration of interest rate risk exposures in the financial system. Nor do they know what the fiscal authorities and their debt managers will do as long-term rates change.
E63|Fiscal Rules in a Monetary Economy: Implications for Growth and Welfare|This study considers two fiscal rules, a debt rule that controls the debt-to- GDP ratio, and an expenditure rule that controls the expenditure-to-GDP ratio, in a monetary growth model with financial intermediation. Tightening fiscal rules promotes economic growth and thus benefits future generations. However, there could be two equilibria of the nominal interest rates, and the welfare effects of the rules on the current generation are different between the two equilibria. In particular, the effects of a decreased debt-to-GDP ratio depend on its initial ratio; a low (high) ratio country has an incentive (no incentive) to reduce the ratio further from the viewpoint of the current generation's welfare. This result offers a reason for difficulties with fiscal reform in countries with already high debt-to-GDP ratios.
E63|Expansionary Austerity and Reverse Causality|Empirical studies on the effects of fiscal policy using the conventional or data-based approach and the Blanchard-method of cyclical adjustment or the Blanchard Fiscal Impulse (BFI) discovered that fiscal consolidations can be expansionary, particularly in the case of spending-cuts. In this paper, it is stated this finding is affected by reverse causality, i.e. increasing GDP causally decreases expenditure-GDP-ratios if the cyclical adjustment strategy fails to correct for cyclical effects. It is also illustrated that the BFI as used in the literature does not appropriately control for cyclical effects in the case of expenditure-GDP-ratios and the resulting BFI is endogenously correlated with the economic cycle. This might explain why previous studies based on the BFI pointed to counter-intuitive findings when examining cuts in government expenditure. Replicating one prominent example of literature on expansionary austerity and comparing both the results based on the BFI and the results based on standard cyclical adjustment strategies, only the BFI-based results show expansionary effects of fiscal consolidations, while these effects disappear after applying standard methods of cyclical adjustment.
E63|Correlation between Maltese and euro area sovereign bond yields|This paper investigates correlation in Malta government stock (MGS) yields and assesses correlation between these yields and those of Malta’s major euro area partners. Correlation coefficients are found to be high, indicating the existence of a long-run relationship in the setting of MGS yields with short-term deviations. The analysis also includes an MGARCH-DCC(1,1) system based on spreads over the German ten-year bond, which are modelled for eleven euro area countries. Dynamic conditional correlations (DCCs) confirm that Maltese ten-year bond yields tend to be broadly insulated from event specific volatility in other countries’ yields. Simple ‘benchmark’ regressions are estimated over the period 2007 – 2016, allowing the comparison of actual ten-year bond yields with composite equation outputs. The benchmarked yields based on euro area bonds track consistently actual MGS yields, while from mid-2015 onwards, MGS yields follow closely a benchmark derived on the basis of underlying economic fundamentals.
E63|Fiscal and Monetary Policy in a New Keynesian Model with Tobin’s Q Investment Theory Features|The purpose of this article is to carefully lay out the internal monetary and fiscal transmission mechanisms in the context of a New Keynesian model, with a particular focus on the role of capital - the most vital ingredient in the transition from the basic framework to the medium - scale DSGE models. The key concept of this paper is the form of the monetary policy: we assume a two-channel monetary policy, i.e. it is conducted through a rule for money supply and a Taylor-type rule for interest rates, in order to keep up with the ECB and Fed’s policies. We also adopt a simple fiscal policy rule for public consumption to examine the interactions between fiscal and monetary policy. Finally, in order to capture the crisis effects we introduce exogenous shocks to both monetary and fiscal policy rules.
E63|A Simple Algorithm for Solving Ramsey Optimal Policy with Exogenous Forcing Variables|This algorithm extends Ljungqvist and Sargent (2012) algorithm of Stackelberg dynamic game to the case of dynamic stochastic general equilibrium models including exogenous forcing variables. It is based Anderson, Hansen, McGrattan, Sargent (1996) discounted augmented linear quadratic regulator. It adds an intermediate step in solving a Sylvester equation. Forward-looking variables are also optimally anchored on forcing variables. This simple algorithm calls for already programmed routines for Ricatti, Sylvester and Inverse matrix in Matlab and Scilab. A final step using a change of basis vector computes a vector auto regressive representation including Ramsey optimal policy rule function of lagged observable variables, when the exogenous forcing variables are not observable.
E63|Own or inherited? The effect of national fiscal rules after changes of government|In order to get to know more precisely the way national fiscal rules work, in our study we tried to differentiate the signaling function from the limiting one in regard to the operation of the rules. The former occurs when a government introduces fiscal rules to show its commitment to a disciplined fiscal policy, while the latter refers to the fact that rules constitute a true obstacle for budgetary policy. Through an empirical examination on our own database, we considered only the observations when the reigning government responsible for fiscal policy differed from the previous government responsible for its establishment; in this way we measured the effect of the limiting function the rules had. The results of our panel econometric study prove that fiscal rules can contribute to disciplined fiscal policy after a change in government, in times of economic upturn. All this, however, does not mean that the signaling function would be useless; quite the contrary. Our results, in line with the literature, indicate that the double functions of the rule complement one another. The government that introduces the rule is mostly already committed to a disciplined policy, and wishes to signal this in the short term. With the appearance of new governments, however, the rule changes its function and promotes disciplined economic activity efficiently in the long term.
E63|Monetary Policy Stretched to the Limit: How Could Governments Support the European Central Bank?|New-style central banking in many advanced economies, involving the use of unconventional monetary policy instruments and forward guidance at the effective lower bound for interest rates, has raised questions about the appropriate role of fiscal policy – also in the euro area, where a fiscal counterpart to the European Central Bank (ECB) and the Eurosystem is missing. This paper considers three areas where euro area governments could act as the ‘joint sovereign’ behind the euro and support the ECB in its task of maintaining price stability, staying within the boundaries of the Maastricht Treaty. First, member countries could coordinate a growth-friendly aggregate economic policy mix that is supportive of the single monetary policy, with the help of a central fiscal capacity subject to common decision-making. Second, they could introduce a safe sovereign asset for the eurozone without assuming common liability in order to anchor financial integration and facilitate monetary policy implementation. Third, the significant benefits for the Eurosystem from a lower burden on monetary policy and a reduced exposure to sovereign risk could make it acceptable for euro area governments to indemnify it against potential large losses on its much expanded balance sheet. The fundamental solution, however, lies in advancing with fiscal integration to address the ‘institutional loneliness’ of the Eurosystem with full respect for its independent status.
E63|The Implication of Monetary and Fiscal Policy Interactions for the Price Levels: the Fiscal Theory of the Price Level Revisited|This paper aims to contribute to the empirical literature on the interaction between monetary and fiscal policy. We consider the impact of monetary and fiscal policy shocks on inflation and output dynamics using a Time-Varying Parameter Factor-Augmented VAR (TVP-FAVAR). In baseline results from a linear model, including fiscal policy in the factors has implications for the impact of monetary policy shocks on inflation. This can be explained with the generated positive wealth effects. Moreover, results from our TVPFAVAR indicate that price puzzles from monetary policy shocks are more accentuated during particular regimes. For example, under coordination of Fiscal-Active with Monetary-Passive policy during the Burns and Volcker regime of 1970s and 1980s inflation rise in response to a contractionary monetary policy shock. Likewise the baseline model, the underlying mechanism can be explained through the wealth effect channel. Finally, the results of a fiscal expansionary policy provide support for the non-Ricardian view on fiscal policy within both the linear and non-linear FAVAR model.
E63|Fiscal policy and liquidity traps with heterogeneous agents|This paper explores global dynamics in a monetary model with limited asset market participation and the zero lower bound on nominal interest rates. It is shown that a rise in government transfers to ‘non-Ricardian’ consumers financed by debt-based taxes to ‘Ricardian’ consumers is capable of escaping disinflationary paths typically convergent to a liquidity trap. Fiscal policy does not need to be unsustainable at the low inflation steady state to avoid liquidity traps, as argued in the context of the standard single representative agent setup.
