E65|Short-Term macroeconomic evaluation of the German minimum wage with a VAR/VECM|The German minimum wage was introduced in January 2015. This paper investigates the short-term macroeconomic impacts of its introduction. Therefore, an estimated VAR/VECM is used to perform forecasts that are interpreted as counterfactual to the introduction of the minimum wage and compared to actual developments of six key macroeconomic variables. The deviations are interpreted as minimum wage effects. Robustness checks as well as a comparison with descriptive empirical results are performed to assess the validity of the results. Overall, small positive price effects, significant positive wage effects, and positive employment effects although not robustly estimated in their magnitude are found.
E65|Economic Planning under Capitalism: The New Deal and Postwar France Experiments|By the beginning of the 20th century, the possibility and efficacy of economic planning was believed to have been proven by totalitarian experiments in Germany, the Soviet Union, and, to a lesser degree, Fascist Italy; however, the possibilities and limitations of planning in capitalist democracies was unclear. The challenge in the United States in the 1930s and in postwar France was to find ways to make planning work under capitalism and democratic conditions, where private agents were free to not accept its directives. This paper begins by examining the experience with planning during the first years of the New Deal in the United States, centered on the creation and operation of the National Recovery Administration (NRA) and the Agricultural Adjustment Administration (AAA), and continues with a discussion of the French experience with indicative planning in the aftermath of World War II. A digression follows, touching on the proximity between the matters treated in this paper and Keynes's view that macroeconomic stabilization could require a measure of socialization of investments, following James Tobin's hunch that French indicative planning, as well as some social democrat experiences in Northern Europe, could be playing precisely that role. The paper concludes by identifying the lessons one can draw from the two experiences.
E65|Negative nominal interest rates and the bank lending channel|Following the crisis of 2008, several central banks engaged in a new experiment by setting negative policy rates. Using aggregate and bank level data, we document that deposit rates stopped responding to policy rates once they went negative and that bank lending rates in some cases increased rather than decreased in response to policy rate cuts. Based on the empirical evidence, we construct a macro-model with a banking sector that links together policy rates, deposit rates and lending rates. Once the policy rate turns negative, the usual transmission mechanism of monetary policy through the bank sector breaks down. Moreover, because a negative policy rate reduces bank profits, the total effect on aggregate output can be contractionary. A calibration which matches Swedish bank level data suggests that a policy rate of - 0.50 percent increases borrowing rates by 15 basis points and reduces output by 7 basis points.
E65|IQ, expectations, and choice|We use administrative and survey-based micro data to study the relationship between cognitive abilities (IQ), the formation of economic expectations, and the choices of a representative male population. Men above the median IQ (high-IQ men) display 50% lower forecast errors for inflation than other men. The inflation expectations and perceptions of high-IQ men, but not others, are positively correlated over time. High-IQ men are also less likely to round and to forecast implausible values. In terms of choice, only high-IQ men increase their propensity to consume when expecting higher inflation as the consumer Euler equation prescribes. High-IQ men are also forward-looking - they are more likely to save for retirement conditional on saving. Education levels, income, socio-economic status, and employment status, although important, do not explain the variation in expectations and choice by IQ. Our results have implications for heterogeneous-beliefs models of household consumption, saving, and investment.
E65|Prospects for Inflation in a High Pressure Economy: Is the Phillips Curve Dead or is It Just Hibernating?|This paper reviews a substantial range of empirical evidence on whether the Phillips curve is dead, i.e. that its slope has flattened to zero. National data going back to the 1950s and 60s yield strong evidence of negative slopes and significant nonlinearity in those slopes, with slopes much steeper in tight labor markets than in easy labor markets. This evidence of both slope and nonlinearity weakens dramatically based on macro data since the 1980s for the price Phillips curve, but not the wage Phillips curve. However, the endogeneity of monetary policy and the lack of variation of the unemployment gap, which has few episodes of being substantially below zero in tis sample period, makes the price Phillips curve estimates from this period less reliable. At the same time, state level and MSA level data since the 1980s yield significant evidence of both negative slope and nonlinearity in the Phillips curve. The difference between national and city/state results in recent decades can be explained by the success that monetary policy has had in quelling inflation and anchoring inflation expectations since the 1980s. We also review the experience of the 1960s, the last time inflation expectations became unanchored, and observe both parallels and differences with today. Our analysis suggests that reports of the death of the Phillips curve may be greatly exaggerated.
E65|Calibrating GDP fan charts using probit models with a comparison to the approaches of the Bank of England and Riksbank|Fan charts were pioneered by the Bank of England and Riksbank and provide a visuallyappealing means to convey the uncertainty surrounding a forecast. This paper describes amethod for parameterising fan charts around GDP growth forecasts by which the degree ofuncertainty is based on past forecast errors, but the skew is derived from a probit modelbasedassessment of the probability of a future downturn. The probit-based fan chartsclearly out-perform the Bank of England and Riksbank approaches when applied toforecasts made immediately preceding the Global Financial Crisis. These examples alsohighlight weaknesses with the Bank of England and Riksbank approaches. The Riksbank approach implicitly assumes that forecast errors are normally distributed, but over a long track record this is unlikely to be the case becauseforecasters are generally poor at predicting downturns, which leads to bias and skewin the pattern of forecast errors. Thus, the Riksbank fan chart is neither an accuraterepresentation of past forecast errors, nor is it a reflection of the risk assessmentunderlying the forecast. The Bank of England approach relies heavily on the judgment of the members of the Monetary Policy Committee to assess risks. However, even when they havecorrectly foreseen the nature of future risks, the quantitative translation of theserisks into the fan chart skew has been too timid. Perhaps one reason for this is thatthe fan chart prediction intervals based on historical forecast errors already appearquite wide so that inflating them by adding skew may appear embarrassing (at leastex ante).The approach advocated in this paper addresses these weaknesses by recognising thatforecast errors are not symmetrical: firstly, this leads to more compressed predictionintervals in the upper part of the fan chart (representing the possibility of under-prediction);and secondly, using the large forecast errors from past downturns to calibrate downwardskew clearly supports a more bold approach when there is a risk of a downturn. A weaknessof the probit model-based approach is that it will not predict atypical downturns. Forexample, in the current conjuncture it would not pick up risks associated with a ‘no deal’Brexit or a global trade war. However, a downturn triggered by atypical events may bemore severe if risk factors describing a typical business-financial cycle are also high.
E65|Using probit models of downturn risk to calibrate GDP Fan charts for New Zealand|Macroeconomic forecasters typically forecast fewer recessions than the number experienced, which means economic growth tends to be over-predicted on average. Consequently, forecast errors are not normally distributed, making it difficult to convey the uncertainty and risks based on the historical forecast track record. To characterise this risk, recent OECD work constructed fan charts parameterised on historical forecast errors and the probability of a future downturn estimated from a probit model comprising a range of potential macroeconomic and financial early warning indicators. As the probability of a downturn increases the associated fan chart is wider, reflecting increased uncertainty, and more skewed to the downside, reflecting greater downside risks. This paper applies this methodology to New Zealand; although one important difference compared to other OECD economies is that the time span of macroeconomic data without major structural change is significantly shorter. Forecast errors for GDP by the OECD, Reserve Bank of New Zealand and New Zealand Treasury all appear to be non-normally distributed. Fan charts for GDP forecasts from the mid-year 2018 OECD Economic Outlook are symmetric due to the low probability of a downturn. Fan charts estimated for the period preceding the global financial crisis using currently-available data have a downwards skew. However, those estimated using data only available in the lead up to the crisis have many insignificant coefficients, likely due to the structural changes that have occurred in the New Zealand economy since the 1980s.
E65|Do Unit Labor Costs Matter? A Decomposition Exercise on European Data|From the introduction of the Euro up to the 2008 global financial crisis, macroeconomic imbalances widened among Member States. This divergence took the form of strong differences in the dynamics of unit labour costs. This paper asks why this happened. Is it the result of distortionary public spending, or the consequence of economic integration? To answer this question, this paper builds a theoretical framework that is able to provide a decomposition of unit labour costs growth into various effects of economic integration and policy intervention. Using a novel dataset, it then measures the contribution of each effect to the dynamics of unit labour costs in 12 countries of the Euro area from 1995 to 2014. Results show that trade and financial integration are significant drivers of unit labour costs divergence. Before the global financial crisis, in Greece and Portugal for example, trade and financial integration explain up to 30% of the increase in unit labour costs relative to core countries. On the contrary, distortionary public spending plays a minor role. These results suggest that, in peripheral economies, increasing unit labour costs reflect more the process of real convergence than fiscal profligacy.
E65|Credit easing versus quantitative easing: evidence from corporate and government bond purchase programs|Using security-level data, we analyse the effects of the Bank of England’s multiple rounds of gilt purchases (aka Quantitative Easing, QE) and its Corporate Bond Purchase Scheme (aka Credit Easing, CE) on corporate bond prices and issuance. This allows direct estimation of (i) QE’s cross-asset supply effects and (ii) the joint supply effects of QE and CE. We show that in the case of QE alone, the pass-through of the gilt supply shock to corporate bond prices is significant, is larger in the longer-run than at announcement, and is often limited to the default-free component of the corporate yield. In the case of the joint conduct of QE and CE, we find that the CE is more effective than QE in reducing credit spreads, especially for higher-rated bonds, and in stimulating corporate bond issuance, which responds quite rapidly to the corporate bond supply shock.
E65|Deposit Insurance, Market Discipline and Bank Risk|Using evidence from Russia, we explore the e ect of the introduction of deposit insurance on bank risk. Drawing on within-bank variation in the ratio of firm deposits to total household and firm deposits, so as to capture the magnitude of the decrease in market discipline after the introduction of deposit insurance, we demonstrate for private, domestic banks that larger declines in market discipline generate larger increases in traditional measures of risk. These results hold in a di erence-in-di erence setting in which state and foreign-owned banks, whose deposit insurance regime does not change, serve as a control..
E65|Foreign Direct Investment and Tax: OECD Gravity Modelling in a World with International Financial Institutions|In this paper, bilateral OECD FDI flow data from 1985 to 2017 is evaluated and compiled to create a new dataset in order to clarify the controversial role (in the literature) of corporate tax levels on the decisions of firms regarding whether or not, and where, to undertake investments. In the course of our research we find the need to control for interaction with international financial institutions: Membership in BIS, EBRD, ADB and MIGA. Quantitative analyses via gravity models firstly provide findings which are consistent with previous studies and, secondly, expand the knowledge about FDI and tax by providing new results relevant for policymakers in the context of globalization and international institutions. It is shown that falling corporate tax rate levels lead to increasing FDI inflows, the effect is, however, smaller than expected; if deviation from international cooperation is chosen as a national strategy (i.e. unilateralism), the tax rate, however, gains in importance. On the other hand, unilateralism triggers various effects decreasing FDI inflows, as trade openness is likely to decrease, the opportunity costs for other nations to deviate decrease, and therefore bilateral tax differences are likely to decrease as well; which will further reduce the effect of low tax levels. Evidence for the phenomenon of implementing low corporate tax levels in order to keep domestic firms within the country and reduce their incentives to invest abroad is not found.
E65|The Euro Crisis and Economic Growth: A Novel Counterfactual Approach|Macroeconomic adjustment in the euro area periphery was more recessionary than pre-crisis imbalances would have warranted. To make this claim, this paper uses a Propensity Score Matching Model to produce counterfactuals for the Eurozone crisis countries (Greece, Portugal, Ireland, Cyprus, Spain) based on over 200 past macroeconomic adjustment episodes between 1960-2010 worldwide. At its trough, between 2010 and 2015 per capita GDP had contracted on average 11 percentage points more in the Eurozone periphery than in the standard counterfactual scenario. These results are not dictated by any specific country experience, are robust to a battery of alternative counterfactual definitions, and stand confirmed when using a parametric dynamic panel regression model to account more thoroughly for the business cycle. Zooming in on the potential causes, the lack of an independent monetary policy, while having contributed to a deeper recession, does not fully explain the Eurozone’s specificity, which is instead to be traced back to a sharper-than-expected contraction in investment and fiscal austerity due to high funding costs.
E65|Managing Households' Expectations with Salient Economic Policies|The empirical effectiveness of economic policies that operate theoretically through similar channels differs substantially. We document this fact by comparing an easy-to-grasp expectations-based policy, unconventional fiscal policy, with a policy whose implications are harder to understand by non-expert consumers, forward guidance. Both policies aim to stimulate consumption via managing inflation expectations based on the Euler equation. Unconventional fiscal policy uses trivial announcements of future consumer-price increases to boost inflation expectations and consumption expenditure on impact. Instead, forward guidance requires that agents understand the inflationary effects of future low interest rates to increase their inflation expectations and spending today. We find households’ inflation expectations and readiness to spend react substantially to unconventional fiscal policy announcements. The reaction is homogeneous across households with different levels of sophistication. Instead, households do not react after forward guidance announcements. These results support recent work stressing the importance of limited cognition for the effectiveness of policies.
E65|Jordan: The Elements of a Growth Strategy|In the decade 1999-2009, Jordan experienced an impressive growth acceleration, tripling its exports and increasing income per capita by 38%. Since then, a number of external shocks that include the Global Financial Crisis (2008-2009), the Arab Spring (2011), the Syrian Civil War (2011), and the emergence of the Islamic State (2014) have affected Jordan in significant ways and thrown its economy out of balance. Jordan’s debt-to-GDP ratio has ballooned from 55% (2009) to 94% (2018). The economy has continued to grow amidst massive fiscal adjustment and balance of payments constraints, but the large increase in population – by 50% between 2008 and 2017 – driven by massive waves of refugees has resulted in a 12% cumulative loss in income per capita (2010-2017). Moving forward, debt sustainability will require not only continued fiscal consolidation but also faster growth and international support to keep interest payments on the debt contained. We have developed an innovative framework to align Jordan’s growth strategy with its changing factor endowments. The framework incorporates service industries into an Economic Complexity analysis, utilizing the Dun and Bradstreet database, together with an evaluation of the evolution of Jordan’s comparative advantages over time. Combining several tools to identify critical constraints faced by sectors with the greatest potential, we have produced a roadmap with key elements of a strategy for Jordan to return to faster, more sustainable and more inclusive growth that is consistent with its emerging comparative advantages.
E65|What Option Prices tell us about the ECB's Unconventional Monetary Policies|We use a series of different approaches to extract information about crash risk from option prices for the Euro-Dollar exchange rate, with each step sharpening the focus on extracting more specific measures of crash risk around dates of ECB measures of Unconventional Monetary Policy. Several messages emerge from the analysis. Announcing policies in general terms without precisely describing what exactly they entail does not move asset markets or actually increases crash risk. Also, policies directly focused on changing relative asset supplies do seem to have an impact, while measures aiming at easing financing costs of commercial banks do not.
E65|A short review on the economics of artificial intelligence|The rapid development of artificial intelligence (AI) is not only a scientific breakthrough but also impacts on human society and economy as well as the development of economics. Research on AI economics is new and growing fast, with a current focus on the productivity and employment effects of AI. This paper reviews recent literature in order to answer three key questions. First, what approaches are being used to represent AI in economic models? Second, will AI technology have a different impact on the economy than previous new technologies? Third, in which aspects will AI have an impact and what is the empirical evidence of these effects of AI? Our review reveals that most empirical studies cannot deny the existence of the Solow Paradox for AI technology, but some studies find that AI would have a different and broader impact than previous technologies such as information technology, although it would follow a similar adoption path. Secondly, the key to incorporating AI into economic models raises fundamental questions including what the human being is and what the role of the human being in economic models is. This also poses the question of whether AI can be an economic agent in such models. Thirdly, studies on the labor market seem to have reached consensus on the stylized fact that AI would increase unemployment within sectors but may create employment gains at the aggregate level. AI also increases the income gap between low- and medium-skilled workers and high-skilled workers. AI’s impacts on international trade and education have been largely neglected in the current literature and are worth further research in the future.
E65|Conversion Theory II: the case for Recession Bonds|In a previous paper: “Conversion Theory: the key to understanding economic developments before and after the 2008 financial crisis”, the author stated that: * By 2007, U.S. subprime mortgages comprised 14% of outstanding mortgages, equivalent to $1.46 trillion. The securitized element was $1.1 trillion, which was about 15% of all outstanding mortgage backed securities ($7.3 trillion). * Over the period 2007-2014 21.228 million U.S. households were confronted with foreclosure proceedings out of the 51.234 million households who had a mortgage: 41.4% of all mortgage holders! * U.S Federal Government debt increased by $4.8 trillion between 2007-2010, while real GDP still shrank. This represented by far the fastest growth in debt compared to GDP over the last 50 years, from 62.9% Q4 2007 to 92.0% by Q4 2010. * Between May 2007 and October 2009, nearly 7 million U.S. individuals lost their jobs. New housing starts dropped from 2.273 million in January 2006 (annualized) to 478,000 by April 2009. Real median household income dropped from $59,534 by 2007 to $54,569 by 2012 or by 9.2%. The financial alchemy employed by bankers of the age entailed a conversion process, which turned long-term mortgage debt into daily tradable securities. The process failed for the simple reason that the risks posed by doubtful underlying debtors was transferred to investors, without clear provisions taken for such doubtful debtors. Liquidity disappeared when the curtain was pulled back and investors ran for the hills. The conversion method can also be applied to government debt in order to help overcome an economic recession. The method suggested is to create or convert a series of long-term bonds: Recession Bonds. Their defining characteristic is that the repayment of interest and some principal amount is halted during a recession period. A government can apply to the IMF to declare that a recession risk is imminent. Pay-outs of interest and some principal will be halted over the recession bonds until the recession is declared by the IMF to be over. Recession Bonds give a government the means to spend substantial additional amounts during a recession period without having to increase its borrowings. It is a cash flow transfer mechanism from financial investors to the real economy, benefitting consumer demand, wages and employment levels. This transfer mechanism also supports share prices. A version of financial alchemy but unlike the 2008 variety, the audience will not be repulsed if the curtain is pulled back!
E65|After the Great Recession; the Laws of Unintended Consequences|The United States (U.S.) financial crisis of 2008 created a recession: the Great Recession. A recession is technically declared over after two subsequent quarters of economic growth. By Q3 2009 this recession was declared over. However the laws of unintended consequences show a totally different picture. Between May 2007 and October 2009 nearly 7 million U.S. individuals lost their jobs and thereby their incomes. It took just over ten years before the unemployment rate had dropped again to 4.4% -to what it was in December 2006. Equally unintended was the development in the real median household income. In 2007 this income was $59,534. It dropped to $54,569 for 2012 and it only returned back to the levels of 2007, by 2016. Another unintended consequence was the difference between the fix for the banks in trouble and those for individual mortgage borrowers in trouble. Nearly all banks were bailed out in 2008, with the odd one declared bankrupt. For individual households/mortgage borrowers there was no respite in being pursued for outstanding mortgage debt. Over the period 2007-2014 21.228 million U.S. households were confronted with foreclosure proceedings. This number represented 41.4% of all household mortgage holders in the U.S. House prices tumbled after 2007. The S&P/Case-Shiller national home price index seasonally adjusted stood at 184.52 in January 2007 and for the first time only exceeded this level by November 2018 at 184.87. New housing starts also dropped significantly. In January 2006 the number was 2.273 million annualized new starts. The trend line moved from annualized 490,000 new starts in January 2009 to 1.230 million by January 2019. Another main unintended consequence of the financial crisis was the effect on U.S. government borrowings. U.S. Federal debt increased by $4.8 trillion between Q4 2007 and Q4 2010, while real GDP still shrank. In three years the Federal Government’s debt increased by more than 50% and its growth did not stop there. Could it be argued that the government’s debt increase paid the price for the bankers’ follies? Another major change was in interest rates. Fed funds rates have not been so low for over 60 years, until recently. All these factors show that a more streamlined approach to economic thinking is needed. The interactions between the financial markets and the real economy can be better handled. Some suggestions are made in this paper.
E65|Deficit financing in developing countries: Application and consequences|This article discusses briefly various aspects and forms of deficit financing in modern economies. It deals with deficit financing (i) within countries and (ii) between the member countries of the International Monetary Fund (IMF} and that institution as aid provider to a member in difficulty. In (i) it focuses mainly on the use of deficit financing as an instrument to part fund development and its consequences. In (ii) it sees deficit financing on a global scale, explains IMF conditionality and the sort of programs it envisaged the aid seeking members to follow; it presents illustration and critique of these programs. In conclusion it contains some observations including a few policy suggestions
E65|Who Gained from India’s Demonetization? Insights from Satellites and Surveys|On November 8, 2016, the Indian government abruptly demonetized 86% of its currency in circulation in an attempt to reduce black money, corruption, and counterfeiting. Yet, 99% of the currency was eventually returned to banks. We exploit large regional variations in deposit growth as a result of demonetization to study the medium-term effects of this policy. Using night-light data, we show that districts which experienced higher deposit growth during the demonetization period recorded higher levels of economic activity in the year and a half that followed. We estimate a one standard deviation increase in deposits is associated with a 5% increase in district GDP per capita. Further, districts with larger rural population, agricultural and non-agricultural informal labor shares also recorded an increase in nighttime light activity. The results are also supported by household-level surveys on income and expenditures.
E65|Human frictions in the transmission of economic policy|Intertemporal substitution is at the heart of modern macroeconomics and finance as well as economic policymaking, but a large fraction of a representative population of men - those below the top of the distribution by cognitive abilities (IQ) - do not change their consumption propensities with their inflation expectations. Low-IQ men are also less than half as sensitive to interest-rate changes when making borrowing decisions. Our microdata include unique administrative information on cognitive abilities, as well as economic expectations, consumption and borrowing plans, and total household debt from Finland. Heterogeneity in observables such as education, income, other expectations, and financial constraints do not drive these patterns. Costly information acquisition and the ability to form accurate forecasts are channels that cannot fully explain these results. Limited cognitive abilities could be human frictions in the transmission and effectiveness of fiscal and monetary policies that operate through household consumption and borrowing decisions.
E65|Working Time, Employment and Competitiveness|Abstract This report studies working time and competitiveness. The first part of the report compares working time in Finland to other European countries using working time data from Eurostat and provides a review of the economics literature on working time and employment. The second part of the report studies the impact of the Competitiveness Pact on employment and Finnish competitiveness using Etla’s macro model. This analysis separates the impact of working time extension and social security contributions and taxation on employment. The results of the working time comparison show that the average hours worked are little less than an hour shorter in Finland compared to the EU average. The low incidence of part-time work increases the average hours worked in Finland, while the working hours of both full-time and part-time employees are among the shortest in Europe. Annual holidays, public holidays and absences decrease working time in Finland more than in most other European countries. The literature review shows that the impact of working time changes on employment depend crucially on how they affect labor costs. The Competitiveness Pact increased employment and improved Finnish competitiveness. Working time extensions account for about 40% of the employment impact, while the rest is accounted for by the reductions in social security contributions and taxation.
E65|Deposit insurance, market discipline and bank risk|Using evidence from Russia, we explore the effect of the introduction of deposit insurance on bank risk. Drawing on within-bank variation in the ratio of firm deposits to total household and firm deposits, so as to capture the magnitude of the decrease in market discipline after the introduction of deposit insurance, we demonstrate for private, domestic banks that larger declines in market discipline generate larger increases in traditional measures of risk. These results hold in a difference-in-difference setting in which state and foreign-owned banks, whose deposit insurance regime does not change, serve as a control.
E65|Gambling with the family silver. Household consumption and saving responses to fiscal uncertainty|In the early 2000s, eight Norwegian energy producing municipalities sold up to ten years of future electricity earnings and let two brokers from Terra Securities make investments on their behalf. In the wake of the 2007 credit crash the municipalities lost up to 80 percent of their assets. This paper uses a difference in difference analysis to show that this tightening of the local government budget, and accompanying uncertainty about future economic outcomes, led to a reduction in private consumption of around 2 percent in 2008. I show that the response is driven by households who are the largest recipients of public services - the young and the elderly. The reduction in consumption is a result of households saving more, and not a direct consequence of changes in their disposable income. I also find that households in the affected municipalities rebalance their portfolios to holding a lower share of risky assets. The results are interpreted as households holding back consumption, and reallocating towards safer assets, until uncertainty regarding fiscal outcomes is resolved.
E65|The determinants of austerity in the European Union 2010-16|This paper aims at explaining what drove the adoption of austerity policies over the period 2010-16 in a panel of 28 European countries. Austerity is identified by year increases in the ratio between the structural primary balance and potential GDP. By means of principal component factor analysis we select the aggregate factors that might affect austerity, namely (i) fiscal consolidation (correction of high deficits and debts), (ii) market discipline (high sovereign spreads, low ratings), (iii) rule-based fiscal discipline (compliance with the Eurozone rules), and macroeconomic stabilisation (consideration for the cyclical position of the economy). Then we estimate a dynamic panel model with the system-GMM method. Results show that the most important contributions to austerity are provided by the market discipline and fiscal consolidation factors together with Excessive Deficit Procedures, with no significant role played by concomitant macroeconomic conditions. Overall, governments complied with orthodox fiscal principles and rules.
E65|Growth Fatigue|This paper uncovers a new economic growth phenomenon whereby an economy becomes increasingly unresponsive to economic growth policies. This new phenomenon is referred to as growth fatigue. In this short paper, I document the growth fatigue phenomenon for the economy of Japan. My observations on Japan suggest that growth fatigue typically occurs in matured economies and that its causes are largely unknown.
E65|On the Macroeconomic and Fiscal Effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act|There is substantial disagreement about the consequences of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017, which constitutes the most extensive tax reform in the United States in more than 30 years. Using a large-scale two-country dynamic general equilibrium model with nominal rigidities, we find that the TCJA increases GDP by about 2% in the medium-run and by about 2.5% in the long-run. The short-run impact depends crucially on the degree and costs of variable capital utilization, with GDP effects ranging from 1 to 3%. At the same time, the TCJA does not pay for itself. In our analysis, the reform decreases tax revenues and raises the debt-to-GDP ratio by about 15 percentage points in the medium-run until 2025. We show that combining the TCJA with spending cuts can dampen the increase in government indebtedness without reducing its expansionary effect.
E65|IQ, Expectations, and Choice|Forecast errors for inflation decline monotonically with both verbal and quantitative IQ in a large and representative male population. Within individuals, inflation expectations and perceptions are autocorrelated only for men above the median by IQ (high-IQ men). High-IQ men's forecast revisions are consistent with the diagnostic-expectations framework, whereas anything goes for low-IQ men. Education levels, income, socioeconomic status, or financial constraints do not explain these results. Using ad-hoc tasks in a controlled environment, we investigate the channels behind these results. Low-IQ individuals' knowledge of the concept of inflation is low; they associate inflation with concrete goods and services instead of abstract economic concepts, and are less capable of forecasting mean-reverting processes. Differences in expectations formation by IQ feed into choice—only high-IQ men plan to spend more when expecting higher inflation as the consumer Euler equation prescribes. Our results have implications for heterogeneous-beliefs models of consumption, saving, and investment.
E65|Human Frictions to the Transmission of Economic Policy|Intertemporal substitution is at the heart of modern macroeconomics and finance as well as economic policymaking, but a large fraction of a representative population of men -- those below the top of the distribution by cognitive abilities (IQ) -- do not change their consumption propensities with their inflation expectations. Low-IQ men are also less than half as sensitive to interest-rate changes when making borrowing decisions. Our microdata include unique administrative information on cognitive abilities, as well as economic expectations, consumption and borrowing plans, and total household debt from Finland. Heterogeneity in observables such as education, income, other expectations, and financial constraints do not drive these patterns. Costly information acquisition and the ability to form accurate forecasts are channels that cannot fully explain these results. Limited cognitive abilities could be human frictions in the transmission and effectiveness of fiscal and monetary policies that operate through household consumption and borrowing decisions.
E65|On the macroeconomic and fiscal effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act|There is substantial disagreement about the consequences of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017, which constitutes the most extensive tax reform in the United States in more than 30 years. Using a large-scale two-country dynamic general equilibrium model with nominal rigidities, the authors find that the TCJA increases GDP by about 2% in the medium-run and by about 2.5% in the long-run. The short-run impact depends crucially on the degree and costs of variable capital utilization, with GDP effects ranging from 1 to 3%. At the same time, the TCJA does not pay for itself. In the analysis, the reform decreases tax revenues and raises the debt-to-GDP ratio by about 15 percentage points in the medium-run until 2025. The show that combining the TCJA with spending cuts can dampen the increase in government indebtedness without reducing its expansionary effect.
E65|Количественное Смягчение По-Русски<BR>[Quantitative Easing, Russian Style]|In March 2018, President of Russia Vladimir Putin designated the target of increasing per capita GDP of the Russian population 1.5 times by 2024. In order to meet this target, GDP would be required to grow by 6% a year between 2018 and 2024. This is a challenging task as the last time growth rate ever reached the 6% bar was in the far off 2008. However, this can be done with the help of “quantitative easing, Russian way”. For that purpose, the commonly used “technology” of quantitative easing has to be adapted to the Russian environment. В марте 2018 года президент России Владимир Путин обозначил цель увеличить ВВП на душу населения в России в 1,5 раза к 2024 году. Для выполнения этой задачи требуется рост ВВП в 2018-2024 годах на 6% в год. Задача сложная, так как последний раз рост достигал 6% в далёком 2008 году. Но эту задачу можно решить с помощью «количественного смягчения по-русски». Для этого надо общепринятую «технологию» количественного смягчения приспособить (адаптировать) к российским условиям.
E65|Política Fiscal, Ingresos y Desigualdad en Colombia (1990-2015)<BR>[Fiscal Policy, Income And Inequality In Colombia (1990-2015)]|Due to the supported economic growth of the first decade of the 21st century, Colombia managed to reduce the levels of poverty and inequality. Nevertheless, the country continued to present one of the most inequitable economies in the world maintaining a high income concentration. In that sense, this paper aims at analyzing the fiscal policy incident in the income distribution. To that effect, the redistributive impact of the fiscal action in Colombia, Latin America and the group of country members of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) were examined. Besides, a historical follow-up of the income and public expenditures behavior in Colombia was carried out from 1990 until 2015, highlighting two fundamental facts: 1) from the constitutional reform of 1991, the social public expenditure presented a remarkable growth as a response to the fiscal commitments acquired by the state and 2) the Income Tax and the Value-Added tax (VAT) have been the props on which the national tax structure has been supported. With these elements and the information supplied by the National Survey of Income and Home Expenses, there was approached the study of the distributive incident in Colombia, estimating Gini’s indicators, the income concentration, Kakwani and Reynolds-Smolensky. The results of the present investigation allow to conclude that though the Income Tax to natural people, the Value-Added Tax (VAT) and the public expenditure show a progressive behavior, their redistributive capacity is limited; that is why the Gini’s coefficient don’t present significant variations after the fiscal action.
E65|Determinants of real exchange rate misalignment: An empirical analysis for MENA region|The purpose of this paper is to explain the magnitude of the misalignment of the real exchange rate and its determinants for the MENA countries. Misalignment is defined as the deviation of the real exchange rate from its equilibrium level, unlike volatility which is defined as fluctuations that are very frequent but do not persist. Through this study, an attempt is made to broaden the traditional analysis, focusing mainly on the role of the exchange rate regimes on misalignment of the REER. On the same point of view, the roles of the persistence of misalignment, the quality of institutions, financial development and inflation in the misalignment of the real equilibrium exchange rate of the region. The results of the empirical analysis show that the most advantageous exchange rate regime for the MENA countries is the floating regime. Also, the quality of institutions, financial development and inflation are determinants of the shift of the REER from its equilibrium value.
E65|Envelope wages, hidden production and labor productivity|We evaluate the relative importance of aggregate labor productivity versus income taxes and social contributions for tax compliance in an economy with a large degree of informality. Empirical evidence points out that tax evasion in Europe happens through partially concealing wages and profits in formally registered enterprises. To this end, we build a model in which employer-employee pairs of heterogeneous productive capacities make joint decisions on the degree of tax evasion. The quantitative model is used to analyze the case of Bulgaria which has the largest informal economy in Europe and underwent a number of important tax reforms over the period 2000–2014, including the introduction of a flat income tax in 2008. The estimation strategy relies on matching the empirical series for the size of the informal economy and other aggregate outcomes for 2000–2014. Our counterfactual experiments show that the most important factor for the changing size of the informal economy is labor productivity, which accounts for more than 75% of the change. The variation in corporate income tax accounts for the rest. We find that the 2008 flat tax reform did not play any visible role in coping with informality.
E65|Economic Integration and the Non-tradable Sector: The European Experience|From the introduction of the Euro up to the 2008 global financial crisis, macroeconomic imbalances widened among Member States. This divergence took the form of strong differences in the dynamics of unit labor costs. This paper asks why this happened. Is it the result of distortionary public spending, or the consequence of economic integration? To answer this question, this paper builds a theoretical framework that is able to provide a decomposition of unit labor costs growth into various effects of economic integration and policy intervention. Using a novel dataset, it then measures the contribution of each effect to the dynamics of unit labor costs in 12 countries of the Euro area from 1995 to 2014. Results show that trade and financial integration are significant drivers of unit labor costs divergence. Before the global financial crisis, in Greece and Portugal for example, trade and financial integration explain up to 20% of the increase in unit labor costs relative to core countries. On the contrary, distortionary public spending plays a minor role.
E65|Assessing the Effectiveness of IMF Programs Following the Global Financial Crisis: How Did It Change Since the Asian Crisis?|The paper identifies key features of International Monetary Fund (IMF)â€“supported programs following the 2008 global financial crisis. The statistical analysis of a large sample of countries that borrowed from the IMF during 1997â€“2013 indicates that, compared to the amount of financing provided to crisis countries during the post-Asian crisis period, the amount was larger on average by more than 3 percentage points of GDP. Yet, the observed magnitude of adjustment in key macroeconomic variables, such as output, the exchange rate, and the current account balance, was just as large, even when the influence of less favorable global economic conditions was controlled for. The paper argues that the puzzle can be explained, in part, by the large-scale global financial deleveraging, as well as the large initial domestic imbalances observed during the post-global crisis period. The IMFâ€™s post-global crisis programs routinely allowed fiscal balance targets to be relaxed in the face of adverse shocks; some attempted to bail in private investors or accommodated the use of capital and exchange controls to limit capital outflows; and the IMF often collaborated with other donors to boost total official financing. It is reasonable to surmise that, without these innovations, the required macroeconomic adjustments would have been even greater.
E65|What Option Prices tell us about the ECB's Unconventional Monetary Policies|We use a series of different approaches to extract information about crash risk from option prices for the Euro-Dollar exchange rate, with each step sharpening the focus on extracting more specific measures of crash risk around dates of ECB measures of Unconventional Monetary Policy. Several messages emerge from the analysis. Announcing policies in general terms without precisely describing what exactly they entail does not move asset markets or actually increases crash risk. Also, policies directly focused on changing relative asset supplies do seem to have an impact, while measures aiming at easing financing costs of commercial banks do not.
E65|A neoclassical perspective on Switzerland’s 1990s stagnation|We study Switzerland’s 1990s growth weakness through the lens of the business cycle accounting framework by Chari, Kehoe, and McGrattan (2007). Our main result is that weak productivity growth cannot account for the experienced stagnation. Rather, the stagnation is explained by factors that made labor and investment expensive. We show that an increase in labor income taxes and financial frictions are plausible causes. Holding these factors constant, counterfactual real annualized output growth over the 1992Q1–1996Q4 period is 1.93%, compared to a realized growth of 0.35%.
E65|Shall We Twist?|In recent monetary history, central banks around the world have started to introduce unconventional monetary policy measures, such as extending or restructuring the asset side of their balance sheet. The origin of these mon- etary policy tools goes back to an intervention by the U.S. Federal Reserve System under the Kennedy administration in 1961 known as Operation Twist. Operation Twist serves as a perfect laboratory to study the e ectiveness of such balance sheet policies, because interest rates neither were at their lower bound nor was the economy in a historical turmoil. We assess the actions of the FED and the Treasury under Operation Twist based on balance sheet data and evaluate their success using modern time series techniques. We nd that, although being of rather moderate size, the joint policy actions were e ective in compressing the long-short spreads of the Treasury bond rates.
E65|Boom-and-bust cycles in emerging markets: How important is the exchange rate?|This paper examines the macroeconomic implications of exchange rate shocks in a sample of 13 emerging market and 6 advanced economies since the early 1990 s. Factor-augmented vector autoregressions are estimated with three separate factors identified. They are: real, monetary and financial factors. The main conclusion is that there is no ‘one size fits all’ when interpreting the domestic responses to an exchange rate shock. International policies that aim to define a particular exchange rate or exchange rate regime are unlikely to be able to deal with so many idiosyncratic responses. Nor is it the case that a particular monetary policy strategy, such as inflation targeting, can immunize a domestic economy against all external shocks. International cooperation should instead encourage individual economies to seek out the menu of policies that ensure that each one's house is in order.
E65|Money Aggregates and Determinacy : A Reinterpretation of Monetary Policy During the Great Inflation|Should a policy rule include money? Including money exerts policy inertia and increases inflation aversion. In a New-Keynesian model with trend inflation,these features guarantee price determinacy even when the Taylor principle is not satisfied. Novel Greenbook data confirm money aggregates as U.S.Federal Open Market Committee policy objectives, enabling monetary policy to insulate the U.S.economy from self-fulfilling fluctuations despite positive trend inflation. A high response to inflation and lowtrend inflation guarantees determinacy post-1982. Cross-country applications highlight the superiority of the rule with money. Raising the inflation target from 2 percent to 4 percent violates the Taylor principle ; including money resolves this issue
E65|Could/should Jubilee debt cancellations be reintroduced today?|In this paper the authors recall the history of Jubilee debt cancellations, emphasizing what their social purpose was at that time. They note that it would not be possible to copy that procedure exactly nowadays, primarily because most debt/credit relationships are intermediated via financial institutions, such as banks, insurance companies, etc., rather than by governments or wealthy families directly. But the authors argue that the underlying social purpose of such Jubilees - to keep debt within the reasonable ability to be paid without social and economic polarisation - could be recreated via alternative mechanisms, and they discuss the politico-economic arguments for, and against, doing so.
E65|The Greek crisis: A story of self-reinforcing feedback mechanisms|While there seems to be a well established consensus about the underlying causes to the Greek crisis, less is known about internal and external transmission mechanisms that ultimately caused unemployment to increase rapidly over this period. Motivated by the structural slumps theory in Phelps (1994), the paper attempts, therefore, to uncover the dynamic mechanisms behind prices, interest rates, and external imbalances that contributed to the severity and the length of the crisis. We find that the strongly increasing real bond rate and unemployment rate together with an persistently appreciating real exchange rate and a deterioration of competitiveness in the eurozone have contributed to persistently growing structural imbalances in the Greek economy. As the lack of confidence in the Greek economy grew steadily, the scene was set for a monumental structural slump. We find strong evidence of (i) a Phillips curve relation with a non-constant natural rate being a function of relative costs and the real exchange rate; (ii) a vicious circle of strongly increasing bond rate and unemployment rate; and (iii) a relation associating confidence with the development of relative costs and the real exchange rate. Over the crisis period, all variables exhibited self-reinforcing feedback adjustment somewhere in the system except for inflation rate. Unemployment took the burden of adjustment when the bond rate sky rocketed, competitiveness deteriorated, and confidence fell.
E65|Cross-category spillovers of economic policy uncertainty|This paper analyses the interdependence of policy uncertainty from 1985 to 2017 across six different categories of US economic policy: Monetary, fiscal, healthcare, national security, regulatory, and trade policy. To this end, we apply the Diebold and Yilmaz (2012, 2014) connectedness index methodology to the newspaper-based uncertainty indices developed by Baker et al. (2016). We find that, in total, the category-specific uncertainties are indeed closely interrelated. However, some policy categories are strong net transmitters of uncertainty spillovers (e.g. fiscal policy), while others show only a low degree of average connectedness and are predominantly net receivers (e.g. trade policy). A modified rolling-window approach further reveals that the intensity and direction of spillovers change significantly over time. The total connectedness index not only shows strong bursts related to certain events, but also exhibits a positive long-run trend. The latter is particularly driven by an increasing average connectedness of both healthcare and regulatory policy uncertainty. Finally, we highlight the different characteristics of the uncertainty network across presidential administrations, as well as before and after the most recent election.
E65|"""Mismatch"" in the labor market and inflation: An integrative model with lessons from the Spanish experience"|The Great Recession (2009/10) resulted in the need of different economic policies and structural reforms to boost economic growth both in the advanced and in the emerging economies. In this paper, we start from a theoretical concept that is relatively new - the modified output gap (MOG), based on both the Phillips and the Beveridge curve, initially introduced by Sell and Reinisch (2013) and Sell (2016), revealing the explicit positive relationship between the vacancy ratio on the one hand and the inflation rate on the other hand. Empirically, we estimate this relationship by developing three different panel data models: Fixed Effects (FE), Random Effects (RE) and a GMM System (Generalized Method of Moments). The obtained results show that the loss in the efficiency of matching in the labor market combined with an increase in the demand in the markets for goods and services will push up inflation. We show the empirical relevance of the modified output gap for Spain during the Great Recession and explain how it affected the implementation of the economic stimulus plan that was introduced by the then socialist government in Spain with the aim of boosting the economy.
E65|The Aggregate Consequences of Tax Evasion|There is a sizable overall tax gap in the U.S., albeit tax non-compliance differs sharply across income types. While only small percentages of wages and salaries are underreported, the estimated misreporting rate of self-employment business income is substantial. This paper studies how tax evasion in the self-employment sector affects aggregate outcomes and welfare. We develop a dynamic general equilibrium model with incomplete markets in which heterogeneous agents choose between being a worker or self-employed. Self-employed agents may hide a share of their business income but face the risk of being detected by the tax authority. Our model replicates important quantitative features of the U.S. economy in terms of income, wealth, self-employment, and tax evasion. Our quantitative ndings suggest that tax evasion leads to a larger self-employment sector but it depresses the average size and productivity of self-employed businesses. Tax evasion generates positive aggregate welfare effects because it acts as a subsidy for the self-employed. Workers, however, suffer from substantial welfare losses.
E65|The government spending multiplier at the zero lower bound: International evidence from historical data|Based on a large historical panel dataset, this paper provides robust evidence that the government spending multiplier is significantly higher when interest rates are at, or near, the zero lower bound. We estimate fiscal multipliers that are around 1.5 during zero lower bound episodes and significantly below unity outside of it. We show that the difference in multipliers is not driven by multipliers being higher during periods of economic slack.
E65|Though this be madness: A game-theoretic perspective on the Brexit negotiations|On June 19, 2017 the European Union and the British government officially commenced negotiations on the terms of the British exit from the union. The dominant view among most economic policy analysts and commentators seems to be that the cards are clearly stacked against Britain and that the high-handed behaviour of the British representatives is, at best, either a bluff or, at worst, a sign of a loss of reality. In this paper we develop a formal model to show how this uncertainty regarding the preferences and strategy of the British side may affect the dynamic of the negotiations and may lead to unanticipated outcomes.
E65|Labor Market Effects of Credit Constraints: Evidence from a Natural Experiment|We exploit the 1998 and 2003 constitutional amendment in Texas—allowing home equity loans and lines of credit for non-housing purposes—as natural experiments to estimate the effect of easier credit access on the labor market. Using state-level as well as county-level data and the synthetic control approach, we find that easier access to housing credit led to a notably lower labor force participation rate between 1998 and 2007. We show that our findings are remarkably robust to improved synthetic control methods based on insights from machine-learning. We explore treatment effect heterogeneity using grouped data from the basic monthly CPS and find that declines in the labor force participation rate were larger among females, prime age individuals, and the college-educated. Analysis of March CPS data confirms that the negative effect of easier home equity access on labor force participation was largely concentrated among homeowners, with little discernible impact on renters, as expected. We find that, while the labor force participation rate experienced persistent declines following the amendments that allowed access to home equity, the impact on GDP growth was relatively muted. Our research shows that labor market effects of easier credit access should be an important factor when assessing its stimulative impact on overall growth.
E65|Are BRICS Markets Equally Exposed to Trump’s Agenda?|There is no doubt that politicians exert a significant impact on stock markets. The evolving financial market volatility over the United States presidential election is a prime example of how elections have an impact on financial markets. This study assessed whether BRICS stock markets were equally vulnerable to Trump’s agenda using event-study methodology and regression-based intention votes over a period of 120 days toward the final election result on 08 November 2016. It was shown that although Trump’s win had a negative effect on some markets, it had a positive effect on others. It had the most adverse impact on China together with Brazil. Although not to the same degree as these two countries, India and South Africa were also affected negatively. These adverse reactions can be explained by Trump’s neo-mercantilist attitude, which involves cancelling trade deals and instituting tariffs. However, the effects on Russia appear to be positive due to the expectations about the easing of sanctions imposed on Russia because of the Russian role in the conflict of Ukraine.
E65|Do Unit Labor Costs Matter? A Decomposition Exercise on European Data|From the introduction of the Euro up to the 2008 global financial crisis, macroeconomic imbalances widened among Member States. This divergence took the form of strong differences in the dynamics of unit labour costs. This paper asks why this happened. Is it the result of distortionary public spending, or the consequence of economic integration? To answer this question, this paper builds a theoretical framework that is able to provide a decomposition of unit labour costs growth into various effects of economic integration and policy intervention. Using a novel dataset, it then measures the contribution of each effect to the dynamics of unit labour costs in 12 countries of the Euro area from 1995 to 2014. Results show that trade and financial integration are significant drivers of unit labour costs divergence. Before the global financial crisis, in Greece and Portugal for example, trade and financial integration explain up to 30% of the increase in unit labour costs relative to core countries. On the contrary, distortionary public spending plays a minor role. These results suggest that, in peripheral economies, increasing unit labour costs reflect more the process of real convergence than fiscal profligacy.
E65|"The ""eternal character"" of austerity measures in European crisis policies: Evidences from the Fiscal Compact discourse in Austria"|"The European Fiscal Compact (FC) entered into force by 1 January, 2013 in 25 EU Member States. With the ratification the signatory countries commit significant parts of their budget to the European Commission and the European Court of Justice, which indicates a shift of power from legislative to executive authorities and the judiciary. In the aftermath of the economic crisis there can be observed a strong tendency to interpret the financial and economic crisis mainly as a sovereign debt crisis without any connection to the preceding crisis. This is reflected in several recommendations, which limit the scope of political decision-making in order to ""calm financial markets"". Applying an analysis of the public discourse about FC in three leading Austrian newspapers from December 2011 (the initial debate at an EU Summit) to July 2012 (the ratification in the Austrian parliament), the dominant rationale as well as legitimization and argumentation patterns will be examined. The methodology adopted in the article is based on a combination of critical discourse analysis and conceptual metaphor theory in order to illustrate the effectiveness of marketradical thinking of specific economic elites in public discourse. It can be shown that the public discourse about economic policies yet in a time of a potential ""crisis of economics"" is still dominated by economic ideas or ""economic imaginaries"" (implicitly) preferring austerity measures to active fiscal policies."
E65|The Indian fiscal-monetary framework: Dominance or coordination?|The worldwide move to constrain monetary and fiscal policy using rules is creating a switch from fiscal towards monetary dominance. India also implemented flexible inflation targeting and fiscal responsibility legislation. The theoretical arguments, openness to capital flows, and historical experience with the adverse effects of fiscal dominance that led to these changes are discussed. When output is demand determined, with a relatively greater impact of monetary policy on demand, while fiscal policy affects supply-side costs and therefore inflation, as in India, monetary dominance also has adverse effects. Since each policy acts more effectively on the other's objective, co-ordination is essential to achieve optimal outcomes. Under adverse movements in revenues and high interest rates public investment is the first to be cut. Growth can fall below potential while supply-side inflation persists. The paper examines one way of achieving better outcomes. Rules alone could be interpreted too strictly. Delegation to a more conservative fiscal and less conservative monetary authority, by removing the fears of non-cooperation, makes coordination with higher payoffs for both self-enforcing. Such constrained discretion gives the required long-term perspective, yet retains flexibility.
E65|“Do government formation deadlocks damage economic growth? Evidence from history’s longest period of political deadlock”|Several countries have experienced lengthy periods of political deadlock in recent years, as they have sought to form a new government. This study examines whether government formation deadlocks damagea country’s economy. To do so, we analyze the case of Belgium, which took a record 541 days to create a post-election government, following the June 2010 federal elections. Employing the synthetic control method, our results show that the Belgian economy did not suffer an economic toll; on the contrary, GDP per capita growth was higher than would have otherwise been expected. As such, our evidence contradicts frequent claims that long periods of government formation deadlock negatively affect an economy.
E65|The Aggregate Consequences of Tax Evasion|There is a sizeable overall tax gap in the U.S., albeit tax noncompliance differs sharply across income types. While only small percentages of wages and salaries are underreported, the estimated misreporting rate of self-employment business income is substantial. This paper studies how tax evasion in the self-employment sector affects aggregate outcomes and inequality. To this end, we develop a dynamic general equilibrium model with incomplete markets in which heterogeneous agents choose between being a worker and being self-employed. Self-employed agents may hide a share of their business income but are confronted with the probability of being detected by the tax authority. Our model replicates important quantitative features of U.S. data, in particular, the misreporting rate, wealth inequality, and the firm size distribution. Our quantitative findings suggest that tax evasion induces self-employed businesses to stay small. In the aggregate, tax evasion increases the size but decreases the productivity of the self-employment sector. Moreover, it increases aggregate savings and reduces wealth inequality. We show that tax revenues follow a Laffer curve in the size of the tax evasion penalty.
E65|Unconventional Monetary Policies and Central Bank Profits: Seigniorage as Fiscal Revenue in the Aftermath of the Global Financial Crisis|"This study investigates the evolution of central bank profits as fiscal revenue (or: seigniorage) before and in the aftermath of the global financial crisis of 2008-9, focusing on a select group of central banks--namely the Bank of England, the United States Federal Reserve System, the Bank of Japan, the Swiss National Bank, the European Central Bank, and the Eurosystem (specifically Deutsche Bundesbank, Banca d'Italia, and Banco de Espana)--and the impact of experimental monetary policies on central bank profits, profit distributions, and financial buffers, and the outlook for these measures going forward as monetary policies are seeing their gradual ""normalization."" Seigniorage exposes the connections between currency issuance and public finances, and between monetary and fiscal policies. Central banks' financial independence rests on seigniorage, and in normal times seigniorage largely derives from the note issue supplemented by ""own"" resources. Essentially, the central bank's income-earning assets represent fiscal wealth, a national treasure hoard that supports its central banking functionality. This analysis sheds new light on the interdependencies between monetary and fiscal policies. Just as the size and composition of central bank balance sheets experienced huge changes in the context of experimental monetary policies, this study's findings also indicate significant changes regarding central banks' profits, profit distributions, and financial buffers in the aftermath of the crisis, with considerable cross-country variation."
E65|Investment as a transmission mechanism from weak demand to weak supply and the post-crisis productivity slowdown|Current weak labour productivity growth in many OECD countries reflects historically weak contributions from both total factor productivity (TFP) growth and capital deepening. The slowdown in trend productivity growth in the pre-crisis period is mostly explained by a long-established slowdown in TFP growth, but since the crisis the further deceleration is mainly due to weak capital deepening, a development apparent in practically every OECD country. Much of the weakness in the growth of the capital stock since the financial crisis can be explained by an accelerator response of investment to continued demand weakness, leading in turn to a deterioration of potential output via a hysteresis-like effect. For the most severely affected economies, the financial crisis is estimated to have reduced potential output by more than 2% via this transmission mechanism. In many OECD countries, declining government investment as a share of GDP has further exacerbated post-crisis weakness in capital stock growth, both directly and probably indirectly via adverse spillover effects on business investment. Finally, over a period when the use of conventional macro policy instruments was constrained, the slower pace of structural reform represents a missed opportunity, not least because more competition-friendly product market regulation could have boosted both investment and potential growth.
E65|Fan charts around GDP projections based on probit models of downturn risk|This paper describes a method for parameterising fan charts around GDP growth forecasts of the major OECD economies as well as the aggregate OECD. The degree of uncertainty – reflecting the overall spread of the fan chart – is based on past forecast errors, but the skew – reflecting whether risks are tilted to the downside – is derived from a probit model-based assessment of the probability of a future downturn. This approach is applied to each of the G7 countries separately, with combinations of variables found to be useful in predicting future downturns at different horizons up to 8 quarters: at short horizons of 2-4 quarters, a flattening or inverted yield curve slope, recent sharp falls in house prices, share prices or credit; at longer horizons of 6-8 quarters, sustained strong growth in house prices, share prices and credit; and at all horizons, a tight labour market and rapid growth in OECD-wide (or in some cases euro-wide) house prices, share prices or credit. The in-sample fit of the probit models appears reasonably good for all G7 countries. The predicted probabilities from the probit models provide a graduated assessment of downturn risk, which is reflected in the degree of skew in the fan chart. Fan charts computed on an out-of-sample basis around pre-crisis OECD forecasts published in June 2008 encompass the extreme outturns associated with the Global Financial Crisis for five of the G7 countries. A weakness of the approach is that, although it predicts a clear majority of past downturns, it will not predict atypical downturns. For example, in the current conjuncture, it is unlikely that current concerns about risks associated with Brexit, an escalation of trade tensions or spillovers from emerging markets would be picked up by the models. At the same time, a severe downturn triggered by such atypical events might be more severe if more typical risk factors are also high.
E65|The Democrat-Republican growth gap paradox|Economic performance has been historically better under Democrat presidents compared to Republican ones. This gap has not yet been fully explained appealing to better management or luck. In fact, the economic cycles under one group of administrations or the other are quite similar. Blinder and Watson (2016) provide the best attempt so far at solving the paradox, but can explain only half of the gap. Drawing from them, and using a different method to account for the initial conditions of each presidential term, we are able to show that the phase of the economic cycle at the different elections are correlated to the party of the president. We also find ample evidence suggesting that there is a subtle causality: when the unemployment is high, the probability of a person voting for a Democrat president increases, thus causing Democrats being elected more often at the end of a recession and the beginning of a recovery. This, and not the difference in competence dealing with the economic cycles, is enough to close the gap.
E65|The Government Spending Multiplier at the Zero Lower Bound: International Evidence from Historical Data|Based on a large historical panel dataset, this paper provides robust evidence that the government spending multiplier is significantly higher when interest rates are at, or near, the zero lower bound. We estimate fiscal multipliers that are around 1.5 during zero lower bound episodes and significantly below unity outside of it. We show that the difference in multipliers is not driven by multipliers being higher during periods of economic slack.
E65|Assessing the Impact of Demand Shocks on the US Term Premium|During and after the Great Recession of 2008-09, conventional monetary policy in the United States and many other advanced economies was constrained by the effective lower bound (ELB) on nominal interest rates. Several central banks implemented large-scale asset purchase (LSAP) programs, more commonly known as quantitative easing or QE, to provide additional monetary stimulus. Gauging the effectiveness of LSAPs is important, since the ELB may be a constraint on conventional monetary policy more frequently in the future than it was in the past. In this paper we analyze two distinct periods where we observe exogenous demand shocks for 10-year US Treasury bonds to assess their impact on the term premium. Our results show that official sector demand factors, measured by purchases of securities by the foreign official sector and the Federal Reserve's asset purchase program, are important drivers explaining movements in the term premium. They suggest that asset purchases (QE) can help provide additional monetary stimulus even once the policy rate has reached its ELB. Robustness tests also suggest that the estimated impact of official sector demand factors is the most robust driver of the term premium across alternative specifications, while the estimates on risk factors appear more sensitive to the choice of term premium specification. Based on external projections and authors' assumptions, our results suggest that the US term premium will rise gradually from an average of about -20 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2016 to around +10, 32 and 60 basis points by the end of 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively, before stabilizing around 100 basis points in the medium term.
E65|Financial markets effects of ECB unconventional monetary policy announcements|This paper provides empirical evidence about the announcement effects of the ECB unconventional monetary policies carried out during the period September 2014 - July 2017. The variables considered are selected looking at the various transmission channels through which unconventional measures operate. We find that monetary policy news had significant effects on the exchange rate and sovereign long term yields, especially in those countries that were most severely hit by the crisis. Unlike previous studies, we look at the impact of announcements over different sub-periods in order to identify time-varying effects possibly due to different market conditions, policy instruments and communication strategies. We find that the strongest effects on the exchange rates and on sovereign bonds occurred in the initial phase of the Asset Purchase Programme; over the more recent period a statistically significant rise of inflation expectations was instead detected.
E65|The effect of the Eurosystem expanded Asset Purchase Programme on inflation expectations: evidence from the ECB Survey of Professional Forecasters|This paper investigates the effect of ECB asset purchases on inflation expectations in the euro area, as measured by the ECB Survey of Professional Forecasters. To identify the effects on individual expectations we adopt a panel approach, where the Eurosystem Asset Purchase Programme (APP) shocks are used as covariates to explain the revisions in the individual inflation forecasts; controls for updates in macroeconomic and financial developments are also included. Our results indicate that the first APP announcement in January 2015 resulted in a statistically significant upwards revision of medium term inflation expectations and lowered the forecasters’ assessment of the probability of a low inflation regime. The average effect however masks significant differences among forecasters: forecasters that were relatively more accurate prior to the announcement were also those who revised their inflation forecasts more markedly.
E65|Monetary Rules, Determinacy and Limited Enforcement|We investigate the ability of monetary policy rules to implement a unique equilibrium outcome when the enforcement of rules is limited. We combine the approach of Bassetto (2005) and Atkeson et al. (2010) to study implementation and the one by Chari and Kehoe (1990) to allow policy deviations. Our main result is that, under limited enforcement, there does not exist a policy rule that implements a unique outcome: the private sector can always deter the central bank to stick to the rule. We then provide further results on implementation when private agents expect a given policy and when they hesitate between multiple policies.
E65|Forward Guidance and Heterogeneous Beliefs|Central banks' announcements that rates are expected to remain low could signal either a weak macroeconomic outlook, which would slow expenditures, or a more accommodative stance, which may stimulate economic activity. We use the Survey of Professional Forecasters to show that, when the Fed gave guidance between 2011:III and 2012:IV, these two interpretations coexisted despite a consensus on low expected rates. We rationalize these facts in a New-Keynesian model where heterogeneous beliefs introduce a trade-off in forward guidance policy: leveraging on the optimism of those who believe in monetary easing comes at the cost of inducing excess pessimism in non-believers.
E65|Monetary Policy Lessons from the Greenbook|From 1987 through 2012, the Federal Open Market Committee appears to have set its federal funds rate target with reference to Greenbook forecasts of the output gap and inflation and to have made further adjustments to the funds rate as those forecasts were revised. If viewed in the context of the Taylor (1993) Rule, discretionary departures from the settings prescribed by a Greenbook forecast-based version of the rule consistently presage business cycle turning points. Similarly, estimates from an interest rate rule with time-varying parameters imply that, around such turning points, the FOMC responds less vigorously to information contained in Greenbook forecasts about the changing state of the economy. These results suggest possible gains from closer adherence to a rule with constant parameters. Other statistical properties of Greenbook forecasts also point to an overlooked role for monetary aggregates, particularly Divisia monetary aggregates, in the Federal Reserve's forecasting process and subsequent monetary policy decisions made by the FOMC.
E65|The Persistence-Resilience Trade-off in Unemployment: The Role of Labor and Product Market Institutions|The “great recession” has affected labor markets in Euro-area countries in very different ways. This chapter documents two important aspects of their response: the impact effect of the recession on the rate of unemployment, and the persistence of high unemployment. We find that countries lie on a trade-off between “resilience” and “persistence”: countries where the rate of unemployment is less affected on impact by output shocks (resilience) typically show higher unemployment persistence. We investigate the role of labor and product market institutions, and find evidence that more protected markets are associated to more resilience at the expense of more persistence. This suggests that implementing front loaded “structural reforms” at times of a fiscal consolidation, as many Southern European countries did during the recent crisis, may foster the rise in unemployment and possibly undermine the political support for the reforms. When we estimate the contribution of product and labor market reforms to the rise of unemployment in Southern Europe, however, we find positive, but relatively small effects that are quickly reversed.
E65|BREXIT and FDI: Key Issues and New Empirical Findings|Summary This contribution takes a new look at the gravity equation model in relation to foreign direct investment of leading industrialized countries which presents a useful basis for assessing certain potential impacts arising from BREXIT. The gravity equation estimated allows considering the case of BREXIT and the broader role of EU membership and other variables. Looking at the period from 1985 to 2012 for a dataset which contains 34 OECD countries: The PPML dyadic fixed estimations take into account a broad set of approaches and variables, respectively. Besides the traditional variables of the EU/EU single market membership of the source country and of the host country, we further consider the role of trade openness as well as corporate tax rates and the ratio of inward FDI stock to total capital stock. The analysis shows that trade openness is a variable which can be largely replaced by the inward FDI stock/capital stock ratio so that gravity FDI modeling with a strong emphasis on trade openness is likely to overstate the role of trade and to understate the role of relative FDI accumulation effects. The implication for BREXIT analysis is that the UK will face three impulses for FDI inflows: (1) leaving the EU single market will strongly reduce FDI inflows; (2) if foreign ownership in the UK capital stock should strongly increase in the run-up to the BREXIT year 2019, part of the dampening effects of leaving the EU will be mitigated by the increase of the FDI stock/capital stock ratio which in turn is likely to reflect a Froot-Stein effect related to a real Pound deprecation 2016-2018; (3) to the extent that the UK government will want to reinforce output growth through higher FDI inflows, a reduction of corporate taxation could generate high effects – but could also stimulate a downward international corporate tax reduction game. Zusammenfassung: Dieser Artikel leistet einen neuen Beitrag zur Analyso von Direktinvestitionsflüssen führender Industrieländer mithilfe des Gravitationsmodells, was eine nützliche Grundlage für die Bewertung bestimmter potenzieller Auswirkungen von BREXIT darstellt. Die Gravitationsgleichung ermöglicht die Berücksichtigung des BREXIT-Falles, der umfassenderen Rolle der EU-Mitgliedschaft und anderer Variablen. Betrachtet wird der Zeitraum von 1985 bis 2012 für einen Datensatz, der 34 OECD-Länder enthält: Der dyadische PPML-Fixed-Effects Schätzer berücksichtigt eine breite Palette von Ansätzen bzw. Variablen. Neben den traditionellen Variablen der Mitgliedschaft der EU bzw. des EU-Binnenmarktes im Herkunfts- und im Empfängerland, betrachten wir die Rolle der Handelsoffenheit sowie der Körperschaftssteuersätze und des Verhältnisses der FDI-Bestände zum gesamten Kapitalbestand. Die Analyse zeigt, dass die Handelsoffenheit eine Variable ist, die weitgehend durch die FDI-Aktien- / Kapitalstock-Quote ersetzt werden kann, so dass die FDI-Modellierung mit Schwerpunkt auf Handelsoffenheit die Rolle des Handels überbewerten und die Rolle der relativen kummulierten FDI-Effekte unterbewerten. Die Analyse zeigt, dass der BREXIT für das Vereinigte Königreich drei Effekte für die FDI-Zuflüsse haben wird: (1) wenn der EU-Binnenmarkt verlassen wird, werden die FDI-Zuflüsse stark sinken; (2) Sollte die ausländische Beteiligung am britischen Kapitalstock im Vorfeld des BREXIT-Jahres 2019 stark ansteigen, wird ein Teil der dämpfenden Auswirkungen des EU-Austritts durch die Erhöhung der FDI-Aktien-/Kapitalstockquote gemildert, dies reflektiert einen Froot-Stein-Effekt, der sich auf eine reale Pfund-Abwertung 2016-2018 bezieht; (3) In dem Maße, in dem die britische Regierung das Produktionswachstum durch höhere FDI-Zuflüsse verstärken will, könnte eine Senkung der Unternehmensbesteuerung hohe Auswirkungen haben – könnte aber auch eine Senkungsspirale des internationalen Steuersatzes stimulieren.
E65|(Un)Competitive Devaluations and Firm Dynamics|This paper studies monetary and exchange rate policy in a world of global value chains. Using recent microdata from Japan and Russia, devaluations are shown to negatively affect exporters in terms of employment, domestic revenue and profitability relative to nonexporting firms. Given their substantial dependence on imported intermediate inputs, exporting firms are more exposed to marginal cost shocks following exchange rate movements. Standard macro models are too simplistic in their microstructure to capture these transmission channels. I propose a New Keynesian general equilibrium model with firm heterogeneity, varying intermediate import intensities, and international dollar pricing to explain the findings. Strategic complementarities improve the quantitative performance of the model without changing its qualitative properties. The new paradigm is successful in matching key firm-level moments as well as the evolution of inflation and net exports.
E65|A Review of CBOâ€™s Estimate of the Effects of the Recovery Act on SNAP|CBO estimated in February 2009 that spending under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits would total $19 billion from 2009 to 2013. Actual outlays were $22 billion more than that amount. This report explains CBOâ€™s calculations, identifies factors that contributed to the underestimate, and examines factors affecting ARRA-related spending on SNAP for 2014 to 2019.
E65|Macroeconomic policies after the 2008 financial crisis: lessons from brazilian and chinese experiences|During the 2008 crisis the mainstream macroeconomics was unable to provide an adequate set of tools to combat the economic recession, triggering a debate on the theoretical basis of the dominant macroeconomic thinking and consequently on the kind of macroeconomic policy that should be implemented during and after a crisis. This discussion may lead to a fundamental change in the general approach to the use of fiscal and monetary policies as a tool for economic recovery. In this sense, the objective of this dissertation is to support this debate through the empirical study of the Brazilian and Chinese experiences before, during and after 2008. Both countries used unconventional measures to face the crisis and obtained relative success. A Structural VAR (SVAR) is used to verify which type of macroeconomic policy most contributed to the GDP growth of each of the countries during the period between 2000 and 2016. The results show the importance of using both policies, but they indicate a greater relevance of interest rates and government revenue as macroeconomic tools in Brazil and China, respectively. The evaluation of the monetary and fiscal policies adopted by them shows the impossibility of maintaining macroeconomic stability aiming exclusively reasonable inflationary levels through the adjustment of interest rates. Rethinking the way macroeconomic policies are implemented is fundamental in order to adapt the mainstream macroeconomics to the current scenario of the world economy and to avoid the economic stagnation experienced by several developed economies today.
E65|Unconventional Fiscal Policy|Unconventional fiscal policy uses announcements of future increases in consumption taxes to generate inflation expectations and accelerate consumption expenditure. It is budget neutral and time consistent. We provide preliminary evidence for the effectiveness of such policies using changes in value-added tax (VAT) and household survey data for Poland. We find households increased their inflation expectations and willingness to purchase durables before the increase in VAT. Future research has to ensure income, wealth effects, or intratemporal substitution channels cannot explain these results and ideally exploit exogenous variation in VAT in a fixed nominal interest rate environment.
E65|The Brexit as a Forerunner: Monetary Policy, Economic Order and Divergence Forces in the European Union|We analyze the effects of the increasingly expansionary monetary policies on the economic order and on the European integration process. We argue that the market orders shaped in postwar Germany and in Margret Thatcher’s United Kingdom have long served as cornerstones for growth, prosperity and social cohesion in Europe. It is shown that the monetary policies of the European Central Bank and the Bank of England have undermined these orders, thereby eroding productivity gains and growth. Combined with negative distribution effects, ultra-loose monetary policies constitute the breeding ground for divergence forces in the European Union as heralded by the Brexit.
E65|The Role of Volunteers in German Refugee Crisis and their Contribution to the Local Government Expenditure|This study deals with a specific volunteering aspect revealed in the German refugee crisis 2015/16. German federalism prescribing interjurisdictional assignments of tasks for designing, financing and implementing services for refugees and their geographic distribution have made municipalities and cities primarily responsible for solving problems of refugees’ accommodation, integration and health care. Based on a survey recently carried out in the district of Erding, it firstly demonstrates distinctive characteristics of the individual volunteers engaged in such related local activities (gender and age; income structure; donation types; working hours), followed by an attempt to measure economic values of volunteering. Despite some methodological weaknesses, this study highlights the monetary significance of volunteers’ hidden contribution to overcoming the crisis and the relatively huge scope of possible savings in local expenditure, compared to an assumed situation if such voluntary activities were fully substituted by those of full-time civil servants.
E65|Growth Accelerations Strategies|Setting a country’s structural growth rate on a higher path, i.e. sparking and sustaining a growth acceleration can have quantitatively huge implications for national income and, more broadly, for people’s wellbeing. We develop a novel statistical framework to identify systematically the set of binding constraints that were unlocked before the 135 growth acceleration episodes that took place between 1962 and 2002 worldwide. We employ this information to characterise the acceleration process, which tends to be preceded by a deep recession and major economic policy changes. Once we combined this information with a set of counterfactual analyses, we find however that successful acceleration strategies should not contain off-the-shelf approaches or necessarily all-encompassing “shock therapy” solutions. On the other hand, they call for a careful tailoring to local conditions. Richer countries tend to experience fewer accelerations, but once these have been ignited, they are better positioned to make the most out of them. Despite standard growth determinants doing a fairly good job at characterising successful accelerations, we note how take-offs remain extremely hard to engineer with a high degree of certainty.
E65|Could/Should Jubilee Debt Cancellations be Reintroduced Today?|In this paper we recall the history of Jubilee debt cancellations, emphasizing what their social purpose was at that time. We note that it would not be possible to copy that procedure exactly nowadays, primarily because most debt/credit relationships are intermediated via financial institutions, such as banks, insurance companies, etc., rather than by governments or wealthy families directly. But we argue that the underlying social purpose of such Jubilees- to keep debt within the reasonable ability to be paid without social and economic polarisation - could be recreated via alternative mechanisms, and we discuss the politico-economic arguments for, and against, doing so
E65|A retrospective on the subprime crisis and its aftermath ten years after Lehman's collapse|This paper reviews the interactions between policymaking, the financial system and the U.S. economy before, during and after the subprime crisis with particular attention to current controversies about the policy decisions that led to Lehman's downfall and their lessons for the future. The first part of the paper documents and analyzes the interactions between policy, financial markets and the economy during the acute and subsequent moderate phases of the crisis as well as during the later gradual exit from the zero lower bound and the extremely slow reduction in high powered money and bank reserves. The remaining parts develop alternative aspects of the thesis that mutual uncertainties inflicted by financial institutions on policymakers and by the latter on financial markets were at the root of the non-negligible surprises that the crisis inflicted on everybody. In particular, it discusses the political economy of bailout operations, reviews and evaluates recent controversies about the reasons for not rescuing Lehman Brothers and present informally the structure and policy lessons from a general equilibrium model of the financial sector which highlights the consequences of policy actions that have raised (Knightian) bailout uncertainty. The last section takes a brief look ahead and discusses some longer term consequences of the crisis.
E65|The use of the Eurosystem’s monetary policy instruments and its monetary policy implementation framework Q2 2016 - Q4 2017|This paper provides a comprehensive overview of the use of the Eurosystem’s monetary policy instruments and the operational framework from the second quarter of 2016 to the last quarter of 2017. It reviews the context of Eurosystem market operations; the design and operation of the Eurosystem’s counterparty and collateral frameworks; the fulfilment of minimum reserve requirements; participation in credit operations and recourse to standing facilities; and the conduct of outright asset purchase programmes. The paper also discusses the impact of monetary policy implementation on the Eurosystem's balance sheet, excess liquidity and money market liquidity conditions. JEL Classification: D02, E43, E58, E65, G01
E65|What drives household inflation expectations in South Africa? Demographics and anchoring under inflation targeting|This paper examines the demographic determinants of inflation expectations in South Africa. Five surveys covering the period 2006-2016, and consisting of over 12000 observations were empirically examined using time series, cross-sectional, censored and quantile regressions. We assess whether factors such as gender, income, education, race and age, impact one year ahead inflation expectations. In doing so we uncover clear behavioural biases in how respondents view the inflation outlook. For example, education and income tend to be inversely related to inflation expectations. This is consistent with the literature although we observe significant changes over time that many other surveys are unable to uncover. In addition, it seems that inflation expectations respond to recently observed inflation. Unlike other studies, younger individuals have lower inflation expectations and we conjecture that the adoption of inflation targeting in South Africa played a role. Finally, we find that demographic characteristics interact with communication by the South African Reserve Bank, as well whether inflation is rising or falling. These are two additional novel features of the analysis.
E65|Assessing the Effectiveness of IMF Programs Following the Global Financial Crisis: How Did It Change Since the Asian Crisis?|We identify the key features of International Monetary Fund (IMF)–supported programs following the 2008 global financial crisis. The statistical analysis of a large sample of countries that borrowed from the IMF during 1997–2013 indicates that, compared to the amount of financing provided to crisis countries during the post-Asian crisis period, the amount was larger on average by more than 3 percentage points of GDP. Yet, the observed magnitude of adjustment in key macroeconomic variables, such as output, the exchange rate, and the current account balance, was just as large, even when the influence of less favorable global economic conditions was controlled for. We argue that the puzzle can be explained, in part, by the large-scale global financial deleveraging, as well as the large initial domestic imbalances observed during the post-global crisis period. The IMF’s post-global crisis programs routinely allowed fiscal balance targets to be relaxed in the face of adverse shocks; some attempted to bail in private investors or accommodated the use of capital and exchange controls to limit capital outflows; and the IMF often collaborated with other donors to boost total official financing. It is reasonable to surmise that, without these innovations, the required macroeconomic adjustments would have been even greater.
E65|Tests of Policy Interventions in DSGE Models|This paper considers tests of the effectiveness of a policy intervention, defined as a change in the parameters of a policy rule, in the context of a macroeconometric dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) model. We consider two types of intervention, first the standard case of a parameter change that does not alter the steady state, and second one that does alter the steady state, e.g. the target rate of inflation. We consider two types of test, one a multi‐horizon test, where the postintervention policy horizon, H, is small and fixed, and a mean policy effect test where H is allowed to increase without bounds. The multi‐horizon test requires Gaussian errors, but the mean policy effect test does not. It is shown that neither of these two tests are consistent, in the sense that the power of the tests does not tend to unity as H→∞, unless the intervention alters the steady state. This follows directly from the fact that DSGE variables are measured as deviations from the steady state, and the effects of policy change on target variables decay exponentially fast. We investigate the size and power of the proposed mean effect test by simulating a standard three equation New Keynesian DSGE model. The simulation results are in line with our theoretical findings and show that in all applications the tests have the correct size; but unless the intervention alters the steady state, their power does not go to unity with H.
E65|Monetary Policy Under Uncertainty: Practice Versus Theory|For central banks, conducting policy in an environment of uncertainty is a daily fact of life. This uncertainty can take many forms, ranging from incomplete knowledge of the correct economic model and data to future economic and geopolitical events whose precise magnitudes and effects cannot be known with certainty. The objective of this paper is to summarize and compare the main results that have emerged in the literature on optimal monetary policy under uncertainty with actual central bank behaviour. To this end, three examples are studied in which uncertainty played a significant role in the Bank of Canada’s policy decision, to see how closely they align with the predictions from the literature. Three principles emerge from this analysis. First, some circumstances—such as when the policy rate is at risk of being constrained by the effective lower bound—should lead the central bank to be more pre-emptive in moving interest rates, whereas others can rationalize more of a wait-and-see approach. In the latter case, the key challenge is finding the right balance between waiting for additional information and not falling behind the curve. Second, the starting-point level of inflation can matter for how accommodative or restrictive policy is relative to the same situation without uncertainty, if there are thresholds in the central bank’s preferences associated with specific ranges for the target variable, such as the risk of inflation falling outside of the inflation control range. Third, policy decisions should be disciplined, where possible, by formal modelling and simulation exercises in order to support robustness and consistency in decision making over time. The paper concludes with a set of suggested areas for future research.
E65|The Impact of Forward Guidance on Inflation Expectations: Evidence from the ECB|This paper empirically investigates the impact of forward guidance announcements on inflation expectations in the Eurozone. We identify forward guidance shocks as changes in the 2-year nominal ECB yield on specific announcement days to measure changes in daily inflation swaps of different maturities. In the process, we also separately identify the effect of quantitative easing and interest rate change announcement shocks. We find that forward guidance was successful in reviving inflation expectations across maturities. Analyzing the transmission channels of forward guidance, we find evidence that both a reanchoring channel and a portfolio effect might have been at play.
E65|Fiscal Policy with an Informal Sector|Macroeconomic models that omit the shadow economy systematically mis-forecast and mis-measure the effect of fiscal - in particular tax- policy on economic activity and tax revenue. We add an informal sector to the Bank of Greece DSGE model and use the actual package of fiscal consolidation implemented in Greece over the period 2010-2015 to evaluate the role of the black economy. In the data, official Greek GDP declined by about 26%, budget deficits proved larger and more persistent and tax rates increased by much more and tax revenue by much less than predicted. The model replicates the official output decline but implies a true output decline that is less than two thirds of that in recorded output. The discrepancy is even more pronounced for employment. The model also implies that the size of fiscal adjustment and the drop in economic activity could have been considerably milder had the informal sector been curtailed (it instead increased by about 50%). The underground economy seems to have been a key factor in Greece's failure to achieve orderly debt consolidation while avoiding economic depression.
E65|The Effect of Disaggregate Information on the Expectation Formation of Firms|This paper studies a new aspect of firms’ expectation formation by asking whether expectations primarily reflect aggregate, industry-wide information (e.g., industry trends) or disaggregate information (e.g., firm-specific information). First, we show that disaggregate information is strongly associated with expectations even when controlling for aggregate information at high-dimensional industry levels. Moreover, aggregate and disaggregate information explain comparable shares of the variance in expectations. Second, we exploit a natural experiment to identify the causal effect of new information on expectations. The predictable demand effects for durable goods due to the German VAT increase of 2007 implied that, at the time, durable goods retailers had access to more reliable information about their future demand than non-durable goods retailers. Utilizing this observation in a difference-in-differences design, we find that “treated” firms were significantly more forward-looking ahead of the VAT-induced demand shifts. Overall, our results suggest that firms rationally incorporate disagreggate information into their expectations.
E65|The Costs of Economic Nationalism: Evidence from the Brexit Experiment|Economic nationalism is on the rise. What are the costs of cutting back international economic integration and rising policy uncertainty? We use the unexpected outcome of the Brexit vote in June 2016 as a natural macroeconomic experiment to study the costs of economic disintegration and their causes. As a methodological innovation, we propose a novel combination of synthetic control methods to identify the output loss caused by the Brexit vote, conjoined with an expectations-augmented vector autoregression to understand its drivers. Using the synthetic control, we first show that forward looking households and businesses have lowered spending in response to the Brexit vote, causing an output loss of close to 2 percent. Decomposition of the VAR estimates shows that shocks to economic policy uncertainty and growth expectations in the quarter following the Brexit vote explain almost the entire output loss. While higher uncertainty accounts for much of the initial output drop, the economic costs increase over time because of a downward revision of output growth expectations. Overall, both uncertainty and growth expectations account for about one half of the total economic costs of the Brexit vote. Linking quasi-experimental identification to structural time series variance decomposition, our study exposes not only the aggregate costs of the UK’s expected economic disintegration from Europe but also specifies the channels through which the Brexit vote affected the macroeconomy.
E65|Three Challenges to Central Bank Orthodoxy|Since 2007–09, the Federal Reserve has pursued a very aggressive monetary policy strategy. This strategy has been associated with healthy labor market conditions, moderate economic growth, and inflation—netting out the effects of a major oil price shock—that is close to the Federal Open Market Committee’s (FOMC’s) 2 percent target. Thus, with the economy returning to normal, it is natural for the FOMC to begin the process of exiting its highly accommodative policy. The FOMC has laid out several well-defined steps for this process. This strategy may be called central bank orthodoxy, since it is a natural extension of the classical view. However, three challenges to this orthodoxy have developed. Although each challenge is interesting and potentially helpful, the orthodox view provides a better basis for devising near- and medium-term monetary policy decisions.
E65|„Rettungsprogramme“ für Krisenländer verschärften die Krise — eine Replik<BR>[Rescue Programmes for Crisis Countries Worsened the Crisis — a Reply; Demand Policy is Not an Adequate Solution for Structural Crises — a Response]|Zusammenfassung In der Augustausgabe 2015 veröffentlichte der Wirtschaftsdienst einen Aufsatz von Jens Boysen-Hogrefe und Ulrich Stolzenburg über „Rettungsprogramme und ‚Ownership ‘ — Irland, Portugal und Griechenland im Vergleich“. Nach der Replik von Ernst Niemeier folgt hierzu eine Erwiderung der Autoren.
E65|„Rettungsprogramme“ für Krisenländer verschärften die Krise — eine Replik|In his reply, Niemeier accuses Boysen Hogrefe and Stolzenburg of erroneously ascribing the failing of the Greek programme to insufficient “ownership”, whereas the true cause is — in his view — an inadequate austerity policy. The alleged success of this policy in Portugal and Ireland refers solely to GDP growth and ignores the continuing high levels of unemployment in those countries. Boysen- Hogrefe and Stolzenburg insist that the “success” of a rescue programme actually implies that the respective country is able to return to capital markets. The Greek crisis was structural rather than cyclical, so a temporary stabilisation of domestic demand (financed by additional foreign debt) would not have solved the issue. Copyright ZBW and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2016
E65|Timing and duration of inflation targeting regimes|Central banks in G7 countries shifted to unconventional policy measures in the aftermath of the Financial Crisis, when faced with economic slack, financial instability and fiscal trouble. This shift ended a spell of rules-based time consistent monetary policy that started in the mid-1980s. I argue that substantial economic, political and financial risks put pressures on the continued support for a monetary regime. Central banks may be forced to adopt policies with no option to reset those options later on. I demonstrate with duration models – on a sample of industrialized and emerging economies from 1970 to 2012 – that the policy switch to inflation targeting happened after episodes with high inflation and public debt, reflecting broad support for stability-oriented monetary (and fiscal) policy. More generally, changes in monetary regimes occur after a crisis. High inflation makes central banks pursue active monetary policies, while they forsake those same policies in the wake of fiscal or financial crises.
E65|Política monetaria convencional y no convencional: un modelo de equilibrio general dinámico estocástico para Colombia|En este trabajo se aborda un modelo de equilibrio general dinámico estocástico neoclásico para comprobar el efecto de la política monetaria convencional y no convencional sobre la actividad económica y los precios. Los resultados muestran que en una economía abierta y pequeña con tipo de cambio flexible, un choque negativo de política monetaria no convencional, generado a través de una disminución en las reservas internacionales, disminuye el producto, el empleo, empeora la balanza comercial y tiene efectos sobre los precios vía disminución del circulante. Por su parte, un choque negativo de política monetaria convencional (aumento de la tasa de interés) afecta negativamente el producto, disminuye la inflación y genera una reevaluación de la tasa de cambio. Lo anterior es evidencia de que los bancos centrales disponen no solo de la tasa de interés como instrumento principal de política, sino también de intervenciones no convencionales, vía la hoja balance, que pueden afectar también a otras variables, como la tasa de cambio.
E65|Política monetaria convencional y no convencional: un modelo de equilibrio general dinámico estocástico para Colombia|En este trabajo se aborda un modelo de equilibrio general dinámico estocástico neoclásico para comprobar el efecto de la política monetaria convencional y no convencional sobre la actividad económica y los precios. Los resultados muestran que en una economía abierta y pequeña con tipo de cambio flexible, un choque negativo de política monetaria no convencional, generado a través de una disminución en las reservas internacionales, disminuye el producto, el empleo, empeora la balanza comercial y tiene efectos sobre los precios vía disminución del circulante. Por su parte, un choque negativo de política monetaria convencional (aumento de la tasa de interés) afecta negativamente el producto, disminuye la inflación y genera una reevaluación de la tasa de cambio. Lo anterior es evidencia de que los bancos centrales disponen no solo de la tasa de interés como instrumento principal de política, sino también de intervenciones no convencionales, vía la hoja balance, que pueden afectar también a otras variables, como la tasa de cambio. ****** This paper presents a neoclassical dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model to determine the effect of conventional and non-conventional monetary policy on economic activity and prices. The results show that in a small open economy with a flexible exchange rate, a negative shock of non-conventional monetary policy, generated through a decrease in international reserves, reduce output and employment, deteriorates the trade balance, and has effects on prices via increasing the money supply. Meanwhile, an increase in the interest rate negatively affects the product, decreases inflation, and generates a revaluation of the exchange rate. The aforementioned is evidence that the central banks do not only use interest rates as the main policy instrument, but also non-conventional interventions via the balance sheet, which can also affect other variables such as the exchange rate.
E65|Timing and duration of inflation targeting regimes|Central banks in G7 countries shifted to unconventional policy measures in the aftermath of the Financial Crisis, when faced with economic slack, financial instability and fiscal trouble. This shift ended a spell of rules-based time consistent monetary policy that started in the mid-1980s. I argue that substantial economic, political and financial risks put pressures on the continued support for a monetary regime. Central banks may be forced to adopt policies with no option to reset those options later on. I demonstrate with duration models – on a sample of industrialized and emerging economies from 1970 to 2012 – that the policy switch to inflation targeting happened after episodes with high inflation and public debt, reflecting broad support for stability-oriented monetary (and fiscal) policy. More generally, changes in monetary regimes occur after a crisis. High inflation makes central banks pursue active monetary policies, while they forsake those same policies in the wake of fiscal or financial crises. ****** Los Bancos Centrales de los países pertenecientes al G7 dieron un giro hacia políticas menos convencionales a raíz de las consecuencias de la crisis financiera, cuando se enfrentaron a la desaceleración económica, la inestabilidad financiera y las dificultades fiscales. Este cambio ha finalizado un período de políticas monetarias de larga duración basadas en normas que se iniciaron a mediados de los años ochenta. Expongo que los considerables riesgos económicos, políticos y financieros añaden una presión al apoyo continuo de un régimen monetario. Los bancos centrales pueden verse obligados a adoptar políticas sobre la marcha sin ninguna opción de restablecer aquellas opciones más adelante. Demuestro con modelos de duración –en una muestra de economías industrializadas y emergentes de 1970 a 2012– que el giro de políticas hacia las metas de inflación ocurrió despu’es de episodios con alta inflación y deuda pública, lo que refleja el amplio apoyo a las políticas monetarias (y fiscales) orientadas hacia la estabilidad. A rasgos generales los cambios en los regímenes monetarios se producen después de una crisis. La inflación alta supone que los bancos centrales aspiren a políticas monetarias activas, mientras que renuncian a esas mismas políticas al iniciarse una crisis fiscal o financiera.
E65|The reform of October 1979: how it happened and why|This study offers a historical review of the monetary policy reform of October 6, 1979, and discusses the influences behind it and its significance. We lay out the record from the start of 1979 through the spring of 1980, relying almost exclusively on contemporaneous sources, including the recently released transcripts of Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meetings during 1979. We then present and discuss in detail the reasons for the FOMC's adoption of the reform and the communications challenge presented to the Committee during this period. Further, we examine whether the essential characteristics of the reform were consistent with monetarism; new, neo, or old-fashioned Keynesianism; nominal income targeting; and inflation targeting. The record suggests that the reform was adopted when the FOMC became convinced that its earlier gradualist strategy using finely tuned interest rate moves had proved inadequate for fighting inflation and reversing inflation expectations. The new plan had to break dramatically with established practice, allow for the possibility of substantial increases in short-term interest rates yet be politically acceptable, and convince financial market participants that it would be effective. The new operating procedures were also adopted for the pragmatic reason that they would likely succeed.
E65|Did the New Deal Solidify the 1932 Democratic Realignment?|The critical election of 1932 represented a turning point in the future electoral successes of the Democrats and Republicans for over three decades. This paper seeks to measure the importance of the New Deal in facilitating the Democrats' control of the federal government well into the 1960s. We test whether long-differences in the county-level electoral support for Democratic presidential candidates after the 1930s can be attributed to New Deal interventions into local economies. We also investigate more narrowly whether voters rewarded Roosevelt from 1932 to 1936 and from 1936 to 1940 for his efforts to stimulate depressed local economies. Our instrumental variables estimates indicate that increasing a county's per capita New Deal relief and public works spending from nothing to the sample mean ($277) would have increased the long-run support for the Democratic party by 10 percentage points. We further find that the long-run shift toward the Democratic party after 1928 was not a function of the Roosevelt landslide victory in 1932. Roosevelt's ability to win over voters during the 1936 and 1940 elections, however, did matter for the long-term.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E65|Monetary Dynamics and Economic Activity|An attempt was made to analyze the development and the various indications of the financial & economic crisis in Bulgaria, resulting in advisable macroeconomic policies. The liquidity crisis imposes sensitive restrictions and impedes the economic growth. Consequently the expectations are directed to the Bulgarian National Bank’s capability to weaken the crisis and unconditionally to the government to make our country more attractive as an investment destination.
E65|Monetary Dynamics and Economic Activities|The article is attempting to analyze the development and the various manifestations of the financial and economic crisis in Bulgaria and on this ground some macroeconomic policies are being recommended. The liquidity crisis imposes significant restrictions and hampers economic growth. More and more expectations are being directed towards the BNB’s potential to attenuate the liquidity crisis and to the government to increase the country’s attractiveness as an investment destination.
E65|Editor's Overview|This seventh issue of the International Productivity Monitor produced by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains seven articles. Topics covered include the long-run economic performance and prospects in Canada, the impact of capital accumulation on productivity growth in Canada, differences between Gross Domestic Product and Net Domestic Product, future productivity growth in Canada, and the OECD growth study.
E65|Editor's Overview|The second issue of the International Productivity Monitor produced by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards (CSLS) contains six articles largely related to the general theme of productivity growth in the new economy. Topics covered are the determinants of trends in the living standards of Canadians in the 1990s; the role of innovation in productivity growth; the role of information technology in driving the productivity revival in the United States; the characteristics of the new economy; the new OECD productivity manual; and two important recent contributions to the productivity literature in Canada.
E65|Editor’s Overview|This eighth issue of the International Productivity Monitor produced by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains eight articles. Topics covered are: a progress report on endogenous growth theory; recent productivity developments in Canada and the United States; monetary policy in the new economy; the effect of information and communications technologies (ICTs) on UK productivity growth; the choice of the business sector versus the total economy for assessing aggregate productivity trends; the measurement of productivity growth in services industries; and a review article of a recent book, Why Economies Grow.
E65|Editor’s Overview|This twelth issue of the International Productivity Monitor, published by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards, differs from past issues. Five of the six articles address one topic, namely the impact of the Boskin Commission after one decade on price measurement. A final article discusses the role of information technology in the US growth resurgence.
E65|Editor’s Overview|This sixteenth issue of the International Productivity Monitor published by the Centre for the Study of Living Standard contains five articles. Topics covered are: multifactor productivity growth and innovation in the Canadian business sector;an analysis of Canadian labour productivity growth since 2000; measurement of total factor productivity; service sector productivity measurement in the United States; and data quality for market services in Europe.
E65|Editor’s Overview|THIS FIFTEENTH ISSUE OF THE International Productivity Monitor published by the Centre for the Study of Living Standard contains five articles. Topics covered are: product market regulation and productivity convergence in OECD countries and implications for Canada; the impact of interprovincial migration on productivity and output in Canada; the relationship between productivity and sustainable consumption in OECD countries; productivity growth in Chinese industries; and the measurement of intangible capital.
E65|Editor’s Overview|This 13th issue of the International Productivity Monitor produced by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains five articles. In contrast to the last issue on the Boskin Commission Report after a decade, this issue has a strong Canadian flavour. Topics covered are the benchmarking of Canadian economic performance, policies for improving productivity growth in Canada, Canada-U.S. differences in hours worked, the impact of terms of trade on Canada, and the measurement of government output and productivity.
E65|Editor’s Overview|This eleventh issue of the International Productivity Monitor, published by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards, contains seven articles on a range of topics: policies to improve productivity growth in Canada; the causes of lower information and communications technology investment in Canada relative to the United States; the impact of fiscal policy on employment and productivity; productivity growth in manufacturing in Sweden, and service sector productivity measurement.
E65|Editor's Overview|This the inaugural issue of the International Productivity Monitor, a new publication produced by the Ottawa-based Centre for the Study of Living Standards (CSLS). The objective of the Monitor is to focus atttention on the importance of productivity for improving living standards and quality of life. We will be publishing twice a year articles from leading researchers on productivity issues, trends and developments in Canada and other countries. The Monitor will also serve as a vehicle for an international exchange of ideas and information on productivity topics. The first issue of the Monitor contains eight articles on a wide range of productivity topics. There are the new economy and trend productivity growth in Canada, the renaissance of service sector productivity in the United States, a regional comparison of U.S-Canada standards of living, the postwar productivity convergence experience among OECD countries, price cap regulation and productivity growth, and finally a symposium of three articles on the measurement and interpretation of total factor productivity. In addition to the hard-copy version of the Monitor, which is available in English and French, all articles are available on-line at the CSLS website (www.csls.ca). Moreover, unabridged versions of many of the articles are also posted.
E65|Editor's Overview|This sixth issue of the International Productivity Monitor produced by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains seven articles. Topics covered are lessons for Canada from the U.S. growth resurgence; the factors explaining higher productivity levels in the United States than in Canada; patterns in annual work hours in Canada and the United States; trend productivity growth in Canada; the contribution of ICT-producing and using industries to productivity growth in Canada, the United States and Europe; data sources for international productivity comparisons; and a review article on the book Towards a Social Understanding of Productivity.
E65|Editor's Overview|The fourth issue of the International Productivity Monitor produced by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains five articles. Topics covered are: recent productivity developments in the United States and Canada and implications for the Canada-U.S. productivity and income gaps; the importance of skills for innovation and productivity; the diffusion of ICTs and growth of the French economy over the past two decades; a structural perspective on the roots of the new economy; and a review of a recent NBER volume on new developments in productivity analysis.
E65|Editor’s Overview|The ninth issue of the International Productivity Monitor published by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains six articles. Topics covered are: the magnitude of the Canada-U.S. productivity gap at the industry level; productivity puzzles facing researchers; the link between technology use, human capital, productivity and wages; the effect of organization innovation and information and communications technologies on firm performance; the effect of adjustment costs on aggregate productivity in Canada; and the role of micro-institutions in fostering productivity growth and reducing poverty in developing countries.
E65|Editor’s Overview|This tenth issue of the International Productivity Monitor produced by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains six articles. Topics covered are: the puzzling recent behaviour of labour productivity in Canada; an international perspective on Canada's productivity performance since the 1990s; the role of population growth in shaping productivity growth; the effect of hours of work and the employment rate on labour productivity levels in European countries; productivity growth and its contribution to economic growth since 1980 in Asia; and a review of two recent and comprehensive volumes on the importance of productivity and on its drivers, The Power of Productivity and Transforming the European Economy.
E65|Editor's Overview|The fifth issue of the International Productivity Monitor published by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains six articles. Topics covered are: the Canada-US manufacturing productivity gap; trends in Canadian living standards; the impact of economic reform on British productivity growth; productivity and policy reform in Australia; the measurement of government productivity; and a review of a recent volume on productivity issues in Canada.
E65|Editor's Overview|The third issue of the International Productivity Monitor produced by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains six articles that deal with a wide range of issues in the productivity area. Topics covered are the contribution of the information and communications technology sector to productivity growth in Canada and the United States; the Irish economic boom and lessons for other countries; productivity trends in OECD countries; international comparisons of labour productivity levels in manufacturing; productivity trends in the construction sector in Canada; and a review of Angus Maddison's recent book on the world economy.
E65|Editor’s Overview|This 14th issue of the International Productivity Monitor published by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains five articles. Topics covered are recent productivity developments in the United States; lessons for Canada from international productivity experience; India’s productivity performance; measurement error and productivity growth in the Canadian construction industry; and the recently released EU KLEMS productivity and growth accounts.
E65|Editor’s Overview|THIS 17TH ISSUE OF THE International Productivity Monitor published by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains six articles. Topics covered are the effect of labour market regulation on productivity in OECD countries; the relationship between the growth in labour productivity and real wages in Canada; the importance of higher education and market rigidities for the diffusion of information and communications technology (ICT) in OECD countries; the importance of the ICT-producing sector for productivity growth in Finland and Sweden; the appropriate measurement of total factor productivity (TFP) in unstable economies with an application to Argentina; and recent and proposed changes to US National Accounts.
E65|On the 'burden' of German unification|"This paper investigates the causes of western Germany's remarkably poor performance since 1992. It challenges the view that Germany's poor economic record and marked deterioration in public finances since unification might be largely attributable to that event. Instead, the analysis highlights that Germany's approach to macroeconomic policymaking has starkly conflicted with economic theory and best practice. Not theunification ""shock"" itself, but the ill-guided fiscal and monetary policies pursued since 1991 caused the severe and protracted de-stabilization of western Germany--and today's ongoing crisis."
E65|On the 'burden' of German unification|"This paper investigates the causes of western Germany's remarkably poor performance since 1992. It challenges the view that Germany's poor economic record and marked deterioration in public finances since unification might be largely attributable to that event. Instead, the analysis highlights that Germany's approach to macroeconomic policymaking has starkly conflicted with economic theory and best practice. Not theunification ""shock"" itself, but the ill-guided fiscal and monetary policies pursued since 1991 caused the severe and protracted de-stabilization of western Germany--and today's ongoing crisis."
E65|Post-crisis exchange rate policy in five Asian countries: filling in the 'hollow middle'?|Following the 1997–98 financial turmoil, crisis countries in Asia moved toward either floating or fixed exchange rate systems, superficially consistent with the bipolar view of exchange rate regimes and the “hollow middle” hypothesis. But some observers have claimed that, despite the changes in their de jure exchange rate regimes, the crisis countries’ policies have de facto been very similar in the post- and pre-crisis periods. This paper analyzes the evidence and concludes that, except for Malaysia, which adopted a hard peg and imposed capital controls, the other crisis countries are floating more than before, though less than “real” floaters do. But the intermediate exchange rate policies pursued by most of the crisis countries during the post-crisis can be justified on second-best arguments.
