E66|The euro-area output gap through the lens of a DSGE model|The paper provides estimates of the euro-area output gap, based on a relatively standard medium scale DSGE model estimated recursively with Bayesian techniques over the period 1985-2016. The main findings can be summarized as follows. First, our measure of output gap identifies episodes of expansion and recession generally in line with the official business cycle dating of the CEPR. Second, unlike measures of output gap obtained by means of statistical filtering techniques, real-time DSGE-based estimates are remarkably stable and hence are less prone to ex-post revisions. According to our results, the euro-area output gap was -3.4% in 2016, more negative than assessed by most economic analysts and institutions (spanning a range between from 0 and to -2%), but arguably more consistent with the still weak dynamics of both labour costs and core inflation.
E66|Brexit and Uncertainty: Insights from the Decision Maker Panel|The UK's decision to leave the EU in the 2016 referendum created substantial uncertainty for UK businesses. The nature of this uncertainty is different from that of a typical uncertainty shock because of its length, breadth and political complexity. Consequently, a new firm‐level survey, the Decision Maker Panel (DMP), was created to investigate this, finding three key results. First, Brexit was reported to be one of the top three sources of uncertainty for around 40 per cent of UK businesses in the two years after the vote in the June 2016 referendum, and this proportion increased further in Autumn 2018. Hence, Brexit provided both a major and persistent uncertainty shock. Second, uncertainty has been higher in industries that are more dependent on trade with the EU and on EU migrant labour. Third, the uncertainties around Brexit are primarily about the impact on businesses over the longer term rather than shorter term, including uncertainty about the timing of any transition arrangements and around the nature of Brexit.
E66|The Impact of Brexit on UK Firms|We use a major new survey of UK firms, the Decision Maker Panel, to assess the impact of the June 2016 Brexit referendum. We identify three key results. First, the UK’s decision to leave the EU has generated a large, broad and long-lasting increase in uncertainty. Second, anticipation of Brexit is estimated to have gradually reduced investment by about 11% over the three years following the June 2016 vote. This fall in investment took longer to occur than predicted at the time of the referendum, suggesting that the size and persistence of this uncertainty may have delayed firms’ response to the Brexit vote. Finally, the Brexit process is estimated to have reduced UK productivity by between 2% and 5% over the three years after the referendum. Much of this drop is from negative within-firm effects, in part because firms are committing several hours per week of top-management time to Brexit planning. We also find evidence for smaller negative between-firm effects as more productive, internationally exposed, firms have been more negatively impacted than less productive domestic firms.
E66|The 2019 Long-Term Budget Outlook|If current laws generally remained unchanged, CBO projects, large budget deficits over the next 30 years would drive federal debt held by the public to unprecedented levelsâ€”from 78 percent of gross domestic product in 2019 to 144 percent by 2049. That level of debt would be the highest in the nationâ€™s history by far, and it would be on track to increase even more.
E66|An Update to the Budget and Economic Outlook: 2019 to 2029|CBO estimates that the federal budget deficit for 2019 will be $960 billion. Under current law, budget deficits are projected to average $1.2 trillion a year between 2020 and 2029, boosting debt held by the public to 95 percent of GDP in that yearâ€”its highest level since just after World War II. Economic output is projected to grow by 2.3 percent in 2019, supporting strong labor market conditions that feature low unemployment and rising wages. After 2019, in CBOâ€™s projections, economic growth averages 1.8 percent per year, which is less than the historical average.
E66|Kinks and Gains from Credit Cycles|Credit-market imperfections are at the centre stage of several theories of business fluctuations. Since a lot of research seeks to address the welfare consequences of stabilization policies, we revisit the fundamental question of quantifying the cost of business cycles in a model where household borrowing is subject to a collateral constraint. Business cycles occasionally change the credit-market conditions, making households temporarily unconstrained and better off. This effect can dominate the conventional losses from uncertainty, thus making fluctuations welfare-dominate certainty.
E66|Institutional Responses to Aging Populations and Economic Growth: A Panel Data Approach|Will an aging population lower economic growth? Economists are generally concerned that the increase in life expectancy could lower economic growth, however, theory does not make a prediction. As life expectancy increases, so should household savings, which results in more physical capital per worker. This will stimulate economic growth. However, as the retired population share increases, this may reduce spending on children as more resources are transferred to the elderly. This will likely reduce human capital accumulation and lower growth. The net effect of these competing influences is an empirical question. This paper constructs a stylized endogenous growth model that includes both human capital and government transfers to the elderly. The model is mapped into a linear statistical framework that allows us to estimate each of these potential responses using panel data for a set of OECD countries during the period 1975-2014. We find evidence that households do in fact increase savings in response to a longer retirement period and this effect is associated with a higher realized rate of growth per worker. However, we also find evidence that an aging population reduces spending on children (or other productive investments) placing a drag on growth. These results suggest it is the institutional response to population aging that will determine whether or not an aging population will place a drag on future growth, not population aging itself.
E66|Newspaper-based economic uncertainty indices for Poland|Using text mining and web scraping techniques, we develop newspaper-based economic uncertainty measures for Poland. We build ‘general’ economic and economic-policy uncertainty indices, as well as category-specific ones designed to capture e.g. the economic uncertainty related to fiscal policy or to stockmarket movements. Several types of evidence suggest that these indices do proxy for changes in economic uncertainty in Poland. In particular, our measures spike around uncertainty-laden events or periods, such as the initial phase of Poland’s post-communist economic transition, the global financial crisis or the European debt crisis that followed. Our indices also exhibit correlation with a variety of other indicators of economic uncertainty, such as financial-market data and results of corporate surveys. The newspaper-based indices behave similarly to uncertainty indicators developed using other textual data and are strongly correlated with relevant economic uncertainty indicators developed by other researchers.
E66|Calibrating GDP fan charts using probit models with a comparison to the approaches of the Bank of England and Riksbank|Fan charts were pioneered by the Bank of England and Riksbank and provide a visuallyappealing means to convey the uncertainty surrounding a forecast. This paper describes amethod for parameterising fan charts around GDP growth forecasts by which the degree ofuncertainty is based on past forecast errors, but the skew is derived from a probit modelbasedassessment of the probability of a future downturn. The probit-based fan chartsclearly out-perform the Bank of England and Riksbank approaches when applied toforecasts made immediately preceding the Global Financial Crisis. These examples alsohighlight weaknesses with the Bank of England and Riksbank approaches. The Riksbank approach implicitly assumes that forecast errors are normally distributed, but over a long track record this is unlikely to be the case becauseforecasters are generally poor at predicting downturns, which leads to bias and skewin the pattern of forecast errors. Thus, the Riksbank fan chart is neither an accuraterepresentation of past forecast errors, nor is it a reflection of the risk assessmentunderlying the forecast. The Bank of England approach relies heavily on the judgment of the members of the Monetary Policy Committee to assess risks. However, even when they havecorrectly foreseen the nature of future risks, the quantitative translation of theserisks into the fan chart skew has been too timid. Perhaps one reason for this is thatthe fan chart prediction intervals based on historical forecast errors already appearquite wide so that inflating them by adding skew may appear embarrassing (at leastex ante).The approach advocated in this paper addresses these weaknesses by recognising thatforecast errors are not symmetrical: firstly, this leads to more compressed predictionintervals in the upper part of the fan chart (representing the possibility of under-prediction);and secondly, using the large forecast errors from past downturns to calibrate downwardskew clearly supports a more bold approach when there is a risk of a downturn. A weaknessof the probit model-based approach is that it will not predict atypical downturns. Forexample, in the current conjuncture it would not pick up risks associated with a ‘no deal’Brexit or a global trade war. However, a downturn triggered by atypical events may bemore severe if risk factors describing a typical business-financial cycle are also high.
E66|Using probit models of downturn risk to calibrate GDP Fan charts for New Zealand|Macroeconomic forecasters typically forecast fewer recessions than the number experienced, which means economic growth tends to be over-predicted on average. Consequently, forecast errors are not normally distributed, making it difficult to convey the uncertainty and risks based on the historical forecast track record. To characterise this risk, recent OECD work constructed fan charts parameterised on historical forecast errors and the probability of a future downturn estimated from a probit model comprising a range of potential macroeconomic and financial early warning indicators. As the probability of a downturn increases the associated fan chart is wider, reflecting increased uncertainty, and more skewed to the downside, reflecting greater downside risks. This paper applies this methodology to New Zealand; although one important difference compared to other OECD economies is that the time span of macroeconomic data without major structural change is significantly shorter. Forecast errors for GDP by the OECD, Reserve Bank of New Zealand and New Zealand Treasury all appear to be non-normally distributed. Fan charts for GDP forecasts from the mid-year 2018 OECD Economic Outlook are symmetric due to the low probability of a downturn. Fan charts estimated for the period preceding the global financial crisis using currently-available data have a downwards skew. However, those estimated using data only available in the lead up to the crisis have many insignificant coefficients, likely due to the structural changes that have occurred in the New Zealand economy since the 1980s.
E66|Directed social economics : China's complicated growth story|The entire globe has, in varying measures, experienced the good and the bad impact of China’s growth story this past decade. China is hastening to project itself such that, it be viewed as the ‘global growth engine’. Whether duly or unduly, like secretly many a country would want to, China is rushing all out to replace USA from the foray and become the sole unparalleled global leader. The Chinese have already compromised with Russia, by signing a long-term contract for oil supply. China’s economic numbers and the trend displayed so far, reasonably indicates its hunger for growth. China is ambitious to grow vertically on the economic scale and horizontally on the geographic scale. This is what is likely to spell disaster for the world, especially for the democratic countries.
E66|EDB Macroreview, April 2019. Kyrgyz Republic: trends and forecasts|After two years of economic recovery, GDP growth slowed to 3.5% in 2018, from 4.7% in 2017. The economic slowdown was caused by a decline of production at the Kumtor gold mine and stabilization of the growth rates in other sectors at near potential levels. Domestic demand in 2018 showed unstable growth, reflecting the volatility of households’ real incomes. A slowdown in lending and remittances inflows growth rates in 2018 compared to 2017, as well as deferred demand of the public sector, also constrained domestic demand. The deviation of inflation from the target during 2018 resulted from weak prices in the world food markets as well as from the high base effect in the vegetables and solid fuel segments. The current account deficit expanded as the negative goods and services balance widened, while the net inflow of current transfers remained virtually the same as in 2017. The state budget posted a deficit of 1.1% of GDP in 2018, down from 3.1% of GDP the year before. The decreased State budget deficit resulted from lower public spending and slightly higher budget revenues. The slower growth in budget revenues was due to lower grants received from other countries’ governments and international organizations, while tax revenue growth was unchanged. Public debt decreased in nominal terms, mainly on account of the debt to the Russian Federation being written off pursuant to an agreement between the countries. In May 2018, the National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic reduced its policy rate from 5.0% to 4.75% as inflation was low, and took a number of decisions concerning the width of the interest band during the year. In 2019, economic activity in the Kyrgyz Republic is projected to accelerate, largely on account of optimistic assessments of its gold production volumes and moderate expansion of public sector demand. In the medium term the economy is expected to grow steadily at near potential rates. The inflation trends will depend on the world food market. According to our assessment, world food prices will start recovering in the 1st half of 2019 and stabilize by early 2020, which, in turn, will shape the growth trajectory of the consumer price index in the Kyrgyz Republic.
E66|EDB Macroreview, April 2019. Republic of Armenia: trends and forecasts|For the second consecutive year, Armenia remains the fastest-growing EAEU economy. In 2018, it grew by 5.2% after 7.5% the year before. The main factors behind the slowdown in its economic activity were the more moderate growth of household consumption than in 2017 and a decline of consumption in the public sector. The EDB projects Armenian GDP growth to accelerate somewhat in 2019, assisted by increasing investment activity as the extraction industry gradually adapts to the new requirements, a recovery in agricultural output, and Government policy that supports investment, exports, and improving social conditions. In the medium term, GDP will trend towards its potential rate, that we estimate at some 5% per annum. During 2018, inflation remained below the 4% CBRA target; in December 2018 it was 1.8% YoY. The main factor behind inflation trends in 2018 was food price volatility after a lower harvest. According to our estimates, inflation will accelerate to 2.8% in 2019, driven by increasing domestic demand as wages and lending grow. By the end of 2021 inflation will approach the CBRA target (4%). Given the economic background, the CBRA did not change its refinancing rate (6%) in 2018 and thus maintained a stimulative monetary policy. Interest rates on loans and deposits decreased during the year. According to our base scenario projection, as inflation gradually accelerates and approaches the CBRA target level, the CBRA will begin a series of rate rises that we expect to have a neutral impact on economic growth and inflation. In 2018, amid economic activity growth, the government pursued a tight fiscal policy to maintain debt and fiscal sustainability. In the medium term, the focus of fiscal policy will remain the same.
E66|EDB Macroreview, April 2019. Republic of Belarus: trends and forecasts|In 2018, the Belarusian economy showed a high growth rate as it recovered after the recession in 2015–2016. Economic growth was supported by increasing consumer and investment activity as lending expanded, the population’s income grew, and the real sector’s economic sentiment improved. The economic growth rate in 2018 gradually slowed down as the monetary conditions’ stimulating effect decreased and the low base effect petered out. The EDB predicts Belarusian GDP to increase annually by 1.5–2% in the medium term in the absence of additional stimulation. The Belarusian ruble was highly volatile in 2018. The Belarusian currency was affected by aggravating geopolitical tension that caused the exchange rate of the Russian ruble and other EDB member countries’ currencies to fluctuate. In the medium term, the Belarusian ruble will devalue at a moderate rate as inflation in Belarus stays higher than in its main trade partner countries. Inflation in 2018 kept within the NB RB’s target range, managed by a balanced monetary policy. Yet, after reaching its historic minimum in June and July 2018, inflation began accelerating in the second semester as food and fuel price growth increased and inflation in the RF accelerated while consumer demand remained high. The buildup of inflationary pressure led the NB RB to suspend its refinancing rate reduction cycle in 2nd half of 2018. In 2019, inflation is expected to accelerate temporarily and perhaps exceed its end-of-year target level of 5%. Consumer price growth may be brought about by inflation increasing in the RF, gradual evaluation of the Belarusian ruble, and the persistent inflationary influence of wages. We predict this to be a temporary process, however, and in 2020 and 2021 inflation will be close to the NB RB’s targets. The IBC rate is expected to be in the 10–11% range, which is consistent with its neutral level. The Republic’s budget surplus expanded considerably in 2018 due to temporary factors, including commodity price growth and a high recovery growth rate in the national economy. The budget surplus reduced the country’s need to refinance its public debt. In the medium term, the budgetary and fiscal policy will remain focused on the improvement of fiscal and debt stability.
E66|EDB Macroreview, April 2019. Republic of Kazakhstan: trends and forecasts|In 2018, Kazakh GDP grew by 4.1%, supported by increased oil production and a favorable price situation in the world energy market. Revival of credit activity fostered expansion in consumer and investment demand. Separate sectors’ contribution to overall economic growth changed during the year. In the 1st half of 2018, the GDP increase was driven by high rates of growth in oil production and the manufacturing sectors. In the 2nd half of 2018, industry reduced its contribution to GDP growth while trade turnover and construction activity growth accelerated. Inflation was 5.3% YoY in 2018, within the National Bank’s target range (5–7%). The decrease in motor fuel prices after the upgrade of major oil refineries was completed, as well as the reduction in electricity and heat tariffs for households, did much to slow down inflation. As inflation slowed in 2018, the National Bank reduced its base interest rate repeatedly, to reach 9.25% at the end of the year (compared to 10.25% a year before). The Kazakh tenge exchange rate vs. the U.S. dollar and euro decreased in 2018. Trends in the Kazakh currency were in line with those of developing economies’ currencies, i. e. a weakening as the U. S. Federal Reserve System increased its rate and the world’s economic and political risks overall grew. Kazakhstan’s consolidated budget posted a surplus in 2018, the first time since 2015. The factors behind the budget improvement included the State’s increasing incomes amid a relatively favorable external environment and economic growth, as well as decreased public spending on reviving the banking system compared to 2017. In 2019, we expect economic growth to slow down to 3.3% as oil production declines due to planned oilfield repair works. Next year, we forecast GDP growth at 3.5%. Inflation in 2019–2021 is projected to be within the National Bank’s target range (4–6%) and to gradually approach its lower limit by the end of the projection period, as the interest rate on interbank loans in tenge is kept near its neutral level, which we estimate at 7.5–8%.
E66|EDB Macroreview, April 2019. Republic of Tajikistan: trends and forecasts|2018 saw the highest economic growth rate since 2014. GDP increased by 7.3% after 7.1% in 2017. As a result, the economy continued along its steady growth acceleration path, somewhat above the potential level. Investment and consumer activity was the key factor behind the growth acceleration in 2018. The State infrastructural development programs continue to support investment demand and lay the basis of economic growth. The revival of domestic demand in 2018 was partially the effect of households’ deferred demand as inflation reached a record low. In the 2nd half of 2018, inflation reached the target range of 7% (±2 pp); it was 5.4% at the end of the year. The inflation trends were shaped by the world food market, the base effect in the fruit and vegetables sector, and transport and electricity tariff policy. The current account deficit expanded as the negative goods and services balance widened, partially due to growing imports of machines and equipment for the implementation of large-scale infrastructural projects. The expansion of the State budget deficit in 2018 also resulted from growing public investment. The State budget’s expenditures on the development of energy sector infrastructure grew 2.2 fold compared to 2017. Public debt stabilized in 2018, largely because most of the external funding was raised in the form of grants. In early 2018, the NBT reduced its refinancing rate from 16.0% to 14.0%. However, due to unforeseen external shocks that increased the volatility of EDB member countries’ currencies, inflationary risks increased again, and the monetary authorities suspended their rate reduction round. The banking system is moving in the direction of recovery, but the indicators remain weak. In 2018 the credit portfolio stopped shrinking and increased by 2.0%. In the projection period, the economic growth rate is expected to stabilize near 7%. The investment drive will continue to support the economy. Consumer demand expansion will slow down somewhat as remittance inflow decelerates and the low inflation background’s favorable effect on household income peters out. Inflation will depend on the situation prevailing in the world food markets. World food prices are expected to start recovering in the 1st half of 2019, and by the beginning of 2020 their trend will stabilize, which in turn will impact the trajectory of consumer price growth in the RT.
E66|EDB Macroreview, April 2019. Russian Federation: trends and forecasts|In 2018, the Russian economy grew at its highest rate since 2012. Higher net exports were the main factor behind accelerated growth. Consumer and investment activity remained positive contributors to economic growth. We expect Russia’s GDP growth to slow temporarily, constrained by the increased tax load and the impact of the key rate increase in late 2018. Increased investment expenditures of the federal budget and gradual normalization of monetary policy from 2nd half of 2019 will foster a mid-term economic recovery to the potential rate, that we estimate at 2% per annum. The Russian ruble’s exchange rate became more volatile in 2018 amid exacerbated geopolitical tension. Harsher U. S. sanctions rhetoric caused greater capital outflow from the Russian economy, reflected in quicker weakening of the ruble. Barring additional shocks, we expect the Russian currency to strengthen over 2019 from the level of late 2018, in particular because return on Russian assets will remain high. Inflation accelerated in 2018, driven by a weakening ruble, faster growth of some food prices and price correction in advance of the VAT increase. The increase in inflation in 2nd half of 2018, accompanied by growing inflationary expectations, led the CB RF to raise its key rate twice, by 0.25 pp in September and December, to 7.75% at the end of 2018. We expect the acceleration of inflation to continue into the 1st half of 2019, mainly driven by the VAT increase. Starting in 2nd half of 2019, inflationary pressure will decrease gradually and allow inflation to return to its target level in 2020. As inflation slows, the key rate is expected to return to its neutral level, that we estimate at 6.5– 7%, in 2020. In 2018, the federal budget posted a surplus for the first time since 2011, assisted by a favorable commodity price background in most of 2018. The budget is expected to remain in surplus in the medium term, with oil prices staying above USD 60 per barrel. The budgetary policy focus will gradually move towards higher investment expenses in the coming years, with effects including a higher potential economic growth rate.
E66|EDB Special report 2019. Exchange rate pass-through effects on inflation in EDB Member Countries|This Special Report examines the pass-through effect of the exchange rate on inflation in member countries of the Eurasian Development Bank. Special attention is paid to assessing pass-through effect changes that occurred in recent years and to analyzing asymmetric and non-linear relationships between exchange rates and inflation in the region’s countries. The results obtained confirm the exchange rates’ significance for inflation movements in EDB economies. That said, in 2015-2018 the exchange rate’s pass-through effect on inflation decreased in magnitude in most of the States under review, possibly on account of the monetary and exchange rate policy reforms implemented – in particular, a switch to a more flexible exchange rate and more effective monetary policies. In a number of Eurasian Development Bank member countries, the pass-through was noted to have an asymmetric effect, with consumer prices being more responsive to weakening than to strengthening of their national currencies.
E66|Measuring international uncertainty using global vector autoregressions with drifting parameters|This paper investigates the time-varying impacts of international macroeconomic uncertainty shocks. We use a global vector autoregressive (GVAR) specification with drifting coefficients and factor stochastic volatility in the errors to model six economies jointly. The measure of uncertainty is constructed endogenously by estimating a scalar driving the innovation variances of the latent factors, and is included also in the mean of the process. To achieve regularization, we use Bayesian techniques for estimation, and introduce a set of hierarchical global local shrinkage priors. The adopted priors center the model on a constant parameter specification with homoscedastic errors, but allow for time-variation if suggested by likelihood information. Moreover, we assume coefficients across economies to be similar, but provide sufficient flexibility via the hierarchical prior for country-specific idiosyncrasies. The results point towards pronounced real and financial effects of uncertainty shocks in all countries, with differences across economies and over time.
E66|Economic Policy Uncertainty and the Supply of Business Loans|Using a Vector Autoregressive framework of analysis, we show that banks contract their supply of business credit in response to an exogenous increase in economic policy uncertainty. This contraction takes two main, distinct forms. On the one hand, banks restrict their supply of spot funds, which we document using flows of loans and term loan originations. On the other, banks also curtail their provision of liquidity insurance, reducing the amount of new credit lines and embedding in them a pricing structure that reduces the probability of borrowers ever drawing down on the lines.
E66|Composing High-Frequency Financial Conditions Index and Implications for Economic Activity|In this study, the main aim is to construct an index using high-frequency data related to financial markets and intermediation services for Turkey, termed as High-Frequency Financial Conditions Index by employing alternative statistical techniques. In a complementary manner, the informative nature of the constructed indices with respect to the course of economic activity is examined. The paper also includes detailed empirical analysis about the relationship between financial conditions and growth tendencies. The findings of the time series analysis and forecast exercises show that the constructed series are quite informative regarding the economic activity. More importantly, probit model estimations indicate that index can be qualified as an early indicator to predict “loss of momentum” episodes in economic growth by also considering the lead-lag relationship. When similar methodology is applied on emerging market economies, indices can be produced with a high level of co-movements with growth indicators. Panel Vector Autoregression estimation shows that, after controlling for country-specific characteristics, a shock coming to financial conditions is creating a significant overall response in emerging market countries. In terms of policy-making, we believe that constructed indices will contribute to a better understanding of the current financial environment and relation with economic activity.
E66|Osteuropa trotzt dem globalen Gegenwind|This publication is available in German language only. For a brief English summary see further below. Die Konjunktur in den mittel-, ost- und südosteuropäischen Ländern (MOSOEL) kühlt sich zwar ab, aber viel weniger als noch im Frühjahr erwartet Die Prognosen für heuer wurden für die Mehrheit der Länder nach oben revidiert. Vor allem in der EU-MOE-Region hat sich das Wachstum vom Abschwung im Euro-Raum recht deutlich abgekoppelt. In einigen Ländern mehren sich sogar die Anzeichen einer Überhitzung, die allerdings nur in Rumänien Anlass zur Sorge gibt. Die Westbalkanländer profitieren von steigenden FDI-Zuflüssen, mehrere GUS-Länder von der expansiven Fiskalpolitik. In Russland dagegen hat der restriktive fiskalpolitische Kurs die Wirtschaft an den Rand einer Rezession gebracht. Die Wirtschaftskrise in der Türkei erwies sich zwar tiefer als früher erwartet, dürfte aber spätestens 2020 überwunden sein. Insbesondere die Visegrád-Staaten gehören zu Österreichs wichtigsten Wirtschaftspartnern. Ihnen waren im Jahr 2018 mehr als 10% des österreichischen Güterhandels, 20% der Einkommen aus Direktinvestitionen sowie 40% der Auslandsforderungen österreichischer Banken zuzurechnen. Gleichzeitig sind sie auch EU-Mitglieder mit brisanten politischen und wirtschaftlichen Herausforderungen, von welchen auch Österreich nicht unberührt bleiben wird. English Summary Eastern Europe standing firm in face of global headwinds The economy in the Central, East and Southeast European countries (CESEE) is cooling down, but much less than expected in the spring the forecasts for this year have been revised upwards for the majority of countries. Particularly in the EU-CEE region, growth has decoupled quite clearly from the downturn in the euro area. In several countries there are even signs of overheating, although only in Romania this is a cause for concern. The Western Balkans are benefiting from rising FDI inflows, while several CIS countries from expansionary fiscal policy. In Russia, on the other hand, the restrictive fiscal policy has brought the economy to the brink of recession. Although the economic crisis in Turkey proved to be deeper than previously expected, it should be overcome by 2020 at the latest. The Visegrád countries, in particular, prove very important for the Austrian economy. In 2018, they accounted for more than 10% of Austrian goods trade, 20% of income generated by Austrian investment abroad, as well as 40% of foreign claims of Austrian banks. At the same time, they are among the EU Member States facing increasing political and economic challenges, by which Austria will not be unaffected.
E66|FIW Note No. 27 - März 2019|FIW publishes biannually FIW Notes. They present an overview of the most important Austrian and international developments regarding International Economics.
E66|Data revisions to German national accounts: Are initial releases good nowcasts?|Data revisions to national accounts pose a serious challenge to policy decision making. Well-behaved revisions should be unbiased, small and unpredictable. This paper shows that revisions to German national accounts are biased, large and predictable. Moreover, using filtering techniques designed to process data subject to revisions, the real-time forecasting performance of initial releases can be increased by up to 17%. For total real GDP growth, however, the initial release is an optimal forecast. Yet, given the results for disaggregated variables, the averaging-out of biases and inefficiencies at the aggregate GDP level appears to be good luck rather than good forecasting.
E66|Chinas Wirtschaft: Steigende Risiken. Analyse und Simulationsrechnungen|In der letzten Zeit haben die Herausforderungen der chinesischen Wirtschaft zugenommen, unter anderem aufgrund der eskalierenden Handelsspannungen mit den USA und der relativ schwachen Inlandsnachfrage. Dies hat die Regierung dazu veranlasst, möglichst rasch Konjunkturmaßnahmen zur Unterstützung des Wirtschaftswachstums zu ergreifen. Angesichts der hohen Verschuldung der chinesischen Wirtschaft könnte sich dies jedoch negativ auf die Finanzstabilität und damit auf das mittelfristige Wachstum auswirken. Vor diesem Hintergrund erscheint eine moderate Wachstumsverlangsamung als durchaus realistisch und selbst ein deutlicher Einbruch der Wirtschaftsleistung Chinas ist nicht auszuschließen, falls es zu einer Finanzmarktkrise und einer ökonomischen Abwärtsspirale kommt. Die Ergebnisse der Simulationen anhand des Oxford Global Economic Model zeigen, dass eine Wachstumsverlangsamung in China das globale Wirtschaftswachstum hart treffen würde. Eine Reduzierung des Wirtschaftswachstums in China um 1 Prozentpunkt jährlich würde das globale Wirtschaftswachstum um 0,2 Prozentpunkte (gegenüber dem Basisszenario) im Jahr 2020 senken. Dies gilt somit als eines der größten Risiken für das Weltwirtschaftswachstum. Das globale Bruttoinlandsprodukt würde damit um 242,5 Milliarden Euro im Jahr 2020 geringer ausfallen. Sollte die chinesische Wirtschaft in einer krisenhaften Entwicklung mit 3 Prozent deutlich einbrechen, könnte das globale Wirtschaftswachstum im Jahr 2020 sogar um bis zu 0,6 Prozentpunkte zurückgehen, was in etwa einem preisbereinigten Betrag von 722,12 Milliarden Euro in Preisen des Jahres 2010 entspricht.
E66|Еабр Макрообзор, Август 2018. Страны Еабр: Курс На Устойчивое Развитие|В начале августа внешние условия для стран ЕАБР ухудшились на фоне дальнейшей эскалации торговых ограничений и санкционного давления со стороны США. Дополнительным негативным фактором стал рост волатильности на развивающихся рынках, прежде всего в Турции, где национальная валюта продемонстрировала рекордное обесценение. Среди стран ЕАБР основное давление на себе испытали обменные курсы России и Казахстана – российский рубль в августе превышал 68,8 рублей за доллар США, отклонившись от уровня начала месяца на 9,1%, в то время как максимальное обесценение тенге ограничилось 4,3%. Для нейтрализации негативных внешних факторов ЦБ РФ приостановил закупки валюты для Минфина, но с 17 августа возобновил приобретение валюты, сигнализируя таким образом о снижении рисков. Следует отметить: несмотря на трудности для рубля, макроэкономические индикаторы российской экономики отличаются в выгодную сторону от показателей Турции и большинства других развивающихся рынков. В настоящее время в российской экономике наблюдаются двойные профициты – положительный бюджетный баланс подкрепляется накоплением фискальных и валютных резервов в условиях благоприятных цен на нефть. При этом инфляция близка к историческим минимумам на уровне немногим выше 2%. В рамках специального доклада к макрообзору коллектив авторов Евразийского фонда стабилизации и развития (ЕФСР) приводит свои оценки долговой устойчивости ряда стран ЕАБР/ЕФСР. Проведенный анализ свидетельствует о том, что рост долга в этих странах за 2009–2017 гг. во многом является следствием активного применения фискального стимула, при котором расходы бюджета поддерживались за счет заимствований правительства, «компенсирующих» выпадающие вследствие экономического спада налоговые доходы. В исследовании были проанализированы риск-факторы, которые могут повлиять на долговую устойчивость экономик региона в среднесрочном периоде, и сделан ряд выводов. Что касается экономического роста в регионе, то прогноз для стран – участниц ЕАБР на 2018 г. остался без изменений и составляет 2,1%. Основным драйвером роста в большинстве стран региона в текущем году стало расширение потребительского спроса на фоне увеличения денежных доходов населения и роста кредитования. Наблюдаемое по итогам II квартала замедление инфляционных процессов нашло отражение в пересмотре прогнозов по инфляции в сторону снижения в 2018 г. Так, прогноз по инфляции в Армении снижен с 4,1% до 2,2%, в Беларуси – с 6% до 5,1% и Таджикистане – с 4,2% до 2%. При этом в 2019 г. прогнозируется некоторое превышение инфляцией целевого ориентира в России до 4,9%.
E66|EDB Macroreview, December 2018. Macroeconomic Stability Tested|In 2018, the EDB member countries faced a number of challenges to regional macroeconomic stability. The main risks resulted from the global economic slowdown, growing protectionist trends in world trade and increased volatility in developing markets. Higher geopolitical tensions also had an impact on the regional macroeconomic situation. Despite the growing external challenges, the macroeconomic situation remained stable in the region, with most EDB countries’ fiscal policies aimed at achieving more sustainable economic growth and a balanced monetary policy. The favorable oil price during most of 2018 was another factor behind the improvement in the region’s economy. All the EDB member countries recorded positive growth rates in 2018, which we estimate at 2.0% overall. Inflation reached a record low and will stay within the central banks’ target ranges for 2018. The EDB member countries’ mutual trade grew by 12.5% versus January to September 2017. The 2017 and 2018 economic growth in the region was significantly assisted by eased monetary policies. Yet the recovery cycle is ending, while the inflationary risks are high. These factors combine to limit monetary policy’s ability to continue stimulating the economy. With the external risks mounting, it is increasingly important to find new sources of sustainable growth, in particular, by means of reforms intended to raise the economies’ efficiency and improve the investment climate. In the special report the team of authors gives recommendations concerning economic policy measures that might help overcome an economy’s structural and institutional limitations, taking Armenia as an example. Analysis of the structural gaps existing in Armenia allows us to identify the areas of reform that are being successful – as well as those which are lagging. In 2018, some member-states’ authorities initiated structural reforms. The Government of the Russian Federation announced a package of structural changes intended to stimulate sustainable growth of investment activity and pursue long-term social objectives. In Kazakhstan, presidential initiatives announced in the spring and fall of 2018 are largely intended to enhance the population’s welfare by improving the business environment and developing human capital. Such reforms may help improve the quality of Kazakhstan’s economic growth in the long run by making it more sustainable and based on an inclusive model of economic development.
E66|Une comparaison des prévisions macroéconomiques 2018-2020 sur la France|Nous comparons les prévisions de croissance de l'économie française à l'horizon 2020 réalisées entre septembre et début novembre 2018 par 18 organismes (publics et privés, dont l'OFCE). Après avoir augmenté de 2,3 % en 2017, l'activité ralentirait pour l'ensemble des prévisionnistes interrogés à 1,6 % en moyenne en 2018. Il n'y a pas d'accélération prévue à l'horizon de l'exercice de prévision : l'activité progresserait en moyenne de 1,6 % en 2019 et de 1,5 % 2020 (avec 8 instituts sur 12 qui prévoient un ralentissement). Mais les moteurs de la croissance changeraient. En 2017, la croissance avait été tirée par une forte contribution de la demande intérieure hors stocks tandis que le commerce extérieur jouait négativement. L'histoire est toute autre en 2018, le commerce extérieur, par sa contribution positive, contribuerait à compenser partiellement une demande intérieure moins dynamique. En 2019 et 2020, c'est l'inverse. L'accélération de la consommation des ménages permise par l'amélioration des revenus soutiendrait la croissance, tandis que l'investissement resterait solide. L'environnement international serait moindre favorable et les risques sur la croissance, plutôt orientés à la baisse. Si un consensus existe autour de ce scénario central, il masque malgré tout des divergences entre instituts liées notamment aux hypothèses relatives au positionnement de l'économie française dans son cycle, et donc au degré de tensions dans l'économie. Pour tous, l'inflation reste globalement modérée en prévision (entre 1,4 % et 1,9 % en 2020 selon les instituts) mais l'inflation sous-jacente s'accélère, tout en restant inférieure à 2 %, et certains instituts considèrent que des contraintes d'offre existent, notamment sur le marché du travail. Le taux de chômage baisserait de 9,4 % en 2017 à entre 8,1 % pour les plus optimistes à 9,1 % les plus pessimistes en fin de période. La progression des salaires resterait malgré tout contenue sur la période (avec un maximum à 2,6 % en 2020). L'impact positif des réformes passées et en cours sur la croissance du PIB et la compétitivité des entreprises ne ressort pas véritablement des scénarios. La France est sortie de la Procédure de déficit excessif en 2018 et tous les instituts prévoient le respect des règles budgétaires concernant le déficit public, qui resterait en-deçà du seuil des 3 % à l'horizon 2020. Néanmoins, le déficit se dégraderait 2019, du fait de mesures exceptionnelles (remboursement aux entreprises de la taxe sur les dividendes et transformation du CICE en baisses de charges sociales employeurs) et d'une amélioration de la composante conjoncturelle plus limitée qu'en 2017. En 2020, il serait compris entre 2,7 % et 1,6 % du PIB.
E66|Une comparaison des prévisions macroéconomiques sur la France|Alors que l'INSEE vient de publier une première estimation de la croissance française de 2017 (1,9 %), nous comparons les prévisions pour 2018 et 2019 réalisées par 18 organismes (publics et privés, dont l'OFCE) entre septembre et décembre 2017. Pour tous la reprise semble solidement enclenchée et durable, avec une croissance moyenne prévue de 1,8 % en 2018 puis de 1,7 % en 2019 : les prévisions sont assez proches pour 2018 (1,7 % à 2 %) mais s'étalent de 1,4 % à 2,2 % en 2019 (avec 8 instituts sur 15 qui prévoient un ralentissement). La consommation privée accélérerait un peu (1,6 % en 2018 et 1,7 % en 2019), avec des écarts nets entre instituts. En effet, l'emploi progresserait entre 0,6 et 1,9 % en 2019 et les salaires entre 1,3 % et 2,6 %. Le diagnostic sur les salaires dépend du degré de tensions sur le marché du travail, de l'impact de l'inflation et des gains de productivité et de l'effet de la réforme du marché du travail de 2017 (décentralisation des négociations collectives). L'inflation resterait modérée (1,4 % en 2019). Le taux de chômage baisserait à 8,8 % en moyenne en 2019 mais les prévisions varient entre 8,1 % et 9,2 %. Pour tous les instituts, le déficit public respecterait dès 2017 le seuil de 3 % du PIB. La France pourrait alors sortir de la Procédure de Déficit Excessif en 2018. Le déficit resterait cependant élevé, du fait de mesures exceptionnelles (remboursement aux entreprises de la taxe sur les dividendes récemment invalidée par le Conseil constitutionnel et transformation du CICE en baisses de charges sociales employeurs en 2019).
E66|Une comparaison des prévisions macroéconomiques 2018-2020 sur la France|Nous comparons les prévisions de croissance de l'économie française à l'horizon 2020 réalisées entre septembre et début novembre 2018 par 18 organismes (publics et privés, dont l'OFCE). Après avoir augmenté de 2,3 % en 2017, l'activité ralentirait pour l'ensemble des prévision- nistes interrogés à 1,6 % en moyenne en 2018. Il n'y a pas d'accélération prévue à l'horizon de l'exercice de prévision : l'activité progresserait en moyenne de 1,6 % en 2019 et de 1,5 % 2020 (avec 8 instituts sur 12 qui prévoient un ralentissement). Mais les moteurs de la croissance changeraient. En 2017, la croissance avait été tirée par une forte contribution de la demande intérieure hors stocks tandis que le commerce extérieur jouait négativement. L'histoire est toute autre en 2018, le commerce extérieur, par sa contribution positive, contribuerait à compenser partiellement une demande intérieure moins dynamique. En 2019 et 2020, c'est l'inverse. L'accélération de la consommation des ménages permise par l'amélioration des revenus soutiendrait la croissance, tandis que l'investissement resterait solide. L'environnement international serait moindre favorable et les risques sur la croissance, plutôt orientés à la baisse. Si un consensus existe autour de ce scénario central, il masque malgré tout des divergences entre instituts liées notamment aux hypothèses relatives au positionnement de l'économie française dans son cycle, et donc au degré de tensions dans l'économie. Pour tous, l'inflation reste globalement modérée en prévision (entre 1,4 % et 1,9 % en 2020 selon les instituts) mais l'inflation sous-jacente s'accélère, tout en restant inférieure à 2 %, et certains instituts considèrent que des contraintes d'offre existent, notamment sur le marché du travail. Le taux de chômage baisserait de 9,4 % en 2017 à entre 8,1 % pour les plus optimistes à 9,1 % les plus pessimistes en fin de période. La progression des salaires resterait malgré tout contenue sur la période (avec un maximum à 2,6 % en 2020). L'impact positif des réformes passées et en cours sur la croissance du PIB et la compétitivité des entreprises ne ressort pas véritablement des scénarios. La France est sortie de la Procédure de déficit excessif en 2018 et tous les instituts prévoient le respect des règles budgétaires concernant le déficit public, qui resterait en-deçà du seuil des 3 % à l'horizon 2020. Néanmoins, le déficit se dégraderait 2019, du fait de mesures exceptionnelles (remboursement aux entreprises de la taxe sur les dividendes et transformation du CICE en baisses de charges sociales employeurs) et d'une amélioration de la composante conjoncturelle plus limitée qu'en 2017. En 2020, il serait compris entre 2,7 % et 1,6 % du PIB.
E66|Financial and non-financial global stock market volatility shocks|We decompose global stock market volatility shocks into financial originated shocks and non-financial originated shocks. Global stock market volatility shocks arising from financial sources reduce substantially more global outputs and inflation than non-financial sources shocks. Financial stock market volatility shocks forecasts 16.85% and 16.88% of the variation in global growth and inflation, respectively. In contrast, the non-financial stock market volatility shocks forecasts only 8.0% and 2.19% of the variation in global growth and inflation. Beside this markable difference global interest/policy rate responds similarly to both shocks.
E66|MOSOE: Konjunkturzenit überschritten|This publication is available in German language only. For a brief English summary see further below. MOSOE Konjunkturzenit überschritten Die jüngsten Statistiken deuten auf ein weiterhin robustes BIP-Wachstum in den meisten Ländern Mittel‑, Ost- und Südosteuropas (MOSOEL) hin. Der konjunkturelle Höhepunkt scheint allerdings bereits überschritten zu sein. Einerseits lässt die Dynamik der privaten Konsumnachfrage leicht nach, andererseits dämpft die Konjunkturabkühlung im Euro-Raum die Exportentwicklung vieler MOSOEL. Die Investitionen steigen weiterhin kräftig an, getrieben in erster Linie von EU-Transfers in der EU-MOE-Region und von ausländischen Direktinvestitionen im Westbalkan. Ein deutlicher Wachstumseinbruch ist heuer nur in Rumänien und der Türkei zu erwarten – Ländern, deren Wirtschaft sich bislang in einem Zustand der „Überhitzung“ befand. Vor dem Hintergrund der österreichischen EU-Ratspräsidentschaft und divergierender Handelspolitiken der weltgrößten Volkswirtschaften werden auch die immer engeren wirtschaftlichen Verflechtungen Österreichs mit den MOSOEL analysiert. Insbesondere die Visegrád-Staaten gewinnen für den österreichischen Güterhandel, Tourismus und auch als Investitionsstandorte an Gewicht. Österreich präsentiert sich als Top-10-Exportdestination für sieben der MOSOEL, für acht zählt es zu den zehn wichtigsten Ländern für Importe, und für siebzehn Länder rangiert Österreich unter den Top-10-Investoren. Ausgewählte Indikatoren zu den österreichischen Wirtschaftsbeziehungen mit den MOSOEL können kostenlos über interaktive Visualisierungen erkundet werden. English Summary CESEE Growth has passed its peak The latest statistics point to ongoing robust GDP growth in most countries of Central, East and Southeast Europe (CESEE). However, the growth peak seems to have already been passed. On the one hand, private consumer demand is weakening slightly; on the other hand, the economic slowdown in the eurozone is dampening the export performance of many CESEE countries. Investment continues to grow strongly, driven primarily by EU transfers in the EU-CEE and by foreign direct investment in the Western Balkans. A significant slump in growth this year can only be expected in Romania and Turkey, countries whose economies have been ‘overheating’. In the context of the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and diverging trade policies of the two largest economies in the world, we analyse the deepening economic relations between Austria and the CESEE countries. The Visegrád states in particular are gaining weight for Austrian trade in goods, tourism and as FDI destinations. From the perspective of CESEE, Austria represents a top 10 export destination for seven countries, a top 10 source country for imports for eight countries and a top 10 investor for even seventeen countries in the region. Explore a selection of indicators on Austria’s economic ties with CESEE free of charge with our interactive data visualisations.
E66|FIW Note No. 25 - März 2018|FIW publishes biannually FIW Notes. They present an overview of the most important Austrian and international developments regarding International Economics.
E66|FIW Note No. 26 - September 2018|FIW publishes biannually FIW Notes. They present an overview of the most important Austrian and international developments regarding International Economics.
E66|Revisionen der Volkswirtschaftlichen Gesamtrechnungen: Revisionspraxis des Statistischen Bundesamtes und ihre Auswirkungen auf Prognosen|Eine wesentliche Grundlage für makroökonomische Analysen sind die Volkswirtschaftlichen Gesamtrechnungen (VGR). Für Deutschland werden diese vom Statistischen Bundesamt vierteljährlich veröffentlicht. Die erste Veröffentlichung basiert noch auf unvollständigen Daten, so dass die Angaben noch mehrfach revidiert werden, bis etwa dreieinhalb Jahre nach Ende eines Jahres der endgültige Wert vorliegt. Überlagert werden diese laufenden Revisionen von sogenannten Generalrevisionen, mit denen systematische Änderungen in den VGR umgesetzt werden. Beobachten lassen sich nur die Revisionen insgesamt, während mit Blick auf die Arbeit der statistischen Ämter und den Gesetzgeber eher das Ausmaß der laufenden Revisionen von Interesse ist. Der vorliegende Beitrag isoliert mit Hilfe eines einfachen Ansatzes die laufenden Revisionen und untersucht deren Ausmaß sowie, ob sie Systematiken folgen. Dabei lassen sich für eine Reihe preisbereinigter Verwendungsaggregate der VGR wie auch für die Erwerbstätigkeit Systematiken wie Verzerrung, Autokorrelation der Revisionen und Korrelation von Ausmaß der der Revision mit der Zuwachsrate der betreffenden Größe finden. Dies weist auf Möglichkeiten hin, durch bessere Datennutzung die Revisionsanfälligkeit der VGR zu verringern. Dies ist auch mit Blick auf die Genauigkeit von Prognosen wünschenswert, denn die Arbeit zeigt am Beispiel der Gemeinschaftsdiagnose, dass die Fehler der im Herbst veröffentlichten Prognosen eng mit den Revisionen der Daten für das erste Halbjahr des betreffenden Jahres korrelieren.
E66|Forecasting European economic policy uncertainty|Forecasting the economic policy uncertainty in Europe is of paramount importance given the ongoing sovereign debt crisis. This paper evaluates monthly economic policy uncertainty index forecasts and examines whether ultra‐high frequency information from asset market volatilities and global economic uncertainty can improve the forecasts relatively to the no‐change forecast. The results show that the global economic policy uncertainty provides the highest predictive gains, followed by the European and US stock market realized volatilities. In addition, the European stock market implied volatility index is shown to be an important predictor of the economic policy uncertainty.
E66|Characterizing the Canadian Financial Cycle with Frequency Filtering Approaches|In this note, I use two multivariate frequency filtering approaches to characterize the Canadian financial cycle by capturing fluctuations in the underlying variables with respect to a long-term trend. The first approach is a dynamically weighted composite, and the second is a stochastic cycle model. Applying the two approaches to Canada yields several findings. First, the Canadian financial cycle is more than twice as long as the business cycle, with an amplitude almost four times greater. Second, the overall Canadian financial cycle is most strongly associated with household credit and house prices. Third, while Canadian house prices are mostly associated with the financial cycle, they are also significantly tied to the business cycle. Lastly, house prices are found to lead the overall financial cycle. These results are generally in line with findings for other countries studied in literature. Additionally, I compare each approach’s proneness to revision and find that both are more reliable, when monitored in real time, than the Basel III total credit-to-GDP gap. Nonetheless, further work is encouraged to investigate more variable combinations and undertake a cross-country analysis since data on systemic financial stress in Canada are limited. It should be noted that since the approaches produce a measure of the financial cycle relative to trend, comparison with level indicators (as those monitored in the Bank of Canada’s Financial System Review) is not straightforward.
E66|Asymmetric Risks to the Economic Outlook Arising from Financial System Vulnerabilities|When financial system vulnerabilities are elevated, they can give rise to asymmetric risks to the economic outlook. To illustrate this, I consider the economic outlook presented in the Bank of Canada’s October 2017 Monetary Policy Report in the context of two key financial system vulnerabilities: high levels of household indebtedness and housing market imbalances. Uncertainty on the profile of consumption by indebted households—and, therefore, risks to growth in gross domestic product (GDP)—arises from higher interest rates and from recent changes to the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions’ B-20 mortgage underwriting guideline. I use non-linear Bayesian techniques to capture the potential amplification of negative shocks in a vulnerable environment. I find that the materialization of larger-than-expected impacts on consumption from higher interest rates and/or the tighter mortgage qualifying criteria would imply asymmetric risks to GDP growth.
E66|BREXIT Perspectives: Financial Market Dynamics, Welfare Aspects and Problems from Slower Growth|In this analysis, BREXIT is considered with regard to the main consequences for financial markets; and real economic implications are taken into account while policy options are also highlighted. The role of the interest elasticity of the demand for money is emphasized for both welfare analysis of BREXIT and overshooting – assuming that that elasticity will fall post-BREXIT. Key insights emerge from aspects related to Dornbusch-type exchange rate overshooting problems and insights from the Branson model: This medium-term perspective is used to derive some short-term and long-term BREXIT implications. As regards overall welfare effects, the BREXIT welfare effect related to a lower holding of real money balances – due to a lower gross domestic product post-BREXIT in the long run – is rather high, so that adding this to the HM Treasury finding of a 10% income loss from BREXIT suggests that the long run welfare loss of the UK could be high. Moreover, the quality of financial market integration in the EU countries is highlighted: For the first time, financial services trade restrictiveness indices are empirically analyzed. This leads – on the basis of a restrictiveness index regarding international financial services and additional information about prudential supervision quality – to an assessment of the quality of financial markets. Policy conclusions take into account the new protectionist challenges and use insights from the Welfens enhanced growth model with trade and foreign direct investment.
E66|The 2018 Long-Term Budget Outlook|In CBOâ€™s projections, federal budget deficits grow substantially over the next several years in relation to the size of the economy, stabilize for a few years, and then grow again over the rest of the 30-year period. If current laws generally remained unchanged, the growing deficits would raise federal debt held by the public from 78 percent of gross domestic product this year to nearly 100 percent by the end of the next decade and 152 percent by 2048.
E66|The Deficit Reductions Necessary to Meet Various Targets for Federal Debt|CBO has examined various illustrative scenarios in which the federal government makes debt held by the public smaller than it would be if current laws remained generally unchanged. In those scenarios, the primary deficitâ€”that is, the deficit excluding net outlays for interestâ€”is reduced to make debt equal 41 percent, 78 percent, or 100 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) over the next 15 to 30 years. Two broad strategies are used: reducing the primary deficit by a constant share of GDP over time and reducing the primary deficit by an increasing share of GDP.
E66|An Update to the Economic Outlook: 2018 to 2028|In CBOâ€™s updated projections, real gross domestic product (GDP) grows by 3.1 percent in 2018 and 2.4 percent in 2019. In both years, growth in actual GDP outpaces growth in potential (that is, maximum sustainable) GDP, creating excess demand in the economy and further lowering the unemployment rate.
E66|The Long-Term Budget Outlook Under Alternative Scenarios for Fiscal Policy|In CBOâ€™s most recent extended baseline projections, federal debt held by the public rises from an amount equal to 78 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) in 2018 to 118 percent of GDP in 2038. This report expands on those projections by showing how the federal budget and the nationâ€™s economy would evolve under three alternative scenarios. In those scenarios, laws would be changed to continue certain policies now in place, leading to even higher debt.
E66|Economic Policy Uncertainty in Turkey|Uncertainty over economic policy plays a key role in economic outcomes. But evidence and quantification for emerging markets are elusive because of measurement and reverse causality issues. In this paper, we construct a news-based economic policy uncertainty (EPU) index for Turkey and assess how it affects Turkish firms. To disentangle the issues of endogeneity and reverse causality, we use a difference-in-differences approach, exploiting the fact that firms with a high share of irreversible investment are more exposed to policy uncertainty. In sectors with large irreversible investment EPU has a greater effect on growth, investment, and leverage. The results are robust to different definitions of investment irreversibility, lag structure, and selection of sectors.
E66|Financial and non-financial global stock market volatility shocks|We decompose global stock market volatility shocks into financial originated shocks and nonfinancial originated shocks. Global stock market volatility shocks arising from financial sources reduce substantially more global outputs and inflation than non-financial sources shocks. Financial stock market volatility shocks forecasts 16.85% and 16.88% of the variation in global growth and inflation, respectively. In contrast, the on-financial stock market volatility shocks forecasts only 8.0% and 2.19% of the variation in global growth and inflation. Beside this markable difference global interest/policy rate responds similarly to both shocks.
E66|Une comparaison des prévisions macroéconomiques sur la France|Alors que l'INSEE vient de publier une première estimation de la croissance française de 2017 (1,9 %), nous comparons les prévisions pour 2018 et 2019 réalisées par 18 organismes (publics et privés, dont l'OFCE) entre septembre et décembre 2017. Pour tous la reprise semble solidement enclenchée et durable, avec une croissance moyenne prévue de 1,8 % en 2018 puis de 1,7 % en 2019 : les prévisions sont assez proches pour 2018 (1,7 % à 2 %) mais s'étalent de 1,4 % à 2,2 % en 2019 (avec 8 instituts sur 15 qui prévoient un ralentissement). La consommation privée accélérerait un peu (1,6 % en 2018 et 1,7 % en 2019), avec des écarts nets entre instituts. En effet, l'emploi progresserait entre 0,6 et 1,9 % en 2019 et les salaires entre 1,3 % et 2,6 %. Le diagnostic sur les salaires dépend du degré de tensions sur le marché du travail, de l'impact de l'inflation et des gains de productivité et de l'effet de la réforme du marché du travail de 2017 (décentralisation des négociations collectives). L'inflation resterait modérée (1,4 % en 2019). Le taux de chômage baisserait à 8,8 % en moyenne en 2019 mais les prévisions varient entre 8,1 % et 9,2 %. Pour tous les instituts, le déficit public respecterait dès 2017 le seuil de 3 % du PIB. La France pourrait alors sortir de la Procédure de Déficit Excessif en 2018. Le déficit resterait cependant élevé, du fait de mesures exceptionnelles (remboursement aux entreprises de la taxe sur les dividendes récemment invalidée par le Conseil constitutionnel et transformation du CICE en baisses de charges sociales employeurs en 2019).
E66|Unemployment Risk|Fluctuations in upside risks to unemployment over the medium term are examined using quantile regressions. U.S. experience reveals an elevated risk of large increases in unemployment when inflation or credit growth is high and when the unemployment rate is low. Inflation was a significant contributor to unemployment risk in the 1970s and early 1980s, and fluctuations in credit have contributed importantly to unemployment risk since the 1980s. Fluctuations in upside risk to unemployment are larger than fluctuations in the median outlook or downside risk to unemployment. Accounting for inflation and the state of the business cycle is important for understanding the role of financial conditions in shaping unemployment risk. The analysis suggests that fluctuations in near-term risks to unemployment decreased after 1984 because inflation stabilized, but fluctuations in medium-term risks increased owing to the large swings in credit in recent decades.
E66|Economic Policy Uncertainty in Turkey|Uncertainty over economic policy plays a key role in economic outcomes. But evidence and quantification for emerging markets are elusive because of measurement and reverse causality issues. In this paper, we construct a news-based economic policy uncertainty (EPU) index for Turkey and assess how it affects Turkish firms. To disentangle the issues of endogeneity and reverse causality, we use a difference-in-differences approach. In sectors with large irreversible investment EPU has a greater effect on growth, investment, and leverage. The results are robust to different definitions of investment irreversibility, lag structure, and selection of sectors.
E66|Economic Policy Uncertainty in Greece: Measuring Uncertainty for the Greek Macroeconomy|We constructed the monthly Economic Policy Uncertainty (EPU) index for Greece for the period 1998-2018 using the Baker et al. (2016) methodology. This index is of critical importance for macroeconomic research given the presumed heightened levels of uncertainty in the Greek economy in the context of recent economic and political events. The newly-constructed time series of the uncertainty index is discussed and related to the recent economic and financial crisis in Greece and the Eurozone. Simple statistical analysis highlights the high levels of correlation in economic policy uncertainty between Greece, European countries and the USA. It is also shown that the uncertainty correlation between Greece and Europe is time varying and has become much lower since the onset of the Greek crisis.
E66|A Tale of Three Crises in Turkey: 1994, 2001 and 2008–09|Developing countries have encountered many economic crises since the 1980s, due mainly to structural problems related to their integration into the global economy. The Turkish economy is by no means an exception, and suffered significantly from the crises of 1994, 2001 and 2008–09. This paper investigates the tales of these three crises to shed light on the propagation mechanisms of crises and their implications for developing countries, given the Turkish experience. Our study is aiming at complementing existing studies by giving a very broad comparative picture of the main macroeconomic trends before and after the crises at the expense of ignoring many important details explained in other studies. This comparison can be also useful for understanding possible (and under current conditions highly unavoidable) implications of current developments in Turkish economy. Although there are many differences in the emergence of recent crises in Turkey, significant similarities can be found between the 1994 and 2001 crises. The crisis of 2008–09 can be considered exceptional in many aspects. The first two episodes were deemed to be mostly finance-led and finance-driven, with repercussions on the real sectors thereafter; but the 2008–09 crisis was a fully-fledged real sector crisis from the beginning, amid a direct collapse in employment and real economic productivity.
E66|Investment as a transmission mechanism from weak demand to weak supply and the post-crisis productivity slowdown|Current weak labour productivity growth in many OECD countries reflects historically weak contributions from both total factor productivity (TFP) growth and capital deepening. The slowdown in trend productivity growth in the pre-crisis period is mostly explained by a long-established slowdown in TFP growth, but since the crisis the further deceleration is mainly due to weak capital deepening, a development apparent in practically every OECD country. Much of the weakness in the growth of the capital stock since the financial crisis can be explained by an accelerator response of investment to continued demand weakness, leading in turn to a deterioration of potential output via a hysteresis-like effect. For the most severely affected economies, the financial crisis is estimated to have reduced potential output by more than 2% via this transmission mechanism. In many OECD countries, declining government investment as a share of GDP has further exacerbated post-crisis weakness in capital stock growth, both directly and probably indirectly via adverse spillover effects on business investment. Finally, over a period when the use of conventional macro policy instruments was constrained, the slower pace of structural reform represents a missed opportunity, not least because more competition-friendly product market regulation could have boosted both investment and potential growth.
E66|Boosting productivity and living standards in Thailand|The Prosperity pillar of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development calls for an integrated approach based on boosting productivity through diversification, upgrading technology and innovation, and increasing employment and entrepreneurship. Thailand needs to address all these challenges to achieve high-income country status by 2036. Over the past decade, limited structural reform and capital investment have held back productivity growth and improvements in well-being, and Thailand has lost ground vis-à-vis regional comparators. More recently, however, economic growth has started to regain momentum helped by a pick-up in global trade, which has supported exports, and by a substantial public infrastructure investment programme. Moving forward, Thailand will need to boost productive capacity in the face of intensified competition with regional peers and rapid demographic ageing. In addition, productivity gains will be increasingly necessary to drive growth. Key areas of focus include improving human resource development, encouraging technology diffusion via cluster development, promoting innovation and digitalisation, improving the SME policy framework and expanding regional integration, as emphasised in the government’s 12th Plan and Thailand 4.0. This Working Paper relates to the Initial Assessment report of the Multi-dimensional Country Review of Thailand (http://www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/multi-dimensional-review-thailand.htm)
E66|Fan charts around GDP projections based on probit models of downturn risk|This paper describes a method for parameterising fan charts around GDP growth forecasts of the major OECD economies as well as the aggregate OECD. The degree of uncertainty – reflecting the overall spread of the fan chart – is based on past forecast errors, but the skew – reflecting whether risks are tilted to the downside – is derived from a probit model-based assessment of the probability of a future downturn. This approach is applied to each of the G7 countries separately, with combinations of variables found to be useful in predicting future downturns at different horizons up to 8 quarters: at short horizons of 2-4 quarters, a flattening or inverted yield curve slope, recent sharp falls in house prices, share prices or credit; at longer horizons of 6-8 quarters, sustained strong growth in house prices, share prices and credit; and at all horizons, a tight labour market and rapid growth in OECD-wide (or in some cases euro-wide) house prices, share prices or credit. The in-sample fit of the probit models appears reasonably good for all G7 countries. The predicted probabilities from the probit models provide a graduated assessment of downturn risk, which is reflected in the degree of skew in the fan chart. Fan charts computed on an out-of-sample basis around pre-crisis OECD forecasts published in June 2008 encompass the extreme outturns associated with the Global Financial Crisis for five of the G7 countries. A weakness of the approach is that, although it predicts a clear majority of past downturns, it will not predict atypical downturns. For example, in the current conjuncture, it is unlikely that current concerns about risks associated with Brexit, an escalation of trade tensions or spillovers from emerging markets would be picked up by the models. At the same time, a severe downturn triggered by such atypical events might be more severe if more typical risk factors are also high.
E66|Economic Policy Uncertainty and the Volatility of Sovereign CDS Spreads|Multipliers estimated for sixteen major economies predict that 1% more economic policy uncertainty (EPU) produces about 0.3% - 0.8% more sovereign CDS volatility. The impact of EPU is strong but short-lived. US EPU is an important additional source of CDS volatility for European countries, Japan, China, and South Korea. European EPU does, in contrast, not affect the CDS volatility of other countries.
E66|Togo - 2017: domestic politics, foreign affairs and socio-economic development|ABSTRACT & RÉSUMÉ & ZUSAMMENFASSUNG: The demand for political alternance, initiated by institutional and electoral reforms, constituted the major contentious issue between the government and the challengers of the Gnassingbé regime throughout the year. Civil society organizations and representatives of the Christian church supported the demands of the opposition. The protest of the notorious divided opposition took a new momentum since August with the lead by a hitherto hardly known opposition party and its charismatic leader, Tikpi Atchadam. He organized huge demonstrations of all the 14 opposition parties in the second half of the year which put the government progressively under pressure. Foreign affairs were dominated by the impact of increased aid by the international donor community. Socio-economic development was marked by diminishing human development and economic freedom. ------------------------------------------------------------ RÉSUMÉ: La demande d'alternance politique, initiée par des réformes institutionnelles et électorales, constitue le principal contentieux entre le gouvernement et les challengers du régime Gnassingbé tout au long de l'année. Les organisations de la société civile et les représentants de l'église chrétienne ont soutenu les demandes de l'opposition. La protestation de l'opposition divisée notoire a pris un nouvel élan depuis le mois d'août avec à sa tête un parti d'opposition jusqu'alors méconnu et son leader charismatique, Tikpi Atchadam. Il a organisé d'énormes manifestations de l'ensemble des 14 partis d'opposition au cours de la seconde moitié de l'année, ce qui a mis le gouvernement sous pression. Les affaires étrangères ont été dominées par l'impact de l'aide accrue de la communauté internationale des donateurs. Le développement socio-économique a été marqué par la diminution du développement humain et de la liberté économique. ------------------------------------------------------------ ZUSAMMENFASSUNG: Die Forderung nach politischer Alternanz, initiiert durch institutionelle und Wahlreformen, war das größte Streitthema zwischen der Regierung und den Herausforderern des Gnassingbé-Regimes während des ganzen Jahres. Zivilgesellschaftliche Organisationen und Vertreter der christlichen Kirche unterstützten die Forderungen der Opposition. Der Protest der zerstrittenen Opposition nahm ab August mit der Führung einer bisher kaum bekannten Oppositionspartei und ihres charismatischen Führers Tikpi Atchadam eine neue Dynamik an. Er organisierte in der zweiten Jahreshälfte große Demonstrationen aller 14 Oppositionsparteien, die die Regierung zunehmend unter Druck setzten. Auswärtige Angelegenheiten waren von den Auswirkungen der verstärkten Hilfe der internationalen Gebergemeinschaft geprägt. Die sozioökonomische Entwicklung war von abnehmender menschlicher Entwicklung und wirtschaftlicher Freiheit geprägt.
E66|Economic impacts of Political Uncertainty in Thailand|This paper aims to analyze political uncertainty in Thailand by looking at various dimensions of political uncertainty and quantifying the economic impacts. Based on keyword search in Thai-language newspapers, the paper proposes five measures related to different aspects of political uncertainty. These are: (1) political protest (2) official measures in dealing with political violence (3) coup d'tat (4) parliament dissolution or election and (5) political structural reform, including the aggregate index of political uncertainty. We find that the overall political uncertainty in Thailand has been in the rising trend during the past 20 years. In particular, during the past 10 years, the main source of Thai political uncertainty comes from uncertainty related to political structural reform. Based on various econometric specifications, rising political uncertainty is found to have significant negative impacts on the Thai economy both in the short run ? particularly, private investment ? and economic growth in the long run. Nevertheless, we find that the degree of the economic impact and statistical significance on different components of macroeconomy is quite varied, reflecting complicated interaction between political factors and economic outcome.
E66|Edb Economies: Positive Trends In Mutual Trade|World economic growth in 2017 was driven by an increase in business activity in both developed and key developing economies. In the context of falling deflation risk, as well as an improvement in unemployment – an important macroeconomic parameter – there has been a trend towards normalization of the US Federal Reserve System's monetary policy. The European Central Bank is also moving in the direction of reducing its quantitative easing program. Thus, monetary policy's supporting effect is gradually ending, but the system retains a lot of fiscal incentives to help accelerate economic growth. The rise in investment and the recovery of world trade in developed economies was the third component driving higher than expected growth in 2017. The world's positive economic growth trend drove a return to favorable conditions on world commodity markets. The average price for Brent crude in 2017 grew by 23.5% YoY. Prices for precious metals rose by 0.4% on average for the year, and non-precious metals grew by an average of 24.4%. Monetary policy in the main global economies will cease to be the main factor in supporting growth, but in Russia and other EDB countries, given current conditions, there is a chance to stimulate economic growth due to unprecedented low inflation and the possibility of a further lowering of the key rate. A softening of monetary policy in most of the region's countries will support investment activity. If a favorable external environment is maintained, positive trends can be expected to develop, including the restoration of foreign investment and growth of mutual trade between EDB countries. The increase in labor migrants' remittances will stimulate domestic demand in the region's economies, whose balance of payments largely depends on these transfers.
E66|Edb Economies: In Search Of New Growth Drivers|The extent of global protectionism risks became obvious in the first half of 2018. The US’s escalating trade dispute with the EU and China creates considerable risks to global economic growth, which brings additional risks of an energy price correction for the EDB countries. Apart from external economic risks, weakening existing growth drivers and the need for new sources to boost economic development become new and growing challenges facing the EDB countries. One of the possible steps under the present conditions can be some softening in fiscal policy. Prospects of a fiscal stimulus emerged this year with the Russian President’s executive orders issued in May to provide additional financing to high-priority sectors. Additional expenditures can amount to up to RUB 8 trillion by 2020. Amid growing energy prices, there was an increase in spending in Kazakhstan in 1Q 2018, by 13.5% YoY, compared to almost zero growth in the same period of the previous year. At the same time, social expenditures (+20% YoY), particularly on healthcare (+23.6% YoY), outpace overall expenditure growth. However, using the budget mechanism to stimulate economic activity has some limitations, including budget rules established in oil exporting countries, such as the RF. On the other hand, some countries, like Belarus and Armenia, need to reduce government debt. An increase in spending amid a rise in commodity prices may also increase EDB countries’ dependence on global economic conditions. Thus, in order to find additional growth drivers, the EDB countries have to take measures to increase efficiency and labor productivity in their economies and to improve the investment climate. Diminishing the share of the shadow economy can be a potential economic growth driver for the EDB countries. According to the IMF, the shadow economy in the EDB countries constitutes 32.8% of Kazakhstan’s GDP, 30.1% of Kyrgyzstan’s GDP, 32.4% of Belarus’s GDP, 37.8% of Tajikistan’s GDP, 36% of Armenia’s GDP, and 33.7% of Russia’s GDP. These estimates do not correspond to the countries’ official data due to differences in assessment methods applied. According to the Kazakhstan Statistics Committee, the shadow economy amounted to 25.8% of Kazakhstan’s GDP in 2016 and 23.8% of Kyrgyzstan’s GDP. However, all conditions currently exist to decrease it. By decreasing the shadow economy, it will be possible to increase budget revenues, distribute revenues more equally, and improve the business climate and economy in general.
E66|A Barometer of Canadian Financial System Vulnerabilities|This note presents a composite indicator of Canadian financial system vulnerabilities—the Vulnerabilities Barometer. It aims to complement the Bank of Canada’s vulnerabilities assessment by adding a quantitative and synthesized perspective to the more granular (distributional) analysis presented in the Financial System Review. •The Vulnerabilities Barometer for Canada is above the level reached in 2007. The current state is driven by housing market vulnerabilities and elevated household indebtedness. The oil price shock contributed to the recent increase in vulnerabilities, though this risk factor has eased since the end of 2016. •When assessed across countries, the Vulnerabilities Barometer sends earlier and better signals of future stress episodes than its components taken individually, or than the credit-to-GDP gap. It is also consistent with the narrative of stressful episodes for peer countries.
E66|Components of Uncertainty|Uncertainty is acknowledged to be a source of economic fluctuations. But, does the type of uncertainty matter for the economy’s response to an uncertainty shock? This paper offers a novel identification strategy to disentangle different types of uncertainty. It uses machine learning techniques to classify different types of news instead of specifying a set of keywords. It is found that, depending on its source, the effects of uncertainty on macroeconomic variable may differ. I find that both good (expansionary effect) and bad (contractionary effect) types of uncertainty exist
E66|Components of uncertainty|Uncertainty is acknowledged to be a source of economic fluctuations. But, does the type of uncertainty matter for the economy's response to an uncertainty shock? This paper offers a novel identi cation strategy to disentangle different types of uncertainty. It uses machine learning techniques to classify different types of news instead of specifying a set of keywords. It is found that, depending on its source, the effects of uncertainty on macroeconomic variable may differ. I find that both good(expansionary effect) and bad (contractionary effect) types of uncertainty exist.
E66|The 2017 Long-Term Budget Outlook|CBOâ€™s projections show a substantial imbalance looming in the federal budget over the next 30 years, with spending outpacing revenues by steadily increasing amounts. As a result, if current laws generally remained unchanged, federal debt would reach an unprecedented share of GDP, intensifying pressures on the federal budget, dampening economic growth, limiting the nationâ€™s ability to respond to unforeseen events, and increasing the likelihood of a fiscal crisis.
E66|Makroökonomische Unsicherheit in Deutschland|Der Artikel stellt eine neue Methode zur Messung der makroökonomischen, d.h. gesamtwirtschaftlichen Unsicherheit für Deutschland vor. Das hier dargestellte Maß verhält sich im Vergleich zu den bisher in der Literatur vorgeschlagenen Alternativen deutlich weniger volatil.
E66|Geopolitical Tensions, OPEC News, and Oil Price: A Granger Causality Analysis|To what extent geopolitical tensions in major oil-producer countries and unexpected news related to the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) affect oil price? What are the effects of non-market externalities in oil price? Are oil price forecasters aware or affected by such externalities when making their predictions? In this article, I analyse the influence of these events on oil price by means of Granger causality, using a unique measure of geopolitical events accounting for supply disruptions for the 2001-12 period. I found evidence favouring OPEC countries'-related news as an oil price driver jointly with supply disruptions influencing short-term forecasts, and reducing the consensus when unanticipated news are available. When considering separately OPEC news or other supply disruptions, the evidence is rather episodic.
E66|Public-private partnership as an alternative source of financing of public tasks|Aim: The paper touches upon the issue of public-private partnership (PPP) as an alternative form of realising public tasks by the local authorities (Polish short: JST) in Poland. Motivation: Since 2009, the cooperation between the public and private sector has been used to an increasingly large extent in various areas of economy. The first part of the paper presents the legislation concerning the public-private partnership in Poland for the years 2009–2014 that regulates, defines and details the cooperation between both sectors. In order to present the scale of using the private-public partnership framework by local authorities in Poland, the last part of the text analyses reports originating from the Ministry of Economy, Polish Agency for Enterprise Development and the Public-Private Partnership Institute concerning the public-private partnership industry and concessions in Poland for the years 2009–2014. Results: Analysis of data and its interpretation were used in order to set out the perspectives for the development of the private-public partnership industry in Poland for future years. The statutory obligation to realise local authorities’ own tasks, combined with the limited amount of budget resources, forces the local authorities to look for alternative solutions. In the light of the analyses presented here, the public-private partnership framework may become a solution for the scarcity of financial resources for many communes, poviates and regions in Poland.
E66|Cuban macroeconomic trends 1985 - 2013, external shocks and policy|The paper focuses on analyzing the leading macroeconomic trends and policies in Cuba from 1985-2013. Five macroeconomic indexes were estimated using dynamic factor models. The correlations between the estimated indexes and the GDP growth rate show that, on average, fiscal policy was procyclical while monetary policy was countercyclical. Econometric simulations confirmed the economy’s high vulnerability to an eventual collapse of relations with Venezuela; it would cause GDP to contract by about 10% over three years. The analysis also suggests that pending monetary reforms could create negative pressure on goods production and on households’ living conditions, which could not be mitigated by an expansionary fiscal policy. Instead, the negative effects of such shocks can be mitigated only through greater international openness; this is a more feasible objective. given the current situation of diminishing tensions with the US government.
E66|World Economy Gaining Momentum, Risks Remain High: DIW Economic Outlook|The world economy continues on its upward growth path, with global production expected to grow by 3.7 percent this year and slightly more than that in 2018. The economies in both the developed and the emerging countries are gaining momentum. Solid output growth is expected for the U.S. and euro area over the forecast period; China’s growth rates remain high, though they are declining somewhat; and Russia is coming out of its recession. Private consumption is driving growth in the developed countries, but the rise in inflation – which is due to higher energy prices – is expected to slow down consumption growth a bit. The global increase in prices is likely to also lead to a slightly more restrictive monetary policy overall. A number of economic policy-related risks – not least among them, the protectionism – could have a negative impact on the world economy, in particular on investment activity.
E66|German Economy: Strong Employment Growth, Weak Investment Activity: DIW Economic Outlook|The German economy's upward growth trend continues, with the economic output expected to increase by 1.4 percent this year with slightly overloaded capacities. Employment growth remains strong with the creation of 600,000 new jobs, which has in turn led to an increase in private consumption – one of the key growth drivers of the German economy. The higher inflation rates are dampening purchasing power, but they will subside later on in the forecast period. The high public budget surpluses will experience a sharp decline. Investment, on the other hand, remains weak, partially due to the fact that Brexit and Trump are creating uncertainty for German exporters. Frictions in the financial markets that may arise as a result of the upcoming elections – in France and the Netherlands, for example – could present risks for the real economy.
E66|Construction Sector: Full Order Books, Good Growth Prospects|A significant rise in Germany’s construction volume is expected for this year and the next, even if the growth is not as pronounced as it was in 2016. According to DIW Berlin’s latest construction volume calculations, the sum of all new construction and building refurbishments will increase in real terms by 1.6 and 2.4 percent in 2017 and 2018, respectively, from a rate of 2.5 percent in 2016. New housing construction and public civil engineering are currently the primary growth drivers, but refurbishments are also likely to gain in prevalence. Yet it is also becoming apparent that the construction industry is reaching the limits of its production capacities, with high utilization levels in many places. Government subsidization of construction investment is thus inappropriate in this context: given the full construction capacities, measures intended to promote new construction will only catalyze the price acceleration. The focus should instead be on approaches to stabilizing investment, which can be achieved through instruments for urban redevelopment or the creation of a reserve in public budgets for infrastructure investment.
E66|Bauwirtschaft: volle Auftragsbücher und gute Wachstumsaussichten|The construction volume in Germany is likely to rise significantly in this and next year, albeit not as strongly as in 2016. According to the recent construction volume calculation of DIW Berlin the sum of new construction and refurbishment activities has increased by 2.5 percent in 2016 in real terms. It is expected to rise by additional 1.6 percent in 2017 and again by 2.4 percent in 2018. New construction of residential buildings and public civil engineering are currently the main growth drivers. But refurbishment and renovation, which are currently relatively weak, are likely to gain momentum over the next two years. However it is currently also apparent that the construction industry comes to the limits of its production capacities: the levels of capacity utilization are high. Further fiscal policy measures to incentify additional short run investments in both, new housing and infrastructure, are out of place. Against the background of the high capacity utilization, the likely outcome of additional subsidization would be an increase of prices in the construction industry. Rather, approaches are needed that make investment - particularly in public infrastructure - more sustainable. These include instruments for urban redevelopment areas or an investment reserve fund for infrastructure in public budgets. Das Bauvolumen in Deutschland dürfte auch in diesem und im kommenden Jahr deutlich steigen, wenn auch nicht ganz so stark wie im vergangenen Jahr. Der neuesten Bauvolumenrechnung des DIW Berlin zufolge wird die Summe der Neubauleistungen und Maßnahmen an bestehenden Gebäuden nach 2,5 Prozent im Jahr 2016 in den Jahren 2017 und 2018 real um 1,6 beziehungsweise 2,4 Prozent zunehmen. Der Wohnungsneubau und der öffentliche Tiefbau sind gegenwärtig noch die wesentlichen Wachstumsträger. Maßnahmen im Gebäudebestand dürften aber zunehmend an Bedeutung gewinnen. Allerdings zeichnet sich derzeit auch ab, dass die Bauwirtschaft an die Grenzen ihrer Produktionskapazitäten stößt, die Auslastungsgrade sind vielerorts hoch. Aktionismus bei der staatlichen Förderung von Bauinvestitionen ist daher fehl am Platze. Vor dem Hintergrund ausgelasteter Baukapazitäten dürften Maßnahmen, die den Neubau fördern sollen, derzeit wohl in erster Linie den Preisauftrieb beschleunigen. Gefragt wären vielmehr Ansätze, die Investitionen verstetigen. Dazu zählen Instrumente für städtische Sanierungsgebiete oder eine Investitionsrücklage für Infrastrukturinvestitionen in den öffentlichen Haushalten.
E66|Weltkonjunktur hellt sich weiter auf, Risiken bleiben hoch: Grundlinien der Wirtschaftsentwicklung im Frühjahr 2017|Die Weltkonjunktur hellt sich weiter auf. Die globale Wirtschaftsleistung dürfte in diesem Jahr um 3,7 Prozent zunehmen und im nächsten Jahr geringfügig stärker wachsen. Sowohl die entwickelten Volkswirtschaften als auch die Schwellenländer kommen besser in Schwung. Die USA und der Euroraum dürften im Prognosezeitraum solide Produktionszuwächse aufweisen, China verzeichnet zwar abnehmende, aber weiterhin hohe Wachstumsraten und Russland kommt aus der Rezession. In den entwickelten Volkswirtschaften treibt der private Verbrauch das Wachstum, allerdings dürfte die aufgrund gestiegener Energiepreise anziehende Inflation die Dynamik vielerorts etwas dämpfen. Der globale Preisanstieg wird voraussichtlich auch eine etwas restriktivere Geldpolitik zur Folge haben. Eine Reihe von Risiken wirtschaftspolitischer Natur, nicht zuletzt der um sich greifende Protektionismus, könnten sich weltweit insbesondere auf die Investitionstätigkeit negativ auswirken.
E66|Deutsche Wirtschaft: Beschäftigungsaufbau stark, Investitionstätigkeit schwach: Grundlinien der Wirtschaftsentwicklung im Frühjahr 2017|Der deutsche Konjunkturmotor ist weiter auf Touren: Die Wirtschaftsleistung dürfte in diesem Jahr bei leicht überausgelasteten Kapazitäten um 1,4 Prozent wachsen. Ins Gewicht fällt der anhaltend kräftige Beschäftigungsaufbau: Die Zahl der Arbeitsplätze steigt um 600 000. Das treibt den privaten Konsum, der das Wachstum der deutschen Wirtschaft weiter maßgeblich stützt. Die höhere Inflation dämpft zwar die Kaufkraft, wird aber im späteren Verlauf wieder etwas nachgeben. Die zuletzt hohen Überschüsse der öffentlichen Haushalte werden kräftig zurückgehen. Ein weiterer Wermutstropfen sind die nach wie vor schwachen Investitionen, die auch damit zusammenhängen, dass Brexit und Trump die deutschen Exporteure verunsichern. Risiken bergen mögliche Spannungen auf den Finanzmärkten, die etwa infolge der Wahlen in Frankreich und den Niederlanden entstehen und sich in die Realwirtschaft übertragen können.
E66|The Impact of Global Uncertainty on the Global Economy, and Large Developed and Developing Economies|Global uncertainty shocks are associated with a sharp decline in global inflation, global growth and in the global interest rate. Over 1981 to 2014 global financial uncertainty forecasts 18.26% and 14.95% of the variation in global growth and global inflation respectively. Global uncertainty shocks have more protracted, statistically significant and substantial effects on global growth, inflation and interest rate than U.S. uncertainty shocks. U.S. uncertainty lags global uncertainty by one month. When controlling for domestic uncertainty, the decline in output following a rise in global uncertainty is statistically significant in each country, with the exception of the decline for China. The effects for the U.S. and for China are also relatively small. For most economies, a positive shock to global uncertainty has a depressing effect on prices and official interest rates. Exceptions are Brazil, Mexico and Russia, economies with large capital outflows during financial crises. Decomposition of global uncertainty shocks shows that global financial uncertainty shocks are more important than non-financial shocks.
E66|Global commodity prices and global stock volatility shocks: effects across countries|This paper investigates the time-varying dynamics of global stock volatility, commodity prices, and domestic output and consumer prices. The main empirical findings of this papers are: (i) stock volatility and commodity price shocks impact each other and the economy in a gradual and endogenous adjustment process; (ii) the impact of a commodity price shock on global stock volatility is far greater during the global financial crisis than at other times; (iii) the effects of global stock volatility on the US output are amplified by the endogenous commodity price responses; (iv) in the long run, shocks to commodity prices (stock market volatility) account for 11.9% (6.6%) and 25.1% (11.6%) of the variation in US output and consumer prices; (v) the effects of global stock volatility shocks on the economy are heterogeneous across nations and relatively larger in the developed countries.
E66|The impact of global uncertainty on the global economy, and large developed and developing economies|Global uncertainty shocks are associated with a sharp decline in global inflation, global growth and in the global interest rate. Over 1981 to 2014 global financial uncertainty forecasts 18.26% and 14.95% of the variation in global growth and global inflation respectively. Global uncertainty shocks have more protracted, statistically significant and substantial effects on global growth, inflation and interest rate than U.S. uncertainty shocks. U.S. uncertainty lags global uncertainty by one month. When controlling for domestic uncertainty, the decline in output following a rise in global uncertainty is statistically significant in each country, with the exception of the decline for China. The effects for the U.S. and for China are also relatively small. For most economies, a positive shock to global uncertainty has a depressing effect on prices and official interest rates. Exceptions are Brazil, Mexico and Russia, economies with large capital outflows during financial crises. Decomposition of global uncertainty shocks shows that global financial uncertainty shocks are more important than non-financial shocks.
E66|How Fast are Semiconductor Prices Falling?|The Producer Price Index (PPI) for the U.S. suggests that semiconductor prices have barely been falling in recent years, a dramatic contrast to the rapid declines reported from the mid‐1980s to the early 2000s. This slowdown in the rate of decline is puzzling in light of evidence that the performance of microprocessor units (MPUs) has continued to improve at a rapid pace. Over the course of the 2000s, the MPU prices posted by Intel, the dominant producer of MPUs, became much stickier over the chips' life cycle. As a result of this change, we argue that the matched‐model methodology used in the PPI for MPUs likely started to be biased after the early 2000s and that hedonic indexes can provide a more accurate measure of price change since then. MPU prices fell rapidly through 2004 on every price measure we present, with the PPI declining at an even quicker pace than the hedonic indexes. However, from 2004 to 2009, our preferred hedonic index fell faster than the PPI, and from 2009 to 2013 the gap widened further, with our preferred index falling at an average annual rate of 42 percent, while the PPI declined at only a 6 percent rate. Given that MPUs currently represent about half of U.S. shipments of semiconductors, this difference has important implications for gauging the rate of innovation in the semiconductor sector.
E66|Monetary policy communication: Evidence from Survey Data|This paper summarizes the results of a Survey on Monetary policy Communication conducted among central banks in Central Eastern and South-Eastern Europe and the euro area. The main objective of this Survey was to draw evidence on the level of transparency and communication strategies of the central banks. The results of the Survey reveal that today the central banks pay much attention to the proper transparency and provide significant information about their decisions and policy making process. The overall conclusion of the Monetary policy communication Survey is that the communication and the transparency of the 15 central banks included in the Survey is on satisfactory level. Still, there is always a room for improvement, especially in the area of introducing forward guidance by the central banks and more “proactive ways” of communication with the public.
E66|Scenarios for potential macroeconomic impact of Brexit on Hungary|The purpose of this paper is to illustrate the economic impact mechanism of the secession of Great Britain from the European Union (Brexit) on the Hungarian economy, and to quantify the domestic growth risks. Several international studies have dealt with this topic using partial analysis and model based simulations, but only partial analyses are available regarding the Hungarian economy. Our analysis provides a broader picture by using the new macroeconomic forecast model of the MNB. Upon determining the exogenous assumptions in our simulations we relied on the central bank experts’ broad knowledge. The applied model handles the wealth heterogeneity in the decision making processes of the households and the corporate sector. This feature makes the model suitable for explaining prolonged after-crisis recovery and the role of the financial accelerator feedback mechanism. In the course of illustrating the economic impact mechanism we show the main channels through which Brexit can spread over to Hungarian economic growth. Besides the primary channels, our analysis includes the secondary channel effects increasingly in the spotlight: we investigate the shock resilience ability of the financial system, and analyze the potential room for manoeuvre for fiscal policy.
E66|Survey Measurement of Probabilistic Macroeconomic Expectations: Progress and Promise|Economists commonly suppose that persons have probabilistic expectations for uncertain events, yet empirical research measuring expectations was long rare. The inhibition against collection of expectations data has gradually lessened, generating a substantial body of recent evidence on the expectations of broad populations. This paper first summarizes the history leading to development of the modern literature and overviews its main concerns. I then describe research on three subjects that should be of direct concern to macroeconomists: expectations of equity returns, inflation expectations, and professional macroeconomic forecasters. I also describe work that questions the assumption that persons have well defined probabilistic expectations and communicate them accurately in surveys. Finally, I consider the evolution of thinking about expectations formation in macroeconomic policy analysis. I favorably observe the increasing willingness of theorists to study alternatives to rational expectations assumptions, but I express concern that models of expectations formation will proliferate in the absence of empirical research to discipline thinking. To make progress, I urge measurement and analysis of the revisions to expectations that agents make following occurrence of unanticipated shocks.
E66|Survey Measurement of Probabilistic Macroeconomic Expectations: Progress and Promise|Economists commonly suppose that persons have probabilistic expectations for uncertain events, yet empirical research measuring expectations was long rare. The inhibition against collection of expectations data has gradually lessened, generating a substantial body of recent evidence on the expectations of broad populations. This paper first summarizes the history leading to development of the modern literature and overviews its main concerns. I then describe research on three subjects that should be of direct concern to macroeconomists: expectations of equity returns, inflation expectations, and professional macroeconomic forecasters. I also describe work that questions the assumption that persons have well defined probabilistic expectations and communicate them accurately in surveys. Finally, I consider the evolution of thinking about expectations formation in macroeconomic policy analysis. I favorably observe the increasing willingness of theorists to study alternatives to rational expectations assumptions, but I express concern that models of expectations formation will proliferate in the absence of empirical research to discipline thinking. To make progress, I urge measurement and analysis of the revisions to expectations that agents make following occurrence of unanticipated shocks.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E66|Designing fan charts for GDP growth forecasts to better reflect downturn risks|"Forecasts of GDP growth are typically over-optimistic for horizons beyond the current year, particularly because they fail to predict the occurrence or severity of future downturns. Macroeconomic forecasters have also long been under pressure to convey the uncertainty surrounding their forecasts, particularly since the financial crisis. The current paper proposes a method to address both these issues simultaneously by constructing fan charts which are parameterised on the basis of the historical forecasting track record, but distinguish between a ""safe"" regime and a ""downturn-risk"" regime. To identify the two regimes, use is made of recent OECD work on early warning indicators of a prospective downturn, relating to housing market or credit developments. Thus, when an early warning indicator is “flashing"", the associated fan chart is not only wider to reflect increased uncertainty, but is also skewed to reflect greater downside risks using a two-piece normal distribution of the form used by central banks to provide fan charts around inflation forecasts. Conversely, in a safe regime, when the early warning indicators are not flashing, as well as being symmetric, the fan chart is narrower both relative to the downturn-risk regime and relative to what the fan chart would be if the dispersion was calculated with respect to the entire forecast track record with no distinction between regimes. The method is illustrated by reference to OECD GDP forecasts for the major seven economies made just prior to the global financial crisis, with fan charts calibrated using the track record of forecasts published in the OECD Economic Outlook. Fan charts which take account of early warning indicators in this way are much better at encapsulating the outturns associated with a downturn than a symmetrical fan chart calibrated indiscriminately on all forecast errors."
E66|The Post-Crisis Slump in the Euro Area and the US|This note discusses the drivers of the persistent post-crisis slump in the Euro Area (EA) and the US, and it gives a brief overview of the research literature that studies the slump. The note argues that financial shocks were key determinants of the 2008-09 Great Recession, for both the EA and the US. The post-2009 slump in the EA mainly reflects a combination of adverse aggregate demand and supply shocks, in particular lower productivity growth, and persistent adverse shocks to capital investment, linked to the poor health of the EA financial system. Adverse financial shocks were less persistent for the US.
E66|The Relationship Between Hong Leong Bank’s Performance with Leverage and Inflation|This paper are for recognize the relationship between risk and performance of Hong Leong Bank. Hong Leong Bank is one of the bank that have a good reputation in banking industry at Malaysia. Thus, it is important to shareholder knows the type of risk that faced by management of bank. The focused risk is leverage and external factor that are inflation by using profitability as the bank’s indicator which is by using ROA and current ratio. Aside that, the external factor such as inflation also give an impact to the performance of bank. The leverage and inflation are significant in business due to the direct and indirect relationship to the profitability. Therefore, this paper further examines if management have taken a serious step in maintaining the risk that will give any reflect to the profitability.
E66|Incidence de l'ouverture économique et de la libéralisation financière des pays de la Communauté Économique des États de l'Afrique de l'Ouest sur leurs activités économiques<BR>[Impact of economic openness and financial liberalization of the Economic Community of West African States on their economic activities]|This paper analyzes the effects of the high economic openness of West African economies coupled with liability dollarization, on their economic activities. By using a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model in a small open economy framework, and performing an experiment based on a case of moderate economic openness and another case on the high economic openness, we find that the high economic openness of west african economies constitutes a brake for their economic progress. This external constraint annihilates the effects of the economic policies implemented to stimulate economic growth, and consequently create macroeconomic imbalances. For small countries like those in West Africa, a moderate economic openness would be advantageous because it would allow them to develop a domestic market that presents many economic advantages and above all, to protect it from foreign competition. It is necessary to decrease now this dependency in order to avoid a polarization of economic blocks after the creation of a Currency Union in West Africa.
E66|Eine keynesianische Analyse der Beschäftigungswirkung einer Arbeitszeitverkürzung<BR>[A Keynesian analysis of the employment effects of a working time reduction]|Recently, the debate about the employment effects of a working time reduction regained the public attention in Germany. Heiner Flassbeck and Friederike Spiecker commented that such a reduction of working-time leads to a falling household consumption due to the lower income of the employees while new men are not employed instantly. In the end, the creation of new jobs becomes obsolete as the sales of the companies shrink. Fritz Helmedag criticizes their analysis. He instead comes to the conclusion that it is necessary not only to adjust the wages to the productivity growth but also to reduce the working time by the same amount the productivity grows; otherwise a higher unemployment is implied under stagnating demand. In this paper it is shown that Helmedag´s analysis suffers from serious analytical inconsistencies. Firstly, his model can be identified as a Keynesian textbook model. For this reason, the relevance for policy conclusions can be seriously doubted. Secondly, the key elements of Flassbeck and Spiecker`s argumentation can be implemented in the model easily. Therefore even within Helmedag´s model the results can differ. Some results can also be attributed to an implicit price stability. Thirdly, the model´s assumptions are highly unrealistic. Furthermore, even basic accounting rules are disregarded as the balance of the primary incomes is missing. This appears to be especially paradox when the core element of Helmedag´s approach is stock-flow consistency. After this examination of Helmedags work, an alternative Keynesian analysis – although heuristic – is provided. It turns out that a working time reduction can lead to significant positive employment effects. Nevertheless, it depends on the concrete shape of the conduction. Considering the current political landscape, heading towards more fiscal stimulus should be preferred to a reduction of working time.
E66|Monetary Constitutionalism: Some Recent Developments|The volume edited by Leland Yeager more than 50 years ago and published in 1962 under the title In Search of a Monetary Constitution has turned out to be remarkably prescient since the Great Inflation was then about to begin. One might expect that in the wake of the Global Financial Crisis and Great Recession interest in monetary-constitutional matters would be revived and this has indeed been the case. In this paper an attempt is made to assess whether and to what extent scientific progress has been made in defining the nature and characteristics of a monetary constitution for the post-Crisis world. To that end some recent contributions to the literature are reviewed critically.
E66|Проблеми Ефективного Забезпечення Економічної Безпеки Підприємства В Умовах Нових Геополітичних Викликів<BR>[Problems of effective ensuring of enterprise economic security in conditions of new geopolitical challenges]|"The purpose of research is to identify key challenges and problems that businesses face today while ensuring economic security and to outline their possible solutions. The issue of economic security at enterprises and industries in the period of globalization, informatization, intellectualization of the modern economy, drastic technological changes (including the internet of things, big data) became more complex and contains more external and internal factors. There are clearly apparent hierarchy levels ""international economic security - economic security of Ukraine (national) - economic security of business as economy sector - economic security of enterprise - economic security of business activities"". Definition and accurate risk assessment is crucial in a system of enterprise economic security. The first step to effectively ensure enterprise economic security is to understand the relationship between the terms of threats, risks, vulnerabilities and others. It is important to understand the differences to understand when you have a true risk to the company. In our opinion, the most logical relationship between concepts is as follows: danger - threat - risk. The article presents external and internal threats in the current economic conditions, including political and economic changes (Brexit, changes in the US administration), technological innovation, social issues and more. State as part of the environment on the legislative, executive and judicial levels conducts, coordinates and controls the financial and credit, foreign trade, tax, regulatory, innovation and investment, environmental, social policy and labour market regulation. Central and local government have if not always direct, then the indirect impact on enterprise economic security. Enterprises should pay huge attention to a number of strategic, operational and external threats. Effective ensuring of enterprise economic security is critical, as there are number of vulnerable items in each company (profitability, reputation, activities, business models, strategies, even simple reproduction at company). Early detection and adequate response to the threats are part of an integrated, comprehensive system of enterprise economic security."
E66|Discretionary Provisioning Practices among Western European Banks|The purpose of this study is to investigate whether discretionary provisioning by Western European banks is driven by income smoothing or credit risk considerations. We find evidence that discretionary provisioning by Western European banks is driven by income smoothing incentives in the post-financial crisis period, particularly, among listed banks. Also, we observe that discretionary provisioning is significantly influenced by credit risk factors, mainly, non-performing loans and loan growth. Also, we find that discretionary provisioning by Western European banks is procyclical with fluctuations in the economic cycle. Overall, the implication of the findings is that discretionary provisioning among Western European banks is driven by both income smoothing and credit risk considerations.
E66|GDP Forecasting by Czech Institutions: An Empirical Evaluation|This paper evaluates the accuracy of real GDP growth forecasts published in the period 1995-2013 by two Czech institutions: the Ministry of Finance (MF) and the Czech National Bank (CNB). A two-stepped approach is adopted: first a battery of forecasting errors (MAE, RMSE, MASE) is calculated, complementary to evaluation papers already available. Then statistical analysis is carried out by comparing both MF and CNB forecasts with OECD, European Commission and consensus benchmarks (Kruskal-Wallis test), assessing the presence of systemic bias (Wilcoxon test) and determining their incremental improvement (Page trend test). The results show that although some error patterns might suggest performance deficiencies (i.e. during the recession periods), the accuracy of forecasts prepared by both the MF and CNB does not differ significantly from the benchmark forecasts; MF and CNB predictions do not contain systemic bias and their accuracy improves as the horizon shortens. The paper also highlights several methodological shortcomings in the internal evaluations conducted by both institutions, indicating a potential for further improvement.
E66|Edb Countries: Targeting Lower Inflation|The beginning of the last year proved to be challenging for the EBD Member States: with oil prices plummeting, both financial markets and exchange rates were highly volatile. Nevertheless, as of the year’s end, the countries of the region saw exchange rates stabilize, and, in a number of cases, their national currencies strengthened considerably. Similarly, inflation in the EBD countries reached its historic minimum of 5.8% at the end of 2016 as compared to 12.8% in late 2015. In 2017, the most probable scenario is continued inertial recovery in the EDB Member States and inflation decreasing as external conditions stabilize. We project a 0.9% growth of the EDB economies, with a further 1.5% acceleration in 2018-2019. And there remain opportunities for reducing inflation that we expect to decrease from 5.8% at the end of 2016 to 4.7% in 2017. Limited demand, stabilized exchange rates and capital flows and a conservative monetary policy in most countries of the region will support the continued downward inflation trend. In 2017, the budget sector will be the main macroeconomic challenge for the EDB countries, given the growth in debt of the countries of the region (Belarus and Kazakhstan), reduced State budget reserves (the Russian Federation) and sizeable budget gaps in 2016 (Armenia and Kyrgyzstan). The oil output reduction agreement reached with the OPEC countries in 2016 was an important event for the region’s major economies and generated a considerable recovery of petroleum prices. The 2017 focus will now be on the OPEC countries’ ability to adhere to their quotas/obligations; historically, the OPEC countries have had great difficulty in observing discipline. Still, the agreement itself mitigates somewhat the risks of a sudden and large-scale fall of oil prices similar to their decline in late 2015 and early 2016. In the field of economic policy, the EAEU countries are just beginning to fully utilize, in the last few years, the potential of regionalism; for now, the agreement between the Eurasian Economic Union Member States and Vietnam, that took effect in 2016, can be recognized as one such achievement. Nevertheless, with the EAEU becoming more active internationally, 2017 may become the year of the EAEU’s breakthrough towards a more diversified system of trade alliances; here the Eurasian Economic Union’s negotiations with such countries as South Korea, Singapore and Israel will be of key importance.
E66|Recovery In Trade Between The Edb Countries|The stabilisation of commodity prices and the resultant stabilisation of national currencies in most EDB countries in 1Q 2017 create a favourable basis for a recovery in trade in the EDB region. Suffice it to note that all EDB countries showed growth in mutual trade turnover in 1Q of the year; notably, the highest turnover growth rates were observed in Kazakhstan (nearly 41% y-o-y) and the Russian Federation (33.7% y-o-y). The situation with the countries’ mutual ties also improved as regards migrants’ remittances: growth in remittances to Kyrgyzstan exceeded 54% in 1Q 2017, while in Armenia this indicator was 14% y-o-y in 1Q 2017. In this review, our special report focuses on macroeconomic ties among the EDB countries and the economic growth transmission channels, mainly as regards foreign trade and remittance flows. Our study testifies to a considerable role of these factors in the regional countries’ economic recovery, but we also note that the region’s economies remain highly vulnerable to external shocks, and to energy price fluctuations above all. Russia’s economic growth outlook for 2017 has improved from 0.8% to 1.3%. The projection change was influenced by the first quarter’s economic data and a revised oil price projection that took into account the first quarter’s trends in world energy prices. The improvement in the Belarusian GDP projection from minus 0.5% to positive 1.3% over 2017 is caused by higher than expected economic activity recovery rates in the 1st quarter and by the agreement reached on gas prices and oil supply from the Russian Federation. Kazakhstan’s improved GDP outlook is caused by stronger external demand and by the expansion of the State budget deficit with a view to revitalising the banking system. More optimistic assumptions concerning the foreign economic situation and a revised fiscal boost were the main factors behind the improved GDP outlook for Kyrgyzstan. Tajikistan’s economic growth projection was revised downwards as its banking sector situation deteriorated. A key risk for the remainder of 2017 is renewed volatility in the commodity markets after a period of strengthening exchange rates of some EDB countries’ currencies. Early May developments in both the Russian and Kazakh financial markets showed that, after a considerable strengthening in the preceding months, the national currencies have become more sensitive to increased volatility in oil prices. We expect that, given the increased external risks, the CB of the Russian Federation may harden its rhetoric and slow the reduction in the key rate.
E66|Edb Countries: Economic Outlook Improves|The recovery in global commodity prices as well as the weakening currency imbalances had a positive effect on EDB countries' foreign trade flows. Whereas 1Q 2016 saw falling exports of goods and services in all EDB countries except Armenia, positive growth in exports was demonstrated by all EDB countries this year. Remittances coming off the back of revived economic activity in Russia contributed to improving the current account in Armenia, Kyrgyzstan, and Tajikistan. In Kazakhstan, the rising current account deficit was due to growing dividend payments to direct foreign investors. The recovery in economic activity, accompanied by weakening inflation risks, had a positive impact on the living standards of the population in the region. In 1Q 2017, unlike in the same period last year, real wages started to demonstrate a positive trend in all EDB countries except Kazakhstan, although the rate of decline slowed in that country. The accelerated economic activity in EDB countries in the first half of 2017 led us to revise our GDP outlook for the full year. We raised our Russian GDP forecast by 0.3 pp to 1.4%, which, in its turn, has driven a higher 2017 GDP forecast for Belarus, up 0.1 pp to 1.4%. There were more considerable changes with respect to Kazakhstan and Armenia. The deferred effect of stimulatory fiscal and monetary policy in 2016 amid a quick recovery in remittances was reflected in consumer demand trends in Armenia in 1H 2017. In these circumstances, we raised Armenia's full-year GDP outlook from 2.9% to 5.2%. In this regard, amid the recovery in trade and economic growth rates, Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) countries are taking further steps aimed at improving economic integration. In particular, in the transport and logistics sphere, quarantinable products will be transported within the territory of the EAEU under standardized rules from 1 July 2017. Uniform domestic tariffs have already been established for cargo transportation by rail for the EAEU. In addition, an important step on the way to further integration was the approval by the presidents of the EAEU countries of a key strategic document - Main Directions and Stages of the Coordinated (Agreed) Transport Policy - in December 2016. Also worth mentioning is further progress in developing the EAEU through building economic alliances - a joint statement was signed in June between the EAEU and the Republic of India on beginning negotiations on a Free Trade Area agreement.
E66|Heading For Low Dollarization|The global background for the economic recovery of EDB member states has improved this year, in many ways due to rising oil prices and an improved economic growth outlook in the major centers of the global economy. Against the backdrop of improving regional trends in economic growth and mutual trade, we have revised our GDP growth forecasts for the EDB member states in 2017-2019. The appreciable acceleration of GDP growth in Russia beginning in the 2nd quarter of 2017 along with improvements in both foreign and domestic macroeconomic conditions have prompted an upgrade of our GDP growth forecast for 2017, from 1.4% to 1.7%. The preservation and continued improvement of external conditions for the Russian economy is shifting the balance of risks toward higher growth rates. Improvements in the Russian economic performance have delivered a boost to the economies of other EDB countries: the GDP growth forecasts for 2017 have been upgraded for Belarus, from 1.4% to 1.8%, Kyrgyzstan, from 3.7% to 4.0%, Tajikistan, from 6.2% to 7.2%, and Kazakhstan, from 3.4% to 3.7%. In the longer term, the biggest challenge for the global economy consists of the lingering imbalances that have contributed to crises over the past decade. They primarily include the high levels of inequality both within and among countries. The continuing paradox in the global economy is that the majority of countries that most need economic integration (such as the poorest nations or developing countries without access to the sea) are the most disadvantaged in terms of participation in regional or global economic unions or “clubs”. We focus particular attention on the dedollarization of the economies of EDB member states as yet another factor contributing to improvements in the regional economic environment. The level of dollarization has been declining this year in all EDB member states, in many ways due to the stabilization of exchange rates, lower inflation, improved economic activity and regained trust in the national currencies. Among the EDB member states, the most noticeable reductions in the level of dollarization (measured as the share of foreign currency deposits within the structure of the broad money supply) have been recorded in Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Kyrgyzstan (the level of dollarization was close to 30% by mid-2017 in Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, and Russia). Such positive trends will contribute to a more effective monetary policy in the regional economies, more conducive conditions to support lower inflation, as well as conditions aiding stronger financial stability.
E66|Economic policy, the international environment and the state of Poland’s public finances: Scenarios|"Poland’s structural deficit is one of the largest in the EU. While other Member States are taking action to reduce their deficits, the Polish government has not only introduced costly projects, but has also announced additional projects that will further aggravate the state of Polish public finances. The aim of maintaining the nominal deficit under 3% of GDP, as declared by the government, is insufficient because it does not leave a margin of safety in case of an economic slowdown. In the meantime, the turbulent global economy and the structural challenges the Polish economy is facing make the scenario of an economic slowdown increasingly plausible. Dr. Aleksander £aszek evaluates the government’s current policy through the lens of the challenges that stand a head of Polish economy, and its resilience to shocks, in the new mBank-CASE Seminar Proceedings ""Economic policy, the international environment and the state of Poland’s public finances: Scenarios""."
E66|Global Commodity Prices and Global Stock Volatility Shocks: Effects across Countries|This paper investigates the time-varying dynamics of global stock volatility, commodity prices, and domestic output and consumer prices. The main empirical findings of this paper are: (i) stock volatility and commodity price shocks impact each other and the economy in a gradual and endogenous adjustment process; (ii) the impact of a commodity price shock on global stock volatility is far greater during the global financial crisis than at other times; (iii) the effects of global stock volatility on US output are amplified by the endogenous commodity price responses; (iv) in the long run, shocks to commodity prices (stock market volatility) account for 11.9% (6.6%) and 25.1% (11.6%) of the variation in US output and consumer prices; (v) the effects of global stock volatility shocks on the economy are heterogeneous across nations and relatively larger in the developed countries.
E66|Forecasting the Growth Cycles of the Turkish Economy|This paper first specifies the medium-term growth cycles for the Turkish economy. The impact of the frequency transformation methods and the time-serious filters on cycles and potential output are discussed. Then a composite leading indicator (CLI) is constructed that is correlated with the third lead of the GDP with a coefficient of 0.9. The CLI signals 11 out of 13 turning points in the Turkish growth cycle in the 1993-2016 period. The CLI is coincident with the remaining two turning points, hence still providing early warning. Within the same period, only two false signals are generated by the CLI. Finally, building on the seminal paper by Neftci (1982), a method for computation of the turning point probabilities is developed. The virtue of the method is that it takes into account the observed deepness and steepness in the series.
E66|Wirtschaftliche Konvergenz trotz politischer Unsicherheit|Zusammenfassung Wirtschaftliche Konvergenz trotz politischer Unsicherheit Das internationale Umfeld für die Wirtschaft der mittel-, ost- und südosteuropäischen Länder (MOSOEL) präsentiert sich als Kontrast zwischen wirtschaftlichem Aufschwung einerseits sowie politischer Unsicherheit und geopolitischen Spannungen andererseits. Kurzfristig setzen sich die positiven Effekte der wirtschaftlichen Erholung im Euroraum und der damit verbundenen Exporte, sowie des relativ niedrigen Ölpreises gegen mögliche negative Effekte politischer Turbulenzen durch. Gegenüber der wiiw-Frühjahrsprognose wurden die Wachstumsprognosen für die MOSOEL größtenteils nach oben auf 2,4% für das laufende Jahr und 2,6% für das Jahr 2018 korrigiert. English Summary Economic convergence despite political uncertainty The international environment for the economies in Central, East and Southeast Europe (CESEE) is characterised by a contrast between economic upswing, on the one hand, and political uncertainty and geopolitical tensions, on the other hand. In the short term, positive effects of the economic recovery in the euro area and related exports, as well as of the relatively low oil price are prevailing over potential negative effects of political turmoil. Compared with the wiiw Spring Forecast, growth projections for the CESEE region were for the most part revised upwards, to 2.4% and 2.6% for the years 2017 and 2018, respectively.
E66|FIW Note No. 23 - March 2017|FIW publishes biannually FIW Notes. They present an overview of the most important Austrian and international developments regarding International Economics.
E66|FIW Note No. 24 - September 2017|FIW publishes biannually FIW Notes. They present an overview of the most important Austrian and international developments regarding International Economics.
E66|Economic Policy and Macroeconomic Developments in Hungary, 2010-2015|Following a prolonged period of economic decline and stagnation, Hungary’s GDP growth accelerated to 3.7% in 2014 and was close to 3% in 2015. The reasons for the country’s economic performance over the last six years are only partly related to the economic policies pursued since 2010. Deleveraging (the decrease in excessive debt, both at the macroeconomic and the microeconomic level) had a negative impact on Hungary’s growth performance between 2010 and 2013. However, the acceleration of growth observed in 2014 is also mainly due to “exogenous” factors, in particular exceptionally large transfers from EU funds, which have nothing to do with the government’s so-called “unorthodox” economic policy. The deteriorating institutional environment of the economy, in turn, is a direct consequence of this policy. Without fundamental improvements in the institutional environment and stability/predictability of economic policy, the country’s potential growth is expected to be rather low, implying a very slow convergence with the more affluent nations of the European Union and a divergence relative to the other central and eastern European member states of the EU.
E66|Deutsche Wirtschaft gut ausgelastet — Wirtschaftspolitik neu ausrichten<BR>[German Economy on Track — Economic Policy Needs to be Realigned]|Zusammenfassung Die deutsche Wirtschaft befindet sich in einem moderaten Aufschwung. Die Gemeinschaftsdiagnose Herbst 2016 prognostiziert, dass das Bruttoinlandsprodukt 2016 um 1,9%, 2017 um 1,4% und 2018 um 1,6% zulegen dürfte. Dabei gehen von der Weltkonjunktur nur geringe stimulierende Effekte aus, zudem dürften sich in den außerordentlich niedrigen Kapitalmarktzinsen nicht nur die derzeitige Geldpolitik, sondern auch niedrige Wachstumserwartungen widerspiegeln. All dies hemmt die Ausrüstungsinvestitionen. So ist es weiterhin in erster Linie der Konsum, der den Aufschwung trägt.
E66|Global uncertainty and the global economy: Decomposing the impact of uncertainty shocks|We constructed a new index of global uncertainty using the first principal component of the stock market volatility for the largest 15 economies. We evaluate the impact of global uncertainty on the global economy using the new global database from Global Economic Indicators (DGEI), Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. Global uncertainty shocks are less frequent than those observed in data on the U.S. economy. Global uncertainty shocks are associated with a sharp decline in global inflation, global growth and in the global interest rate (based on official/policy interest rates set by central banks). Our decomposition of global uncertainty shocks shows that global financial uncertainty shocks are more important than non-financial shocks. Over the period 1981 to 2014 global financial uncertainty forecasts 18.26% and 14.95% of the variation in global growth and global inflation respectively. The non-financial uncertainty shocks have insignificant effects on global growth. The model for global variables shows more protracted and substantial negative effects of uncertainty on growth and inflation than does a panel model estimating associations of local country-level variables. This outcome is reversed for the effect of uncertainty on official interest rate.
E66|How secular is the current economic stagnation?|From the burst of the dotcom bubble in 2000, until the global financial crisis that started in August 2007, the global economy was growing. During that phase, macroeconomics went through an era of general optimism around the idea of having reached a great moderation, with high steady growth and low stable inflation. Central bankers thought they managed to dampen the economic cycles. This era came to an end following the meltdown which started with the global financial crisis of 2007. And as among economic agents, macroeconomists’ general state of mind went from optimism to pessimism. Almost ten years since the beginning of the crisis, growth is not back to its pre-crisis trends. Therefore, macroeconomists are debating the notion of a secular stagnation. Is the economy on a long-term stagnation trend, if so, for what reasons, and how to address this situation? This paper offers a critical review of the debates among macroeconomists around this notion of secular stagnation, a concept which was invented by Alvin Hansen following the global economic crisis of the 1930s, and was brought back into the public debate largely by Lawrence Summers since the end of 2013. This literature review starts with a brief synthesis of the original debate about secular stagnation, launched by Hansen in 1938, and ended in the mid-1950s, since these debates inspired contemporary theorists. The second part highlights the main elements of neoclassical explanations for secular stagnation. The third part focuses on the Minskian idea of the end of a debt super-cycle. The last part offers a contemporary reading of the unleashing of the contradictions of capitalism, and the tendency of mature capitalism to generate oligopolies, as a cause for long stagnation.
E66|FIW Note No. 11 - March 2013|FIW publishes quarterly FIW Notes. They present an overview of the most important Austrian and international developments regarding international economics. There is only a German version available.
E66|FIW Note No. 22 - September 2016|FIW publishes biannually FIW Notes. They present an overview of the most important Austrian and international developments regarding International Economics.
E66|Investitionen: Warum wir sie brauchen und wie wir sie kriegen<BR>[Blessed is he who expects nothing? The role of expectations for investment]|Dieser Beitrag untersucht den Zusammenhang zwischen Investitionswachstum, Zinsen und Erwartungen für Österreich. Basierend auf einem Panel von 73 Wirtschaftssektoren zeigt sich, dass Zinsänderungen nur dann einen positiven Einfluss auf Investitionswachstum haben, wenn die Erwartungen stark zurückgehen. Sind die Erwartungen konstant (gut oder schlecht), so haben Zinsen jedoch kaum einen Einfluss. Ebenso zeigt sich, dass stark steigende Erwartungen einen positiven Effekt auf das Investitionswachstum aufweisen. Außerdem geht ein Anstieg der Produktionsbesteuerung sowie stärkere Kapitalmarktregulierung mit einem negativen Investitionswachstum einher.
E66|Does uncertainty affect non-response to the European Central Bank's survey of professional forecasters?|This paper explores how changes in macroeconomic uncertainty have affected the decision to reply to the European Central Bank's Survey of Professional Forecasters (ECB's SPF). The results suggest that higher (lower) aggregate uncertainty increases (reduces) non-response to the survey. This effect is statistically and economically significant. Therefore, the assumption that individual ECB's SPF data are missing at random may not be appropriate. Moreover, the forecasters that perceive more individual uncertainty seem to have a lower likelihood of replying to the survey. Consequently, measures of uncertainty computed from individual ECB's SPF data could be biased downwards.
E66|Does uncertainty affect non-response to the European Central Bank's survey of professional forecasters?|This paper explores how changes in macroeconomic uncertainty have affected the decision to reply to the European Central Bank's Survey of Professional Forecasters (ECB's SPF). The results suggest that higher (lower) aggregate uncertainty increases (reduces) non-response to the survey. This effect is statistically and economically significant. Therefore, the assumption that individual ECB's SPF data are missing at random may not be appropriate. Moreover, the forecasters that perceive more individual uncertainty seem to have a lower likelihood of replying to the survey. Consequently, measures of uncertainty computed from individual ECB's SPF data could be biased downwards.
E66|Konjunktur aktuell: Stabile Konjunktur in Deutschland trotz krisenhaften Umfelds|Die deutsche Konjunktur ist trotz internationaler Risiken und politischer Verwerfungen kraftvoll in das Jahr 2016 gestartet. Beschäftigung und Einkommen nehmen zu, und die Binnennachfrage steigt deutlich, auch weil der Staat zusätzliche Ausgaben im Zusammenhang mit der Flüchtlingsmigration tätigt. Allerdings dürfte es im Frühjahr zu einer vorübergehenden Verlangsamung der Dynamik kommen, darauf deuten Stimmungsindikatoren hin. Mit Fort-schritten bei der Bewältigung der aktuellen politischen Probleme in Europa dürfte die Zuversicht wieder zunehmen und die deutsche Konjunktur insgesamt stabil bleiben, sodass das Bruttoinlandsprodukt im Jahr 2016 wohl mit einer Rate von 1,5% expandieren wird. Das weltwirtschaftliche Klima hat sich im Winterhalbjahr 2015/2016 abgekühlt. So legte Ende vergangenen Jahres die Produktion in der Welt deutlich langsamer zu als zuvor, und im Januar und Februar kam es zu deutlichen Bewertungsverlusten an den Börsen für Rohstoffe und Wertpapiere, welche bis Mitte März nur teilweise wieder wettgemacht wurden. Ein deutlicher Ölpreisfall gilt gegenwärtig den Finanzmarktteilnehmern als Zeichen für nach-lassende Nachfrage in den Schwellenländern und als Risiko für die Finanzstabilität von Volkswirtschaften, die vom Rohölexport abhängen. Allerdings stützt der neuerliche Preisrückgang bei den Rohstoffen die Konjunktur in den meisten fortgeschrittenen Volkswirtschaften. Bleiben die Finanzmärkte stabil, dürfte die Weltproduktion trotz Flaute in den Schwellenländern im Jahr 2016 in etwa mit dem mäßigen Tempo des Vorjahrs zunehmen. Die weltwirtschaftlichen und politischen Risiken sind allerdings erheblich...
E66|Konjunktur aktuell: Deutsche Binnenkonjunktur weiter im Aufwind|Die deutsche Wirtschaft befindet sich nach wie vor in einem moderaten Aufschwung. Der anhaltende Beschäfti-gungsaufbau führt zu spürbaren Einkommenssteigerungen, und der Fall der Energiepreise hat die Kaufkraft der privaten Haushalte deutlich erhöht. Beides treibt den privaten Konsum, aber auch die Wohnungsbauinvestitionen, welche überdies von den sehr niedrigen Zinsen beflügelt werden. Allerdings bleiben die Exporte angesichts der schwachen internationalen Dynamik in diesem und im nächsten Jahr eher verhalten. Alles in allem dürfte das deutsche Bruttoinlandsprodukt in diesem Jahr um 1,8% und im Jahr 2017 um 1,6% zunehmen.
E66|Ostdeutsche Wirtschaftspolitik muss umdenken: Nur mit Investitionen in Köpfe lässt sich weiter aufholen|Für das Jahr 2016 prognostiziert das Leibniz-Institut für Wirtschaftsforschung Halle (IWH) einen Anstieg des ost-deutschen Bruttoinlandsprodukts um 1,7% (Deutschland insgesamt: 1,8%). Maßgeblicher Treiber ist wie in Deutschland insgesamt die Binnennachfrage. Insbesondere profitiert die Wirtschaft von der hohen Dynamik des Dienstleistungssektors in Berlin. Der Zuwachs in den ostdeutschen Flächenländern bleibt dagegen mit 1,3% wieder hinter dem in Westdeutschland zurück. Um wirtschaftlich aufzuholen, sollten Bildung und Forschung im Mittel-punkt der Wachstumspolitik stehen; mit traditioneller Förderpolitik lassen sich keine weiteren Aufholerfolge mehr erzielen.
E66|Konjunktur aktuell: Konjunktur in Deutschland bleibt trotz sinkender Stimmung robust|In Deutschland sind die Konjunkturaussichten weiter recht günstig. Stimmungsindikatoren deuten zwar auf ein etwas schwächeres Jahresende hin, die Binnenkonjunktur ist aber weiter aufwärtsgerichtet. Das deutsche Bruttoinlandsprodukt dürfte im Jahr 2016 insgesamt um 1,9% zulegen. Für das Jahr 2017 wird dann mit 1,2% eine niedrigere jahresdurchschnittliche Wachstumsrate erwartet. Maßgeblich dafür sind vor allem schwächere Exporte und stärkere Importe. Die Arbeitslosigkeit dürfte im Zuge der Integration von Geflüchteten in den Arbeitsmarkt etwas steigen. Die Verbraucherpreisinflation bleibt weiterhin moderat. Die öffentlichen Haushalte werden wohl im Jahr 2016 ebenso wie im Jahr 2017 - auch in konjunkturbereinigter Rechnung - Überschüsse erwirtschaften.
E66|Konjunktur aktuell: Deutsche Wirtschaft weiter von Konsum und Bau beflügelt|Die deutsche Konjunktur bleibt aufgrund der starken Binnennachfrage recht kräftig. Im Jahr 2017 wird die Zuwachsrate des Bruttoinlandsprodukts nach der neuen IWH-Prognose 1,3% betragen. Sie fällt damit etwa einen halben Prozentpunkt geringer aus als im Jahr 2016, dies liegt an einer geringeren Anzahl an Arbeitstagen und an einem negativen Wachstumsbeitrag des Außenhandels. Die Verbraucherpreisinflation bleibt mit 1,3% mäßig. Die Arbeitslosigkeit nimmt wohl etwas zu, dazu trägt bei, dass die Integration Geflüchteter in den Arbeitsmarkt langwierig ist.
E66|Die mittelfristige wirtschaftliche Entwicklung in Deutschland für die Jahre 2016 bis 2021|Nach der Mittelfristprojektion des IWH dürfte das Bruttoinlandsprodukt in Deutschland in den Jahren von 2016 bis 2021 um durchschnittlich 1,5 % wachsen; das nominale Bruttoinlandsprodukt wird wohl um durchschnittlich 3% zunehmen. Nach einer leichten Überauslastung der Kapazitäten in den Jahren 2016 und 2017 dürfte sich die Produktionslücke mittelfristig schließen. Aufgrund des mittelfristig kaum anziehenden Wachstums im Euroraum und des im Vergleich zum langfristigen Mittel schwachen Welthandels dürften vom Außenhandel in der mittleren Frist kaum Impulse ausgehen; die konjunkturelle Dynamik wird daher nach wie vor maßgeblich von der Inlandsnachfrage bestimmt. Die Verbraucherpreise ziehen im Prognosezeitraum etwas an.
E66|Strukturelle Schwäche der russischen Wirtschaft<BR>[Structural Weaknesses of the Russian Economy]|Zusammenfassung Die Lage der russischen Wirtschaft ist dramatisch. Um 3,7% ist die gesamtwirtschaftliche Leistung 2015 eingebrochen. Die verhängten Wirtschaftssanktionen sowie der Ölpreisverfall haben zu der Abwärtsspirale beigetragen. Doch die eigentlichen Schwächen der russischen Wirtschaft sind eher struktureller Natur. Die starke Abhängigkeit vom Öl- und Gasgeschäft, Korruptionsprobleme, Rückschritte bei der Privatisierung und eine ineffiziente Nutzung des vorhandenen Humankapitals erfordern mehr Entschlossenheit von der Regierung, um die Rückkehr zum Wachstumspfad zu ermöglichen.
E66|Can We Restart the Recovery All Over Again?|Many have argued that a deviation from good economic policy has been a cause of the poor U.S. economic performance of the past decade and that policy reforms are needed to restore strong growth. Yet others argue that the recent stagnation is secular or that the possibility of a rapid recovery is long gone without more fiscal stimulus. Here I show that unusual economic conditions leave plenty of room for a reform-induced rebound. Taking demographics and the growth of capital services into account, labor force participation and productivity growth are unusually low. Hence, policy reforms could generate a post-recession-like acceleration as well as sustained growth and stability.
E66|Global Dairy Trade Situation and Outlook| This paper provides an overview of the economic trends and outlook for global dairy trade. Particular attention is given to the Asian market due to the significant role it plays in the global dairy trade. The global dairy market is in a challenging period, particularly given the uneven and volatile market movements. Despite these challenges there is reason for optimism in the international dairy market. There are signs the market is in correction mode as low milk prices are translating into slower production growth which in turn is expected to improve the supply situation.
E66|Dynamics Of Macroeconomic Shocks On Food Assistace Programs In The United States| Monthly national U.S. data for the period 1997-2012 associated with macroeconomic shocks and participation in food assistance programs were used to model dynamics using polynomial distributed lags and vector autoregression approaches. Contemporaneous causal flows of macroeconomic shocks and participation in food assistance programs were modeled using directed acyclic graphs. With a more accurate set of predictions associated with participation rates in food assistance programs based on macroeconomic drivers or shocks, policy makers will be in better position to assess program costs and to minimize errors in the budgetary process.
E66|The Case of Serial Disappointment|Similar to those of other forecasters, the Bank of Canada’s forecasts of global GDP growth have shown persistent negative errors over the past five years. This is in contrast to the pre-crisis period, when errors were consistently positive as global GDP surprised to the upside. All major regions have contributed to the forecast errors observed since 2011, although the United States has been the most persistent source of notable errors. In turn, the Bank of Canada’s gauge of foreign demand for Canadian exports—the foreign activity measure—has been continuously revised down. Average forecast errors for Canadian GDP growth are also negative over this period, particularly at the one-year-ahead horizon. The most important contributors to this unexpected weakness are exports and business fixed investment, the effects of which were only partly offset by positive surprises on housing. We find that the one-year-ahead export errors can be linked in part to the unanticipated weakness in US growth. Canadian competitiveness may also have been weaker than assumed. The errors on business investment correlate with measures of firm sentiment and uncertainty, as well as with deviations in oil prices from the view in the Bank’s baseline forecast. The possibility that a period of negative surprises in foreign and domestic output growth could continue over the coming years raises important questions for future study by central banks and policy-makers.
E66|The Macro-Economic Impact of Brexit: Using the CBR Macro-Economic Model of the UK Economy (UKMOD)|This working paper uses the new CBR macro-economic model of the UK economy to investigate possible futures following the referendum decision to leave the EU. The paper briefly explains why we felt the necessity to build a new model and describes some of its key features. Since Brexit is a unique event with no precedent it is not possible to do a normal forecast in which a few assumptions are made about a limited range of exogenous variables. The best that can be done is to construct scenarios and two are presented here. The difficult part is to decide what scale of adjustment is needed to reflect the likely realities of Brexit. Analysis by HM Treasury of the potential impact of various outcomes for trade outside the EU is examined and found wanting. Instead the actual experience of UK export performance is examined for a long period including both pre- and post- accession years. This suggests a more limited impact of EU membership. While we include a scenario based on Treasury assumptions, a more realistic, although in our view still pessimistic, scenario assumes half of the trade loss of the Treasury. The results are presented through comparing these scenarios with a pre-referendum forecast. In the milder Brexit scenario there is a two per cent loss of GDP by 2025 but little loss of per capita GDP, less unemployment but more inflation. In the more severe, Treasury-based scenario the loss of GDP is nearer five per cent (two per cent for per capita GDP), inflation is higher and the advantage in unemployment less.
E66|Ausnahmezustand in Frankreich: Ist das Land nicht reformierbar?|Seit einiger Zeit häufen sich die Negativmeldungen über Frankreich. Das Land leidet unter einer steigender Arbeitslosigkeit und anhaltenden Haushaltsdefiziten. Die EU droht wegen Überschreitung der Maastricht-Kriterien mit Sanktionen, und die geplanten Arbeitsmarktreformen führten zu massiven Streiks und Blockaden, die Frankreich erschütterten. Fehlt dem Land eine Kompromisskultur? Für Henrik Uterwedde, Deutsch-Französisches Institut, Ludwigsburg, besteht kein Anlass für Pessimismus. Er sieht zwar deutlich, dass Frankreich, dessen wirtschaftliche Dynamik und Leistungsfähigkeit sich seit über zehn Jahren allmählich, aber stetig verschlechtert hat, strukturelle Reformen und eine Erneuerung seines Wirtschafts- und Sozialmodells benötigt. Aber Frankreich bewege sich auch. In der Gesellschaft finde sich viel unternehmerische Dynamik, abzulesen an den zahlreichen Unternehmensgründungen und Start-ups, und die Wirtschaft verfüge bei allen Problemen weiter über ein starkes Potenzial. Nino Galetti, Konrad- Adenauer-Stiftung, Paris, und Tatjana Saranca, sehen in Frankreich »die am meisten unterschätzte große Volkswirtschaft der Welt«. Beim Warenexport sei das Land nach wie vor weltweit Nummer 6, beim Export von Dienstleistungen belege es Rang 3, und nach dem Brexit werde Paris die EU-Hauptstadt mit der größten Wirtschaftsleistung sein. Bei allen Schwächen habe Frankreichs Wirtschaft herausragende Stärken. Für Ronald Bachmann, RWI – Leibniz-Institut für Wirtschaftsforschung, Essen, ergibt sich bei Betrachtung des französischen Arbeitsmarkts ein vielschichtiges Bild. Zwar gelang es in der Vergangenheit, partielle Arbeitsmarktreformen in Form eines Ausbaus von befristeter Beschäftigung durchzusetzen. Diese führten jedoch nicht zum gewünschten Erfolg, dem Abbau der hohen Arbeitslosigkeit insbesondere von jungen Personen, sondern führten vielmehr zum neuen Problem eines stark segmentierten Arbeitsmarkts. Die weitere kurzfristige Entwicklung sei nicht abzusehen. Nach Ansicht von Eckhard Wurzel, Universitäten Göttingen und Konstanz, tut sich Frankreich schwer mit Wirtschaftsreformen. Dies mag zum Teil noch das Nachklingen einer Tradition sein, die die Lösung ökonomischer Probleme vor allem in staatlichem Interventionismus suche. Das Land sei aber durchaus reformfähig, und die Rahmenbedingungen für erfolgreiche Reformen könnten deutlich verbessert werden. Ronja Kempin und Aurora Bergmaier, Stiftung Wissenschaft und Politik, Berlin, sehen vor allem im Fehlen eines konstruktiven sozialen Dialogs in Frankreich einen Grund für das Scheitern vieler politischer Reformvorhaben. Nur über eine stärkere Einbeziehung von Interessengruppen könne eine konstruktivere Partizipation der Bürger am politischen Willensbildungsprozess erreicht werden. Daniela Schwarzer, German Marshall Fund, unterstreicht, dass die Reformbilanz des französischen Staatspräsidenten François Hollande insgesamt nicht so schwach ist, wie oftmals behauptet wird. Besorgniserregend sei aber, wie groß in den vergangenen Jahren die politische Zerrissenheit, Polarisierung und Radikalisierung vor dem Hintergrund einer tiefen gesellschaftlichen Krise geworden sei. Die Gefahr weiterer politischer Polarisierung und Radikalisierung bestehe weiterhin. Doch zeichne sich im Vorwahlkampf bereits ab, dass sich Erneuerungskräfte formieren und tradierte Strukturen aufbrechen könnten.
E66|Posconflicto colombiano y sus efectos económicos|Las negociaciones de paz del gobierno con las denominadas Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia (FARC) podrían tener efectos sobre la economía colombiana. Por ello se esbozan tres escenarios –pesimista, neutral y optimista– en los que se distingan efectos a nivel financiero y de comercio internacional en los cinco años posteriores a la finalización del proceso de negociación. Partiendo del estudio de casos en cinco países que enfrentaron la terminación de un conflicto interno, por vía militar o diplomática, se analizaron variables sobre las cuales se podría prever un efecto, teniendo en cuenta el posconflicto y el desenlace de las negociaciones de paz entre la guerrilla y el Gobierno. Se concluye que en los cinco años posteriores a la firma del acuerdo, la balanza de bienes y servicios crecería entre el 3% y 6%; el comercio lo haría entre 10% y 15%; el Riesgo País se incrementaría alrededor de 4 puntos; la Inversión Extranjera Directa (IED) aumentaría entre 40% y 50%; el crecimiento del PIB anual estaría 1 ó 2 puntos porcentuales más alto que el actual y el gasto militar disminuiría al 10% como porcentaje del PIB.
E66|The Entropy of Transition and Crisis|No abstract is available for this item.
E66|German Economy Back on Track, Despite Weak Global Economy|The global economy is stalling. Global production increased by only 3.3 percent last year—the lowest growth rate since the financial crisis—and is expected to rise by only 3.3 percent in 2016 as well, which is lower than originally predicted. The reason for the sluggish growth lies primarily in the changes taking place in the emerging countries: the Chinese economy continues to lose momentum, and low export revenues in the commodity-exporting countries are hindering economic activity. In the industrialized countries, however, the moderate pace of growth continues, not least due to increased purchasing power, which is in turn partly due to the decreased energy costs. In these countries, consumption remains an important pillar of growth and the labor market situation is improving. By contrast, investment remains subdued and only minor stimuli are expected from net exports since the momentum in the emerging countries is likely to increase only slightly in the coming year. The risks to the global economy are skewed to the downside. Increased uncertainty in the financial markets could worsen financing conditions. The euro area is facing the risk of deflation. In spite of the currently gloomy global economic environment, the German economy is developing robustly. Although weak demand in the overseas markets led to a decline in German’s industrial production in the second half of 2015, it has been on the rise once again since the beginning of this year. During the forecast period, exports should benefit from a gradually improving global economy. Germany’s strong domestic economy, which is fueled primarily by increased private consumption, serves as a critical growth-driver. Employment continues to grow and wage increases can still be observed. The money being spent on the housing, care, and integration of the refugees is boosting consumption—and although these costs are substantial, the public budget will continue to run high surpluses. Financial leeway, however, is expected to become more limited.The German economy is likely to grow by 1.6 percent this year by 1.6 percent, and by 1.5 percent in the coming year.
E66|Private Consumption Will Remain a Powerful Growth Driver: Eight Questions to Simon Junker|No abstract is available for this item.
E66|Global Growth Still Subdued|The world economy has yet to regain momentum: after the already weak final quarter of 2015, the pace of expansion slowed down again in the first quarter of 2016. In the emerging countries’ economies, growth is expected to remain subdued, especially in China, where the gradual slowdown continues as overcapacities are reduced. Russia and Brazil are likely to remain in recession: apart from the still-low commodity prices, domestic issues are aggravating the situation. Growth is just barely stable in the industrialized countries, which means they cannot compensate for the emerging countries’ weaknesses. In the industrialized countries, the primary growth driver is still domestic demand. Strong consumption growth is expected in the US as well as in the euro area, primarily as a result of the improving labor market situation. All in all, the global economic growth rate is expected to be 3.2 percent in 2016, which is lower than previously forecasted. The uncertainty about China’s future economic development and the potential impact of a Brexit are the primary risks that are curbing optimism.
E66|German Economy on a Stable Growth Path|Supported by dynamic domestic demand, the German economy is expected to grow by 1.7 percent this year. As consumption and investment in construction are likely to weaken in the coming year, is hardly contributing to growth 2017 should amount to roughly 1.4 percent. Foreign trade is contributing relatively little to growth. In both years of the forecast period, capacities will be at more or less normal levels of utilization; there are no signs of overheating. In the medium term, however, stronger investment in the capital stock is necessary to increase the growth potential of the German economy.
E66|A Brexit Would Significantly Dampen Germany’s Economic Growth: Seven Questions to Ferdinand Fichtner|No abstract is available for this item.
E66|Brexit Decision Is Likely to Reduce Growth in the Short Term|The high degree of uncertainty about the United Kingdom’s (UK) economic future following the June 23 Brexit referendum is leading to a flight into safe assets, and will most likely worsen financing conditions for British companies. In addition, companies could reduce investment and postpone hiring decisions. This is likely to start dampening economic growth in the UK in the short term, thus reducing the export possibilities for the euro area and Germany. The German automotive industry, which counts the UK as a major export destination, will be the most affected; German producers of wood, paper, and leather goods, as well as those of pharmaceu-ticals and chemical products, will also feel the impact. Assuming that the Brexit decision reduces British imports by 12.5 percent by the end of next year compared to a Remain-vote scenario, Ger-many’s economic growth in 2017 could be half a percentage point lower than previously expected.
E66|Brexit Decision Puts Strain on German Economy|As a result of Britain’s decision to leave the EU, global economic output is likely to grow at a somewhat slower pace than anticipated. The decision will have consequences for the UK and for the euro area in particular; this is also confirmed by simulations produced by the National Institute Global Econometric Model (NiGEM). An expected deterioration of economic relations—especially between the UK and the EU—and the associated increase in uncertainty have led to greater investment restraint. This has been accompanied by a devaluation of the British pound. Both will inhibit the development of the German economy with its strong focus on foreign trade. It will also dampen domestic investment and result in a lower level of consumption due to slightly weaker real wage growth. All in all, the German economy is likely to grow at a slower rate than previously predicted due to the Brexit decision. Growth is forecasted to be 0.1 percentage points lower in 2016 and 0.3 percentage points lower in 2017.
E66|Post-Brexit Uncertainty Is the Foremost Short-Run Drag: Six Questions to Ferdinand Fichtner|No abstract is available for this item.
E66|Subdued Global Growth, Restrained European Expansion|No abstract is available for this item.
E66|German Economy: Upward Trend Continues Despite Brexit Vote’s Dampening Effect|No abstract is available for this item.
E66|Brexit Decision Is Poison for Investment in Germany: Seven Questions to Ferdinand Fichtner|No abstract is available for this item.
E66|Global Economy Picking Up|The world economy is gaining momentum after sluggish growth in the first half 2016 – which was primarily due to a weak expansion in the emerging markets – gave way to a slight acceleration. This trend is likely to continue, and will increasingly benefit the developed economies as well. The brightening labor market situation in advanced countries is leading to a higher level of consumer demand, which will remain a primary growth driver. As a result of the improved sales opportunities, the currently weak corporate investment activity should pick up again. The growth of global economic output is expected to amount to 3.3 percent this year, and is expected to be slightly higher in the coming two years. This development will be supported by fiscal policy, while monetary policy is likely to become more contractionary globally in the course of further U. S. interest rate hikes. There remain significant risks, however – especially in Europe, where political uncertainty is high due to the Brexit decision and the upcoming elections in key EU member states, among other factors.
E66|Despite Weaker Job Market, Germany’s Economic Upswing Continues|In spite of persisting unfavorable external economic conditions, the German economy’s upward trend continues, with a growth of 1.2 percent expected for the coming year – slightly less than the 1.8 percent growth rate of 2016, a difference primarily due to the fact that 2017 has fewer workdays. A growth rate of 1.6 percent is expected for 2018. Although employment growth has slowed down somewhat since this past summer, private consumption remains the German economy’s primary growth driver – but given the higher inflation, this dynamic will lose momentum in the course of the coming quarters. Exports are picking up in the moderately recovering global economy, and this will be even more noticeable lateron in the forecast period. Though investment activity will be somewhat stimulated by the improvement in foreign demand, it will remain rather modest.
E66|Wachstum der Weltwirtschaft bleibt schwach: Frühjahrsgrundlinien 2016|The global economy is stalling. Global production increased by only 3.3 percent last year—the lowest growth rate since the financial crisis—and is expected to rise by only 3.3 percent in 2016 as well, which is lower than originally predicted. The reason for the sluggish growth lies primarily in the changes taking place in the emerging countries: the Chinese economy continues to lose momentum, and low export revenues in the commodity- exporting countries are hindering economic activity. In the industrialized countries, however, the moderate pace of growth continues, not least due to increased purchasing power, which is in turn partly due to the decreased energy costs. In these countries, consumption remains an important pillar of growth, and thus the labor market situation is also improving. By contrast, investment remains subdued and only minor stimuli are expected from net exports since the momentum in the emerging countries is likely to increase only slightly in the coming year. The risks to the global economy are skewed to the downside. Increased uncertainty in the financial markets could worsen financing conditions. The euro area is facing the risk of deflation. Die Weltwirtschaft kommt nicht in Fahrt. Nachdem die globale Produktion im vergangenen Jahr mit 3,3 Prozent so langsam gewachsen ist wie seit der Finanzkrise 2009 nicht mehr, dürfte sie in diesem Jahr auch nur um 3,3 Prozent zulegen – und damit weniger als zuletzt prognostiziert. Ursächlich hierfür ist vor allem die Entwicklung in den Schwellenländern. Die Konjunktur in China verliert weiter an Tempo. Überdies dämpfen in rohstoffexportierenden Ländern die niedrigen Exporterlöse die Aktivität. In den Industrieländern setzt sich das moderate Wachstumstempo hingegen fort – nicht zuletzt aufgrund gestiegener Kaufkraft, zu der auch gesunkene Energiepreise beitragen. Der Konsum ist hier nach wie vor wichtigste Wachstumsstütze, so dass sich die Lage auf den Arbeitsmärkten wiederum verbessert. Hingegen bleibt die Investitionstätigkeit verhalten. Auch vom Außenhandel sind nur geringe Impulse zu erwarten, da sich die Dynamik in den Schwellenländern im kommenden Jahr lediglich leicht erhöhen dürfte. Die Risiken für die Weltkonjunktur haben zugenommen. Insbesondere die gestiegene Unsicherheit an den Finanzmärkten könnte die Finanzierungsbedingungen verschlechtern. Im Euroraum besteht die Gefahr von Deflation.
E66|Deutsche Wirtschaft trotz unsicherer Weltkonjunktur auf Kurs: Frühjahrsgrundlinien 2016|The global economy is stalling. Global production increased by only 3.3 percent last year—the lowest growth rate since the financial crisis—and is expected to rise by only 3.3 percent in 2016 as well, which is lower than originally predicted. The reason for the sluggish growth lies primarily in the changes taking place in the emerging countries: the Chinese economy continues to lose momentum, and low export revenues in the commodity- exporting countries are hindering economic activity. In the industrialized countries, however, the moderate pace of growth continues, not least due to increased purchasing power, which is in turn partly due to the decreased energy costs. In these countries, consumption remains an important pillar of growth, and thus the labor market situation is also improving. By contrast, investment remains subdued and only minor stimuli are expected from net exports since the momentum in the emerging countries is likely to increase only slightly in the coming year. The risks to the global economy are skewed to the downside. Increased uncertainty in the financial markets could worsen financing conditions. The euro area is facing the risk of deflation. Die deutsche Wirtschaft entwickelt sich trotz eines eingetrübten weltwirtschaftlichen Umfelds robust. Auf vielen ausländischen Absatzmärkten lief die Nachfrage zuletzt schwach, weshalb die deutsche Industrieproduktion im zweiten Halbjahr 2015 rückläufig war. Bereits zum Jahresauftakt hat sie aber wieder zugelegt. Im Prognosezeitraum dürften die Exporte von einer sich allmählich aufhellenden weltwirtschaftlichen Entwicklung profitieren. Maßgeblich zum Wachstum trägt die kräftige Binnenkonjunktur bei, die vor allem durch den kräftigen privaten Verbrauch befeuert wird. So setzt sich der Beschäftigungsaufbau fort und die Lohnsteigerungen bleiben spürbar. Auch die Ausgaben für Unterbringung, Versorgung und Integration der Geflüchteten schieben den Konsum an. Die Kosten im Zuge der Flüchtlingsmigration sind beträchtlich, dennoch wird der öffentliche Gesamthaushalt weiterhin hohe Überschüsse erzielen. Im Prognosezeitraum werden die Finanzierungsspielräume aber enger. Die deutsche Wirtschaft dürfte in diesem Jahr um 1,6 Prozent wachsen, im kommenden Jahr um 1,5 Prozent.
E66|Aufschwung bleibt moderat - Wirtschaftspolitik wenig wachstumsorientiert: Gemeinschaftsdiagnose Frühjahr 2016|The German economy is experiencing a moderate upturn. Gross domestic product is expected to increase by 1.6 percent this year and by 1.5 percent in 2017. The upturn will be driven by private consumption, which will benefit from continued employment growth, sizeable increases in wage and transfer income and purchasing power gains thanks to lower energy prices. Fiscal policy will also be expansively oriented, partly due to rising costs related to refugee immigration. While investment in construction is also expected to expand markedly, corporate investment activity will remain subdued. Against a background of only gradual world economic recovery and strong domestic demand, no positive economic stimulus is expected from foreign trade. Public budgets will post significant surpluses in the forecasting period. Failing to use this room for manoeuvre to promote growth, as seen in recent years, is not a sustainable path. Die deutsche Wirtschaft befindet sich in einem moderaten Aufschwung. Das Bruttoinlandsprodukt dürfte in diesem Jahr um 1,6 Prozent und im kommenden Jahr um 1,5 Prozent zulegen. Getragen wird der Aufschwung vom privaten Konsum, der vom anhaltenden Beschäftigungsaufbau, den spürbaren Steigerungen der Lohn- und Transfereinkommen und den Kaufkraftgewinnen infolge der gesunkenen Energiepreise profitiert. Zudem ist die Finanzpolitik, auch wegen der zunehmenden Aufwendungen zur Bewältigung der Flüchtlingsmigration, expansiv ausgerichtet. Während die Bauinvestitionen ebenfalls merklich ausgeweitet werden, bleibt die Investitionstätigkeit der Unternehmen verhalten. Aufgrund der nur allmählichen weltwirtschaftlichen Erholung und der starken Binnennachfrage ist vom Außenhandel kein positiver konjunktureller Impuls zu erwarten. Die öffentlichen Haushalte dürften im Prognosezeitraum deutliche Überschüsse erzielen. Würden diese Handlungsspielräume wie bereits in den vergangenen Jahren wenig wachstumsorientiert genutzt, wäre das nicht nachhaltig.
E66|Die Inlandsnachfrage schiebt die deutsche Wirtschaft an: Sieben Fragen an Ferdinand Fichtner|No abstract is available for this item.
E66|Europa und die Weltwirtschaft: globale Konjunktur ist weiter gedämpft: Sommergrundlinien 2016|The world economy has yet to regain momentum: after the already weak final quarter of 2015, the pace of expansion slowed down again in the first quarter of 2016. In the emerging countries’ economies, the pace of expansion is expected to remain subdued, especially in China, where the gradual slowdown continues as overcapacities are reduced. Russia and Brazil are likely to remain in recession: apart from the still-low commodity prices, domestic issues are aggravating the situation. Growth is just barely stable in the industrialized countries, which means they cannot compensate for the emerging countries’ weaknesses. In the industrialized countries, the primary growth driver is still domestic demand. Strong consumption growth is expected in the US as well as in the euro area, primarily as a result of the improving labor market situation. All in all, the global economic growth rate is expected to be 3.2 percent in 2016, which is lower than previously forecasted. The uncertainty about China’s future economic development and the potential impact of a Brexit are the primary risks that are curbing optimism. Die Weltwirtschaft kommt weiterhin nicht in Fahrt. Nach dem bereits schwachen Jahresende 2015 hat sich das Expansionstempo im Auftaktquartal 2016 erneut verlangsamt. In den Schwellenländern dürfte die Konjunktur auch weiterhin gedämpft bleiben. Vor allem in China setzt sich die graduelle Wachstumsabschwächung im Zuge des Abbaus von Überkapazitäten fort. Russland und Brasilien dürften in der Rezession bleiben; neben den nach wie vor niedrigen Rohstoffpreisen tun hausgemachte Probleme ihr Übriges. Die entwickelten Volkswirtschaften können dies nicht ausgleichen, da die Konjunktur hier lediglich stabil verläuft. Hauptstütze bleibt dort die Binnennachfrage. Vor allem in den USA, aber auch im Euroraum ist mit kräftigen Konsumzuwächsen zu rechnen, die insbesondere aus der sich verbessernden Lage am Arbeitsmarkt resultieren. Unter dem Strich dürfte am Ende dieses Jahres mit 3,2 Prozent ein geringeres Wachstum der globalen Wirtschaftsleistung stehen als noch zuletzt erwartet. Insbesondere die Unsicherheit über die weitere konjunkturelle Entwicklung in China und die möglichen Auswirkungen eines Brexits bremsen den Optimismus.
E66|Deutsche Wirtschaft folgt stabilem Aufwärtstrend: Sommergrundlinien 2016|Supported by dynamic domestic development, the German economy is expected to grow by 1.7 percent this year. As consumption and investment in construction are likely to weaken in the coming year, growth in 2017 should amount to roughly 1.4 percent. Foreign trade is contributing relatively little to growth. In both years of the forecast period, capacities will be at more or less normal levels of utilization; there are no signs of overheating. In the medium term, however, stronger investment in the capital stock is necessary to increase the growth potential of the German economy. Die deutsche Wirtschaft dürfte, getragen von einer dynamischen Binnenkonjunktur, in diesem Jahr um 1,7 Prozent wachsen. Im kommenden Jahr schwächen sich der Konsum sowie die Bauinvestitionen ab, das Wachstum wird wohl 1,4 Prozent betragen. Der Außenhandel schiebt das Wachstum kaum an. In beiden Jahren des Prognosezeitraums werden die Kapazitäten in etwa normal ausgelastet; eine Überhitzung zeichnet sich nicht ab. Mittelfristig sind aber kräftigere Investitionen in den Kapitalstock erforderlich, um das Wachstumspotential der deutschen Wirtschaft zu erhöhen.
E66|Der Brexit würde das Wirtschaftswachstum in Deutschland deutlich dämpfen: Sieben Fragen an Ferdinand Fichtner|No abstract is available for this item.
E66|Brexit-Entscheidung belastet deutsche Konjunktur|As a result of Britain’s decision to leave the EU, global economic output is likely to grow at a somewhat slower pace than anticipated. The decision will have consequences for the UK and for the euro area in particular; this is also confirmed by simulations produced by the global econometric model, NiGEM. An expected deterioration of economic relations, especially between the UK and the EU, and the associated increase in uncertainty lead to greater investment restraint. This has been accompanied by a devaluation of the British pound. Both will inhibit the development of the German economy with its strong focus on foreign trade. It will also dampen domestic investment and result in a lower level of consumption due to slightly weaker wage growth. All in all, the German economy is likely to grow at a slower rate than previously predicted due to the Brexit decision: growth is forecasted to be lower by 0.1 percentage points in 2016 and by 0.3 percentage points in 2017. Durch die Brexit-Entscheidung dürfte die Wirtschaftsleistung weltweit mit etwas geringerem Tempo als erwartet zulegen. Vor allem im Vereinigten Königreich und im Euroraum macht sich die Entscheidung bemerkbar; dies bilden auch Simulationen mit dem NiGEM-Modell ab. So führen die erwartete Verschlechterung der wirtschaftlichen Beziehungen insbesondere zwischen dem Vereinigten Königreich und der Europäischen Union und die damit verbundene erhöhte Unsicherheit zu Investitionszurückhaltung. Damit einher geht eine Abwertung der britischen Währung. Beides hemmt die Entwicklung der deutschen Wirtschaft mit ihrer starken Ausrichtung auf den Außenhandel. Dies dämpft auch die Investitionstätigkeit im Inland und führt wegen einer etwas schwächeren Einkommensentwicklung zu geringerer Konsumdynamik. Alles in allem dürfte die deutsche Wirtschaft infolge der Brexit-Entscheidung um 0,1 Prozentpunkte in diesem und um 0,3 Prozentpunkte im kommenden Jahr schwächer als bisher erwartet wachsen.
E66|Konjunkturelle Bremse unmittelbar nach dem Brexit-Votum ist die Unsicherheit: Sechs Fragen an Ferdinand Fichtner|No abstract is available for this item.
E66|Globales Wachstum verhalten, zögerliche Entwicklung in Europa: Herbstgrundlinien 2016|Global economic growth remains subdued. Leaving our forecast for this year unchanged, the pace of growth is expected to stand at 3.2 percent in 2016 and to increase somewhat over the following two years. In the advanced economies, the main growth driver will continue to be private consumption, which in turn is supported primarily by a steadily improving labor market and increases in real incomes. In Europe, the uncertainty associated with the Brexit decision will have a dampening effect on growth. In the emerging markets, the moderate increase in the pace of expansion should continue. In Russia and Brazil, the economic contraction process will gradually come to a halt, while in China, the current growth rate will remain stable thanks to solid consumer demand. Nevertheless, there are still a number of risks for the global economy: in particular, there’s the uncertainty related to the Brexit decision, and tensions remain high in some parts of the European banking sector. Das Wachstum der Weltwirtschaft bleibt verhalten. Das Expansionstempo dürfte in diesem Jahr – wie zuvor prognostiziert – bei 3,2 Prozent liegen und in den beiden Folgejahren etwas zunehmen. In den entwickelten Volkswirtschaften dürfte der private Konsum Hauptwachstumstreiber bleiben. Hierzu tragen vor allem die stetige Verbesserung der Lage auf dem Arbeitsmarkt und steigende Realeinkommen bei. In Europa wird wohl die Unsicherheit im Zusammenhang mit der Brexit-Entscheidung etwas auf dem Wachstum lasten. In den Schwellenländern dürfte sich die moderate Erhöhung des Expansionstempos fortsetzen. In Russland und Brasilien wird der wirtschaftliche Schrumpfungsprozess allmählich zum Stillstand kommen, und in China wird das aktuelle Wachstumstempo dank einer soliden Konsumnachfrage wohl gehalten werden. Allerdings besteht eine Reihe von Risiken für die Weltkonjunktur. In Europa etwa bleibt die Unsicherheit aufgrund der Brexit-Entscheidung sowie der angespannten Lage in einigen Teilen des Bankensektors hoch.
E66|Deutsche Wirtschaft: Aufwärtstrend setzt sich fort, Brexit dämpft: Herbstgrundlinien 2016|The German economy has been growing significantly recently, also due to strong foreign trade, and will experience a powerful increase of 1.9 percent in 2016. In the coming quarters, the drag of the Brexit decision should become noticeable. This will dampen the year-on-year growth rate in 2017 to 1.0 percent, alongside somewhat weaker private consumption dynamics. From the second half of 2017 onward, industry will start benefitting once again from a more dynamic development in key foreign markets, and in 2018, the German economy is expected to grow by 1.6 percent. Throughout the forecast period, the increase in employment should continue, and private consumption will contribute to growth—albeit at a somewhat slower pace. The unemployment rate should continue to drop: from 6.1 and 5.9 percent in 2016 and 2017 respectively to 5.8 percent by 2018. At 0.5 percent, inflation is low again this year, but at one-and-a-half percent, it will be higher in both 2017 and 2018. Corporate investment remains weak and won’t start picking up momentum until the end of next year, in view of accelerating global growth dynamics. The government surplus is expected to increase to 27 billion euros this year; however, the surplus will be smaller in the coming years, at 14 billion euros in 2017 and 16 billion euros in 2018. Die deutsche Wirtschaft ist – auch dank des Außenhandels – zuletzt deutlich gewachsen und wird im Jahresvergleich kräftig, um 1,9 Prozent, zulegen. In den kommenden Quartalen dürften sich die Auswirkungen der Brexit-Entscheidung bemerkbar machen. Neben einer schwächeren Dynamik des privaten Konsums dürfte dies dazu beitragen, dass das Wachstum im Jahr 2017 wohl 1,0 Prozent betragen wird. Ab der zweiten Hälfte des kommenden Jahres profitiert die Industrie wieder von einer dynamischeren Entwicklung wichtiger Auslandsmärkte; im Jahr 2018 dürfte die deutsche Wirtschaft um 1,6 Prozent wachsen. Im gesamten Prognosezeitraum wird sich der Beschäftigungsaufbau wohl fortsetzen und der private Konsum das Wachstum stützen, wenngleich in geringerem Ausmaß. Die Arbeitslosenquote dürfte weiter sinken, von 6,1 und 5,9 Prozent in den Jahren 2016 und 2017 bis auf 5,8 Prozent im Jahr 2018. Die Inflation ist mit 0,5 Prozent in diesem Jahr erneut niedrig, liegt in den kommenden beiden Jahren mit anderthalb Prozent aber etwas höher. Die Unternehmensinvestitionen bleiben schwach und werden wohl erst im späteren Verlauf etwas an Tempo gewinnen. Der Finanzierungssaldo des Staates dürfte dieses Jahr auf 27 Milliarden Euro steigen, in den kommenden Jahren aber mit 15 beziehungsweise 16 Milliarden Euro niedriger ausfallen.
E66|Brexit-Votum ist Gift für die Investitionstätigkeit in Deutschland: Sieben Fragen an Ferdinand Fichtner|No abstract is available for this item.
E66|Deutsche Wirtschaft gut ausgelastet – Wirtschaftspolitik neu ausrichten: Gemeinschaftsdiagnose Herbst 2016|The German economy is experiencing a moderate recovery: the GDP is expected to grow by 1.9 percent this year, 1.4 percent next year, and 1.6 percent in 2018. Over the course of the forecast period, capacity utilization will be somewhat higher than the long-term average. Nevertheless, corporate investment's contribution to the current upswing is minimal: the global economy is generating only minor stimulating effects, which means that exports are only increasing moderately; as well, the extremely low interest rates on the capital market are likely to reflect not only the current monetary policy, but also the low growth expectations. All of these factors are inhibiting equipment investment, and thus consumption continues to be the main growth driver. Private consumption is benefiting from the sustained increase in employment; the high expenditure for housing and integrating the refugees is still havinga strong impact on public spending. Residential construction is getting a boost from the low interest rates. Die deutsche Wirtschaft befindet sich in einem moderaten Aufschwung. Das Bruttoinlandsprodukt dürfte in diesem Jahr um 1,9 Prozent und im kommenden Jahr um 1,4 Prozent zulegen. Im Jahr 2018 dürfte die Expansionsrate bei 1,6 Prozent liegen. Die gesamtwirtschaftlichen Kapazitäten sind damit im Prognosezeitraum etwas stärker ausgelastet als im langjährigen Mittel. Dennoch sind es derzeit weniger die Unternehmensinvestitionen, die den Aufschwung tragen: Von der Weltkonjunktur gehen nur geringe stimulierende Effekte aus, so dass die Exporte nur moderat steigen; zudem dürften sich in den außerordentlich niedrigen Kapitalmarktzinsen nicht nur die derzeitige Geldpolitik, sondern auch niedrige Wachstumserwartungen widerspiegeln. All dies hemmt die Ausrüstungsinvestitionen. So ist es weiterhin in erster Linie der Konsum, der den Aufschwung trägt. Der private Verbrauch profitiert dabei insbesondere vom anhaltenden Beschäftigungsaufbau, beim öffentlichen Konsum machen sich weiterhin die hohen Aufwendungen zur Unterbringung und Integration von Flüchtlingen bemerkbar. Der Wohnungsbau wird durch die niedrigen Zinsen angeregt.
E66|Weltwirtschaft nimmt etwas Fahrt auf: Wintergrundlinien 2016|The world economy is gaining momentum after sluggish growth in the first half 2016 – primarily due to a weak expansion in the emerging markets – gave way to a slight acceleration. This trend is likely to continue, and will increasingly benefit the developed economies as well. The brightening labor market situation in advanced countries is leading to a higher level of consumer demand, which will remain a primary growth driver. As a result of the improved sales opportunities, the currently weak corporate investment activity should pick up again. The growth of global economic output is expected to amount to 3.3 percent this year, and is expected to be slightly higher in the coming two years. This development will be supported by fiscal policy, while monetary policy is likely to become more contractionary globally in the course of further U.S. interest rate hikes. There remain significant risks, however – especially in Europe, where political uncertainty is high due to the Brexit decision and the upcoming elections in key EU member states, among other factors. Die Weltwirtschaft kommt wieder etwas mehr in Schwung. Nachdem die Expansion in der ersten Jahreshälfte äußerst verhalten war, weil vor allem die Schwellenländer auf der Bremse standen, gab es zuletzt eine leichte Beschleunigung. Diese Entwicklung dürfte sich fortsetzen, wovon zunehmend auch die entwickelten Volkswirtschaften profitieren. Dort hellt sich die Lage am Arbeitsmarkt auf, was eine hohe Konsumnachfrage nach sich zieht. Diese bleibt eine Hauptstütze des Wachstums. Aufgrund besserer Absatzmöglichkeiten wird sich die bisher schwache Investitionstätigkeit der Unternehmen wohl etwas beleben. Der Anstieg der weltweiten Wirtschaftsleistung dürfte in diesem Jahr damit bei 3,3 Prozent liegen und in den kommenden beiden Jahren noch etwas höher ausfallen. Unterstützt wird diese Entwicklung von der Finanzpolitik, während die Geldpolitik im Zuge weiterer Zinsanhebungen in den USA global eher restriktiver ausgerichtet sein dürfte. Die Risiken sind indes nach wie vor beträchtlich – insbesondere in Europa, wo die politische Unsicherheit unter anderem aufgrund der Brexit-Entscheidung und anstehender Wahlen in wichtigen EU-Mitgliedsländern hoch ist.
E66|Deutsche Wirtschaft setzt Aufschwung fort – trotz schwächeren Beschäftigungsaufbaus: Wintergrundlinien 2016|In spite of persisting unfavorable external economic conditions, the German economy’s upward trend continues, with a growth of 1.2 percent expected for the coming year – slightly less than the 1.8 percent growth rate of 2016, a difference primarily due to the fact that 2017 has fewer workdays. A growth rate of 1.6 percent is expected for 2018. Although employment growth has slowed down somewhat since this past summer, private consumption remains the German economy’s primary growth driver – but given the higher inflation, this dynamic will lose momentum in the course of the coming quarters. Exports are picking up in the moderately recovering global economy, and this will be even more noticeable lateron in the forecast period. Though investment activity will be somewhat stimulated by the improvement in foreign demand, it will remain rather modest. Die deutsche Wirtschaft setzt in weiterhin schwierigem Umfeld ihre Aufwärtsbewegung fort und dürfte im kommenden Jahr mit 1,2 Prozent etwas schwächer wachsen als 2016 (1,8 Prozent); dies liegt jedoch vor allem an der geringeren Zahl an Arbeitstagen. Im Jahr 2018 werden es voraussichtlich 1,6 Prozent sein. Trotz eines flacheren Beschäftigungsaufbaus seit Sommer 2016 bleibt der private Verbrauch Wachstumstreiber. Angesichts höherer Inflation schwächt sich die Dynamik im Weiteren aber ab. Die Exporte legen im Fahrwasser einer sich etwas erholenden Weltkonjunktur etwas stärker zu, vor allem im späteren Verlauf, und regen dann auch die Investitionstätigkeit an. Diese bleibt aber alles in allem recht verhalten.
E66|Private Equity and its Role in the Development of the Indian Manufacturing Sector|Manufacturing sector accounts for only 16% of gross domestic product (GDP) in India, while in China it is around one third of its GDP. Also the share of Indian manufacturing in the worldwide markets is dismal at 1.4%, while China it is now 13% from just 2.9% in 1990s. India also aspires to have such growth in its manufacturing sector. Growth of manufacturing sector is vital due to its multiplier effect on economy and employment. Every job created in the manufacturing sector creates two-three additional jobs in related activities. The aim of the Indian National Manufacturing Policy (2011) is to create to 100 million jobs and increase the share of manufacturing in GDP to 25% by 2022. Private equity (PE) as fi nancial intermediaries improves the allocation of resources from the investors and also provides various types of managerial assistance to industry enabling make them to be more competitive. This paper emphasizes the role that can be played by PE in the development of Indian manufacturing sector. Also the paper highlights the various types of assistance and problems in PE
E66|El uso de indicadores clave para evaluar el desempeño económico a largo plazo de América Latina|Las estadísticas oficiales y los indicadores clave son fundamentales para observar el progreso económico y social de los países, determinar los impulsores estructurales de su crecimiento y establecer prioridades. Mediante la metodología de Khramov y Lee (2013) e indicadores clave provenientes del Sistema de Cuentas Nacionales (scn), las estadísticas de la balanza de pagos, las monetarias y financieras y las concernientes a las finanzas públicas, se propone utilizar un indicador compuesto para evaluar el desempeño económico de América Latina. A largo plazo se encuentra que, en general, ese índice registra los grandes shocks económicos y los períodos de sólido desempeño del período 1990-2013. Su construcción permite medir los indicadores específicos que determinan el comportamiento económico general. Aunque el índice resulta muy útil para analizar la dinámica macroeconómica en comparación con valores de referencia alternativos, es necesario ser precavidos al seleccionar un período para estimar el peso relativo de cada componente.
E66|The use of key indicators to assess Latin America’s long-term economic performance|Official statistics and key indicators are essential for observing countries’ economic and social progress, determining the structural drivers of their growth and shaping priorities. Using the methodology of Khramov and Lee (2013), key indicators from the System of National Accounts (SNA), as well as balance of payments, monetary and financial, and public finance statistics, it is proposed to use a composite indicator to assess Latin America’s economic performance. An examination of long-term trends finds that this index generally captures the major economic shocks and periods of robust performance during the period 1990-2013. It construction enables the measurement of specific indicators that determine overall economic behaviour. While the usefulness of the index for analysing macroeconomic dynamics is high in comparison with alternative benchmark values, caution should be exercised when selecting a time frame for estimating the relative weights of each component.
E66|Business uncertainty and investment: Evidence from Japanese companies|This study, using data from a representative quarterly business survey in Japan, constructs measures of business uncertainty, presents empirical findings about the time-series properties of business uncertainty measures, and analyzes the relationship between these measures and investments. The results show, first, that business uncertainty heightened at the time of the collapse of Lehman Brothers, but the effect of an increase in the consumption tax rate on business uncertainty was small. Second, manufacturing and small companies tend to face higher business uncertainty than non-manufacturing and large companies. Third, we detect a negative association between business uncertainty and investments.
E66|Global uncertainty and the global economy: Decomposing the impact of uncertainty shocks|We constructed a new index of global uncertainty using the first principal component of the stock market volatility for the largest 15 economies. We evaluate the impact of global uncertainty on the global economy using the new global database from Global Economic Indicators (DGEI), Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. Global uncertainty shocks are less frequent than those observed in data on the U.S. economy. Global uncertainty shocks are associated with a sharp decline in global inflation, global growth and in the global interest rate (based on official/policy interest rates set by central banks). Our decomposition of global uncertainty shocks shows that global financial uncertainty shocks are more important than non-financial shocks. Over the period 1981 to 2014 global financial uncertainty forecasts 18.26% and 14.95% of the variation in global growth and global inflation respectively. The non-financial uncertainty shocks have insignificant effects on global growth. The model for global variables shows more protracted and substantial negative effects of uncertainty on growth and inflation than does a panel model estimating associations of local country-level variables. This outcome is reversed for the effect of uncertainty on official interest rate.
E66|European Commission's Forecasts Accuracy Revisited: Statistical Properties and Possible Causes of Forecast Errors|This paper updates a previous assessment of the European Commission's track record for forecasting key economic variables (González Cabanillas and Terzi 2012) by extending the observation period to 2014. It also examines the accuracy of the Commission's forecasts over a shorter and more recent period (2000-2014) so that a comparison can be made between the performance of forecasts made before and after the Great Recession of 2008-2009. Going beyond the 2012 approach, this paper also examines the extent to which forecast errors can be explained by external or technical assumptions that prove incorrect ex post. It also updates the comparison of the Commission’s performance vis à vis the OECD, the IMF, a consensus forecast of market economists, and the ECB. Inclusion of the 2012-2014 period lowers the forecasting error for some key variables or leads to no change in others. Focussing on the years since the turn of the century, current-year and year-ahead forecasting errors for the three main variables examined (GDP growth, inflation and general government balances) have been larger in the crisis and post-crisis period (2008-2014) than in the precrisis period (2000-2007) for a large majority of Member States. This appears mainly to be the result of an anomalously large error in 2009, a year which confounded many forecasters. The country-bycountry analysis confirms the finding of earlier studies which show that the Commission's forecasts are largely unbiased. The newly-introduced panel data approach also confirms the absence of bias in current-year GDP forecasts across EU Member States but shows that year-ahead forecasts for GDP growth tend to be slightly over optimistic across the whole sample. The analysis also shows that autocorrelation of forecast errors is not a major issue in the Commission's forecasts. Other advanced tests shed more light on the performance of the Commission’s forecasts, demonstrating that they are directionally accurate and generally beat a naïve forecast but that they are not always efficient in terms of their use of all available data. The decomposition of forecast errors shows that unexpected changes in external assumptions seem to have only a limited impact on current-year GDP growth forecasts. However, more than half of the variance in year-ahead forecast errors appears to come from external assumptions that prove to be incorrect ex post. Finally, the Commission’s economic forecasts come out as being more accurate than those of the market and comparable to those of the other international institutions considered.
E66|Measuring the Uncertainty in Predicting Public Revenue|This paper provides an assessment of the uncertainty surrounding revenue predictions, through an ex post analysis of European Commission’s forecasts over the last 15 years. It estimates the forecast errors affecting revenue for all 28 Member States, using the different vintages of the autumn and spring Commission forecasts. It analyses both the direction and magnitude of errors, using standard summary statistics. The paper looks into the various components of forecast errors to better understand their drivers (forecasting error related to real GDP, inflation or revenue-to-GDP ratio) and which types of revenues (direct tax, indirect tax or social security contributions) are particularly affected. The paper also examines the pattern of revenue errors over time and in particular how revenue forecasts perform before, during and after the crisis. To further deepen the analysis, a set of tests are carried out on the quality of the prediction (serial correlation, unbiasedness, weak and informational efficiency). The estimator-based tests confirm the sound track record of the European Commission’s forecasts. This is also shown by a comparison with the OECD’s revenue forecasts. Lastly, the paper reviews various possible determinants of forecast errors and examines their significance by means of a pooled time series technique. The econometric study allows for the identification of factors which increase or reduce the risk of over-forecasting revenue.
E66|The timing of uncertainty shocks in a small open economy|Foreign measures of uncertainty, such as the US EPU index, are often used as a proxies for domestic uncertainty in small open economies. We construct an EPU index for Sweden and demonstrate that shocks to the domestic index yield different impulse response functions for GDP growth than shocks to the US index. In particular, a one standard deviation shock to the Swedish index delivers its maximum impact in the same quarter, lowering GDP growth by slightly less than 0.2 percentage points. In contrast, a shock to the US index delivers its maximum impact with a one-quarter delay. Other foreign proxies, such as the European and German indices, also generate effects that peak with a one-quarter delay.
E66|La cuestionable convergencia entre las reformas estructurales y la competitividad de la economía mexicana|En el presente artículo se hace hincapié que nuestro país se encamina a una cuarta década de bajo crecimiento económico. Una causa fundamental de tal letargo descansa en las medidas económicas implantadas por los gobiernos mexicanos, sugeridas en muchos casos y en otros, condicionadas por los organismos multilaterales. La presente administración del presidente Peña Nieto no es la excepción, pues comenzó con el acuerdo de consensos políticos para llevar a cabo una serie reformas. Para diagnosticarlas, se realizó un análisis de las bases que les dieron coherencia, así como un recuento de las mismas. Por otro lado, se planteo que la incapacidad de la presente administración para lograr las metas planteadas, descansa en la aberración de “más de lo mismo”, dejando de lado planteamientos alternos vinculados con la búsqueda de la equidad y el cambio estructural./ In this paper, it is emphasized the fact that our country is heading for a fourth decade of low economic growth. A fundamental cause of this lethargy rests on economic measures implemented by the Mexican government, whether suggested or conditioned by multilateral agencies. The present administration of president Peña Nieto is not the exception, as it began with the agreement of political consensus to carry out a series of reforms. To diagnose such reforms, it is conducted an analysis of the bases that gave them coherence, as well as their features. On the other hand, we argue that the inability of the present administration to achieve the goals set, rests on the aberration of “more of the same”, leaving aside alternative approaches linked to the pursuit of equity and structural change.
E66|Dynamic Comovements Between Housing and Oil Markets in the US over 1859 to 2013: a Note|Abstract In this study, we examine the dynamic comovements between housing and oil market returns in the United States over the period 1859–2013, while controlling for real gross domestic product growth, inflation, interest rates, and real stock, gold and silver returns that are known to affect both these markets. As such, we provide a bird’s-eye view on the interdependencies between these two markets from a historical perspective. The results of our empirical analysis reveal that comovements between housing and oil market returns are consistently negative over time, apart from several recessions the U.S. economy experienced in the 19th century, wherein correlations were positive.
E66|Complex Factors Behind Misguided Policies in Socioeconomics: From Mass Migration and Persistent Alienation to Rampant Crime and Economic Malaise|In a complex and chaotic world, people often gloss over the facts and jump to conclusions. Unfortunately, the hasty approach usually yields deficient and even harmful results. The domains affected range from migration and poverty to alienation and crime. According to the Myth of Boon, for instance, immigrants always benefit the host society. In this light, many people envisage the great migrations of the 19th century from Europe to America. However, the United States at that stage was itself a developing country; moreover the Civil War showed that clashing cultures cannot co-exist. Meanwhile the Myth of Multiculturalism asserts that a mashup of mores is always desirable; but the reality is otherwise. When immigrants in their millions pour into sparsely populated districts, they end up replicating the cultures that caused them to flee their homelands in the first place. The upshot is disruptive and distressing for all parties be they newcomers or incumbents. In addition, the Myth of Virtue declares that migrants of all backgrounds are equally upright. Yet comprehensive studies in Sweden have shown that violent crimes can be traced to immigrants at rates which are at least four times those for natives. From another angle, a drove of migrants is a godsend for criminals. For instance, a terrorist ring struck in France in 2015 and again in Belgium the following year. The perpetrators – who grew up in Belgium, France and Sweden – displayed immigrant backgrounds and included part of the cohort that traveled to the Mideast to receive training from militants then returned to Europe by posing as refugees. Since socioeconomic problems are intertwined rather than independent, a piecemeal approach will not fill the bill. Instead, a coherent grasp of the issues and their tie-ups is a prerequisite for devising a wholesome solution.
E66|Forecasting revisions of German industrial production| Macroeconomic variables, such as industrial production or GDP, are regularly and sometimes substantially revised by the official statistical offices. Nevertheless, there are only few attempts in the previous literature to investigate whether it is possible to forecast these revisions systematically. In this article, it is illustrated how revisions of German industrial production can be forecasted with respect to both the direction and the level of the revision. We are the first to use a large data set for this purpose.
E66|The Impact of Macroeconomic Uncertainty on Activity in the Euro Area|The impact of macroeconomic uncertainty on activity has been a subject of heightened interest in recent years. Empirical literature typically focuses on the US or on individual euro area countries by using the VAR approach. However, there is limited quantitative evidence about the impact of uncertainty on euro area activity available as yet. In this paper, we derive measures of macroeconomic uncertainty in the euro area from an encompassing dataset, and single out some indicators of uncertainty based on theoretical plausibility and empirical evidence. From this set of indicators, we derive an aggregate measure of macroeconomic uncertainty in the euro area. Using a multivariate structural VAR approach, we then offer some quantitative evidence on the impact of macroeconomic uncertainty on euro area activity during the period 1999–2015. Our main findings show that heightened macroeconomic uncertainty, as measured by the proposed indicators, does have a strongly adverse impact on activity in the euro area, albeit the deepness and duration of the shocks differ somewhat across uncertainty measures.
E66|Economic projections for Belgium – Autumn 2016|The article presents the new macroeconomic projections for Belgium, produced by the Bank as part of the Eurosystem forecasting exercises. Despite an environment affected by manifold – primarily political – uncertainties, the global economy has appeared to recover somewhat in recent months and is set to gain momentum from 2017. The medium-term growth prospects for the euro area are favourable and stable : according to the Eurosystem projections, the volume of GDP will expand by around 1.6 -1.7 % over the period 2017-2019. In Belgium, growth was down slightly in 2016 at 1.2 % and is expected to strengthen somewhat in 2017 to 1.4 % before reaching 1.6 % in 2018 and 1.5 % in 2019. Investment and private consumption are likely to be the main factors supporting growth in the medium term. Households should benefit both from renewed wage growth and from the measures to cut taxes, that should bolster their disposable income. Firms should continue to invest steadily thanks to the improving outlook for demand and continuing extremely favourable financing conditions. The very positive dynamic on the labour market – that has been evident for more than two years – is set to continue, albeit at a more moderate pace. Some 120 000 new jobs are likely to be created over the next three years, implying a decrease in the unemployment rate from 8.2 % this year to 7.6 % by 2019. HICP inflation will have averaged 1.8 % in 2016, mainly backed by the increase in indirect taxes and factors affecting inflation in services. Over the period 2017-2019, Belgian inflation is projected to average 2 %. The public deficit should fall to 2.3 % of GDP in 2017 (from 3.0 % in 2016),notably as a result of the consolidation measures announced, but will hardly improve at all thereafter.
E66|Economic projections for Belgium – Spring 2016|The article presents the new macroeconomic projections for Belgium for the 2016-2018 period, produced by the Bank as part of the Eurosystem’s projection exercises. The global economy has slowed further in recent months, mainly influenced by adverse conditions emanating from the emerging economies. In the euro area, however, activity continued to expand at a fairly sustained rate, despite the gradual dissipation of two factors which had done much to stimulate growth last year, namely the fall in oil prices and the depreciation of the euro. According to the Eurosystem’s projections, real GDP in the euro area will rise by 1.6 % this year and 1.7 % in 2017 and 2018. Inflation will remain very low in the euro area this year, at 0.2 %, but is forecast to pick up subsequently to reach 1.3 % in 2017 and 1.6 % in 2018, as a result of rising commodity prices and strengthening activity. In Belgium, activity grew at a slower pace at the beginning of the year, partly as a consequence of the terrorist attacks. Having reached 1.4 % in 2015, growth is expected to dip to 1.3 % in 2016 before strengthening slightly thereafter to 1.5 % in 2017 and 1.6 % in 2018. Domestic demand will be the main engine of growth in Belgium over the projection horizon. Labour market developments will remain dynamic : in cumulative terms, over the period 2016-2018, net job creations are expected to amount to 140 000 units, with the unemployment rate falling to 7.8 % of the labour force by 2018. Inflation should average 1.6 % in 2016 in Belgium, 1.8 % in 2017 and 1.9 % in 2018. The increase in indirect taxes is likely to fuel inflation in 2016, while in 2017 and 2018 inflation will be driven more by higher commodity prices and by growing domestic cost pressures originating from wages. Only taking account of the fiscal measures subject to the guidelines for the Eurosystem projections exercises, the public deficit will rise to 2.8 % in 2016, exacerbated by exceptional expenditure (security, migrant crisis) and by the reduction in the ratio of tax revenues to GDP, before declining to 2.4 % of GDP in 2017 and in 2018. Government debt is projected to stabilise at around 106 % of GDP in 2018.
E66|An Index of Global Economic Policy Uncertainty|Building on Baker, Bloom and Davis (2016), I construct a monthly index of Global Economic Policy Uncertainty (GEPU) from January 1997. The GEPU Index is a GDP-weighted average of national EPU indices for 16 countries that account for two-thirds of global output. Each national EPU index reflects the relative frequency of own-country newspaper articles that contain a trio of terms pertaining to the economy, uncertainty and policy-related matters. The GEPU Index rises sharply in reaction to the Asian Financial Crisis, the 9/11 terrorist attacks, the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003, the Global Financial Crisis in 2008-09, the European immigration crisis, concerns about the Chinese economy in late 2015, and the Brexit referendum in June 2016. It fluctuates around consistently high levels from mid 2011 to early 2013, a period characterized by recurring sovereign debt and banking crises in the Eurozone, intense partisan battles over fiscal and healthcare policies in the United States, and a generational leadership transition in China. The average value of the GEPU Index is 60 percent higher from July 2011 to August 2016 than in the previous fourteen and one-half years and 22 percent higher than in 2008-09.
E66|Central banks’ mandate and objectives: Evolution and the crisis lessons|On the basis of studying the evolution of goals and objectives of the mone­tary authorities of a wide range of countries the authors argue the inexpediency of expanding the Bank of Russia’s mandate. It fits into international practice, and also meets the requirements and characteristics of the present stage of economic development. In the pursuit of price stability, the regulator not only maintains the stability of the national currency, as required by the its mandate, but also contributes to the acceleration of economic growth.
E66|Challenges of Russian economic development and government economic policy|The article analyzes the problems faced by the Russian economy, and response by the government economic policy. The author considers measures to address four key tasks that will maximize long-term economic growth: the reduction of direct and transaction costs, creation of conditions for the transformation of savings into investments, fostering investment activity through the mechanisms of state support, as well as the removal of demand constraints.
E66|Dating business cycles in India|Purpose - This paper aims to present a chronology of Indian business cycles in the post-reform period. In India, earlier, macroeconomic shocks were about droughts and oil prices. Economic reforms have led to an interplay of a market economy, financial globalisation and decisions of private firms to undertake investment and hold inventory. This has changed the working of the business cycle and has raised concerns about business-cycle stabilisation. In the backdrop of these developments, the macroeconomics research agenda requires foundations of measurement about business-cycle phenomena. One element of this is the identification of dates of business-cycle turning points. Design/methodology/approach - This paper uses the growth-cycle approach to present the chronology of business cycles. The paper uses the Christiano–Fitzgerald (CF) filter to extract the cyclical component and shows the robustness of the findings to the contemporary methods of cycle extraction. It then applies the Bry–Boschan algorithm to identify the dates of peaks and troughs. Findings - The paper finds three periods of recession. The first recession was from 1999-Q4 to 2003-Q1; the second recession was from 2007-Q2 to 2009-Q3; and the third recession ran from 2011-Q2 till 2012-Q4. These results are robust to the choice of filter and to the choice of the business-cycle indicator. These dates suggest that, on average, expansions in India are 12 quarters in length and recessions run for 9 quarters. The paper offers evidence of change in the nature of cycles. Originality/value - Dates of business-cycle turning points are a critical input for academic and policy work in macroeconomics. The paper offers robust estimation of the business-cycle turning points in the post-reform period using contemporary techniques of cycle extraction. This work helps lay the foundations for downstream macroeconomics research by academicians and policymakers.
E66|Links between weak investment and the slowdown in productivity and potential output growth across the OECD|The OECD framework for estimating potential output is combined with previous OECD empirical research to analyse the causes of recent weak productivity growth. Current weak labour productivity growth in many OECD countries reflects historically weak contributions from both total factor productivity (TFP) growth and capital deepening. The slowdown in trend productivity growth in the pre-crisis period is mostly explained by a long-established slowdown in TFP growth, but since the crisis, the further deceleration is mainly due to weak capital deepening, a development apparent in practically every OECD country. Much of the weakness in the growth of the capital stock since the financial crisis can be explained by an accelerator response of investment to continued demand weakness, leading in turn to a deterioration in potential output via a hysteresis-like effect. Circumstantial evidence suggests that a misallocation of capital in the pre-crisis period also contributed to the slowdown in capital stock growth, particularly among the most severely affected countries. In many OECD countries, declining government investment as a share of GDP has further exacerbated post-crisis weakness in capital stock growth, both directly and probably indirectly via adverse spillover effects on business investment. Finally, at a time when the use of conventional macro policy instruments has become increasingly constrained, the slower pace of structural reform represents a missed opportunity, not least because more competitionfriendly product market regulation could have boosted both investment and potential growth. Les liens entre la faiblesse de l'investissement et le ralentissement de la croissance de la productivité et de la production potentielle dans l'OCDE Le cadre général de l’OCDE pour l’estimation du potentiel de production est combiné à des résultats empiriques antérieurs de l’OCDE pour analyser les causes de la faiblesse récente de la croissance de la productivité. La faible croissance de la productivité du travail de ces dernières années reflète des contributions historiquement faibles à la fois de la productivité totale des facteurs (PTF) et de l’intensité capitalistique. Le ralentissement de la croissance tendancielle de la productivité avant la crise est principalement expliqué par un ralentissement de longue date de la croissance de la PTF ; néanmoins, depuis la crise, l’accentuation de la décélération s’explique surtout par une plus faible contribution de l’intensité capitalistique, qui s’observe dans pratiquement tous les pays de l’OCDE. Une part substantielle de la faiblesse de la croissance du stock de capital depuis la crise financière peut s’expliquer par la réponse de l’investissement, via un effet accélérateur, à la faiblesse prolongée de la demande, conduisant à son tour à une détérioration de la production potentielle suivant un effet de type hystérèse. Des preuves circonstancielles suggèrent qu’une mauvaise allocation du capital avant la crise a aussi contribué au ralentissement de la croissance du stock de capital, notamment parmi les pays les plus sévèrement touchés. Dans beaucoup de pays de l’OCDE, la baisse de l’investissement public en point de PIB a encore aggravé la faiblesse post-crise de la croissance du stock de capital, à la fois directement et aussi probablement indirectement via des effets négatifs sur l’investissement des entreprises. Enfin, dans un contexte où les instruments conventionnels de politiques macroéconomiques sont de plus en plus contraints, le ralentissement du rythme des réformes structurelles représente une opportunité manquée, ne serait-ce qu’en raison du soutien à la fois à l’investissement et à la croissance du potentiel qu’auraient pu fournir des réglementations plus adéquates du marché des produits.
E66|Budget reform in China: Progress and prospects in the Xi Jinping era|Fiscal reforms were central to the comprehensive programme of reforms announced at the Third Plenum of the 18th Party Congress in November 2013, during the first year of the Xi Jinping administration. One of the significant reforms on focus is public financial management (PFM). The urgency of PFM reform can be traced, paradoxically, to the extraordinary growth experienced by the Chinese economy during the first decade of this century, when easy money and weak accountability gave rise to unprecedented waste, corruption, and a mountain of local government debt.
E66|Measuring Economic Policy Uncertainty|We develop a new index of economic policy uncertainty (EPU) based on newspapercoverage frequency. Several types of evidence—including human readings of 12,000newspaper articles—indicate that our index proxies for movements inpolicy-related economic uncertainty. Our U.S. index spikes near tightpresidential elections, Gulf Wars I and II, the 9/11 attacks, the failure ofLehman Brothers, the 2011 debt ceiling dispute, and other major battles overfiscal policy. Using firm-level data, we find that policy uncertainty isassociated with greater stock price volatility and reduced investment andemployment in policy-sensitive sectors like defense, health care, finance, andinfrastructure construction. At the macro level, innovations in policyuncertainty foreshadow declines in investment, output, and employment in theUnited States and, in a panel vector autoregressive setting, for 12 majoreconomies. Extending our U.S. index back to 1900, EPU rose dramatically in the1930s (from late 1931) and has drifted upward since the 1960s.
E66|Estimating Egypt’s Potential Output: A Production Function Approach|The Egyptian economy has witnessed deterioration in its main macroeconomic indicators over the period (2008-2014). The main purpose of the paper was to estimate Egypt's potential output and identify the factors that might be responsible for the divergence of actual and potential output from each other. We used the production function approach to derive estimates of potential output and output gap over the period (1990-2014). The results of the analysis revealed that capital stock was the dominant factor contributing to GDP growth in Egypt, while the share of both labor and total factor productivity in GDP growth rate has been fluctuating over time. Intellectual property protection, efficiency of legal framework in settling disputes, strength of investor protection, and other factors exhibited a strong positive relationship with output gap in Egypt over the period (2010-2014).
E66|Continuous time, continuous decision space prisoner’s dilemma: A bridge between game theory and economic GCD-models|General Constrained Dynamic models (GCD – models) in economics are inspired by classical mechanics with constraints. Most macroeconomic models can be understood as special cases of GCD – models. Moreover, in this paper it will be shown that not only macroeconomic models but also game theoretic models are strongly related to GCD – models. GCD models are characterized by a system of differential equations in continuous time while most game theoretical models are set up in discrete time. Therefore it is necessary to build a bridge from game theoretical models denominated in discrete time to game theoretical models using continuous time. This bridge is illustrated in the following using the example of a continuous time, continuous decision space prisoner’s dilemma. Furthermore, it is shown that the differential equations which determine other continuous game theoretic models can be understood to a certain extent as special cases of the GCD – differential equations. Well known types of continuous game theoretic models include for instance “Evolutionary Game Theory” with the replicator equation, “Adaptive Dynamics” with the canonical equation, which is nothing else than a replicator – mutator equation, and the so called “Differential Games”, which are strongly related to optimal control theory with two controls and two different objectives (goals). Most of the GCD – models are characterised by 3 key feature: - mutual influence, - Power-factors - Constraints Nowak (2006b) and Taylor & Nowak (2007) show that there are five mechanisms which, under certain conditions, can lead to the evolution of cooperation in an iterated prisoner’s dilemma. Inspired by this, we apply the 3 key features of GCD – models to the standard prisoner’s dilemma in discrete time which yields 3 additional mechanisms which enable the evolution of cooperation. The assumption or axiom of the free market economy is that an individual optimisation strategy will lead to an overall optimum by virtue of Adam Smith’s invisible hand. Without additional conditions this assumption alone is fundamentally wrong. As in prisoner’s dilemma also in economics cooperation is essential to get an overall optimum. The big question of political economy is to analyse which additional measures could guarantee that the individual optimisation strategy characterising a free market economy leads to cooperation as precondition to get an overall optimum. From this point of view the different economic theories could be characterised in terms of which measures they assume to be sufficient to guarantee an overall optimum without abandoning the principle of individual optimisation.
E66|Redundancy, Unilateralism and Bias beyond GDP – results of a Global Index Benchmark|Eight out of ten leading international indices to assess developing countries in aspects beyond GDP are showing strong redundancy, bias and unilateralism. The quantitative comparison gives evidence for the fact that always the same countries lead the ranks with a low standard deviation. The dependency of the GDP is striking: do the indices only measure indicators that are direct effects of a strong GDP? While the impact of GDP can be discussed reverse as well, the standard deviation shows a strong bias: only one out of the twenty countries with the highest standard deviation is among the Top-20 countries of the world, but 11 countries among those with the lowest standard deviation. Let’s have a look at the backsides of global statistics and methods to compare their findings. The article is the result of a pre-study to assess Social Capital for development countries made for the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development. The study leaded to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDG) project World Social Capital Monitor.
E66|Complex Factors Behind Misguided Policies in Socioeconomics: From Mass Migration and Persistent Alienation to Rampant Crime and Economic Malaise|In a complex and chaotic world, people often gloss over the facts and jump to conclusions. Unfortunately, the hasty approach usually yields deficient and even harmful results. The domains affected range from migration and poverty to alienation and crime. According to the Myth of Boon, for instance, immigrants always benefit the host society. In this light, many people envisage the great migrations of the 19th century from Europe to America. However, the United States at that stage was itself a developing country; moreover the Civil War showed that clashing cultures cannot co-exist. Meanwhile the Myth of Multiculturalism asserts that a mashup of mores is always desirable; but the reality is otherwise. When immigrants in their millions pour into sparsely populated districts, they end up replicating the cultures that caused them to flee their homelands in the first place. The upshot is disruptive and distressing for all parties be they newcomers or incumbents. In addition, the Myth of Virtue declares that migrants of all backgrounds are equally upright. Yet comprehensive studies in Sweden have shown that violent crimes can be traced to immigrants at rates which are at least four times those for natives. From another angle, a drove of migrants is a godsend for criminals. For instance, a terrorist ring struck in France in 2015 and again in Belgium the following year. The perpetrators – who grew up in Belgium, France and Sweden – displayed immigrant backgrounds and included part of the cohort that traveled to the Mideast to receive training from militants then returned to Europe by posing as refugees. Since socioeconomic problems are intertwined rather than independent, a piecemeal approach will not fill the bill. Instead, a coherent grasp of the issues and their tie-ups is a prerequisite for devising a wholesome solution.
E66|The Effects of Non-Existent Property Ownership Rights Within the Electricity Production Sector on Labor Force Participation in the Dominican Republic|The labor market in the Dominican Republic is in disarray. There has been a high rate of unemployment and a very high rate of non-participation within the labor force for years. Output growth has been steady in manufacturing, telecommunication, and financial services, and new jobs have been added in the service sector consistently, however these gains have led to no real increase in available quality jobs and wage stagnation (Williams & Adedeji, 2004). Abdullaev and Marcello (2013) describe a dichotomous approach to solving the problem; through targeted education for the long term and through product market reforms in the near term. The energy sector in the Dominican Republic is a prime example of an area where reforms are needed to improve the operating environment to spur and sustain growth. At present the losses in transmission and distribution are significantly higher than in most places as a result of fraud (Smith 2004). Until recently it has not been against the law to steal electricity (Enerdata 2011). The rationale being that if electricity is a basic human right we cannot punish those who attempt to gain it. This lack of property law within the context of electricity underpins a significant failure by the government when viewed from the point of the electricity producers. Property ownership is a fundamental concept of free markets. Without ownership rights there is no (or limited) ability to charge for goods produced with that property. Electricity is a commodity property and without the ability to effectively charge for its consumption the producers have struggled.
E66|Complacency Is Really Dangerous: Three Great Economic Crises|The conventional discussion of the international financial crisis that erupted in the summer of 2007 is that few professional economists saw it coming, nor anticipated its ferocity in devastating the US and European economies and financial systems, leading to civil unrest and fears of greater violence in the EU.Why werenÂ’t the authorities and public warned before mid-2007? At the time, a tiny number of vocal Cassandras who delivered warnings in the media were roundly ridiculed. Now these prophets are lauded in the media. What is not widely appreciated is that there were far more professionals who gave private warnings to the large financial institutions, government regulators and central banks. These people tender their analysis in private because professional analyses of dangerous economic risks are subtle, and potentially incendiary in the hands of political populists, irresponsible media pundits and corrupt vested interests. The last thing any prudent professional would wish is to precipitate a panic. It is a tragedy that many of those who gave private warnings, were ignored, ridiculed, or in some cases, lost their jobs for challenging the financial and economic conventional wisdom. It may have been conventional, but it was far from wisdom.Because the economic crisis is continuing and imposing large costs on Western societies, it is crucial to listen again to the Cassandras. More importantly, there is not one, but three separate crises - International Private Debt, International Productivity and Income Distribution, and Western Fiscal Policy. These three crises appear to be quite separate in origin and have been brewing for decades, but the economic stresses they impose have interacted, greatly increasing their impact.The consequences of these crises for the Australian economy could be severe. Although many in the Australian establishment have boasted that Australia is relatively immune: it is a Â“Lucky CountryÂ”, and has avoided the crises through wise policy, this is at best a partial truth. Professionals within and outside Australia have been warning for years that the country is not immune: downside risks have been increasing. Complacency is really dangerous.
E66|EDB Macroreview, July 2016. EAEU COUNTRIES GROWTH AFTER ADAPTATION|The prolonged search for the “low point” has not yet given us grounds to conclude unambiguously that it is inevitable the EAEU economies will recover soon. However, indicators for the first half of 2016 continue to indicate that the economies are gradually adapting to the shocks that have taken place in the last few years. Negative trends in the economies of EAEU countries, which strengthened amid a fall in commodity prices, have somewhat weakened. The economies started to show an improvement in macroeconomic indicators in the first half of 2016. The volume of migrant remittances from Russia began to decline sharply in Q4 2014 amid a significant fall in economic activity in the region; however, the pace of the decline started to slow down a year later. The year on-year fall in remittances from Russia to other EAEU countries in Q4 2015 exceeded 30%, but the rate of the quarter-on-quarter fall was the lowest in a year. The stabilization of the exchange rates of the national currencies of EAEU countries, and the stabilization of economic dynamics in the region, will contribute to a further slowdown in the fall in remittances. The external environment will improve through: a decline in the volatility of the world’s financial markets; a fall in capital outflows; and a rise in exports. This will contribute to the stabilization of the exchange rates of national currencies in the region. In turn, this will be a significant factor leading to a further slowdown in inflation and a decline in inflation expectations in EAEU countries. Due to inflationary pressure falling, the central banks of EAEU countries kept unchanged or reduced their base lending rates in the first half of 2016. However, we expect price and exchange rate stabilization in Q2 2016 amid low economic activity to lead to a further softening of the monetary conditions. The impressive slowdown in inflation in EAEU countries will perhaps be one of the surprises of 2016. We forecast the EAEU countries’ inflation to slow from 12.8% to 6.3%. The reduction of the key interest rates may have a positive effect on lending growth, which could provide impetus to a recovery in both investment and household consumption. As for the medium term, we forecast a recovery in GDP1 in EAEU countries from -3.1% in 2015 to -0.9% in 2016 and to a positive growth rate of 0.8% in 2017. Therefore despite 2016’s uneasy start, the first half of the year provides grounds for cautious optimism about the prospect of a recovery in economic growth and trade.
E66|EDB Macroreview, October 2016. ECONOMIC RECOVERY TRAJECTORIES IN EURASIA|In recent years, positive expectations have not been met for the second half of the year regarding economic recovery in the EDB member countries. In both 2015 and 2014, unfavorable external factors, primarily the fall in oil prices, had a negative effect on the dynamics of economic growth in the region. Available data for Q3 2016 indicate a more favorable scenario. This is suggested by both macroeconomic data and leading indicators, as well as signals from international credit rating agencies. Trends in regional growth dynamics in the past several months point to the start of economic recovery. Indeed, judging by data for July-August 2016, there are grounds for positive GDP growth rates in the EDB countries in Q3 2016. To all appearances, one can also expect positive changes in inflation before the end of 2016. The inflation rate in Russia is expected to be lower than 6% in 2016. It will hit an all-time low in 2017-2018 and be close to the central bank’s target of 4%. We expect a fall in the aggregate inflation rate of the EDB countries from 12.8% in 2015 to 6.1% in 2016, and a further slowdown in the rise in consumer prices to 4.8% in 2017 and 4.2% in 2018. Apart from the low world prices on food and primary commodities, a significant contribution to the decline in inflationary pressure is delivered by the stabilization of the exchange rates of the EDB countries’ currencies throughout Q2-Q3 2016. This trend is partially due to a decline in the outflow of capital from EDB countries and makes it possible for the countries to replenish their foreign exchange reserves. An important factor for the economic recovery in a number of the EDB countries was the rise in exports, primarily to the Russian Federation. In some countries, the acceleration of the rise in exports may be attributable to the depreciation of the national currency. However, Kyrgyzstan showed an increase in exports to Russia despite the strengthening of the som against the ruble, which suggests that integration factors may have played a certain role. Despite the positive changes however, there are lingering risks of imbalances in a number of macroeconomic sectors, primarily in the budgetary sphere. There are still significant global risks related to: the slowdown in the growth of the Chinese economy; the fall in the prices of primary commodities; the deterioration of the situation in the banking sector of European countries; as well as an increase in the Fed rate.
E66|The permanent necessity to undervalue the euro endangers Europe’s trade relations|In 2014, the Eurozone, with its huge current account surplus, was a major source of global economic imbalances. This phenomenon could last for a long time. Monetary expansion, which leads to currency depreciation, is the only macroeconomic tool available to the European Central Bank (ECB) to boost the competitiveness of struggling southern economies vis-à-vis countries outside the Eurozone. With the current economic imbalances within the Eurozone, the elimination the Eurozone’s current account surplus through appreciation of the euro would aggravate economic conditions in struggling member countries and could be politically explosive. Some observers hope that the Eurozone’s internal imbalances can be reduced by more expansionary policies in Germany or, in the future, by wealth transfers to be enabled when the fiscal and political union materializes. Both hopes are unjustified. A huge Eurozone current account surplus is likely to persist, and this will lead to tensions with the US and other trade partners. It could especially undermine the proposed Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP). This contradicts a popular view that the European Union needs a single currency to operate successfully in the world economy among big players like the US, China and India. In fact, if the Eurozone countries had (or returned to) their national currencies, linked through adjustable currency bands as proposed in Kawalec and Pytlarczyk (2013 a, 2013 b), trade and current account deficits in countries in crisis could be eliminated through balancing imbalances among present Eurozone members, without the necessity to generate a huge surplus by the Eurozone as a whole. However, a single currency forces the Eurozone to try to desperately generate trade and current account surpluses, which is likely to spark currency wars with its main economic partners. This would impede international trade and diminish the benefits that Europe could achieve from international cooperation.
E66|Long-lasting consequences of the European crisis|"The Great Recession and the subsequent European crisis may have long-lasting effects on aggregate demand, aggregate supply, and, hence, on macroeconomic performance over the medium and long-run. Besides the fact that financial crisis last longer and are succeeded by slower recoveries, and apart from the hysteresis effects that may operate after episodes of long-term unemployment, the combination of high (public and private) debt and low population and productivity growth may create significant constraints for monetary and fiscal policies. In this paper I develop an OLG model, one earlier used by Eggertsson and Mehrotra (2014) to rationalize the ""secular stagnation hypothesis"", to show how high debt, and low population and productivity growth may condition the macroeconomic performance of some European countries over the medium and long-run. JEL Classification: E20, E43, E52, E66"
E66|La relación precio del petróleo y crecimiento económico en Bolivia: el rol de la política económica|Este trabajo presenta la primera evidencia para Bolivia sobre la relación precio internacional del petróleo, la política fiscal y crecimiento económico. El mismo tiene dos objetivos: determinar si el gasto es pro-cíclico o contra-cíclico al precio del petróleo; y evaluar el rol de la política fiscal como un instrumento amortiguador del efecto del precio del petróleo sobre el crecimiento económico boliviano. Utilizando datos mensuales para el período julio 2005-mayo 2015, se estima una ecuación de la política fiscal que vincula el gasto público a los shocks en el precio del petróleo. Los resultados sugieren que el gasto público se eleva menos que proporcional al aumento de los ingresos del petróleo (contra-ciclicidad). A su vez, se especifica una función para obtener las elasticidades del producto respecto al precio del petróleo, al gasto y respecto a la interacción de ambas variables. Se obtiene que ésta última tiene un signo negativo, es decir, que el efecto neto de las caídas en el precio del petróleo sobre el producto disminuye a medida que aumenta el gasto. Como robustez, adicionalmente se utiliza la especificación propuesta por Hamilton (2003) y un modelo de VAR estructural (SVAR). La generalidad de los resultados es la misma.
E66|From Financial Repression to External Distress: The Case of Venezuela| Recent work suggests a connection between domestic debt and external default. We examine potential linkages for Venezuela, where the evidence reveals a nexus among domestic debt, financial repression, and external vulnerability. The financial repression tax (as a share of GDP) is similar to OECD economies, in spite of higher debt ratios in the latter. The financial repression “tax rate” is higher in years of exchange controls and legislated interest rate ceilings. We document a link between domestic disequilibrium and a weakening of the net foreign asset position via private capital flight. We suggest these findings are not unique to Venezuela.
E66|Upswing in a Subdued Global Economy: DIW Economic Outlook|The German economy continues to recover, and will grow by 2.2 percent in 2015 and by 1.9 percent in 2016. The unemployment rate will further decline, to 6.4 percent this year and 6.1percent in 2016. Inflation, which averages 0.5 percent this year, will be substantially dampened by the slump in oil prices; in 2016 as well, inflation will remain low, at 1.2 percent. The global economy continues in its recovery. In industrialized countries, a gradually improving situation in labor markets, as well as the slump in oil prices, is propelling the purchasing power of private consumers. Corporate investment activity should also pick up, benefitting from easy monetary policy. In many economies in the euro area, unemployment remains high and the public and private debt is dampening demand. For the time being, growth in the emerging markets is expected to lag behind. Overall, the average annual growth rate of the global economy is expected to be 3.8 percent in 2015, and 4.0 percent in the following year. The German economy is currently recovering, driven by strong domestic demand, and should be back on its potential path later on. Inflation is bound to remain weak. There is no sign of the German economy overheating; important markets have lost momentum when compared to the pre-crisis years - foreign trade is therefore likely to provide only minor stimulus, and in this environment, investments in equipment and machinery will only experiencea moderate expansion. Government revenues are surging: despite a rather loose spending behavior, the public budget surpluses will reach approximately 0.5 percent in both years of the forecast period.
E66|Upswing of German Economy Prevails|No abstract is available for this item.
E66|Robust Growth in a Difficult Environment: Eight Questions to Ferdinand Fichtner|No abstract is available for this item.
E66|German Construction Industry: New Residential Construction at Cyclical Peak - Public Construction Gaining Ground|The construction industry remains a key pillar of the German economy. According to the latest construction volume calculations by DIW Berlin, the value of construction in 2014 and 2015 is forecast to grow far more rapidly than the economy as a whole: by a price-adjusted 3.3 percent and 2.1 percent in 2014 and 2015, respectively. Currently, new residential construction is an important engine for growth with the construction volume in this sector estimated to increase by almost 12 percent in 2014, in nominal terms. However, 2014 will also mark significant growth in construction on existing buildings. In addition to gains in residential construction, more positive developments are also currently being observed in commercial and public construction, following declines in these sectors in recent years However, although residential construction is stable, the high growth rates observed in 2014 are unlikely to continue into 2015. Fears that construction price increases would be (too) strong, precisely in this sector, are not supported by the national average. However, the dynamic growth of new construction is expected to tail off appreciably. Moreover, largely as a result of the gloomy economic outlook, the commercial construction sector is also likely to record only moderate growth in construction volume. The highest increases for 2015 are expected in the public construction sector— although the investment program announced by the government is in fact likely to have very little impact, even if further relevant measures are implemented throughout the year.
E66|DIW Economic Outlook|The German economy is on track, and will likely grow by 1.8 percent this year; in the coming year, with a slight increase in dynamics, it will grow by 1.9 percent. With these figures DIW Berlin confirms its forecast from this summer. Employment growth continues; the unemployment rate will decrease this year to 6.4 percent, where it will remain in 2016. Due to the sharp drop in oil prices this year, inflation is low and stands at 0.4 percent; next year it will climb to 1.4 percent. Global economic growth is likely to experience a slight increase during the forecast period. In the industrialized countries in particular, the renewed drop in energy prices keeps inflation rates low. In addition, many countries have experienced steady improvements in labor markets. Together, these two factors support consumption and the purchasing power of households. Recovery in the euro area is moving forward. The euro’s external value is low, the monetary policy is very expansionary, and major trading partners are growing vigorously; consumption is likely to develop well, and in the course of time, corporate investment is also expected to recover. In the emerging markets, growth will remain subdued this year. Higher financial market volatility is leading to deterioration in financing conditions. They are expected to contribute more to global growth next year, when for example Russia and Brazil have emerged from recession. German exports continue their upward trend: A strong upturn in major industrial countries, as well as the continued recovery within the euro area, are compensating for the somewhat weaker demand from the emerging countries. In net terms, however, foreign trade barely contributes to growth, because imports will increase significantly as part of the dynamic domestic economy. Consumption is supporting the growth of the German economy. The low inflation substantially supports consumers’ purchasing power. But nominal incomes are also experiencing strong increases: The employment growth continues — the number of employed individuals is expected to rise at roughly the rate of previous quarters — and wages have noticeably increased, also due to the introduction of the minimum wage. Other important factors are the significant increases in social benefits; these are primarily due to a sharp increase in pensions, but also to the benefits being received by the refugees, which should give private consumption an additional boost. In contrast, investment will be rather subdued overall. Concerns about the future of the euro area are likely to dampen investment plans. Furthermore, considerable uncertainties about the development of important markets have recently intensified, particularly in China. There are also unresolved geopolitical conflicts, especially the tensions with Russia. Nevertheless, a moderate expansion of investment in equipment is emerging. With robust foreign demand and fully utilized capacities in the industry, these investments are expected to rise over time, especially since the dynamic domestic demand should provide an impetus. However, the risks to the economy remain high and in fact have recently increased. The impending interest rate turnaround in the U.S. could lead to unexpectedly strong capital outflows from the emerging countries; given the high private debt — especially since it is often in foreign currency — this could dampen economic momentum in these countries as well. Although a significant slump in the Chinese economy is expected to be handled with expansionary measures by the government, there is the risk that they may not take sufficient countermeasures in time. It has also been shown in the past that uncertainty about the further development of European integration can flare up quickly. In addition, the recently high volatility of oil prices shows that a new stable equilibrium still has not been established on the market. The planning uncertainty bound up with this could dampen the disposition of many corporations more strongly than assumed here.
E66|The Situation in the Euro Area Continues to Present Risks: Eight Questions to Ferdinand Fichtner|No abstract is available for this item.
E66|Domestic Demand Drives German Economy|The German economy is expected to grow by 1.7 percent this year, and to maintain this pace in 2016 as well. The rate of growth should slow down slightly (to 1.5 percent) in 2017, but only because the number of working days will be lower due to the timing of public holidays. The global economy is growing at a slower pace than it has been in recent years, but will pick up speed during the forecast period. The recessions in Russia and Brazil are coming to an end, China is orienting its economy toward more consumption—so far, without any major disruptions—and growth in the U.S. and the UK remains strong. The euro area is on the path to recovery, albeit at a moderate pace: Job creation, while modest, and an increase in real income are spurring demand in many countries. The global economy’s average annual growth rate is expected to rise from 3.4 percent this year to 3.6 next year, and to 3.9 percent in the following year. In Germany, strong private consumption is the primary growth driver. The main reason for this is the ongoing pattern of strong growth of the wage bill. In the coming year, this year’s positive effect of lower oil prices on households' purchasing power will fall away—yet positive impulses will also arise as a result of the refugee influx. This is connected with the care, accommodation, and integration of refugees and with the consumption this creates, as well as with increased activity in the construction industry. In contrast, investment in equipment will develop only modestly. In addition to the overall slightly weaker global sales prospects, there are also domestic factors with dampening effects. Despite robust exports, foreign trade will not contribute to growth in net terms since the dynamic domestic economy is spurring imports more powerfully.
E66|Germany Economy Growing at Slightly Above-Average Rate: Eight Questions to Simon Junker|No abstract is available for this item.
E66|Aufschwung bei gedämpfter Weltkonjunktur: Frühjahrsgrundlinien 2015|The German economy continues to recover, and will grow by 2.2 percent in 2015. With slightly abated increases, the annual growth rate will be 1.9 percent in 2016. Driven by this favorable economic development, the unemployment rate will further decline, to 6.4 percent this year and 6.1 percent in 2016. Inflation, which averages 0.5 percent this year, will be substantially dampened by the slump in oil prices; in 2016 as well, inflation will remain low, at 1.2 percent. The global economy continues in its recovery. The moderate upswing is primarily driven by the growth of consumption in industrialized countries. A gradually improving situation in labor markets, as well as the slump in oil prices, is propelling the purchasing power of private consumers. Together with expansionary monetary policy these developments are expected to stimulate corporate investment activity. In the euro area as well, growth is supported by consumer demand. However, there are a number of structurally burdensome factors: In the crisis-stricken countries in particular, unemployment remains high and the public and private debt are dampening demand. For the time being, growth in the emerging markets is expected to lag behind. Overall, the average annual growth rate of the global economy is expected to be 3.8 percent in 2015, with an increase to 4.0 percent in the following year. The German economy is currently recovering, driven by strong domestic demand, and should be back on its potential path over the course of this year. Growth will be based, more heavily than it was before the crisis, on consumption, which benefits from ongoing employment growth and substantial wage increases. Despite full capacity utilization, inflation is bound to remain weak; there is no sign of the German economy overheating. Important markets have lost momentum when compared to the pre-crisis years - foreign trade is therefore likely to provide only minor stimulus. In this environment, investments in equipment and machinery will only experience a moderate expansion, and relative to GDP, will remain well below their pre-crisis levels. It should be added that there are still risks to financial stability, which might also dampen corporations' enthusiasm for investments. Construction spending will soften, due to the recent abatement in yields from residential investment. Overall, the risk of the economy overheating is low. Government revenues are surging: Despite a rather loose spending behavior, the public budget surpluses will reach approximately 0.5 percent in both years of the forecast period. Die deutsche Wirtschaft erholt sich weiter und wird in diesem Jahr wohl um 2,2 Prozent wachsen. Bei etwas schwächeren Zuwächsen beträgt das Plus im kommenden Jahr 1,9 Prozent. Im Zuge der günstigen konjunkturellen Entwicklung wird die Arbeitslosenquote weiter sinken, auf 6,4 Prozent in diesem Jahr und 6,1 Prozent im kommenden Jahr. Die Inflation wird in diesem Jahr durch die Ölpreise gedämpft und beläuft sich jahresdurchschnittlich auf 0,5 Prozent; aber auch im kommenden Jahr bleibt sie mit 1,2 Prozent niedrig. Diekonjunkturelle Erholung der Weltwirtschaft setzt sich fort. Der moderate Aufschwung wird vor allem von der Konsumentwicklung in den Industrieländern getragen. Eine sich allmählichverbessernde Arbeitsmarktsituation, aber auch die gesunkenen Ölpreise, schieben über die Kaufkraft den privaten Verbrauch an; die Investitionstätigkeit der Unternehmen dürfte etwas anziehen. Auch im Euroraum stützt die Konsumnachfrage das Wachstum; allerdings besteht eine Reihe von strukturell belastenden Faktoren fort. Insbesondere in den Krisenländern ist die Arbeitslosigkeit weiter hoch und die öffentliche und private Verschuldung belasten die Nachfrage. In den Schwellenländern dürfte das Wachstum zunächst schwach bleiben. Alles in allem dürfte die jahresdurchschnittliche Wachstumsrate der Weltwirtschaft im Jahr 2015 bei 3,8 Prozent und im darauffolgenden Jahr bei 4,0 Prozent liegen.Trotz insgesamt günstiger Aussichten bleiben konjunkturelle Risiken bestehen: Die Finanzmärkte könnten etwa auf ein Wiederaufflammen der Krise im Euroraum, aber auch auf eine Verschärfung des Ukraine-Konflikts erneut mit erheblicher Anspannung reagieren. Getrieben durch eine starke Binnennachfrage wächst die deutsche Wirtschaft kräftig und dürfte im späteren Verlauf auf den Potentialpfad einschwenken. Das Wachstum wird stärker als vor der Krise vom Konsum getragen, der vom anhaltenden Beschäftigungsaufbau und spürbaren Lohnzuwächsen profitiert. Trotz ausgelasteter Kapazitäten bleibt die Inflationsrate niedrig; Anzeichen für eine Überhitzung der deutschen Wirtschaft gibt es nicht. Wichtige Absatzmärkte haben im Vergleich zu den Vorkrisenjahren an Dynamik verloren, der Außenhandel dürfte daher lediglich geringe Impulse liefern; in diesem Umfeld werden dieInvestitionen in Ausrüstungen wohl nur moderat ausgeweitet und, anteilig an der Wirtschaftsleistung, weit unter ihrem Vorkrisenniveau bleiben. Hinzu kommt, dass nach wie vor Risiken für die Finanzmarktstabilität bestehen, die zusätzlich die Investitionsfreude der Unternehmen dämpfen könnten. Die Bauinvestitionen dürften aufgrund verminderter Renditechancen im Wohnungsbau an Schwung verlieren. Alles in allem ist damit die Gefahr einer Überhitzung der deutschen Wirtschaft gering. Die Einnahmen des Staates expandieren kräftig; trotz eines gelockerten Ausgabekurses werden die öffentlichen Haushalte daher in beiden Jahren des Prognosezeitraums Überschüsse von jeweils etwa einem halben Prozent erzielen.
E66|Kräftiger Aufschwung dank günstigem Öl und schwachem Euro: Gemeinschaftsdiagnose Frühjahr 2015|The German economy is experiencing a strong upturn driven by unexpected expansive impulses, especially the falling oil price and the sharp depreciation of the euro. Gross domestic product is expected to increase by 2.1 percent this year. The 68 percent projection interval ranges from 1.1 percent to 2.8 percent. Consumption is the driving force behind the upturn. The rest of the euro area is also expected to produce slightly positive impulses, meaning that international trade will contribute to growth. The pace of growth is only expected to slow slightly in the year ahead. The euro’s depreciation will continue to stimulate the economy, while the positive effects of the lower oil price are expected to fade. Public budgets will show significant surpluses of over twenty billion euros in 2015 and 2016 respectively. In view of large structural surpluses, the time is ripe to make the income tax rate more performance-oriented – especially for small and medium-sized companies. Die deutsche Wirtschaft befindet sich in einem kräftigen Aufschwung. Sie wird stimuliert von unerwarteten expansiven Impulsen, insbesondere dem Verfall des Ölpreises und der starken Abwertung des Euro. Das Bruttoinlandsprodukt wird in diesem Jahr voraussichtlich um 2,1 Prozent steigen. Das 68-Prozent-Prognoseintervall reicht dabei von 1,4 bis 2,8 Prozent. Dabei ist der Konsum die Stütze des Aufschwungs. Zudem gehen vom übrigen Euroraum wieder leicht positive Impulse aus, so dass auch der Außenhandel zur Expansion beiträgt. Im kommenden Jahr dürfte sich das Tempo nur wenig verlangsamen. Die Abwertung des Euro wird die Konjunktur dabei weiter beleben, während die positiven Effekte des gesunkenen Ölpreises auslaufen. Die öffentlichen Haushalte dürften in diesem und im nächsten Jahr mit deutlichen Überschüssen von jeweils über zwanzig Milliarden Euro abschließen. Angesichts struktureller Überschüsse ist die Gelegenheit jetzt günstig, den Einkommensteuertarif – insbesondere im Bereich kleiner und mittlerer Einkommen – leistungsfreundlicher zu gestalten.
