E69|Brexit: balance de situación y perspectivas|Tras casi tres años desde que se anunciara la celebración del referéndum sobre la permanencia del Reino Unido en la Unión Europea (UE) y dos de intensas negociaciones entre las partes, la no ratificación del Parlamento británico del acuerdo alcanzado por su Gobierno y por el resto de los socios europeos en noviembre del año pasado ha dado lugar a una situación extraordinariamente compleja, en la que, a escasos días de que se cumpla el plazo (el 29 de marzo de 2019) para la salida del Reino Unido establecido con la activación del artículo 50, no se vislumbra todavía un plan de consenso. A falta de una alternativa pactada, la salida sin acuerdo en la fecha prevista constituye —salvo prórroga— la actual opción por defecto. Este documento ocasional hace balance de la situación actual y de las perspectivas que se abren en relación con el proceso de salida del Reino Unido de la UE, y recopila y actualiza algunos trabajos que se han venido realizando, en relación con el seguimiento regular de dicho proceso y con la estimación de sus potenciales efectos en la economía española, en la Dirección General de Economía y Estadística del Banco de España. Tras tomar nota del momento actual del proceso negociador, el documento revisa la evolución de la economía británica desde que se anunciara el inesperado resultado del referéndum en junio de 2016, así como las perspectivas económicas a medio plazo del país, que dependerán ante todo del tipo de relación comercial que se establezca en un futuro entre ambas áreas, así como de la manera más o menos abrupta en que se produzca la salida. En relación con nuestro país, en este documento se analizan diversos aspectos relativos a la exposición comercial y financiera de la economía española al Reino Unido, y se estiman, mediante el modelo trimestral del Banco de España (MTBE), los posibles efectos que el brexit podría tener sobre nuestra economía en diversos escenarios hipotéticos. Finalmente, se recuerdan las medidas de contingencia que la Comisión Europa y el Gobierno de España han adoptado, en sus respectivos ámbitos, ante la eventualidad de que la salida del Reino Unido se produjera sin acuerdo y de forma brusca.
E69|Can Government Demand Stimulate Private Investment? Evidence from U.S. Federal Procurement|We study the effects of federal purchases on firms’ investment using a novel panel dataset that combines federal procurement contracts in the United States with key financial firm-level information. We find that 1 dollar of federal spending increases firms’ capital investment by 7 to 11 cents. The average effect masks heterogeneity: Effects are stronger for firms that face financing constraints and they are close to 0 for unconstrained firms. In line with the financial accelerator model, our findings indicate that the effect of government purchases works through easing firms’ access to external borrowing. Furthermore, industry-level analysis suggests that that the increase in investment at the firm level translates into an industry-wide effect without crowding-out capital investment of other firms in the same industry.
E69|Risk Pooling, Leverage, and the Business Cycle|This paper investigates the interdependence between the risk-pooling activity of the financial sector and: output, consumption, risk-free rate, and Sharpe ratio in a dynamic general equilibrium model of a productive economy. Due to their exposure to idiosyncratic shocks and market segmentation, heterogeneous households/entrepreneurs (h/entrepreneurs) are willing to mitigate their risk through a financial sector. The financial sector pools risky claims issued by different firms within its assets, faces an associated intermediation cost and, via leverage, provides a risk-free asset to h/entrepreneurs. Exogenous systematic shocks change the relative size of the financial sector, and thus the equilibrium amount of pooled risk, making financial leverage state-dependent and counter-cyclical. We study how this mechanism endogenously channels amplification of consumption and mitigation of output fluctuations. In equilibrium, financial sector leverage also determines counter-cyclical Sharpe ratios and pro-cyclical risk-free interest rates. Last, we investigate the relationship between the size of the financial sector, leverage, and welfare. We show that limiting financial sector leverage determines a sub-optimal pooling of idiosyncratic risk but fosters the growth rate of the h/entrepreneurs' consumption. On the other side, when the financial sector is too large, it destroys too many resources after intermediation costs. Therefore, the h/entrepreneurs benefit the most when the financial sector is neither too small nor too big.
E69|Separation of Powers with Ideological Parties|Separation of powers with checks and balances (SP) is usually regarded as a key institution complementing elections in the control of elected officials. However, some analysts and many politicians also warn that excessive checks on the executive in the presence of polarization may lead to political inaction. We present a political agency model with ideological parties where citizens and politicians care about rents (the valence issue) and policy (a positional issue). We show that SP unambiguously raises voters welfare in highly-polarized non-competitive political environments, because it strengthens both discipline and selection without causing political gridlock (voters can grant the executive the legislative majorities needed to enact reforms). SP also raises voters’ welfare if elections are very effective at disciplining first period incumbents. However, SP may reduce it if most rents go undetected and reformis not a first order issue.
E69|Risk Pooling, Leverage, and the Business Cycle|This paper investigates the interdependence between the risk-pooling activity of the financial sector and: output, consumption, risk-free rate, and Sharpe ratio in a dynamic general equilibrium model of a productive economy. Due to their exposure to idiosyncratic shocks and market segmentation, heterogeneous households/entrepreneurs (h/entrepreneurs) are willing to mitigate their risk through a financial sector. The financial sector pools risky claims issued by different firms within its assets, faces an associated intermediation cost and, via leverage, provides a risk-free asset to h/entrepreneurs. Exogenous systematic shocks change the relative size of the financial sector, and thus the equilibrium amount of pooled risk, making financial leverage state-dependent and counter-cyclical. We study how this mechanism endogenously channels amplification of consumption and mitigation of output fluctuations. In equilibrium, financial sector leverage also determines counter-cyclical Sharpe ratios and pro-cyclical risk-free interest rates. Last, we investigate the relationship between the size of the financial sector, leverage, and welfare. We show that limiting financial sector leverage determines a sub-optimal pooling of idiosyncratic risk but fosters the growth rate of the h/entrepreneurs’ consumption. On the other side, when the financial sector is too large, it destroys too many resources after intermediation costs. Therefore, the h/entrepreneurs benefit the most when the financial sector is neither too small nor too big.
E69|Fiscal implications of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet normalization|The paper surveys the recent literature on the fiscal implications of central bank balance sheets, with a special focus on political economy issues. It then presents the results of simulations that describe the effects of different scenarios for the Federal Reserve's longer-run balance sheet on its earnings remittances to the U.S. Treasury and, more broadly, on the government's overall fiscal position. We find that reducing longer-run reserve balances from $2.3 trillion (roughly the current amount) to $1 trillion reduces the likelihood of posting a quarterly net loss in the future from 30 percent to under 5 percent. Further reducing longer-run reserve balances from $1 trillion to precrisis levels has little effect on the likelihood of net losses.
E69|Fiscal Implications of the Federal Reserve's Balance Sheet Normalization|The paper surveys the recent literature on the fiscal implications of central bank balance sheets, with a special focus on political economy issues. It then presents the results of simulations that describe the effects of different scenarios for the Federal Reserve's longer-run balance sheet on its earnings remittances to the U.S. Treasury and, more broadly, on the government's overall fiscal position. We find that reducing longer-run reserve balances from $2.3 trillion (roughly the current amount) to $1 trillion reduces the likelihood of posting a quarterly net loss in the future from 30 percent to under 5 percent. Further reducing longer-run reserve balances from $1 trillion to precrisis levels has little effect on the likelihood of net losses.
E69|Corporate Income Tax, Legal Form of Organization, and Employment|A dynamic stochastic occupational choice model with heterogeneous agents is developed to evaluate the impact of a corporate income tax reduction on employment. In this framework, the key margin is the endogenous entrepreneurial choice of legal form of organization. A reduction in the corporate income tax burden encourages adoption of the C corporation legal form, which reduces capital constraints on firms. Improved capital reallocation increases overall productive efficiency in the economy and therefore expands the labor market. Relative to the benchmark economy, a corporate income tax cut can reduce the non-employment rate by up to 7 percent.
E69|Bank Lending Behavior and Business Cycle in Dual Banking System: Evidence from Indonesia|This study examines bank-lending channel over the business cycle for Indonesian dual banking system by ascertaining to what extent Islamic banks have a role in the credit smoothing. In this context, we utilize Indonesian dual banking system unbalanced panel data for the period 2001-2015. By employing two-step dynamic GMM estimators, the study shows that the bank lending behaviour are procyclical. However, when we categorize the lending behaviour into conventional and Islamic banks, the cyclicality of bank lending affects only conventional banks. As for the Islamic banks, the business cycle does not affect their financing decision. Specifically, large Islamic banks are more counter-cyclical in their financing behavior than small and medium size Islamic banks. Robustness tests using different measures of loans and model specifications confirm the results that Islamic bank is more stable and less procyclical in the case of Indonesian banking system.
E69|Assessing Islamic Banking System Vulnerabilities in Pakistan: Evidence from ‘Bankometer’ Model|Recent global financial crises affected not only conventional banking, but also Islamic banks to some extent due to the absence of early warning systems. To avoid such vulnerabilities, there must be efficient measures that could identify in advance the emergence of susceptibility of financial crises. This study proposes the ‘Bankometer’ model as an early warning tool to help Islamic banks overcome such challenges by providing them with useful Shari’ah-compliant guidelines and to desist from vulnerabilities of future financial crises. Using published unbalanced quarterly data of all Islamic banks operating in Pakistan, we use regression models to examine the impact of global financial crisis on the banking system. The results suggest that regulatory capital, funding cost, size, return on assets and return on equity are associated with crisis period. The evidences also suggest that ‘Bankometer’ as an early warning tools could be useful for assessing Islamic banking system vulnerabilities in Pakistan.
E69|The Management Of The Public Finance Security Of Poland|Poland, like every European Union Member State, should treat financial security as a priority of its policy. Financial security of the state primarily concerns the safety of public finances. Ensuring good financial condition of the state not only allows its existence, but also its development. For that reason, limiting the value of the debt is necessary. At the same time, the state may take financial risks on the condition that it follows the order of law and its fundamental principles, allowing the building of mutual trust. The aim of the article is to present the state of public finances in Poland between 2007 and 2016 as one of the elements to build financial security of the country. An attempt was made to evaluate the stability of the financial policy conducted by the general government authorities as well as the level of the financial security. What should be particularly taken into account is the risk of a possible underestimation of the official debt, which may result in posing the threat to the financial security of Poland.
E69|The Impact of Monetary Policy on Agricultural Price Index in China: A FAVAR Approach| We use recently available Chinese data from 2005m1 to 2016m2 to examine the impact of monetary policy on agricultural price using a factor-augmented vector autoregressive (FAVAR) model proposed by Bernanke et al. (2005). Results show the superiority of a FAVAR model with three variables and three factors over other specifications. Impulse response functions show that both money supply and interest rate have no impact on agricultural price in the long-run (beyond 50 months). However, results indicate the considerable short-run impact of monetary policy on agricultural price. According to forecasting error variance decompositions, the interest rate could account more for the fluctuations in agricultural price than the money supply.
E69|Distinguishing Constraints on Financial Inclusion and Their Impact on GDP and Inequality|We develop a micro-founded general equilibrium model with heterogeneous agents and three dimensions of financial inclusion: access (determined by a participation cost), depth (determined by a borrowing constraint), and intermediation efficiency (determined by a monitoring cost). We find that the economic implications of financial inclusion policies vary with the source of frictions. In partial equilibrium, we show analytically that relaxing each of these constraints separately increases GDP. However, when constraints are relaxed jointly, the impacts on the intensive margin (increasing output per entrepreneur with access to credit) are amplified, while the impacts on the extensive margin (promoting credit access) are dampened. In general equilibrium, we discipline the model with firm-level data from six countries and quantitatively evaluate the policy impacts. Multiple frictions are necessary to match the country-specific variables, e.g., credit access ratio, interest rate spread, and non-performing loans. A TFP decomposition finds that most of the productivity gains are captured by a between-regime shifting effect, whereby talented entrepreneurs obtain credit and expand their businesses. In terms of inequality and welfare, reducing the participation cost benefits talented-but-poor agents the most, while relaxing the borrowing constraint or intermediation cost is more beneficial for talented-and-wealthy agents.
E69|Tax Buoyancy In Bolivia|Taking advantage of the change of trend in 2006 in aggregate tax collection, as well as in the main taxes and their tax bases, this paper makes an evaluation of the effects of the new prevailing economic conditions as from implementation of the Economic Social Comunitarian Productive Model (MESCP, in Spanish) on tax collection in the period between 2006-First Quarter of 2017, compared to the results obtained from 1990 to 2005. The study is based on the quantification of tax buoyancy for both periods, for which impulse response functions, cointegration vectors and error correction models are estimated. The results suggest that the buoyancies in the second period are largely attributed to the economic context resulting from application of the MESCP. In addition, the estimations show that the tax bases have a useful predictive content to determine the future behavior in the collection of these taxes.
E69|Capital Controls, Macroprudential Regulation,and the Bank Balance Sheet Channel|We incorporate a banking sector with balance sheet frictions into a model of a small open economy and compare the effectiveness of capital controls and macroprudential regulation. We show that the welfare-improving effect of capital controls is larger than that of macroprudential regulation if the degree of financial friction between domestic banks and foreign investors is high, while the welfare-improving effect of macroprudential regulation is larger than that of capital controls if the degree of financial friction is low. We also show that the welfare ranking of the two policies depends on whether an economy suffers from liability dollarization.
E69|Valuing Government Obligations When Markets are Incomplete|Determining how to value net government obligations is a long-standing and fundamental question in public finance. Its answer is critical to cost-benefit analysis, the assessment of fiscal sustainability, generational accounting, and other economic issues. This paper posits and simulates a ten-period overlapping generations model with aggregate shocks to price safe and risky government net obligations, including options. Agents can't trade with future generations to hedge the model's productivity and depreciation shocks. Nor can they invest in anything other than one-period bonds and risky capital. Our results are surprising. We find that the pricing of short- as well as long-dated riskless obligations is anchored to the prevailing one-period risk-free return. More surprising, the prices of obligations whose values are proportional to the prevailing wage (e.g., Social Security benefits under a pay-go system with a fixed tax rate) are essentially identical to those of safe obligations, i.e., there is little risk adjustment. This is true notwithstanding our assumption of very large macro shocks. In contrast, government obligations provided in the form of options entail significant risk adjustment. We also show that the value of obligations to unborn generations depends on the nature of the compensating variation. Another finding is that the one-period bond market matters, but less than expected, to valuing obligations. Finally, our model lets us test the ability of arbitrage pricing to get prices right. Surprisingly, with the right specification, it comes close. Although highly stylized, our model suggests the potential of detailed, largescale CGE OLG models to price government obligations as well as non-marketed private securities in the presence of incomplete markets and macro shocks.
E69|The Impact of Various Economic Factors in accessing Finance within the Business Sector: Cases from UK Financial Services Companies|This paper investigates the impact of various economic factors such as inflation, interest rate, financial crises, and government regulations on the access to finance in the business sector specifically considering the financial experts' perspective operating in the UK financial services companies. The study examines the relationship between variables of interest in post recession period. Total five out of top fifty British Financial Services' Companies were selected through convenience sampling. Additionally, 38 respondents were selected through purposive sampling, based on their knowledge, level of management, and experiences in the sector. The findings showed that interest rate, government regulations, and financial crises have significant relationship in accessing financial resource. Interestingly, 83% remain neutral about the relationship between inflation and raising funds.
E69|Lack Of Adjustment Of The Cyprus Household Sector: Results From The Eurosystem’S Household Finance And Consumption Surveys|The results from the second wave of the Eurosysystem’s Household Finance and Consumption Survey (HFCS) indicate that Cyprus households experienced very large falls in their incomes and value of real assets between 2009/2010 and 2013/2014. However, despite their worsening financial situation households largely maintained their relatively high level of consumption during the crisis years from 2012 onward by taking on more debt and running down their financial assets. This relative failure of Cyprus households to adjust their expenditures and repair their balance sheets during recent years has resulted in huge debt problems for many households and their creditors. Indeed, HFCS estimates indicate that the ratio of required debt payments to income for Cyprus indebted households reached 35.7% in 2014 and was an overwhelming 64.1% for the least-wealthy bottom 20%. Policy recommendations for dealing with the serious financial difficulties of households are advanced including a program to write-off the debt of households which do not have the ability to repay.
E69|Macroprudential Policy and Financing Behaviour in Dual Banking System: Bank-Level Evidence from Indonesia|The loan-to-funding ratio based reserve-requirement (called as RR-LFR) is a macroprudential instrument used by Bank Indonesia to maintain the stability of Indonesian financial system by considering the bank liquidity condition. This paper examines the impact of RR-LFR on financing behaviour in Indonesian dual banking system. The paper uses generalized method of moment estimation (GMM) technique to address the endogeneity of explanatory variables and reduce the possible biases from residual correlation. Using a bank-level data for both Islamic and conventional banks covering the period 2001-2015, we analyze the reaction of bank financing behavior toward RR-LFR policy. The findings indicate that RRLFR is observed to be effective in curtailing financing behaviour of banking institutions. Further, we show that RR-LFR exerts more impacts in managing credit expansion of conventional banks as compared to Islamic banks.
E69|The Credibility of Commitment and Optimal Nonlinear Savings Taxation|We compare optimal nonlinear savings taxation under different assumptions with regard to the government's ability to commit to its future tax policy. In particular, we incorporate the possibility that individuals may differ in their beliefs regarding the probability of commitment. When these beliefs are homogeneous, we find that optimal marginal savings tax rates always fall between those under the polar cases of full-commitment (zero marginal savings taxation) and no-commitment (progressive marginal savings taxation). However, this result no longer holds when beliefs are postulated to be heterogeneous. The effects of beliefs changing in response to past commitment or no-commitment decisions by the government are also quantitatively explored.
E69|Impact of R&D Subsidies on Enterprise Performance in the Czech Republic|The attention and support that R&D receives from economists and politicians reflects its importance as a key element of competitiveness and growth in advanced economies. But the real effect of policy upon public support depends on the technological level and structure of the economy and on the ability of beneficiaries to use the support effectively. We should also ask whether the current measurement of R&D outcomes and their subsequent assessment actually reflects real-world situations. The paper presents results of a research focused on the effectiveness of R&D subsidies on the performance of private enterprises in the Czech Republic. We deliberately focus on financial data and compare beneficiaries with unsuccessful applicants using techniques of counterfactual analysis. Although supported actors exhibit higher values of certain variables like assets, personnel expenditures or value added, these cannot be claimed to be the result of R&D support. These findings suggest the very limited effectiveness of R&D support to private actors in the Czech Republic, at least in the short run.
E69|THE DIGITAL REVOLUTION AND JOB POLARISATION: AN INSTITUTIONAL, ECONOMIC, AND SOCIAL ISSUE The last decades were marked by processes of in-depth changes: globalisation, the collapse of the communist systems in Central and Eastern Europe, a new post-industrial transition, and the economic and financial crisis brought along also the crisis of “sovereign debts”. All these occurred on the background of rapid digitalisation, computerisation, and automation processes of the economic sectors, the highest risks being born by the labour market and the main production factor: the human factor. Thus, as opposed to the previous stages, the gap between the economic and social risks to become higher in the absence of institutional reform and changes targeted mainly at institutions with impact on the labour market. The present paper intends to present the main issues with respect to economic and social aspects relevant to the process of resuming economic growth and to ensuring the sustainability of medium- and long-term development|No abstract is available for this item.
E69|Capital Controls and Financial Frictions in a Small Open Economy|Abstract We develop a small open economy model with financial frictions between domestic banks and foreign investors, and examine the welfare-improving effect of capital controls. We show that capital controls are effective in addressing the amplification effect due to financial frictions. As the degree of financial frictions increases, the welfare-improving effect of capital controls becomes larger and a more aggressive policy rule is appropriate. Comparing two economies, one with and one without “liability dollarization,” we also find that the welfare-improving effect of capital controls is larger in the presence of “liability dollarization,” and the difference between the effects becomes larger as the degree of financial frictions increases.
E69|European Funds Fraud: The Impact on the Process of Absorption of Structural and Cohesion Funds in Romania|The increase of the degree of absorption of European funds offered to Romania by the European Union represents one of its main objectives in the present and future situation. One of the main reasons that the funds are so important is the fact that, taking into consideration the microeconomic and macroeconomic situation that Romania is in, it represents an alternative financing mechanism of the economy that Romania can benefit in very advantageous conditions. Even under these conditions Romania- within 2007-2013 period of programming – couldn’t benefit from it by attracting as many structural and cohesion funds as possible, at least in comparison to other member states. In our opinion, that of the authors’ one of the reasons that led to such a low rate of absorption, alongside with the low administrative capacity of the state is the excessive bureaucracy, an inefficient legislative framework which is not harmonized with the European one, the lack of experience in using and administrating of European funds, the beneficiaries’ incapacity to sustain the financial support of the project (to assure the co-financing of the project), a low involvement of Romanian banking institutions in the process of supporting the beneficiaries of European funds. Another cause is the European funds fraud that happened in Romania. In the present article, the authors have decided to analyze the influence of European funds fraud on the degree of absorption of structural and cohesion funds in Romania. Classification-JEL: E10, E19, E29, E59, E60, E69, G23, K49, O20, O52, P50.
E69|The Role Of Trade Openness In The Chinese Inward Fdi In Central And Eastern Europe|The main objective of this paper is to understand how Chinese investments can be associated with the level of trade openness in Central and Eastern Europe. The scientific literature usually emphasizes the positive effects of trade and highlights its role in the ability to attract foreign capital however, the attraction can vary from country to country and sector to sector. In recent study the dependent variable was the Chinese inward FDI stock. The correlation analysis highlighted the fact that there are differences between the Central and Eastern European countries in terms of how the Chinese investors react to the level of trade openness. It was found that Chinese investors’ motivations could be influenced by the independent variables only in a few countries in the region like Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Lithuania and Romania.
E69|Effects of macroeconomic policy shock on the labour market dynamics in Australia|Inspired by fiscal and monetary policy performance during global financial crisis (GFC) of 2007-08, this study investigates the effects of macroeconomic policy shocks on the labour market dynamics in Australia using a vector auto-regression (VAR) method. This study examines the dynamic response of output, unit labour cost, total hours worked and employment to changes in government spending and cash rate for 1985:3-2015:1. The results suggest that in response to positive cash rate shock total hours worked and employment react negatively, whereas unit labour cost reacts positively. On the other hand, in response to positive government spending shock, total hours worked and employment response positively, whereas, unit labour cost responds negatively.
E69|Sovereign Wealth Funds and Infrastructure Development in Africa|Sovereign wealth funds (SWFs) are increasingly becoming major sources of finance in many African countries. This paper analyses the potential role that SWFs could play in financing infrastructure development in Africa. The paper documents the state of infrastructure and its financing needs in Africa, dissects the anatomy of sovereign wealth funds on the continent, and assesses the extent to which sovereign wealth funds can bridge the infrastructure financing gap. The analysis shows that Africa?s infrastructure needs new sources of finance to cover the existing financing requirements. Although African SWFs are still small compared to those in other countries of the world, they have the potential to contribute meaningfully towards financing infrastructure development and fostering economic development in Africa. Putting in place favorable conditions for business and ensuring stable political and governance conditions can also attract global sovereign wealth funds to invest their massive resources in Africa. The paper also highlights some risks and opportunities for infrastructure investments on the continent.
E69|The Trade-Off between Reforms and Checks and Balances|Strong checks and balances are key features of well performing democracies aimed at protecting citizens from government abuse of power. Nevertheless, some presidents have enjoyed strong and often explicit popular support when they undermined these controls. We present a formal model of the tradeo between control on the executive and delegation geared to enhancing our understanding of this phenomenon. We argue that voters may support the loosening of checks and balances, even when this allows rent extraction, if they are convinced that checks on the executive are blocking necessary reforms. We discuss several cases of strong presidents in Latin America who, alleging that radical reforms were necessary, obtained popular support that allowed them to loosen checks on the executive. Some of these presidents had a pro- and some an anti-market reform agenda so, as our model suggests, voters' willingness to remove checks and balances can emerge under both right- and left-wing executives.
E69|On the Cost of Opportunistic Behavior in the Public Sector: A General-Equilibrium Approach|This paper studies the wasteful effect of bureaucracy on the economy by addressing the link between opportunistic behavior of government bureaucrats and the public sector wage bill. In particular, public officials are modeled as individuals competing for a larger share of those public funds. A simple extraction technology in the gov- ernment administration is introduced in a standard Real-Business-Cycle (RBC) setup augmented with detailed public sector. The model is calibrated to German data for the period 1970-2007. The main findings are: (i) the model performs well vis-a-vis the data; (ii) Due to the existence of a significant public sector wage premium and the high public sector employment, a substantial amount of working time is spent in opportunistic activities, which in turn leads to significant losses in terms of output; (iii) The model-based loss measures obtained for the EU-12 countries are highly-correlated to indices of bureaucratic inefficiency.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E69|On the cost of opportunistic behavior in the public sector: A General-Equilibrium approach|This paper studies the wasteful effect of bureaucracy on the economy by addressing the link between opportunistic behavior of government bureaucrats and the public sector wage bill. In particular, public officials are modeled as individuals competing for a larger share of those public funds. A simple extraction technology in the government administration is introduced in a standard Real-Business-Cycle (RBC) setup augmented with detailed public sector. The model is calibrated to German data for the period 1970-2007. The main findings are: (i) the model performs well vis-a-vis the data; (ii) Due to the existence of a significant public sector wage premium and the high public sector employment, a substantial amount of working time is spent in opportunistic activities, which in turn leads to significant losses in terms of output; (iii) The model-based loss measures obtained for the EU-12 countries are highly-correlated to indices of bureaucratic inefficiency.
E69|Competitiveness and current account adjustments in the euro area|We empirically assess the impact of competitiveness measured by unit labor costs for current account balances in the Euro area. For this purpose, we estimate a panel with annual observations from 2000 to 2013. Our findings confirm the importance of competitiveness: Higher unit labor costs growth leads to lower current account balances. By splitting up unit labor costs growth in wage growth and productivity growth, we find wage growth and productivity growth to have a significantly negative and positive effect, respectively. However, the effect of unit labor costs is mainly driven by productivity growth, so that wage cuts are relatively ineffective and painful to fight current account deficits. But pushing productivity is also likely to be ineffective, since its positive effect for the current account may be offset by its effect on wages and GDP, which decreases current account balances.
E69|The NATO-Russia Council: current political and juridical perspectives|After the end of the Cold War, an important element of the European and international security structure is the cooperation between NATO and Russia in security and stability fields. NATO had the initiative to develop security organizations to approach Russia and create a partnership. The best security structure is represented by the NATO-Russia Council, a form of cooperation between a state, Russia and an international alliance, NATO. After being institutionalized a collaboration, with some interruptions caused by the crisis (Kosovo, Georgia, Ukraine), from April 2014 the common military and civil activities in NATO-Russia Council are suspended. The NATO-Russia relation is of particular importance for the security and the stability in Europe and in the world.
E69|Threats to Romania generated by the status of a NATO and EU|Romania's status as a member of NATO and the European Union makes the eastern border a common border of the two organizations. Romania being on the border of the two organizations has created a significant new geopolitical and geostrategic position. Therefore, on the one hand we are witnessing the actions aimed at strengthening defence and security of the Romanian state and on the other hand it is increasingly becoming a possible target of threats. Based on these considerations our study aims to analyse the diversity of potential threats to Romania.
E69|Basic Dimensions of Security Information Systems|The XXI century brought significant new changes in information systems improvement, especially as regards increasing their role in the performance of an organization. Given the need to ensure the functioning of information systems, today, increasingly there are new openings in terms of ensuring their security. In this article we intend to present some aspects that aim fundamental dimensions of ensure the security of information systems and how they affect activities within an organization. Size information systems security analysis highlights new aspects of its complexity and the need for more efficient management of each of these.
E69|Possible Developments of Forms and Ways of Risks and Threats Manifestations towards Romania|Through its international status and geopolitical positioning, Romania will remain a place of some possible risks and threats. The diversity, complexity and especially the threat for Romania's security requires a detailed knowledge of the manifestation particularities and influence. Therefore, addressing specific issues to the evolution of forms and ways of manifestation of risks and threats for Romania remains an issue of high interest to any scientific analysis, as in this study.
E69|Ensuring the security of information systems - role and functions of information systems security|We are certainly in the face of unprecedented challenges regarding the crisis and war development highlighting new ways of conflict evolution, anticipating the major role that information systems will acquire. It is this beginning of the millennium challenge that induces the need of a more sustained focus on preparing the new type of war in which information systems security will be the success factor. Through this article we aim to present the role of the information systems and the manner in which information systems security affects the decision-making process, the planning and the operational management of all actions taken within each organization.
E69|Emission taxes and standards in a general equilibrium with entry and exit|This paper studies and compares the welfare effects of emission taxes and emission standards in a general equilibrium model with two sectors in which plants can freely enter and exit. In one of the sectors plants differ in their productivity, produce differentiated goods, and generate emissions that can be reduced using an abatement technology. An emission reduction policy causes resource reallocation among plants and across sectors in two ways: a static way due to the dispersion of productivity and a dynamic way due to entry and exit. The model shows that the static distributional effect favors the emission tax, while the dynamic distributional effect favors the emission standard. Calibrated to Canadian data, the model shows that the dynamic effect dominates the static one and hence the emission standard dominates the emission tax in terms of welfare. This is the case not only in the baseline model, but also in a model with a large variation of parameter values for productivity dispersion, market power, and abatement efficiency.
E69|Housing, Finance, and the Macroeconomy|In this chapter, we review and discuss the large body of research that has developed over the past 10-plus years that explores the interconnection of macroeconomics, finance, and housing. We focus on three major topicsâ€”housing and the business cycle, housing and portfolio choice, and housing and asset returnsâ€”and then review the recent literature that studies housing and the macroeconomy during the great housing boom and bust of 2000â€“2010. Our emphasis is on calibrated models that can be compared with data. In each section, we discuss the important questions, the typical set of tools used, and the insights that result from influential articles. Although great progress has been made in understanding the impact of housing outcomes on macroeconomic aggregates and vice versa, work remains. For example, economists recognize the importance of changing credit-market conditions in amplifying the volatility of house prices, but cannot explain the timing of these changes. At the end of the chapter, we discuss a new literature that assesses the macroeconomic effects and welfare implications of housing policies.
E69|Twin deficits and the sustainability of public debt and exchange rate policies in Lebanon|This paper examines empirically using time series econometric models the sustainability of public debt and exchange rate policies, as well as, the relationship between current account and budget deficits in the emerging small open economy of Lebanon. The empirical results point to unsustainable debt and exchange rate policies. Other empirical results support the existence of a uni-directional causal relationship, in the short run, between the budget and current account deficits, indicating that rising fiscal deficits have started to put even more strain on the current account deficits and on the national public debt. To avoid a future depreciation of the exchange rate and perhaps a fiscal and currency crises, the government will have to timely introduce austerity measures to curb the negative implications of its rising budget and current account deficits and debt on Lebanon's economy.
E69|How Monetary Policy Is Made: Two Canadian Tales|We examine policy rate recommendations of the Bank of Canada’s Governing Council (GC) and its shadow, the C.D. Howe Institute’s Monetary Policy Council (MPC). Individual recommendations of the MPC are observed but not those of the GC. Differences in the two committees’ recommendations are small but persistent. The MPC is more responsive to the output gap than its GC counterpart. Both committees respond similarly to inflation. Disagreement within the MPC and with the GC is more likely when rates are rising. Finally, the Bank’s forward guidance had a significant influence on the MPC’s views about the future inflation path.
E69|Common-property, public infrastructure and rent dissipation in the long-run|By means of an overlapping generations model we study some long-run steady state features prompted by free-access public capital which enters a constant-returns-to-scale production function, dissipating its return among the private factors. The public investment is funded by lump-sum taxes in both younger and older generations. Our main conclusion is that the utility of an individual living in the long run steady state equilibrium may decline, even when the private capital-labor ratio increases, as a con-sequence of both an increase in per-capita public investment, and a shift of the tax burden from the younger to the older generation.
E69|Chances of Romanian Tourism in the Perspective of European Competition|This paper presents a modest, but critical attempt of a summary that analyzes the main developments of tourism offer in Romania, after the events of 1989 so far. Finally some courses of action that may result in an improvement of tourist activities related to sustainable development requirements of Romania are presented.
E69|Distinguishing Constraints on Financial Inclusion and Their Impact on GDP, TFP, and the Distribution of Income|We develop a tractable general equilibrium model with heterogeneous agents and multiple sources of financial frictions to study how different constraints interact in equilibrium. We highlight, distinguish, and quantitatively evaluate their differential impacts, thereby uncovering the rich interactions among these constraints. The impact of financial inclusion in an economy depends not only on which constraint is alleviated, but also on the tightness of other constraints. Policy instruments should target the most binding constraint, which likely varies across countries. Moreover, there are important between financial inclusion, GDP, and the distribution of income. The transitional dynamics also differ from what happens in steady states. Policy makers should be concerned about both.
E69|Pension Age Increase in the Russian Federation: Demographic Conditions and Macroeconomic Consequences|"It is proved that the problem of ""raising the retirement age"" can not be regarded as an economic instrument to achieve a balanced budget of the state pension fund, in particular, and the whole of the pension system in Russia. Since the age of retirement in the pension system based on insurance principles depends primarily on the ""external"" factors for the pension system - mainly macroeconomic (volume and structure of GDP, inflation, payroll and distribution of income), as well as on the development and structure of the labor market (employment level and its structure). The main miscount of supporters of rendering automatically raising the retirement age on the basis of the linear dependence of the total increase in life expectancy, often even without gender differences, lies in the fact that in the insurance pension system, regardless of solidarity or a storage mechanism for the formation of pension rights, neither absolute necessity of implementing all the accumulated amount of pension rights for a reduced pension payment period, nor the increase of public pension liabilities for increasing the length of service prior to the raising of the retirement age are not taken into account. As a result of synergistic effect increase of the retirement age in pension insurance model leads after short and slight reduction of current expenditures on pensions to the subsequent exponential increase in public pension liabilities. Therefore, the only positive effect of raising the retirement age is to create conditions for a limited group of insured persons to increase the size of their pensions. Raising the retirement age is associated with the requirement to macroeconomic, social and labor conditions of the country in terms of creating additional jobs for young people and for the pre-retirement generations of insured persons. However, the external factors of the pension system, as shown by the Government approved the main directions of development planning and budgetary period 2016-2018, do not create the conditions for an adequate increase and are essentially limiters. The paper substantiates the economic mechanism of raising the retirement age on the basis of insurance principles formation of state pension liabilities."
E69|Pensions in Crisis|The article provides an assessment of the new pension reform. Its stated objectives were to make the pension system more balanced, especially from the perspective of financial security of obligations of the state to pensioners. But it could not improve the state budget. This is evident from the planned austerity measures (freezing of pension savings, limiting the size of pensions to citizens with high wages, benefits for early retirement, pressure towards raising the retirement age, discouraging working pensioners, etc.). At the same time new and scoring formula facilitates the state's manipulation of pensions depending on filling the Pension Fund, the state of public finances and not on personal wages and seniority.
E69|Does innovation in residential mortgage products explain rising house prices? No|Like many consumer products, household mortgages have experienced significant innovation in recent decades, with mortgages becoming cheaper, more accessible, and with more features. Many observers have expected that this would increase demand for houses, contributing to a rise in house prices. We investigate this relation, both in terms the extent and timing of innovation in residential mortgage products, and then we critically assess whether there is a link with Melbourne Metropolitan house prices (post 1980). Our conclusion is surprising: we find no apparent evidence of a relationship between residential mortgage innovation and house prices.
E69|Impact du développement financier sur la dynamique de création des entreprises : évidence en données de panel sur les pays du MENA<BR>[Financial development impact on firm dynamic creation: panel data evidence on MENA countries]|Résumé: Sur un panel de 14 pays de la région Moyen Orient, Afrique du Nord (MENA), le présent papier examine si le développement financier entraîne un effet considérable sur le développement de l’entrepreneuriat en facilitant l’émergence de nouvelles entreprises. Les résultats estimés par les doubles moindres carrés généralisés en variables instrumentales accentuent l’importance des systèmes financiers développés pour la dynamique de création des entreprises. Globalement, le développement financier et sa composante expliquée par la qualité institutionnelle affectent positivement et significativement la densité d’entrée dans les pays pétroliers comparativement aux pays non pétroliers.
E69|The Informal Sector’s Impact On The Budget Revenues|The shadow economy reduces budget revenues, which - against the background of the crisis deficit - additionally harms the fiscal equilibrium. In addition - also against the background of the crisis - the shadow economy increases the costs of the honest business entities, forcing them to compensate for the actions of the dishonest ones. On that basis it is necessary to conduct regular analysis of its effect - both on the public sector, and on business. In view of the limited volume of the present article, the latter will focus on the analysis of the shadow economy phenomenon and the effect on the revenue portion of the budget.
E69|Sources of exchange rate fluctuation in Vietnam: an application of the SVAR model|Vietnam has been implementing the export-oriented economy, in which the central bank of Vietnam, well-known as the State Bank of Vietnam (SBV), adopted the managed float exchange rate regime in 1990. Therefore, the exchange rate movement plays an important role in stimulating the Vietnamese export activities. By applying the long-run SVAR model, pioneered by Blanchard and Quah (1989), this research examines how the real and nominal shocks impact the nominal and real exchange rate (USD/VND) in Vietnam. Based on monthly data concerning USD/VND exchange rate and, the price levels in Vietnam and the United States from May 1995 to December 2013, our empirical results reveal that: the real shock primarily leads the real and nominal exchange rate (USD/VND) to fluctuate over time. Meanwhile, the nominal shock has a temporary effect on the movement in the real exchange rate in Vietnam. Our research also finds that the long-run Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) does not hold in Vietnam.
E69|Revisiting the Narrative Approach of Estimating Tax Multipliers|We analyze whether popular measures of narrative tax shocks can be treated as relevant instruments for observable endogenous tax series of interest. We find that narrative tax measures are only weakly correlated with cyclically adjusted tax revenues for the US and the UK. Using weak‐instrument robust inference, narrative tax measures often yield insignificant estimates of tax multipliers. We conclude that the literature currently understates the uncertainty associated with estimating the tax multiplier using the narrative approach.
E69|The European Union EU co-deciding and co-governing authorities – knowledge and evaluation in the opinion of the Poles|This study concerns the co-decision and co-governing system basing on the European Commission (EC) and the European Parliament (EP) as an example. However, it is not a direct description of functions of these institutions but a presentation of results of empirical studies, including respondents’ knowledge about the EC and EP functioning. In the study the following thesis were verified: awareness and knowledge of the EU institutions is greater in the border regions because of participation in the process of euroregionalisation; level of knowledge about the integration is related to education, the higher and more comprehensive it is, the greater the understanding of the institutionalization of integration; residents of urban areas have greater knowledge about integration than people who live in rural areas.
E69|Immigration And Large Banknotes|Do immigrants have a higher demand for large denominated banknotes than natives? This micro study examines whether cash orders for CHF 1,000 notes, a banknote used for storage purposes, is concentrated in Swiss municipalities with a high foreign-to-native ratio. Controlling for a range of regional indicators across 251 Swiss municipalities, European immigrants in Switzerland are found to hoard less CHF 1,000 banknotes than natives. This result says that immigration reduces seigniorage (per person) as measured by currency orders. A 1% increase in the immigrant-to-native ratio is coincident with a reduction in currency orders by CHF 4,000. The dampening effect is attributed to specific traits linked to immigrants.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
E69|International Experience of State Investment Policy Development and Implementation|In conditions of severe competition and economic turmoil in the world the important factor in ensuring sustainable economic development of any country is the development of the state investment policy aimed at creating optimal conditions for capital investment. Thus, the topical is the study of the global experience in this field of public administration in order to identify the most significant achievements and apply them for the development of domestic model of the state investment policy. The objective of this research is the analysis of the economic relations between the state and business entities occurring in the course of investment policy implementation. The purpose of the research is summarizing of foreign experience in investment policy formation and implementation as well as identification on this basis of three main models of investment policy - American, Japanese and Taiwanese. The author has systematized the state investment policy tools used in the developed countries practice and grounded the state investment policy principles and trends in Ukraine.
E69|When is Lift-Off? Evaluating Forward Guidance from the Shadow|We examine the record of the CD Howe’s shadow Monetary Policy Council (SMPC) in Canada. We report a considerable diversity of opinion about the recommended future path of interest rates inside the SMPC. During the period of Bank of Canada forward guidance, market determined forward rates diverge considerably from the recommendations implied by the SMPC. Nevertheless, there is little evidence that the Bank of Canada and the SMPC coordinate their future views about the interest rate path. Finally, changes in views about future changes in policy rates for horizons beyond the next two interest rate decisions are difficult to explain. Our findings imply that there remain challenges in understanding the evolution of future interest rate paths over time. We conclude with some policy implications. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
E69|Problem of Reforming the Pension System in Russia|"This paper investigates individual pensions and long-term financial sustainability of the pension system in the face of the current pension legislation from 2002 to 2015 and under the new pension formula , which comes into force in 2015, according to the Federal Law ""On Insurance Pensions"". The authors examined the problems and risks of introducing a new pension formula and suggested measures aimed at strengthening the long-term sustainability of the pension system and stimulating later pensions, both in terms of retention of the existing pension formula since 2002 and in terms of introducing a new pension formula from 2015. The change in the legislation on financing of early pensions is analyzed."
E69|The Debt Consolidation of Hungarian Local Governments|The total debt of Hungarian local governments accumulated during the 2002–2008 period was consolidated in full by the government between 2011 and 2014. Most of the debt assumed by the central budget was denominated in foreign currency, which involved high exchange risk and, therefore, financial instability for both the central and the local subsystems of public finances. According to some economists, the bailout of local governments by the state is another manifestation of the soft budget limit, showing that the Hungarian market economy is unable to break with the bad culture of centrally planned economy. The present study – building on primary research – presents the process that led to the indebtedness of local governments, as well as the theoretical and practical background of consolidation. The author believes it is unwarranted to enforce a hard budget limit for the local governments at any price.
E69|Türkiye’de Uygulanan Orta Vadeli Programın Ödemeler Dengesi Tahminleri Doğrultusunda Performansının Analizi<BR>[Analysis of the Medium Term Program Performance Applied in Turkey According to the Balance of Payments Estimates]|Many developed and developing countries, who want to fulfill their social responsibilities covering investment spending that requires long-term, are passed to the multi-year budgeting practices instead of the classic one-year budget execution. In this respect, Turkey has passed multi-year budgeting implementation in 2006. Multi-year budgeting method, which is called “Medium Term Expenditure System” in the World Bank studies, is being implemented in the framework of the Medium Term Programme (MTP) in Turkey. Macro economic objectives of MTP include the balance of payments targets as well as growth, employment, public finance and general level of prices. It is estimated in the three-year horizon about Exports, Imports, Trade Balance, Current Account Balance/GDP, and Foreign Trade Volume/GDP towards the balance of payments targets. In this study, the success performance in forecasting and targets of the MTP was analyzed according to the balance of payments targets. In this study, the following conclusion was reached: In Turkey, the level of achievement of the MTP’s estimates is behind a great deal of EU countries according to the size of the balance of payments.
E69|25 Jahre nach dem Mauerfall: Bilanz und Herausforderungen|Der Aufbau Ost scheint weitgehend abgeschlossen. Der IW-Einheitsindex, der sieben Indikatoren zur Ost-West-Angleichung umfasst, dokumentiert anhaltende, aber langsame Fortschritte. Die Infrastruktur der neuen Bundesländer ist gut ausgebaut, die Arbeitslosenquote ist im einstelligen Bereich angelangt und sinkt weiter. Die Wirtschaftsstruktur hat sich weiter an den westdeutschen Stand angenähert. Die Industrie trägt inzwischen über 17 Prozent zur Bruttowertschöpfung bei. Aber die Produktivität des eingesetzten Kapitals und der Arbeitskräfte bleibt hartnäckig hinter dem westdeutschen Wert zurück, obwohl die Investitionsbeihilfen die Wirtschaftsleistung befördert haben. Die Wirtschaftsleistung je Einwohner bleibt unter 70 Prozent des westdeutschen Niveaus und die Konvergenz stockt. Es fehlen Großunternehmen, Firmenzentralen und wirtschaftsstarke Ballungsräume.
E69|A General Equilibrium Model with Banks and Default on Loans|During the recent financial crisis in the U.S., banks reduced new business lending amidst concerns about borrowers’ ability to repay. At the same time, firms facing higher borrowing costs alongside a worsening economic outlook reduced investment. To explain these aggregate business cycle patterns, I develop a model with households, banks and firms. I assume that a bank’s ability to raise deposits is constrained by a limited commitment problem and that, furthermore, loans to firms involve default risk. In this environment, changes in loan rates affect the size of the business sector. I explore how banks influence the behavior of households and firms and find that both productivity and financial shocks lead to counter-cyclical default and interest rate spreads. I examine the implications of a government capital injection designed to mitigate the effect of negative productivity and financial shocks in the spirit of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). I find that the stabilizing effect of such policy interventions hinges on the source of the shock. In particular, a capital injection is less effective against aggregate productivity shocks because easing banks’ lending stance only weakly stimulates firms’ demand for loans when aggregate productivity falls. In contrast, a capital injection can counteract the adverse effect of financial shocks on the supply of loans. Finally, I measure aggregate productivity and financial shocks to evaluate the role of each in the business cycle. I find that the contribution of aggregate productivity shocks in aggregate output and investment is large until mid-2008. Financial shocks explain 65% of the fall in investment and 55% of the fall in output in the first quarter of 2009.
E69|From The Rules Of Stability And Growth Pact At Six – Pack: Financial Certainty|The world economic and financial crisis has shown that, within the European Union as well as the rest of the world, the situation of public finance is not stable even in the presence of a certain level of fiscal and budgetary coordination. Under these circumstances, even if the Lisbon Strategy would have been adopted at European level and an attempt to reach the established targets would have been put into practice after 2007, the year the crisis began, the necessity for starting new European projects which would lead to a better financial coordination and governing of the 27 EU states was acknowledged. If the Lisbon strategy planned for the EU to become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy by 2010, the slowdown of the economic growth, the increase in unemployment and public finance and banking issues have determined, after 2008, measures that would result in the economic recovery of European states. Starting from the actual situation, the present work wishes to highlight the position of public finance in EU countries, in the context of budgetary problems which interfered with the settlement of the stability and growth accord after 2007. In this context, this work will emphasize the causes that led to the improvement and revision of certain key-elements of the PSC, and also the consequences of their implementation.
E69|¿Es la privatización la solución a los problemas de ineficiencia de las empresas públicas?: Revisión de la literatura|Resumen Este trabajo presenta el estado del arte sobre el efecto de la privatización en los resultados de las empresas públicas durante los años 1990 hasta la actualidad. Se realizó una revisión a profundidad, tanto a nivel internacional como nacional, de los trabajos que analizan el efecto de la privatización sobre los resultados de las empresas sujetas a cambios de propiedad. De esta forma, encontramos que la privatización conllevó a mejoras en los resultados y la eficiencia de algunas de las empresas privatizadas. No obstante lo anterior, no puede tomarse como una regla la relación entre propiedad y eficiencia, ya que la evidencia nos muestra que la empresa pública no es siempre más ineficiente. En el caso colombiano, aún quedan muchas preguntas por responder debido a la escasez de estudios que analicen el tema.***** Abstract This paper presents the state of the art of the effect of the privatization on the results of the public enterprises from 1990 to the present. A thorough review was carried out, nationally and internationally, on the works analyzing the effect of privatization on the performance of firms subject to ownership changes. Thus, we found that privatization led to improvements in performance and efficiency of some of the companies. Nevertheless, the relationship between ownership and efficiency cannot be taken as a rule, as evidence shows that public companies are not always more inefficient. In Colombia, there are still many unanswered questions due to the lack of studies analyzing the subject.
E69|Oil Price Uncertainty| The theories of investment under uncertainty and real options predict that uncertainty about, for example, oil prices will tend to depress current investment. We reinvestigate the relationship between the price of oil and investment, focusing on the role of uncertainty about oil prices. We find that volatility in oil prices has had a negative and statistically significant effect on several measures of investment, durables consumption, and aggregate output. We also find that accounting for the effects of oil price volatility tends to exacerbate the negative dynamic response of economic activity to a negative oil price shock, while dampening the response to a positive oil price shock. Copyright (c) 2010 The Ohio State University.
E69|Inflación y finanzas públicas|El propósito de este artículo es mostrar que, en contra de lo que muchos analistas preveían hace pocos años, las finanzas públicas en Colombia obtuvieron un beneficio significativo del proceso reciente de reducción de la inflación. El menor ritmo de crecimiento de los precios estimuló la demanda de saldos monetarios reales y aumentó por esa vía el señoreaje total generado por el Banco de la República. Por esa razón, la magnitud del señoreaje se mantuvo en niveles relativamente altos, pese a la contracción de los encajes requeridos al sistema financiero que tuvo lugar desde mediados de la década de los noventa y a la consiguiente reducción en esta fuente de señoreaje. Por su parte, los cambios en la utilización del señoreaje han permitido que la porción que beneficia directamente al Gobierno -el señoreaje fiscal- aumente de manera notoria en el período reciente. Este beneficio fiscal, sin embargo, puede verse afectado negativamente en la medida en que una porción mayor del señoreaje total se destine a la compra de divisas para acumulación de reservas internacionales. Finalmente, el artículo cuantifica el beneficio que ha tenido la caída de la inflación sobre las necesidades de financiamiento del Gobierno y la magnitud del déficit fiscal, a través del impacto de menores tasas nominales de interés.
E69|Inflación Y Finanzas Públicas|El propósito de este artículo es mostrar que, en contra de lo que muchos analistas preveían hace pocos años, las finanzas públicas en Colombia obtuvieron un beneficio significativo del proceso reciente de reducción de la inflación. El menor ritmo de crecimiento de los precios estimuló la demanda de saldos monetarios reales y aumentó por esa vía el señoreaje total generado por el Banco de la República. Por esa razón, la magnitud del señoreaje se mantuvo en niveles relativamente altos, pese a la contracción de los encajes requeridos al sistema financiero que tuvo lugar desde mediados de la década de los noventa y a la consiguiente reducción en esta fuente de señoreaje. Por su parte, los cambios en la utilización del señoreaje han permitido que la porción que beneficia directamente al Gobierno -el señoreaje fiscal- aumente de manera notoria en el período reciente. Este beneficio fiscal, sin embargo, puede verse afectado negativamente en la medida en que una porción mayor del señoreaje total se destine a la compra de divisas para acumulación de reservas internacionales. Finalmente, el artículo cuantifica el beneficio que ha tenido la caída de la inflación sobre las necesidades de financiamiento del Gobierno y la magnitud del déficit fiscal, a través del impacto de menores tasas nominales de interés.
