E71|Noisy Memory and Over-Reaction to News|We propose a model of optimal decision-making subject to a memory constraint. The constraint is a limit on the complexity of memory measured using Shannon's mutual information, as in models of rational inattention. We show that the model implies that both forecasts and actions will exhibit idiosyncratic random variation; that beliefs will fluctuate forever around the rational-expectations (perfect-memory) beliefs with a variance that does not fall to zero; and that more recent news will be given disproportionate weight. The model provides a simple explanation for a number of features of expectations in laboratory and field settings.
E71|Behavioural New Keynesian models|This paper provides a bird’s eye view of the behavioural New Keynesian literature. We discuss three key empirical regularities in macroeconomic data which are not accounted for by the standard New Keynesian model, namely, excess kurtosis, stochastic volatility, and departures from rational expectations. We then present a simple behavioural New Keynesian model that accounts for these empirical regularities in a straightforward manner. We discuss elaborations and extensions of the basic model, and suggest areas for future research.
E71|Exposure to Daily Price Changes and Inflation Expectations|We show that, to form aggregate inflation expectations, consumers rely on the price changes they face in their daily lives while grocery shopping. Specifically, the frequency and size of price changes, rather than their expenditure share, matter for individuals’ inflation expectations. To document these facts, we collect novel micro data for a representative US sample that uniquely match individual expectations, detailed information about consumption bundles, and item-level prices. Our results suggest that the frequency and size of grocery-price changes to which consumers are personally exposed should be incorporated in models of expectations formation. Central banks' focus on core inflation - which excludes grocery prices - to design expectations-based policies might lead to systematic mistakes.
E71|Can loss aversion shed light on the deflation puzzle?|This paper argues that the application of loss aversion to wage determination can explain the deflation puzzle: the failure of persistently high unemployment to exert a persistent downward impact on the rate of inflation in money wages. This is an improvement on other theories of the deflation puzzle which simply assume downward wage rigidity; which are the hysteresis theory, the lubrication theory and the efficiency wage theory. The paper presents estimates that support the loss aversion explanation of the deflation puzzle for both the US and Australia. Furthermore, our estimation approach gives a more precise estimate of the potential rate of unemployment than does the natural rate approach and reveals a potential rate of unemployment for the US and Australia at the current time (end of 2017) of about 4% and 3.3% respectively.
E71|Inflation and monetary policy: What South African newspapers report in an era of policy transparency|Inflation is a monetary policy outcome, but in the short to medium term, price and wage decisions are co-determined by the public and private sectors. Many central banks have adopted transparency as a strategic policy approach, whereby communication of monetary policy goals is used as a public anchor. While the central bank’s strategy involves carefully crafted, deliberately simplified messages, most of the public tends to access inflation-related information through the media. In this paper, we examine South African newspaper articles to identify how inflation is presented in the media and the role of the media, through this presentation, in the process of shaping public opinion around inflation expectations. We do this in two ways. First, we examine how inflation is presented in the media and then we identify the various actors presented in the media, their positions on inflation, and how these relate to each other. The systematic analysis of the media’s presentation of inflation allows us to identify some challenges to the central bank’s communication strategy.
E71|How everyday ethics becomes a moral economy, and vice versa|Unrealistic assumptions underlying neo-classical economic theory have been challenged by both behavioral economics and studies of moral economy. But both challengers share certain features with neo-classical theory. Complementing them, recent work in the anthropology of ethics shows that economic behavior is not reducible to either individual psychology or collective norms. This approach is illustrated with studies of transactions taking place at the borders between market rationality and relationships among persons - organ donation and sex work. The paper argues that the inherent value accorded to social relations tends to resist instrumentalization and that the biases that dealing with other people introduce into reasoning are not flaws but part of the core functions of rationality.
E71|Survey Data and Subjective Beliefs in Business Cycle Models|This paper develops a theory of subjective beliefs that departs from rational expectations, and shows that biases in household beliefs have quantitatively large effects on macroeconomic aggregates. The departures are formalized using model-consistent notions of pessimism and optimism and are disciplined by data on household forecasts. The role of subjective beliefs is quantified in a business cycle model with goods and labor market frictions. Consistent with the survey evidence, an increase in pessimism generates upward biases in unemployment and inflation forecasts and lowers economic activity. The underlying belief distortions reduce aggregate demand and propagate through frictional goods and labor markets. As a by-product of the analysis, solution techniques that preserve the effects of time-varying belief distortions in the class of linear solutions are developed.
E71|A Retrieved-Context Theory Of Financial Decisions|Studies of human memory indicate that features of an event evoke memories of prior associated contextual states, which in turn become associated with the current event's features. This mechanism allows the remote past to influence the present, even as agents gradually update their beliefs about their environment. We apply a version of retrieved context theory, drawn from the literature on human memory, to four problems in asset pricing and portfolio choice: over-persistence of beliefs, providence of financial crises, price momentum, and the impact of fear on asset allocation. These examples suggest a recasting of neoclassical rational expectations in terms of beliefs as governed by principles of human memory.
E71|Wishful Thinking|We model agents who get utility from their beliefs and therefore interpret information optimistically. They may exhibit several biases observed in psychological studies such as optimism, procrastination, confirmation bias, polarization, and the endowment effect. In some formulations, they exhibit these biases even though they are subjectively Bayesian. We argue that wishful thinking can lead to reduced saving, can make possible information-based trade, and can generate asset bubbles.
E71|Expectations During the U.S. Housing Boom: Inferring Beliefs from Actions|We assess the role of price expectations in forming the U.S. housing boom in the mid-2000s by studying the dynamics of vacant properties. When agents anticipate price increases, they amass excess capacity. Thus, housing vacancy discriminates between price movements related to shocks to demand for housing services (low vacancy) and expectation shocks (high vacancy). We implement this idea using a structural vector autoregression with sign restrictions. In the aggregate, expectation shocks are the most important factor explaining the boom, immediately followed by mortgage rate shocks. In the cross-section, expectation shocks are the major factor explaining price movements in the Sand States, which experienced unprecedented booms.
E71|Monthly Payment Targeting and the Demand for Maturity|In this paper, we provide evidence of the importance of monthly payments in the market for consumer installment debt. Auto debt in particular has grown rapidly since the Great Recession and has eclipsed credit cards in total debt outstanding. Auto-loan maturities have also increased such that most auto-loan originations now have a term of over 72 months. We document three phenomena we jointly refer to as monthly payment targeting. First, using data from 500,000 used auto loans and discontinuities in contract terms offered by hundreds of lenders, we show that demand is more sensitive to maturity than interest rate, consistent with consumers managing payment size when making debt decisions. Second, many consumers appear to employ segregated mental accounts, spending exogenous payment savings on larger loans. Third, consumers bunch at round-number monthly payment amounts, consistent with the use of budgeting heuristics. These patterns hold in subsamples of constrained and unconstrained borrowers, challenging liquidity constraints as a complete explanation. Our estimates suggest that borrower focus on payment size, combined with credit-supply shocks to maturity, could significantly affect aggregate outstanding debt.
E71|Cognitive Biases and Consumer Sentiment|We investigate whether two heuristics, the peak-end rule and herding, lead to cognitive biases in the index of consumer sentiment published by the University of Michigan. Both affect respondents' assessment of changes in their financial position over the past year. Consistent with the peak-end rule, respondents rely more on extreme detrimental monthly changes during the year than to changes over the whole year. We rule out that these extremes proxy for risk. The evidence for irrational herding consists in a too strong relationship from expectations about the future of respondents interviewed in a first round to assessments of the past by respondents interviewed in a second round. Both results show that cognitive biases can be found in a key macro variable and outside more controlled environments. They also indicate that the behavioral component of the sentiment index may offer another explanation for its relevance, next to news or animal spirits.
E71|Expectations During the U.S. Housing Boom: Inferring Beliefs from Actions|We assess the role of price expectations in forming the U.S. housing boom in the mid-2000s by studying the dynamics of vacant properties. When agents anticipate price increases, they amass excess capacity. Thus, housing vacancy discriminates between price movements related to shocks to demand for housing services (low vacancy) and expectation shocks (high vacancy). We implement this idea using a structural vector autoregression with sign restrictions. In the aggregate, expectation shocks are the most important factor explaining the boom, immediately followed by mortgage rate shocks. In the cross-section, expectation shocks are the major factor explaining price movements in the Sand States, which experienced unprecedented booms.
E71|Animal spirits and household spending in Europe and the US|"We investigate whether consumer confidence has an independent effect on household spending. First, we control for a common set of factors that drive both consumer confidence and household spending. Next, we interpret the non-systematic residuals in the country consumer confidence equations as a proxy for animal spirits, ""a spontaneous urge to action rather than inaction"" in Keynes' words, and subsequently include this proxy in the spending equations as an additional explanatory variable. Our results suggest that animal spirits exist and may have a considerable impact on spending growth in Europe and the US."
E71|The downside of being upbeat: The effects of consumer optimism on real economic activity|Using a quarterly consumer survey, we propose two novel measures of consumer optimism, ex ante optimism and ex post optimism. We demonstrate that excessive optimism about future family finances impacts the real economy. The excessive optimism (ex ante optimism) compels consumers to save less and borrow more, putting upward pressure on consumption growth. When family finances improve persistently less than expected (ex post optimism), consumers cut back on credit and save more which puts downward pressure on consumption growth. This saving and borrowing channel of the optimism bias is robust to age and income.
E71|Going the extra mile: Effort by workers and job-seekers|We introduce two types of effort into an otherwise standard labor search model to examine indeterminacy and sunspot equilibria. Variable labor effort gives rise to increasing returns to hours in production. This makes workers more valuable and contributes to self-fulfilling profit expectations, raising the likelihood of indeterminacy. Variable search effort makes workers search more intensively in a tighter labor market, which alleviates congestion and reduces the likelihood of indeterminacy. Indeterminacy disappears completely when vacancy posting costs are replaced with hiring costs.
E71|Markets are a function of language: Notes on a narrative economics|"Narratives are under-theorised and until recently under-recognised as core variables influencing the speed and direction of changes in expectations and, therefore, as core macroeconomic variables that shape the policy processes of central banks. The author examines below how the thousands of micro-level narratives garnered on a regular basis by the Bank of England's staff of regional agents can inform what Ricardo Reis and Alan Blinder (Understanding the Greenspan standard, 2005) term the ""macroeconomic allegories"" that influence monetary policy decision-making. The contacts that make up the ""network"" perform descriptive, explanatory, and interpretive labor in situ putting words both to the ephemera of local expectations across the UK and to the rapidly changing competitive pressures unfolding in global markets. Internal studies have demonstrated that the micro-level narratives collected and scored by the agents provide the most reliable information on the future course of the British economy of any of the projections or forecasts available to the Bank."
E71|Understanding the Consumer Confidence Index in Colombia: A structural FAVAR analysis|The consumer confidence index (CCI) is very relevant for economic analysis due to its timely publication and forecasting capacities. Although there is extensive literature on the link between CCI and macroeconomic aggregates, in particular with households' consumption, few papers have studied the fundamental factors that explain the CCI behaviour. Actually, no attempt has been made for the Colombian case. In this paper we aim to fill this gap. We estimate a Structural Factor-Augmented VAR (SFAVAR) model and perform a historical decomposition (HD) on the CCI series to obtain the underlying structural innovations that drove the CCI dynamics over the past few years. Our findings suggest that the CCI responded to changes in the underlying determinants and to non-fundamental shocks possibly related to uncertainty periods and noneconomic, socio-political or electoral events. Moreover, a counterfactual analysis shows that households' consumption forecasts improve when using the CCI series that are not affected by these non-fundamental shocks. **** ABSTRACT: El Índice de Confianza del Consumidor (ICC) es un instrumento relevante para el análisis económico, dada su oportuna publicación y sus capacidades de pronóstico. A pesar de que existe una gran cantidad de trabajos que estudian la relación entre el ICC y los agregados macroeconómicos, y en particular con el consumo privado, son pocos los estudios que han analizado los factores fundamentales que definen el comportamiento del ICC. De hecho, no hay ningún estudio al respecto para el caso colombiano. Con este documento tratamos de resolver este problema. Estimamos un modelo VAR estructural de factores (SFAVAR) y realizamos una descomposición histórica de choques del ICC para obtener los errores estructurales que determinaron la dinámica del ICC en años recientes. Nuestros resultados sugieren que el comportamiento observado del ICC obedeció tanto a cambios en sus determinantes como a choques no fundamentales relacionados, posiblemente, con eventos coyunturales de naturaleza no-económica, socio-política y/o electoral. Adicionalmente, un ejercicio contrafactual permite ver que el pronóstico del consumo privado mejora cuando se utiliza una serie del ICC que no está afectada por los choques no explicados por sus fundamentales.
E71|"Commentary on Edmund Rolls: ""Emotion and reason in human decision-making"""|In his paper Emotion and reasoning in human decision-making (Economics Discussion Papers, No 2019-8) Edmund Rolls points out that multiple and independent types of reinforcement exist in the human brain, and that they cannot be reduced to a common currency. The present commentary introduces non-specialist readers to this wide variety of reinforcers, each of which carries equal biological value. The evolutionary forces underwriting them reveal much about the causes of our apparently irrational choices - which is why it is important for economists to acquaint themselves with such things.
E71|Emotion and reasoning in human decision-making|"Two systems in the brain that are involved in emotional and economic decision-making are described. The first is an evolutionarily old emotion-based system that operates on rewards defined by the genes such as food, warmth, social reputation, and having children. Such decisions are often based on heuristics, such as being highly sensitive to losses, because a single loss might influence one's reproductive success. This is a multidimensional system with many rewards and punishers, all of which cannot be simultaneously optimized. The second route to decision-making involves reasoning, in which it is assumed that utility can be accurately assessed and logical reason can be applied, though the human brain is not naturally computationally good at logical assessment. When decisions are taken, all those factors apply, and in addition there is noise introduced into the system by the random firing times of neurons for a given mean firing rate. The implications for economic decision-making are described. In macroeconomics, it is assumed that the economy behaves like one ""representative"" agent who can take rational and logical decisions, and who can maximize utility over a constraint. Given the neuroscience of decision-making, the situation is more complex. The utility function may be multidimensional, the reward value along each dimension may fluctuate, the reasoning may be imperfect, and the decision-making process is subject to noise in the brain, making it somewhat random from occasion to occasion. Moreover, each individual has a different set of value functions along each dimension, with different sensitivities to different rewards and punishers, which are expressed in the different personalities of different individuals. These factors underlying the neuroscience of human decision-making need to be taken into account in building and utilizing macroeconomic theories."
E71|Measuring financial cycle time|Motivated by the traditional business cycle approach of Burns and Mitchell (1946), we explore cyclical similarities in financial conditions over time in order to improve our understanding of financial cycles. Looking back at 120 years of data, we find that financial cycles exhibit behaviour characterised by recurrent, endogenous swings in financial conditions, which result in costly booms and busts. Yet the recurrent nature of such swings may not appear so obvious when looking at conventionally plotted time-series data (that is, observed in calendar time). Using the pioneering framework developed by Stock (1987), we offer a new statistical characterisation of the financial cycle using a continuous-time autoregressive model subject to time deformation, and test for systematic differences between calendar and a new notion of financial cycle time. We find the time deformation to be statistically significant, and associated with levels of long-term real interest rates, inflation volatility and the perceived riskiness of the macro-financial environment. Implications for statistical modelling, endogenous risk-taking economic behaviour and policy are highlighted.
E71|The Impact of Credit Market Sentiment Shocks - A TVAR Approach| This paper investigates the role of credit market sentiments and investor beliefs on credit cycle dynamics and their propagation to business cycle fluctuations. Using US data from 1968 to 2019, we show that credit market sentiments are indeed able to detect asymmetries in a small-scale macroeconomic model. By exploiting recent developments in behavioral finance on expectation formation in financial markets, we are able to identify an unexpected credit market news shock exhibiting different impacts in an optimistic and pessimistic credit market environment. While an unexpected movement in the optimistic regime leads to a rather low to muted impact on output and credit, we find a significant and persistent negative impact on those variables in the pessimistic regime. Therefore, this article departs from the current literature on the role of financial frictions for explaining business cycle behavior in macroeconomics and argues in line with recent theoretical contributions on the relevance of expectation formation and beliefs as source of cyclicity and instability in financial markets.
E71|The Impact of Credit Market Sentiment Shocks - A TVAR Approach|This paper investigates the role of credit market sentiments and investor beliefs on credit cycle dynamics and their propagation to business cycle fluctuations. Using US data from 1968 to 2019, we show that credit market sentiments are indeed able to detect asymmetries in a small-scale macroeconomic model. By exploiting recent developments in behavioral finance on expectation formation in financial markets, we are able to identify an unexpected credit market news shock exhibiting different impacts in an optimistic and pessimistic credit market environment. While an unexpected movement in the optimistic regime leads to a rather low to muted impact on output and credit, we find a significant and persistent negative impact on those variables in the pessimistic regime. Therefore, this article departs from the current literature on the role of financial frictions for explaining business cycle behavior in macroeconomics and argues in line with recent theoretical contributions on the relevance of expectation formation and beliefs as source of cyclicity and instability in financial markets.
E71|Demand Cycles and Heterogeneous Conformity Preferences|The paper analyzes the dynamics of demand for three options when agents differ in their preferences for conformity. Each agent seeks to imitate others who are more individualistic and to distinguish herself from others who are more conformist, relative to herself. In each period, every agent chooses her utility-maximizing option given each agent's demand in the previous period. It is shown that for a large class of initial demand distributions, demand dynamics resemble fashion cycles: Total demand for each option over time is wave-like, and, when positively demanded, an option trickles through the entire population, from individualistic towards conformist agents.
E71|Exposure to Daily Price Changes and Inflation Expectations|We show that, to form aggregate inflation expectations, consumers rely on the price changes they face in their daily lives while grocery shopping. Specifically, the frequency and size of price changes, rather than their expenditure share, matter for individuals' inflation expectations. To document these facts, we collect novel micro data for a representative US sample that uniquely match individual expectations, detailed information about consumption bundles, and item-level prices. Our results suggest that the frequency and size of grocery-price changes to which consumers are personally exposed should be incorporated in models of expectations formation. Central banks' focus on core inflation---which excludes grocery prices---to design expectations-based policies might lead to systematic mistakes.
E71|Firm expectations and economic activity|We assess how survey expectations impact production and pricing decisions on the basis of a large panel of German firms. We identify the causal effect of expectations by matching firms with the same fundamentals but different views about the future. The probability to raise (lower) production is 15 percentage points higher for optimistic (pessimistic) firms than for neutral firms. Optimistic firms are also more likely to raise prices. In a second step, we find optimism and pessimism to matter even if they turn out to be incorrect ex-post. Lastly, we quantify the contribution of incorrect optimism and pessimism to aggregate fluctuations.
E71|Business cycle narratives|This article quantifies the epidemiology of media narratives relevant to business cycles in the US, Japan, and Europe (euro area). We do so by first constructing daily business cycle indexes computed on the basis of the news topics the media writes about. At a broad level, the most in uential news narratives are shown to be associated with general macroeconomic developments, finance, and (geo-)politics. However, a large set of narratives contributes to our index estimates across time, especially in times of expansion. In times of trouble, narratives associated with economic uctuations become more sparse. Likewise, we show that narratives do go viral, but mostly so when growth is low. While narratives interact in complicated ways, we document that some are clearly associated with economic fundamentals. Other narratives, on the other hand, show no such relationship, and are likely better explained by classical work capturing the market's animal spirits.
E71|Of Fairies and Governments: An ABM Evaluation of the Expansionary Austerity Hypothesis|Paradoxically, the expansionary austerity hypothesis may find greater support in a theoretical framework that places an emphasis on the role of uncertainty for investment decisions not subject to a savings-in-advance constraint than in a more standard supply-led macroeconomic theory. This paper builds a demand-driven agent-based model featuring contagion across firms to explore whether fiscal consolidations may become expansionary due to a positive effect on investorsâ€™ expectations, which could be the result of a dominant public discourse on the need for austerity. Simulations suggest that while a wave of optimism affecting a small proportion of firms may lead to short-run positive output effects in the economy, these effects are not sufficient to neutralize the negative macroeconomic impacts of cutting government spending. These findings are in keeping with the scantiness (or absence) of empirical evidence in favor of the expansionary fiscal contraction hypothesis.
E71|Countries in the hamster wheel?: Nurkse-Duesenberry demonstration effects and the determinants of savings|Throughout the world, stable regional patterns of private savings are hard to come by. For example, Latin America's saving rates have been, for a long time, below those of countries with similar levels of development. Those same savings rates have been growing lately, in almost as intriguing manner. These stylized facts remain intellectual puzzles and development policy challenges. In addition, while it may be true that savings often seem to follow rather than lead the growth process, it has been shown that in the long run, it is not possible to grow sustainably with domestic savings persistently below investments. For these and other scientific considerations, understanding the determinants of savings is an important research objective that has previously escaped analysts that tried to make sense of results from varied, distinct models. This article explores one set of variables much aligned with the rise of behavioral economics, which could add to the literature on the macroeconomics of savings. Specifically, the article revisits the hypothesis that, as there is evidence of emulation patterns between consumers, there might be international (macroeconomic) 'emulation'. The interdependence would arise from consumers basing their consumption decisions on relative rather absolute income, their choices incorporating increasing amounts of information about consumption standards in rich countries, and this pushing up propensities to consume and down savings ratios. We test demonstration effect theories exploiting recent international data on savings, incomes, and means of exposure of global consumers to the evolution of savings patterns. With the resulting country panels, we find some evidence in favour of demonstration effect for the period when television was spreading around the world and much consistent with the same effect for the more recent times when the Internet was rapidly becoming a preferred means of discovering foreign consumption standards. We speculate about the conjectural mechanisms that could make sense of the results.
E71|Workers' reciprocity and the (ir)relevance of wage cyclicality for the volatility of job creation|In the last two decades advances in the theory of labour market fluctuations have emphasised the role of new hires' wage rigidity - rather than wage rigidity of existing workers - to explain the large volatility of unemployment observed in the data. However, recent evidence suggests that wages paid to newly hired workers are substantially pro-cyclical. By considering the effect that wage changes can have on workers' effort, and therefore on output, this paper provides two novel theoretical results. First, it is shown that the anticipation by firms of the effort response of new hires to wage changes can amplify the magnitude of shocks to the extent that, in contrast with the existing literature, the cyclicality of the hiring wage becomes irrelevant for their decision to hire new workers, and hence for the volatility of job creation. Second, it is shown that firms' expectation of existing workers' downward wage rigidity - and the anticipation of their negative reciprocity response to future wage cuts - does matter for the expected value of posting a new vacancy, and under certain conditions it may even reduce firms' incentive to hire.
E71|Time-Inconsistent Discounting and the Friedman Rule: The Role of Non-Unitary Discounting|We examine the optimality of the Friedman rule by considering recent developments in behavioral economics. We construct a simple macroeconomic model where agents discount consumption and leisure at different rates. We also consider a standard exponential discounting model and a hyperbolic discounting model, assuming that the same discounting applies to both consumption and leisure. Money is introduced via a cash-in-advance constraint. Although the three models are observationally equivalent, they provide different policy implications. The Friedman rule is optimal in the latter two models, whereas it is not optimal in the first model when agents discount consumption at a higher rate than leisure.
E71|A New Keynesian Model with Wealth in the Utility Function|This paper extends the New Keynesian model by introducing wealth, in the form of government bonds, into the utility function. The extension modifies the Euler equation: in steady state the real interest rate is negatively related to consumption instead of being constant, equal to the time discount rate. Thus, when the marginal utility of wealth is large enough, the dynamical system representing the equilibrium is a source not only in normal times but also at the zero lower bound. This property eliminates the zero-lower-bound anomalies of the New Keynesian model, such as explosive output and inflation, and forward-guidance puzzle.
E71|An analysis of systematic risk in worldwide econonomic sentiment indices|"In this paper, we investigate the temporal dynamics of correlations between sentiment indices worldwide. Employing the tools of Random Matrix Theory (RMT) and Principal Component Analysis (PCA), our paper aims to extract latent information embedded in the interactions between economic and business sentiment indices around the world. We find that: (i) The dynamics of the sentiment indices across countries can be well explained by the evolution of a single factor (the ""market mode""), (ii) during most periods, some groups of countries exhibit sentiment dynamics less associated with (or divergent from) the market mode, while (iii) during the financial crisis, no country or group of countries has been able to escape the market mode, which accounts for almost all movements in the indices. We argue that strong ""global"" information signals, like the collapse of the US housing market in 2007, can lead to a homogenization of the expectation structure around the world, as such information can provide a coordination signal for a global phase of low confidence."
E71|The Use of Business Expectations in the Short-Term Forecasting of Economic Activity in Ukrainian|This paper focuses on the predictive capability of business outlook survey findings in forecasting changes in Ukraine’s real GDP, and in its consumption and investment components. Survey findings have been generalized through the use of principal component analysis. The business outlook index compiled by the National Bank of Ukraine is used as an alternative measure. To forecast GDP and its components, we employ ARDL and VAR models, which factor in the estimated principal components, the business outlook index, and the business outlook survey findings for construction investment over the next 12 months. In estimating the predictive capability of the models, we use pseudo-out-of-sample forecasting. A comparison with actual data shows that annual GDP and consumption growth are best forecast in the current period by applying business outlook survey findings that have been generalized using a principal component analysis, and the first difference of the business outlook index.
E71|Belief Disagreement and Portfolio Choice|Using a proprietary dataset of the portfolio holdings of millions of US households, we document how agents who believe in different models of the world update their beliefs heterogeneously in response to a public signal. We identify households ex ante that hold different models of the world using political party affiliation (probabilistically inferred from zip code), and our public signal is the unexpected outcome of the US national election of 2016. Relative to Democrats, Republican investors actively increase the equity share and market beta of their portfolios following the election. The rebalancing is due to a small share of investors making large adjustments. We conclude that this behavior is driven by belief heterogeneity because of extensive controls for differential hedging needs or preferences, including detailed controls for age, wealth, income, state, and even county-employer fixed effects.
E71|The Effect of Elections on Consumer Confidence in Europe|In line with the growing prominence of consumer confidence as a leading indicator of economic activity, a body of literature has built up which aims to explain its drivers. While all studies seem to agree that consumer confidence can be partially explained by variables reflecting economic fundamentals, there is less agreement on the role played by potentially relevant, non-economic events. This paper focusses on the effect of elections. Considering that they occur regularly they pose a repetitive challenge to analysts and forecasters eager to distil the right signals from the data. In this article, we analyse the impact of elections on consumer confidence in a selection of EU Member States, using error correction models, which control for a variety of relevant background variables. Proxying consumer confidence by data from the Joint Harmonised EU Programme of Business and Consumer Surveys, our analysis allows for a high degree of cross-country comparability. The presented results show elections in Austria, France and Germany to have a significant, positive effect on consumers' expectations regarding the general economic situation. The estimated cumulative effect on the level of the indicator from the beginning of the election period to the actual election (or month thereafter) is far from negligible, close to 1.0 standard deviation of the level of the dependent variable. The time it takes for the effect to build up differs across countries, with results ranging between four and nine months. In Belgium, by contrast, the results of our analysis do not provide indications of any kind of election effect on consumer expectations.
E71|What drives household inflation expectations in South Africa? Demographics and anchoring under inflation targeting|This paper examines the demographic determinants of inflation expectations in South Africa. Five surveys covering the period 2006-2016, and consisting of over 12000 observations were empirically examined using time series, cross-sectional, censored and quantile regressions. We assess whether factors such as gender, income, education, race and age, impact one year ahead inflation expectations. In doing so we uncover clear behavioural biases in how respondents view the inflation outlook. For example, education and income tend to be inversely related to inflation expectations. This is consistent with the literature although we observe significant changes over time that many other surveys are unable to uncover. In addition, it seems that inflation expectations respond to recently observed inflation. Unlike other studies, younger individuals have lower inflation expectations and we conjecture that the adoption of inflation targeting in South Africa played a role. Finally, we find that demographic characteristics interact with communication by the South African Reserve Bank, as well whether inflation is rising or falling. These are two additional novel features of the analysis.
E71|Google econometrics: nowcasting euro area car sales and big data quality requirements|Big data” is becoming an increasingly important aspect of our daily lives as the digital sources of information and intelligence that it encompasses become more structured and more publicly available. These sources may enable the generation of new datasets providing high-frequency and timely insights into unconscious digital behaviour and the consequent actions of economic agents, which may, in turn, assist in the generation of early indicators of economic and financial trends and activities. This paper examines the usefulness of Google search data in nowcasting euro area car sales, as a leading macroeconomic indicator, and considers the quality requirements for using these new data sources as a toolkit for sound decision and policy making. The paper finds that, while Google data may have predictive capabilities for nowcasting euro area car sales, further quality improvements in the data source are needed in order to move beyond experimental statistics. If these quality requirements can be met, the resulting advances in theory and knowledge around interpreting big data can be expected to significantly re-shape how we think about and explain both behaviour and complex socio-economic phenomena. JEL Classification: C53, C82, E58, E71
E71|Entrepreneurial Discovery Capital|This paper identifies how capital losses are unavoidably incurred in the discovery of viable entrepreneurial ventures. Losses are proportional to the novelty and perceived profit potential of a prospective venture, exemplified by the high risk/high return nature of high technology start-ups. Venture capitalists internalize the costs and benefits of this discovery process, and set up portfolios where the majority of funded ventures unavoidably fail or earn subpar returns. They incur these losses in order to discover the one Winner venture whose outsize returns will compensate for the capital losses in the failed ventures. The investment in failing ventures is unavoidable and necessary to discover the Winner because the winning business model cannot be determined ex ante. I call this investment “Entrepreneurial Discovery Capital.” This paper hypothesizes that many industry and economy-wide cycles may be the result of such a process that occurs at a much larger scale than a single fund. Venture capital in microcosm provides a model of an economy-wide process where the decisions of myriad market participants are coordinated “as if by an invisible hand” by signals from the capital markets.
E71|Short-run and long-run food import elasticities with persistent trading habits| This paper provides estimates and explores the role of own price import demand (Armington) elasticities between different source countries for five agricultural commodities in a framework that incorporates temporal dimension formulated as trading habit persistence. The estimations employ FAOâ€™s bilateral food commodity trade database, complemented with importer and exporter country characteristics from other data. The results support the hypothesis that trade patterns are persistent the adjustment following price changes takes effect with delays. Apart from the evidence for the presence of habit persistence and hence different short and long-term elasticities in general, significant differences between countries are also evidenced, in particular between high- and low-income countries and between main geographic areas. Consistently with the barriers for market entry considerations we also observe higher persistence downwards than upwards.
E71|A New Keynesian Model with Wealth in the Utility Function|This paper extends the textbook New Keynesian model by introducing wealth, in the form of government bonds, in households' utility function. As bonds are in zero net supply, the IS curve imposes that output is decreasing in the real interest rate---as in the old IS-LM model. In contrast, the textbook model's IS curve imposes that the real rate is constant, equal to the time discount factor. As a result, when price rigidity and marginal utility of wealth are sufficient, our extended model's equilibrium has a unique steady state and is globally determinate, whether monetary policy is active, passive, or an interest-rate peg. This property greatly simplifies the analysis of the zero lower bound. Furthermore several pathologies of the textbook model at the zero lower bound---such as the forward-guidance puzzle---disappear.
E71|Riding the Credit Boom|Research on leverage and asset-price fluctuations focuses on the direct effect of lax bank lending enabling financially-constrained investors to take excessive risks. Ignored are unconstrained investors speculating on higher prices during credit booms. To identify these two effects, we utilize China's staggered liberalization of stock-margin lending from 2010-2015—which encouraged a bank/brokerage-credit-fueled stock-market bubble. The direct effect is a 25 cent increase in a stock's market capitalization for each dollar of margin debt. Unconstrained investors led to an even larger increase in valuations of an additional 32 cents as they speculated on stocks likely to qualify for lending.
E71|Business cycle narratives|This article quantifies the epidemiology of media narratives relevant to business cycles in the US, Japan, and Europe (euro area). We do so by first constructing daily business cycle indexes computed on the basis of the news topics the media writes about. At a broad level, the most in uential news narratives are shown to be associated with general macroeconomic developments, finance, and (geo-)politics. However, a large set of narratives contributes to our index estimates across time, especially in times of expansion. In times of trouble, narratives associated with economic uctuations become more sparse. Likewise, we show that narratives do go viral, but mostly so when growth is low. While narratives interact in complicated ways, we document that some are clearly associated with economic fundamentals. Other narratives, on the other hand, show no such relationship, and are likely better explained by classical work capturing the market's animal spirits.
E71|German Public Attitudes Towards Asylum Seekers, Immigrants in the Workplace, Inflation, and Local Budgets: Evidence from a Representative Survey of the German Population|This paper provides background information and basic descriptive statistics for a representative survey of the German population conducted on our behalf by GfK in the first quarter of 2018. The survey covers various topics, including: 1) attitudes towards asylum seekers; 2) migrating workers in the workplace; 3) inflation and monetary policy; and 4) the role played by local budgets in local voting decisions. We also collect a broad range of socio-demographic and psychological indicators.
E71|Internal rationalityuyuyuy, heterogeneity and complexity in the New Keynesian model|This paper studies the dynamic behaviour of a workhorse New Keynesian model in which households and firms can be fully rational or internally rational. First, we derive the model with a fixed proportion n of agents fully rational and a fixed proportion (1-n) of agents internally rational, in a similar manner to Massaro (2013). In this model, we establish two propositions. First, a decrease in the proportion of fully rational agents does not destabilise the system if the rational expectations determinacy condition for the monetary rule holds. Second, the rational expectations determinacy condition is identical to the stability condition for the model in which all agents are internally rational. We then extend the model to include predictor selection along the lines of Branch and McGough (2010). In this model, we establish two further propositions. First, the rational expectations determinacy condition ensures local determinacy and stability as the cost of being fully rational becomes infinitely negative. Second, if the model starts from a position of indeterminacy, an increase in the fixed cost of being fully rational can lead to the loss of local stability via a Hopf bifurcation. A rational route to randomness follows from this, which we explore numerically. Taken as a whole, these results indicate that complex dynamics in the internally rational New Keynesian model are closely associated with monetary policy failures. Finally, we consider the robustness of our results to changes in the monetary policy rule.
E71|Socioeconomic Status and Macroeconomic Expectations|We show that individuals' macroeconomic expectations are influenced by their socioeconomic status (SES). People with higher income or higher education are more optimistic about future macroeconomic developments, including business conditions, the national unemployment rate, and stock market returns. The spread in beliefs between high- and low-SES individuals diminishes significantly during recessions. A comparison with professional forecasters and historical data reveals that the beliefs wedge reflects excessive pessimism on the part of low-SES individuals. SES-driven expectations help explain why higher-SES individuals are more inclined to invest in the stock market and more likely to consider purchasing homes, durable goods, or cars.
E71|The Great Deception: the ‘science’ of monetary policy and the Great Moderation revisited|Conventional wisdom suggests that the Great Moderation was caused by either good policy, good luck (favourable shocks), more efficient private sector behaviour (such as better inventory management), or more effective financial innovations. We show that it may, instead, have originated from the complementarity of an erroneous reading of the economy by central bankers and evolutionarily time-varying heterogeneity in inflation expectations formation within the private sector. One general finding of our analysis is that seemingly inadequate stabilization policies may, in fact, work. We comment on the broader ramifications for stabilization policy of this finding.
E71|Socioeconomic Status and Macroeconomic Expectations|We show that individuals' macroeconomic expectations are influenced by their socioeconomic status (SES). People with higher income or higher education are more optimistic about future macroeconomic developments, including business conditions, the national unemployment rate, and stock market returns. The spread in beliefs between high- and low-SES individuals diminishes significantly during recessions. A comparison with professional forecasters and historical data reveals that the beliefs wedge reflects excessive pessimism on the part of low-SES individuals. SES-driven expectations help explain why higher-SES individuals are more inclined to invest in the stock market and more likely to consider purchasing homes, durable goods, or cars.
E71|How political systems and social welfare policies affect well-being: A literature review|This chapter focusses on the question of how formal institutions, like those governing the level of freedom, the regulatory state, political parties and the generosity of the welfare state, affect self-reported well-being. The evidence suggests, for example, that more freedom, as well as government structures which encourage civic engagement, participation and trust, have positive effects. Many studies, however, use cross-sectional data with small sample sizes, often due to institutions being measured at the country level with limited variation over time. As a consequence, further work is needed to test robustness. Stronger results hold with respect to particular types of welfare state institutions, like unemployment benefits, which are subject to quite frequent changes within nations. Increases in unemployment benefits are associated with higher levels of well-being for all workers, probably due to greater income security. However, doubt still persists as to their overall impact, due to the extent to which well-being is adversely affected by the higher taxes needed to support a more generous welfare state.
E71|Does unemployment aggravate suicide rates in South Africa? Some empirical evidence|Our study investigates the cointegration relationship between suicides and unemployment in South Africa using annual data collected between 1996 and 2015 applied to the ARDL model. Furthermore, our empirical analysis is gender and age specific in the sense that the suicide data is disintegrated into different ‘sex’ and ‘age’ demographics. Our empirical results indicate that unemployment is insignificantly related with suicide rates with the exception for citizens above 75 years. On the other hand, other control variables such as per capita GDP, inflation and divorce appear to be more significantly related with suicides. Collectively, these findings have important implications for policymakers.
E71|The Great Deception: The 'Science' of Monetary Policy and the Great Moderation Revisited|Conventional wisdom suggests that the Great Moderation was caused by either good policy, good luck (favourable shocks), more efficient private sector behaviour (such as better inventory management), or more effective financial innovations. We show that it may, instead, have originated from the complementarity of an erroneous reading of the economy by central bankers and evolutionarily time-varying heterogeneity in inflation expectations formation within the private sector. One general finding of our analysis is that seemingly inadequate stabilization policies may, in fact, work. We comment on the broader ramifications for stabilization policy of this finding.
E71|Learning, as a wonder weapon of endogenous growth?|This extended book review of Creating a Learning Society by Joseph Stiglitz and Bruce Greenwald (2014) looks at the 700-page long scholarly work from a transition economy perspective. Using as a starting point Arrow’s renowned concept of “learning by doing”, the authors throw away the doctrines of free trade, liberalization of capital, as well as the liberalization of labour and currency markets (for short: the Washington consensus) by claiming that these policies imped economy-wide learning. In the opinion of the present author, Stiglitz and his co-author are using the term “learning” in such a broad sense that it becomes almost meaningless as an explanatory factor in their endogenous growth concept thought out primarily for less developed (infant) economies.
E71|More than a feeling: confidence, uncertainty and macroeconomic fluctuations|Economists, observers and policy-makers often emphasize the role of sentiment as a potential driver of the business cycle. In this paper we provide three contributions to this debate. First, we give a concise overview of the recent literature on sentiment (considering both confidence and uncertainty) and economic activity. Second, we review existing empirical measures of sentiment, in particular consumer confidence, stock market volatility (SMV) and Economic Policy Uncertainty (EPU), on monthly data for 27 countries, 1985-2016. Third, we identify some new stylized facts based on international evidence. While different measures are surprisingly lowly correlated on average in each country, they are typically highly positively correlated across countries, suggesting the existence of a global factor. Consumer confidence has the closest co-movement with economic and financial variables, and most of the correlations are contemporaneous or forward-looking, consistent with the view that economic sentiment is indeed a driver of activity. JEL Classification: E32, E71, F44, G15, G41
E71|Internal Rationality, Heterogeneity, and Complexity in the New Keynesian Model|This paper studies the dynamic behaviour of a workhorse New Keynesian model in which households and rms can be fully rational or internally rational. First, we derive the model with a xed proportion n of agents fully rational and a xed proportion (1-n) of agents internally rational, in a similar manner to Massaro (2013). In this model, we establish two propositions. First, a decrease in the proportion of fully rational agents does not destabilise the system if the rational expectations determinacy condition for the monetary rule holds. Second, the rational expectations determinacy condition is identical to the stability condition for the model in which all agents are internally rational. We then extend the model to include predictor selection along the lines of Branch and McGough (2010). In this model, we establish two further propositions. First, the rational expectations determinacy condition ensures local determinacy and stability as the cost of being fully rational becomes in nitely negative. Second, if the model starts from a position of indeterminacy, an increase in the xed cost of being fully rational can lead to the loss of local stability via a Hopf bifurcation. A rational route to randomness follows from this, which we explore numerically. Taken as a whole, these results indicate that complex dynamics in the internally rational New Keynesian model are closely associated with monetary policy failures. Finally, we consider the robustness of our results to changes in the monetary policy rule.
E71|Les fondements utilitaristes et anti-utilitaristes de la coopération en biologie|Alors que les sciences naturelles ont semblé donner raison à l’utilitarisme pendant plus d’un demi-siècle, il devient aujourd’hui possible de contredire cette hypothèse :l’homme n’est pas uniquement égoïste, en plus du fait qu’il n’est pas parfaitement rationnel. Ce non-utilitarisme de l’être humain s’applique aux formes les plus primitives de la vie :la coopération est inscrite dès les origines et pourrait être un des moteurs essentiels de l’évolution. La découverte récente de mécanismes permettant la naissance de la coopération dans un contexte de gènes postulés égoïstes remet cent ans de débats socio-logiques sur la table de travail.
