F00|Migración internacional y determinantes de las remesas de trabajadores en Colombia|Esta investigación contribuye a la identificación, caracterización y modelación de los determinantes de las remesas de trabajadores en Colombia. Incluye una descripción de la evolución y características del flujo migratorio de colombianos hacia el exterior y de los receptores de éstas transferencias en el país. El análisis de los determinantes macroeconómicos de las remesas se realiza mediante la estimación de un modelo VEC, el cual considera, además de las remesas, el stock de migrantes colombianos en el exterior y algunos agregados macroeconómicos que permiten aproximar las variables de decisión del migrante para el envío de recursos a su país de origen. Los resultados del modelo muestran que las remesas se ven favorecidas por el desempeño del PIB de los países donde residen los migrantes, así como por el aumento de la emigración de nacionales hacia el exterior. A su vez, permiten concluir que estas transferencias son contracíclicas con respecto al PIB de Colombia. **** ABSTRACT: This paper is a contribution to the process of identifying, characterizing and modeling the determinants of workers' remittances for the case of Colombia. It also includes a description of the evolution of the migratory flow of Colombians abroad and of the remittances recipient’s households. Remittances determinants are explained by using a VEC model that includes, in addition to the remittances inflows, the stock of Colombian migrants abroad and some macroeconomic aggregates that are thought to approximate the variables that influence the migrant's decision to send money to their families. According to the econometric results, Colombian workers remittances inflows are determined by the performance of the GDP of the countries where the migrants live, as well as by the increase in the international emigration of Colombians. In addition, these transfers show a countercyclical behavior against the Colombian GDP.
F00|The Primary Cause of European Inflation in 1500-1700: Precious Metals or Population? The English Evidence|"We perform the first econometric test to date of the influences of inflows of precious metals and population growth on the ""Great Inflation"" in Europe following the discov-ery of the New World. The English evidence strongly supports the near-equivalent im-portance of both influences. For 1500-1700, silver is the only relevant precious metal in the estimates. The study controls for urbanization, government spending, mortality crises and climatic changes. The series for inflows of the precious metals into Europe from America and European mining are newly constructed based on the secondary sources."
F00|The Primary Cause of European Inflation in 1500-1700: Precious Metals or Population? The English Evidence|We perform the first econometric test to date of the influences of inflows of precious metals and population growth on the “Great Inflation” in Europe following the discovery of the New World. The English evidence strongly supports the near-equivalent importance of both influences. For 1500-1700, silver is the only relevant precious metal in the estimates. The study controls for urbanization, government spending, mortality crises and climatic changes. The series for inflows of the precious metals into Europe from America and European mining are newly constructed based on the secondary sources.
F00|Financial crises: past and future|Abstract This article takes a selective global tour of some of the prominent economic and financial risks in advanced, emerging, and low-income developing economies. The primary emphasis is on near-term risks. The discussion covers areas where vulnerabilities have either already become manifest, or those where risks are mounting but have not yet sounded a glaring alarm. For the advanced economies, the topics cover aspects of the recent surge in collateralized lending obligations in the United States and Europe that are reminiscent of the pre-crisis boom in mortgage-backed securities as well as Italy’s unresolved debt overhang. On emerging markets (EMs) and developing economies, the themes cover the curious case of the missing defaults (2011–2018); global factors and EM turbulence; and China’s international lending to low-income countries and its consequences. A brief discussion of some persistent medium-to-long-term concerns about the rising levels of US public debt and the tensions that arise from internal economic objectives and the external pressures associated with the US dollar’s role as the world’s principal reserve currency completes the discussion.
F00|The Impact of Weather on Commodity Prices: A Warning for the Future|Drawing on the most recent advances of the panel VAR literature, we investigate the impact of weather on commodity prices. We first test our model against alternative models. Then, we use it to simulate scenarios to study the impact of weather on commodity price transmission. We propose a framework that can be generalized to assess the impact of weather on a variety of commodity markets. The results show that (i) while shocks to temperatures affect commodity prices, precipitations are less relevant; (ii) an increase in temperatures is likely to increase prices; (iii) the impact on prices is not only direct but it spills over to other exporting countries; (iv) simulating a scenario compatible with global warming we find that it is likely to lead to a substantial increase in commodity prices and spillover effects; (v) these effects are amplified if we account for a contemporaneous shock to the economy. We discuss implications for the future, which can be useful for policy implementation.
F00|Propagation of Commodity Market Shocks|We address the transmission of commodity price shocks and assess how source-specific shocks spillover to other exporting countries.Applying a multi-country panel VAR, we show that a model that allows for cross-country interdependencies is an appropriate specification of commodity markets. Source-specific shocks therefore have both direct and spillover effects and the results indicate that these spillover effects are both statistically and economically significant. Accounting for these spillover effects has important implications for understanding commodity price dynamics and the management of price shocks in both exporting and importing countries.
F00|Weather, Prices and Spillovers|Changes in weather patterns associated with climate change can be an important determinant of commodity price volatility. In this paper, we provide new insights into this issue from two perspectives. First, by using detailed country-level precipitation data for a specific commodity (bananas), and employing a panel VAR model, we show that untypical rainfall patterns are an important influence on export prices and that the impact on export prices varies across exporters given the largely uncorrelated experience of anomalous levels of precipitation. Second, we show that source-specific rainfall patterns generate spillovers across competing exporters and these spillover effects can dominate the own-country precipitation anomaly effect. Accounting for these spillover effects is important for several reasons: (i) the aggregate impact of weather fluctuations on importers depends on the magnitude of these effects which we show to be quantitatively strong; (ii) for some exporters, the spillover effect on export prices can be a more important source of price volatility than their own experience of untypical weather; (iii) given the frequency of precipitation anomalies across all export countries, untypical variations in weather is an important source of commodity price volatility for all exporters and importers. In sum, the impact of climate-related weather events on prices is more nuanced than recent research has suggested.
F00|What Does Financial Crisis Tell Us About Exporter Behavior and Credit Reallocation?|Using Japanese firm data covering the Japanese financial crisis in the early 1990s, we find that exporters' domestic sales declined more significantly than their foreign sales, which in turn declined more significantly than non-exporters' sales. This stylized fact provides a new litmus test for different theories proposed in the literature to explain a trade collapse associated with a financial crisis. In this paper we embed the Melitz's (2003) model into a tractable DSGE framework with incomplete financial markets and endogenous credit allocation to explain both the Japanese firm-level data and the well-documented aggregate trade collapse during a financial crisis in world economic history. The model highlights the role of credit reallocation between non-exporters and exporters as the main mechanism in explaining exporters' behaviors and trade collapse following a financial crisis.
F00|A Macroprudential Theory of Foreign Reserve Accumulation|This paper proposes a theory of foreign reserves as macroprudential policy. We study an open economy model of financial crises, in which pecuniary externalities lead to over-borrowing, and show that by accumulating international reserves, the government can achieve the constrained-efficient allocation. The optimal reserve accumulation policy leans against the wind and significantly reduces the exposure to financial crises. The theory is consistent with the joint dynamics of private and official capital flows, both over time and in the cross section, and can quantitatively account for the recent upward trend in international reserves.
F00|International Coordination of Economic Policies in the Global Financial Crisis: Successes, Failures, and Consequences|The global financial crisis dominated the international financial landscape during the first 20 years of the 21st century. This paper assesses the contribution of the international coordination of economic policies to contain the crisis. The paper evaluates international efforts to diagnose the crisis and decide on appropriate responses, the treatments that were agreed and adopted, and the successes and failures as the crisis unfolded. International economic policy coordination eventually contributed importantly to containing the crisis, but the authorities failed to agree on a diagnosis and the consequent need for joint action until the case was obvious. The policy actions that were adopted were powerful and effective, but they may have undermined prospects for coordinated responses to crises in the future.
F00|Tracking the Sustainable Development Goals: Emerging Measurement Challenges and Further Reflections|The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) recently adopted by the United Nations represent an important step to identify shared global goals for development over the next two decades. Yet, the stated goals are not as straightforward and easy to interpret as they appear on the surface. Review of the SDG indicators suggests that some further refinements can be made to their wordings, and their underlying objectives can be further clarified. We bring attention to potential pitfalls with interpretation, where different evaluation methods can lead to different conclusions about country performance. Review of the United Nations’ SDG database highlights the overwhelming challenge with missing data: data are available for just over half of all indicators and for just 19 percent of what is needed to comprehensively track progress across countries and over time. We offer further reflections and propose some simple but cost-effective solutions to these challenges.
F00|Special Deals with Chinese Characteristics|Chinese local governments wield their enormous political power and administrative capacity to provide “special deals” for favored private firms. We argue that China’s extraordinary economic growth comes from these special deals. Local political leaders do so because they derive personal benefits, either political or monetary, from providing special deals. Competition between local governments limits the predatory effects of special deals.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F00|Survey of literature on Measuring Logistics cost: A Developing Country’s Perspective|In today’s world, economic climate changes more quickly, and countries realize that globalization has made the world smaller and more competitive. Also, customers seek products and services that can respond to their specific needs and firms make effort to create competitive advantages to keep their profit and market share. All of the above trends lead firms and countries to focus on efficient logistics system. In this context, almost all developed economies and a few emerging economies estimate national logistics cost on a regular basis to understand the efficiency of their logistics system. This paper makes an attempt to survey the literature on logistics cost estimation with special emphasis from the perspective of a developing country like India where estimation is a challenge due to limitation of data.
F00|Economy of Kalimantan: a Snapshot|This chapter aims to give a snapshot of the economies in Kalimantan provinces. Salient factors such as sharing common border with North Kalimantan, Kalimantan as Sabah’s backdoor neighbor with huge market size of over 4 times than Sabah and the relocation of Indonesia’s capital from Jakarta to Kalimantan, have stimulated the interests of many analysts to research on the structure of Kalimantan’s economy in general.
F00|The Long-run relationship between ODA, growth and governance: An application of FMOLS and DOLS Approachs|This paper investigates the role of good governance to ameliorate, in the long-run term, the effectiveness of foreign aid in terms of economic growth in Maghrebian economies from 1996 to 2014, using the FMOLS and DOLS model. According to the results of the analysis, it was determined that there is a negative relationship between foreign aid and economic growth in the long-run term. However, the effectiveness of aid had ameliorated if countries have good quality of governance, measured by the six dimensions of World Bank Governance. Nevertheless, the most pertinent indicators that ameliorate the aid’s effectiveness are Control of Corruption, Voice and Accountability and Quality of Regulation.
F00|Cross-Border Capital Flows and Return Dynamics in Emerging Stock Markets: Relative Roles of Equity and Debt Flows|This paper examines the wealth and risk effects of cross-border capital flows on emerging stock markets by distinguishing between equity and debt flows and using a panel GARCH approach. We find that both equity and debt flows possess incremental information over emerging stock market returns and volatility that is not captured by aggregate capital market risk factors. While the explanatory power of debt flows is relatively stronger and more robust, even after controlling for world market return, volatility as well as leverage and asymmetric effects, we find that equity flows assume significant explanatory power, particularly during the post-global financial crisis period. Further analysis also shows that changes in debt flows can serve as a significant determinant of crash risks in emerging stock markets. Finally, our findings indicate a robust effect of debt flows on idiosyncratic risks at the country level with significant implications for asset valuations in emerging stock markets.
F00|The Importance Of Culture For The Development Of Nations: A Comparative Between Developed Countries And Emerging Markets|"The paper evaluates the influence of cultural aspects on innovation, comparing emerging markets to developed countries. The assumption that guide the paper is that individualistic nations are risk-takers and tend to show higher innovation rates; whereas countries whose relations are more hierarchical, and therefore with high power distance, tend to be less innovative. It was conducted a multivariate data analysis from 56 nations, divided into developed and emerging countries, according to the International Monetary Fund criteria, that defines 36 countries as ""advanced economies"". The results indicate that confidence in population is related to a country?s degree of innovation. Nations with greater trust between individuals who are related tend to have a higher innovation index, while, on the other hand, countries in where people tend to have greater confidence in their neighborhood and community, have a lower chance of being innovative."
F00|Trade relations and Export Orientation Prospects of Georgian Economy on EU market|On the basis of country`s economic increase, analysis of employment and export potential, in the article, there are revealed the challenges of global economy and evaluated the competitiveness of economy of Georgia. There are studied the reasons causing negative balance of foreign trade. On the basis of generalization of increase theories oriented on the export, there are assessed the significance of offer the manufacture of new export products and service relating the export products and the intensity of their sell, extension of export geography and increase of export potential of the country. Besides, there is confirmed the state`s role in increase of production`s efficiency by rational distribution of resources. There are worked out the references regarding the acceleration and improvement of trade and economic relations between the Georgia and EU during the process of integration in EU.
F00|Tracking the Sustainable Development Goals : Emerging Measurement Challenges and Further Reflections|The Sustainable Development Goals recently adopted by the United Nations represent an important step to identify shared global goals for development over the next two decades. Yet, the stated goals are not as straightforward and easy to interpret as they appear on the surface. Review of the Sustainable Development Goals indicators suggests that some further refinements to their wordings and clarifications to their underlying objectives would be useful. This paper brings attention to potential pitfalls with interpretation, where different evaluation methods can lead to different conclusions about country performance. The review of the United Nations'Sustainable Development Goals database highlights the overwhelming challenge with missing data: data are available for just over 50 percent of all the indicators and for just 19 percent of what is needed for comprehensively tracking progress across countries and over time. The paper offers further reflections and proposes some simple but cost-effective solutions to these challenges.
F00|The consequences of U.S. technology changes for productivity in advanced economies|Since at least the mid-2000's, many advanced economies have experienced low productivity growth. This development is often related to the declining productivity gains at the technology frontier, which is commonly assumed to be determined by the U.S. We challenge this explanation by studying the effects of changes in U.S. technology on the productivity level in other advanced economies. Overall, we find positive but small spillover effects of U.S. technology shocks. The elasticity of foreign labor productivity with respect to a one percent increase in the U.S. technology level is significantly lower than one for many countries. The recent U.S. productivity slowdown, therefore, had a limited effect on productivity developments in advanced economies. Furthermore, our results suggest that institutional factors are not able to explain cross-country differences in the size of the spillover effects. If any, regulation of the service sector seems to play a role.
F00|Global Evidence on Economic Preferences|This article studies the global variation in economic preferences. For this purpose, we present the Global Preference Survey (GPS), an experimentally validated survey data set of time preference, risk preference, positive and negative reciprocity, altruism, and trust from 80,000 people in 76 countries. The data reveal substantial heterogeneity in preferences across countries, but even larger within-country heterogeneity. Across individuals, preferences vary with age, gender, and cognitive ability, yet these relationships appear partly country specific. At the country level, the data reveal correlations between preferences and biogeographic and cultural variables, such as agricultural suitability, language structure, and religion. Variation in preferences is also correlated with economic outcomes and behaviors. Within countries and subnational regions, preferences are linked to individual savings decisions, labor market choices, and prosocial behaviors. Across countries, preferences vary with aggregate outcomes ranging from per capita income, to entrepreneurial activities, to the frequency of armed conflicts.
F00|Distortions and the Structure of the World Economy|We develop a model of the world economy as input-output relationships subject to distortions. We then propose a methodology to solve the identification problem, common to the literature on misallocation in input-output relationships, of separating sectoral TFPs from the sectoral distortions. Using both the input shares and the consumption shares within the CES production and CES consumption structure we derive simple closed-form sufficient statistics for the sectoral distortions and for the sectoral TFPs. We then derive a closed-form solution of the elasticities of each entry in the world input-output matrix to distortions. We compute a total of more than half a million internal distortions and TFPs and document significant heterogeneity of those across countries and sectors. We then calculate the whole matrix of about two million elasticities to distortions and TFPs of the input-output matrix of the world economy. We show that internal (within a given country) distortions significantly affect the structure of the economy of that country and have sizeable cross effects on the input-output matrix of other countries. We then find that the world GDP elasticity to changes in internal distortions is an order of magnitude larger than that of the external distortions.
F00|Macroeconomic Independence and Optimum Currency Area in the Eurozone: An Alternative Assessment|This paper attempts to investigate the degree of macroeconomic autonomy among the 12 original members of the eurozone. We develop a new measure of macroeconomic independence based on the concept of the desired policy interest rate each country would have chosen if it had retained its own currency and independent monetary policy. If it is detached from the centrally imposed policy rate and the two behave differently, we take it as an indication that the country should be constrained by the common central bank and has low degree of macroeconomic independence (MAI).We find that the original twelve members have indeed enjoyed varying degrees of MAI. Austria, France, Germany, Italy, and Luxembourg retain highest degree of MAI while Ireland, Greece, and Spain seem to have suffered from the lowest degree of MAI. The newly proposed MAI performs well as an OCA index, if not better than existing indices. On the one hand, so called the ?core? countries show up as those that have maintained high MAI. On the one hand, the ?periphery? countries have retained low MAI in the currency union.
F00|Electoral incentives, term limits, and the sustainability of peace|One of the few stylized facts in international relations is that democracies, unlike autocracies, almost never fight each other. Recent empirical findings show that binding term limits invalidate this result: democratic dyads in which at least one country imposes term limits on the executive are as conflict prone as autocratic and mixed dyads. Moreover, in democracies with two-term limits conflicts are more likely during the executive's second term. To rationalize these findings, we model international relations as a repeated prisoners’ dilemma. We show that the fear of losing office makes democratic leaders less willing to start costly conflicts. Crucially, this discipline effect can only be at work if incumbent leaders can run for re-election. Term limits thus make it harder to sustain peaceful relations.
F00|Gross Capital Flows by Banks, Corporates and Sovereigns|We construct a new dataset of quarterly international capital flows by sector, with an emphasis on debt flows. Using our new dataset, we establish four facts. First, the comovement of capital inflows and outflows is driven by inflows and outflows vis-á-vis the domestic banking sector. Second, procyclicality of capital inflows is driven by banks and corporates, whereas sovereigns’ external liabilities move acyclically in advanced and countercyclically in emerging countries. Third, procyclicality of capital outflows is driven by advanced countries’ banks and emerging countries’ sovereigns (reserves). Fourth, capital inflows and outflows decline for banks and corporates when global risk aversion (VIX) increases, whereas sovereigns’ flows show no response. These facts are inconsistent with a large class of theoretical models.
F00|The Intensive Margin in Trade|"The Melitz model highlights the importance of the extensive margin (the number of firms exporting) for trade flows. Using the World Bank's Exporter Dynamics Database (EDD) featuring firm-level exports from 50 countries, we find that around 50% of variation in exports is along the extensive margin --- a quantitative victory for the Melitz framework. The remaining 50% on the intensive margin (exports per exporting firm) contradicts a special case of Melitz with Pareto-distributed firm productivity, which has become a tractable benchmark. This benchmark model predicts that, conditional on the fixed costs of exporting, all variation in exports across trading partners should occur on the extensive margin. We find that moving from a Pareto to a lognormal distribution allows the Melitz model to match the role of the intensive margin in the EDD. We use likelihood methods and the EDD to estimate a generalized Melitz model with a joint lognormal distribution for firm-level productivity, fixed costs and demand shifters, and use ""exact hat algebra"" to quantify the effects of a decline in trade costs on trade flows and welfare in the estimated model. The welfare effects turn out to be quite close to those in the standard Melitz-Pareto model when we choose the Pareto shape parameter to fit the average trade elasticity implied by our estimated Melitz-lognormal model, although there are significant differences regarding the effects on trade flows."
F00|Measuring Economic Openness|A Review of Existing Measures and Empirical Practices This paper surveys existing measures of economic openness understood as the degree to which non-domestic actors can or do participate in a domestic economy. We introduce a typology of openness indicators which distinguishes between ‘real’ and ‘financial’ openness as well as between ‘de facto’ and ‘de jure’ measures of openness, and show that this classification indeed captures different dimensions of economic openness. The main contribution of the paper is to supply a comprehensive and novel data set of openness indicators available for interested researchers. Based on this effort, we analyse some trends in economic openness over time and provide a correlation analysis across indicators. Finally, we explore the practical implications of choosing from different openness measures within a growth regression framework and highlight that researchers should make the choice of the indicator based on explicit theoretical justifications that correspond to their specific research questions.
F00|Price and cost competitiveness misalignments of the euro area and of its main economies according to a quarterly BEER model, 1999-2017|This study first assesses recent misalignments of the real effective exchange rate (REER) of the euro area and of the Harmonized Competitiveness Indicators (HCIs) of its main economies, based on a quarterly Behavioural Equilibrium Exchange Rate (BEER) model. Next, it draws a comparison with comparable estimates published by the IMF and by CEPII. The BEER model here employed was first put forward by Fidora, Giordano and Schmitz (2017; 2018) and enables the assessment of the departure of actual REERs and HCIs from values consistent with underlying economic fundamentals (i.e. “equilibrium” values). The quarterly model has now been extended to cover a longer time span (1999-2017) and refined by employing new data sources, in particular relative to producer price indices, one of five alternative price/cost indicators used to derive the REERs and HCIs. There is evidence of a modest overvaluation of the euro-area REER in 2017, partly linked to the nominal appreciation of its currency in the second half of the year.
F00|Real exchange rate misalignments in the euro area|Building upon a Behavioural Equilibrium Exchange Rate (BEER) model, estimated at a quarterly frequency since 1999 on a broad sample of 57 countries, this paper assesses whether both the size and the persistence of real effective exchange rate misalignments from the levels implied by economic fundamentals are affected by the adoption of a single currency. While real misalignments are found to be smaller in the euro area than in its main trading partners, they are also more persistent, although the reactivity of real exchange rates to past misalignments increased, and therefore the persistence decreased, after the global financial crisis. In the absence of the nominal adjustment channel, an improvement in the quality of regulation and institutions is found to reduce the persistence of real exchange rate misalignments, plausibly by removing real rigidities. JEL Classification: E24, E30, F00
F00|Global Evidence on Economic Preferences|This paper studies the global variation in economic preferences. For this purpose, we present the Global Preference Survey (GPS), an experimentally validated survey dataset of time preference, risk preference, positive and negative reciprocity, altruism, and trust from 80,000 individuals in 76 countries. The data reveal substantial heterogeneity in preferences across countries, but even larger within-country heterogeneity. Across individuals, preferences vary with age, gender, and cognitive ability, yet these relationships appear partly country specific. At the country level, the data reveal correlations between preferences and bio-geographic and cultural variables such as agricultural suitability, language structure, and religion. Variation in preferences is also correlated with economic outcomes and behaviors. Within countries and subnational regions, preferences are linked to individual savings decisions, labor market choices, and prosocial behaviors. Across countries, preferences vary with aggregate outcomes ranging from per capita income, to entrepreneurial activities, to the frequency of armed conflicts.
F00|Explaining Trumpism as a Structural US Problem: New Insights and Transatlantic Plus Global Economic Perspectives|The 2016 US presidential election resulted in the populist Donald Trump becoming the 45th President of the United States. While many observers assume that this reflects a transitory phase of populism in the US, a closer analysis suggests that there will be a structural populist threat for the US, the West and the world economy. There is survey evidence that US voters consider the inequality which has emerged in the US over many years as unacceptable. At the same time the Lindh-McCall survey results show that the relative majority of US voters expect that big companies rather than government will correct this inequality. This is illusory and wishful thinking and will serve to create continued voter frustration for the lower half of households – this refers to the poorer half of US households – and populism could indeed expand on the basis of such frustration for many years to come. The main drivers of rising inequality in the US, namely ICT expansion, financial globalization and the rise of China’s exports will continue in the medium term so that US voters’ frustration is a structural problem that cannot easily be remedied and that has consequences for transatlantic and global economic relations as well as security policy implications. While the decline of the income share for the lower half of income earners in Western Europe has been rather modest in 1981-2015, the decline of that share in the US has been dramatic, namely from 20% to 13%. The EU is nevertheless threatened by US populism since its political representatives are trying to export their ideology and approach to Italy and other Western continental EU countries. In the UK, a subtle populism is already becoming more apparent under the heading of BREXIT. If the EU27 could defend the model of the Social Market Economy and export this system to Asia and Africa while joining political forces with ASEAN – and possibly China – to defend the multilateral economic order, European impulses could help to contain US populism.
F00|The Welfare State besides Globalization Forces|In this paper we review of literature and offer historical, empirical and analytical explanation for the interactions between the welfare state and globalization driving forces. Globalization – a widespread contemporaneous phenomenon – generates international tax competition. The consequent erosion in the tax base, especially on capital, is another blow to the finances of the welfare state. Financial globalization facilitates reallocation of capital across borders. The increased mobility of capital may likely to trigger a race-to-the-bottom tax competition. The consequent erosion in the tax base, especially on capital, is potentially a blow to the fiscal finance backing up the far-reaching redistribution of income by the typical welfare state. Another major aspect of globalization, low skill migration, attracted to the welfare state may put additional strain on it. An aging welfare-state – a common contemporary phenomenon in many industrial countries calls for young and high skill immigrants for its survival.
F00|Towards Transnational European Democracy? The New Battles Lines of the 2019 European Parliament Election|The EU’s political system has never caught up with the impact European integration has had on citizens’ daily lives. EU citizens still vote in the European Parliament elections on different dates, according to different electoral laws, and in support of candidates selected by national parties and on the basis of domestic agendas. Yet this is set to change. With less than a year to go before the European Parliament elections, the EU political landscape is about to undergo a deep and historical shake-up. While populists are poised to disrupt the Parliament, a new wave of little-noticed transnational parties is emerging from the bottom-up. They both threaten established, mainstream political parties that have historically hold a monopoly of the European ‘project’. This paper traces their genesis, evolution and raison d'être before identifying their major features and political prospect.
F00|Three globalizations, not two: rethinking the history and economics of trade and globalization|The conventional wisdom is that there have been two globalizations in the modern era. The first began around 1870 and ended in 1914. The second began in 1945 and is still under way. This paper challenges that view and argues that there have been three globalizations, not two. The first half of the paper provides empirical evidence for the three-globalizations hypothesis. The second half discusses its analytical implications. The Victorian first globalization and the Keynesian-era second globalization were driven by gains from trade, and those gains increased industrialized country real wages. The neoliberal third globalization has been driven by industrial reorganization motivated by distributional conflict. Trade theory does not explain the third globalization; capitalâ€™s share has increased at the expense of laborâ€™s; and there can be no presumption of mutually beneficial country gains from the third globalization.
F00|Shining a Light on Purchasing Power Parities|Nighttime lights data are a measure of economic activity whose error is plausibly independent of the measurement errors of most conventional indicators. Therefore, we can use nighttime lights as an independent benchmark to assess existing measures of economic activity (Pinkovskiy and Sala-i-Martin (2016)). We employ this insight to generate three findings in the study of PPP-adjusted estimates of GDP around the world between 1992 and 2010. First, we find that while market exchange rates described poor economies better than did PPP-adjusted estimates in the late 1990s (Dowrick and Akmal 2008; Almas 2012), this pattern has disappeared by the 2010s. Second, we also find that estimates of PPPs have been steadily improving from one price survey round to the next, including during the controversial 2005 and 2011 rounds. Third, we leverage this fact to assess whether it is optimal to measure relative prices as close as possible to the year of interest or to use the latest available relative price data and discard the rest, and provide a theoretical framework in which the latter may be optimal. Using data from the Penn World Tables, we find that, indeed, it is optimal to only use the latest price data, and hence, to revise existing PPP-adjusted estimates whenever a new price survey is released.
F00|Global effective lower bound and unconventional monetary policy|In a standard open-economy New Keynesian model, the effective lower bound causes anomalies: output and terms of trade respond to a supply shock in the opposite direction compared to normal times. We introduce a tractable framework to accommodate for unconventional monetary policy. In our model, these anomalies disappear. We allow unconventional policy to be partially active and asymmetric between countries. Empirically, we find the US, Euro area, and UK have implemented a considerable amount of unconventional monetary policy: the US follows the historical Taylor rule, whereas the others have done less compared to normal times.
F00|Global Effective Lower Bound and Unconventional Monetary Policy|In a standard open-economy New Keynesian model, the effective lower bound causes anomalies: output and terms of trade respond to a supply shock in the opposite direction compared to normal times. We introduce a tractable framework to accommodate for unconventional monetary policy. In our model, these anomalies disappear. We allow unconventional policy to be partially active and asymmetric between countries. Empirically, we find the US, Euro area, and UK have implemented a considerable amount of unconventional monetary policy: the US follows the historical Taylor rule, whereas the others have done less compared to normal times.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F00|The Intensive Margin in Trade|The Melitz model highlights the importance of the extensive margin (the number of firms exporting) for trade flows. Using the World Bank’s Exporter Dynamics Database (EDD) featuring firm-level exports from 50 countries, we find that around 50 percent of variation in exports is along the extensive margin—a quantitative victory for the Melitz framework. The remaining 50 percent on the intensive margin (exports per exporting firm) contradicts a special case of Melitz with Pareto-distributed firm productivity, which has become a tractable benchmark. This benchmark model predicts that, conditional on the fixed costs of exporting, all variation in exports across trading partners should occur on the extensive margin. We find that moving from a Pareto to a lognormal distribution allows the Melitz model to match the role of the intensive margin in the EDD. We use likelihood methods and the EDD to estimate a generalized Melitz model with a joint lognormal distribution for firm-level productivity, fixed costs and demand shifters, and use “exact hat algebra” to quantify the effects of a decline in trade costs on trade flows and welfare in the estimated model. The welfare effects turn out to be quite close to those in the standard Melitz-Pareto model when we choose the Pareto shape parameter to fit the average trade elasticity implied by our estimated Melitz-lognormal model, although there are significant differences regarding the effects on trade flows.
F00|Forecasting Base Metal Prices with Commodity Currencies|In this paper we show that the Chilean exchange rate has the ability to predict the returns of the London Metal Exchange Index and of the six primary non-ferrous metals that are part of the index: aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc. The economic relationship hinges on the present-value theory for exchange rates, a floating exchange rate regime and the fact that copper represents about a half of Chilean exports and nearly 45% of Foreign Direct Investment. Consequently, the Chilean peso is heavily affected by fluctuations in the copper price. As all six base metal prices show an important comovement, we test whether the relationship between copper prices and Chilean exchange rates also holds true when it comes to the six primary non-ferrous metals. We find interesting evidence of predictability both in-sample and out-of-sample. Our paper is part of a growing literature that in the recent years has evaluated and called into question the ability of commodity currencies to forecast commodity prices.
F00|Globalización visiones equivocadas<BR>[Globalization misguided views]|Today, the world is in an evident disarray; many things seem to have gone wrong at once. Various topics: terrorism, drug trafficking, money laundering, black accounts; financial crises, income distribution, global coordination; or the social angriness and growing anti-migration —nationalistic-protectionist— sentiments and policies, show that something has changed for the worse. As we will see, all these events have a common deep cause that we must first understand, in order to be able to cope with its consequences. We are living a technological revolution that, in many ways, surpasses the so-called Industrial Revolutions, particularly because of the speed at which it is bringing change. We defend that institutions have not yet adapted to the new world that this technological revolution has brought about. Today’s inadequate institutional arrangements are sustained by old concepts or economic theories and ideas that no longer work as they did before. This mismatch between the new technological world and the old institutions explains most of today’s world economic problems.
F00|New Trends in Kyrgyz Foreign Policy|Kyrgyzstan’s foreign policy is characterized to be multi-dimensional or multi vector concentrated on the consolidation of flexible and many-sided external relations with its neighboring states and regional players. In the historical perspective, international relations experts and scholars argue that “Kyrgyzstan’s first president Askar Akaev is considered to be the founder of the multi-vector foreign policy in the Kyrgyz Republic”(Dimensions, p.62). As a result, the new-born country started to participate in international foreign policy agendas through signing bilateral agreements with its allies and attracting intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations from various corners of the world. It is argued that there are several factors which cause multi-vector policy. If some political experts highlight that it is connected due to size and dependency of Kyrgyzstan from other countries, others also refer to poor economic situation and security concerns. In this regard Yasar Sari stated “Geopolitical and geo-economic situation of Kyrgyzstan complicated the development of an independent foreign policy. Therefore, Kyrgyzstan introduced a multi-vector foreign policy”(2017, p.137) One could agree with the fact that Kyrgyzstan, like Tadjikistan, is economically poor and has relatively less natural resources than other Central Asian countries. Indisputably, it was one of the main factors to strengthen cooperation and partnership in regional scope and beyond the region. The paper aims to investigate the new tendencies from the major three dimensions of external foreign policy which are regional, continental and global areas. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kyrgyz Republic, “The regional approach is implemented to strengthen good and friendly relations with neighboring states, continental approach is aimed at developing diplomatic relations with major powers like Russia, the USA the European Union, China, Turkey and the global approach prioritizes active engagement in UN system”(Dimensions, 2008, p.64). Therefore, this paper will strongly attempt to introduce with the main transformations under the governance of the president Soorobai Jeenbekov and will tackle recent political events in the formation of foreign policy objectives of the state nowadays. The paper focuses on question: What foreign policy actions and resolutions have been produced since the presidency of Sooronbai Jeenbekov in Kyrgyzstan?
F00|Cointegration of Economic growth and External balance in Colombia: 1963-2016|In this paper is analyzed the relation between GDP growth and External balance in Colombia for the study period (1963-2016) by using a VECM. Supposing everything else unchanged, we conclude that Colombian external balance granger caused GDP growth and there was indeed a long run relation between both variables. This outcome helps to explain the Colombian GDP growth dynamics over the last fifty years and the impact of trade policy on economic growth.
F00|16+1, a New Issue in China-EU Relations?|The present paper investigates the positions of individual member states, European institutions and organizations towards the 16+1 cooperation framework. At the institutional level, the European Commission’s Joint communication on elements for a new EU strategy on China of June 2016, the reports and joint statements of the European Economic and Social Committee and China Economic and Social Council (May 2016 and June 2017) and European Parliament publications underline: the absence of a common EU-level strategy on recent large scale Chinese initiatives and some member states pursue individual economic interests, which do not correspond to those of the EU as a whole; 16+1 format as “controversial”, as its arrangements are “in conflict with the EU law” which leads to the “erosion of EU norms”; the necessity to “cooperate with the Commission, the EEAS and other Member States to help ensure that relevant aspects to the EU are in line with EU law, rules and policies, and that the overall outcome is beneficial for the EU as a whole”. We analyze the concerns and make specific proposals so that the 16+1 format might cease to be an issue in China-EU relations.
F00|Gender Differences within the Firm: Evidence from Two Million Travelers|We document gender differences in the price paid for work-related air travel among similar workers within a firm. We show that women pay consistently less per ticket than men, after accounting for a large set of covariates that include the characteristics of the trips, the employers, and the employees. A large proportion of the lower fares paid by women is explained by women booking flights earlier than men. We investigate potential mechanisms that could explain the observed gender differences. We find that gender differences increase with age, but we find no deviation from this trend during the childbearing years. We also find significant variation in gender differences across the regions of the world. Using country-level data on preference differences we report that positive and negative reciprocity are factors associated with the documented gender differences, although this result is only suggestive. The documented gender differences have important monetary implications for firms and suggest a potentially important role of morale within a firm.
F00|Can we beat the Random Walk? The case of survey-based exchange rate forecasts in Chile|We examine the accuracy of survey-based expectations of the Chilean exchange rate relative to the US dollar. Our out-of-sample analysis reveals that survey-based forecasts outperform the Driftless Random Walk (DRW) in terms of Mean Squared Prediction Error at several forecasting horizons. This result holds true even when comparing the survey to a more competitive benchmark based on a refined information set. A similar result is found when precision is measured in terms of Directional Accuracy: survey-based forecasts outperform a “pure luck” benchmark at several forecasting horizons. Differing from the traditional “no predictability” result reported in the literature for many exchange rates, our findings suggest that the Chilean peso is indeed predictable.
F00|Has Money Lost Its Relevance? Resolving the Exchange Rate Disconnect Puzzle|The objective of this study is to identify the monetary policy shock causing exchange rate fluctuations in the economies of India, Poland and the UK. For this purpose, an open-economy structural vector auto-regression model is used, resorting to data covering the period 2000-2015. The model used in the paper is appropriate for the small, open economies being analysed here as it facilitates estimation of theoretically correct and significant responses in terms of the price, output, and exchange rate to monetary policy tightening. The importance of monetary policy shock is established by examining the variance decomposition of forecast error, impulse response function, and out-of-sample forecast. The model also allows for the precise measurement of money through the adoption of a new monetary measure, namely, aggregation–theoretic Divisia monetary aggregate. The empirical results lead to three critical findings. Firstly, it is imperative to consider the estimated responses of output, prices, money and exchange rate to monetary policy shocks in models using monetary aggregates. Secondly, the incorporation of Divisia money in monetary policy helps in explaining fluctuations in the exchange rate. Thirdly, the inclusion of Divisia money also promotes better out-of-sample forecasting of the exchange rate.
F00|Gender Differences within the Firm: Evidence from Two Million Travelers|We document gender differences in the behavior of similar workers within a firm when they book business air travel. We show that women pay consistently less per ticket than men, after accounting for a large set of covariates that include the characteristics of the traveler, the routes and class they travel on, the firms that employ them, and the position that the traveler holds in the firm. A large proportion of the lower fares paid by women is explained by women booking flights earlier than men. We find significant variation in gender differences across the regions of the world. Using country-level data on preference differences, we show that gender differences in both positive and negative reciprocity are an important factor associated with the documented gender differences. In particular, negative reciprocity alone is able to explain the gender difference in paid fare: women (men) are less (more) willing to trade the firms’ money for their own utility when they feel they have been treated unfairly. The documented gender differences have both important monetary implications for firms and implications for the role of morale within the firm.
F00|Decision-making under environmental uncertainty|Goal of the paper: proposal of a model for decision-making enhancement that includes qualitative and quantitative elements influencing managerial decision-making processes under geopolitical uncertainty. Methods: primary: Analytic Hierarchy Process – for assessment of individual and collective utility of indexes describing the functioning of enterprises; secondary: Delphi questionnaires, Pareto-Lorenz diagram, stratified random sampling; AHP evaluations came from six professional managers Results: a mixed qualitative and quantitative instrument bringing geopolitical occurrences into managerial decision-making under turbulent environmental conditions; Practical implications: increased efficiency of managerial decision-making processes, with managerial decisions closer to the possible optimum, under given environmental conditions. Added value: the application of multicriteria models for enhancement of managerial decision-making provides a larger perspective on environmental threats and lowers the decision-making uncertainty.
F00|Reanalyzing the gender-specific effects of the Great Recession|The subprime mortgage crisis that began in the United States eventually unraveled as the worst global economic crisis – the Great Recession – since the Great Depression of the 1930s. The literature has described several factors to explain the causes of the Great Recession, most prominent being the pace of financial deregulations and excessive financial innovations that catalyzed an unnatural boom that ended in a crisis (Crotty and Epstein, 2009). Countries hit the hardest in terms of an upsurge in unemployment rates over 2008–10 include Denmark, Estonia, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, and Latvia. A comparison of harmonized unemployment rates for these countries shows that Estonia posted the highest increase in the unemployment rate, which rose from 5.5 percent in 2008 to 16.7 percent in 2010, an increase of 203 percentage points. Other countries worst hit by the crisis were Iceland (153 percent), Latvia (151 percent) and Ireland (117 percent) (OECD, 2018a). To this end, an important but understated issue worthy of discussion concerns the gender impacts of the Great Recession. Crisis theories that have described its distributional dynamics do not converge to a united whole and predict differential impacts of crises for men and women. One theory posits that since women are used as employment buffers – called in when demand increases but pushed back when demand shrinks – women’s unemployment rates may rise more than that of men’s during recessionary phases. Thus, women might experience a greater loss in employment, earned income, and overall wealth during recessions (Humphries, 1988 [2010]). However, an argument running counter to this theory is that women’s concentration in female-dominated occupations – which tend to be cyclically robust – may shield women’s employment relative to that of men’s. Since there is no definitive theoretical model of these relations, the issue of the gender impacts of recessions becomes an empirical question. In this respect, men’s and women’s labor market experiences from the Great Recession can be treated as a litmus test. Similar to previous two recessions in the US, men’s unemployment rates rose faster than women’s during the Great Recession. Due to this phenomenon, these recessions have come to be known as “man-cessions” (Wall, 2009). However, I argue in this chapter that this observation can be misleading on many accounts. I argue that although men and women showed substantial differences in their vulnerabilities to the recession, within-gender differences were much more pronounced. Additionally, gender impacts of crises derive from differences in men’s and women’s unique, socially and culturally drawn positions, job structures, family models and welfare systems.
F00|Secular Stagnation: What the Debate is about?|In the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis, the recovery in economic activity has been weak and much of the academic and policy discussions seek to explain this sluggish growth. This literature review presents how the secular stagnation hypothesis re-emerged in 2013 and evolved over time. It identifies its key tenets, its most contentious points and its most important critiques. Secular stagnation has different interpretations, which complicates the debate, and the objective of this paper is to clarify the demarcation lines between various theories and to show how some of them amalgamated over time. The secular stagnation hypothesis links weak growth to a decline in natural interest rates. Most observers agree that natural interest rates have indeed declined over the past decade and may be in negative territory. However, there are diverging views about the factors which led to negative interest rates and how lasting their impact is likely to be. The secular stagnation hypothesis points to various fundamental factors and suggests a long-term effect, while the global savings glut and debt super-cycle concepts assume only a temporary impact and anticipate that global economic growth and real interest rates will eventually rebound.
F00|Foreign Financial Deregulation under Flexible and Fixed Exchange Rates|An enhanced Mundell-Fleming model with domestic and foreign banking deregulation is considered for a small open economy. Deregulation is assumed to influence net capital outflows. It can be shown that under fixed exchange rates, foreign deregulation reduces output and employment and therefore there will be an international resistance to strong deregulation abroad - typically in the US or the UK whose big banking sectors could give an inherent incentive to deregulate. Under flexible exchange rates, banking deregulation abroad raises output and employment so that banking deregulation in the US – or the UK - will face less resistance than under a system of fixed exchange rates; excessive deregulation pressure could emerge in a system of flexible rates. There is a new trilemma. While banking deregulation might bring a national and global output increase in the medium term, the long-run effects could be higher government restructurings cost related to ailing banks in OECD countries. The debate of fixed exchange rates versus flexible exchange rates thus has a new additional aspect, namely the probability of banking deregulation. A key policy implication derived is thus that in a system of flexible exchange rates national and international as well as IMF monitoring of banking regulation quality is important for economic stability and welfare – the IMF’s FSAP and the work of the BIS are quite crucial. BREXIT allows one to expect a wave of deregulation in the UK (plus US); with negative external effects worldwide. New long-run effects are also considered in an enhanced Solow growth model with risk, trade and FDI.
F00|Commodity taxation and regulatory competition|Abstract The purpose of this paper is twofold. We first investigate whether product market regulations affect commodity taxation in open-to-trade economies, and second, we study the strategic interaction in regulatory measures between trading partner countries. We present a two-country general equilibrium model in which destination-based commodity taxes finance public goods, and product market regulation affects both the number of firms in the market and product diversity. Based on data for 21 OECD countries over the 1990–2008 period, we provide empirical evidence suggesting that product market regulations are strategic complement policies and that domestic regulations have a negative impact on domestic commodity taxation.
F00|Gross Capital Inflows to Banks, Corporates and Sovereigns|We construct a new data set for gross capital inflows during 1996-2014 for 85 countries at a quarterly frequency. We decompose debt inflows by borrower type: banks, corporates and sovereigns. Using our new data, we present dynamic and cross sectional patterns in capital inflows as a function of global push factors and countries' own business cycles. This exercise reveals that patterns evident in aggregate capital flows data do not hold up consistently across different borrower types. When global risk appetite is low, as proxied by high VIX, capital flows into banks and corporates decline both in advanced economies (AE) and in emerging markets (EM). This is also true for EM sovereigns but not for AE, whose sovereign borrowing does not respond to VIX. Banks' and corporates' borrowing, both in EM and in AE are procyclical, whereas EM's sovereigns exhibit counter-cyclical borrowing. Capital inflows are procyclical in all assets classes except for portfolio debt inflows to EM, which exhibit a countercyclical pattern driven mainly by EM sovereigns and to some extent by EM corporates. Our results highlight the importance of separating capital flows by borrower type for understanding potential systemic risks related to capital flows, and show the difficulty of establishing robust stylized facts about capital flows' dynamics in a mixed sample of emerging and advanced countries.
F00|¿Es el mercado de metales eficiente?|The prediction of raw material prices is important due to its macroeconomic impact in the nations that depend on their international trade, it is as well financially important to those who negotiate futures in the stock market. This work proposes to evaluate the efficiency hypothesis in the weak sense of the metals market, which argues that an efficient market is not susceptible to price prediction. To carry out this purpose, methods of random walks were put into effect. Persistently inefficient raw materials during the evaluation period from 1992 to 2015 were found, as well as that some raw materials fluctuate between periods of efficiency and inefficiency.
F00|How to Cope with Volatile Commodity Export Prices: Four Proposals|Countries where exports are relatively concentrated in oil, gas, minerals and agricultural commodities experience terms of trade that are highly volatile. This volatility is one of the possible explanations for the famous Natural Resource Curse.1 The aim in this keynote address is to offer four policy proposals to help countries manage commodity volatility and thereby help make sure that commodity wealth is a blessing rather than a curse. Two of the ideas fall in the area of microeconomic policy: specific financial contracts structured so as to hedge risk. Two of the ideas fall in the area of macroeconomic policy institutions: ways to make fiscal and monetary policy counter-cyclical rather than pro-cyclical.2 It is always hard to make policy proposals that are convincing and at the same time are original. I will try to strike a balance between being convincing and being original. Of the four ideas, two are tried and tested. Two have not been tried much. The question then becomes: why not? Let us first pause to ask: Don’t commodity-exporters already use financial markets to smooth trade fluctuations? If international financial markets worked well, countries facing temporary adverse trade shocks could borrow to finance current account deficits, and vice versa. But they don’t work that well. Capital flows to developing countries tend, if anything, to be pro-cyclical. The appropriate theory usually builds on the assumption that borrowing requires collateral, in the form of commodity export proceeds. The important point for policy-makers is that some careful thought is required to design institutions that can protect against the volatility. Many other policies and institutions for dealing with commodity volatility have been proposed and tried in various countries, some successful, some much less so. Many of the ideas that tend to work poorly can be described as seeking to suppress price volatility rather than manage it. I see them as akin to King Canute commanding the tide not to come in. I am thinking, for example, of price controls, commodity marketing boards, and controls on exports. Better to accept fluctuations in demand and supply as a fact of life, and to devise policies and institutions to equip the economy to cope with them. 1 Brueckner and Carneiro (2016), Blattman, Hwang, and Williamson (2007), Hausmann and Rigobon (2003), Mendoza (1997) and Poelhekke and van der Ploeg (2007). Terms of trade volatility hurts growth in the presence of investment irreversibilities and credit constraints (Aghion, Angeletos, Banerjee & Manova, 2010). Frankel (2012a) surveys the Natural Resource Curse. 2 E.g., Kaminsky, Reinhart and Végh {2005).
F00|Quantitative wave model of macro-finance|This paper presents macro-finance as ensemble of economic agents and suggests use risk ratings of economic agents as their coordinates on economic space. Financial variables of separate economic agents are defined as functions of time and coordinates on economic space. Aggregations of financial variables of separate economic agents with coordinates near point x on economic space define macro-financial variables as function of x. Hydrodynamic-like equations describe evolution and mutual dependence between macro-financial variables. As example, for simple model of mutual dependence between macro-financial Demand on Investment and Interest Rate we derive hydrodynamic-like equations in a closed form. Perturbations of macro financial variables can generate waves those propagate on economic space and we derive wave equations. Macro financial waves can propagate on economic space with exponential growth of amplitudes and cause time fluctuations of finance variables that may model financial and business cycles. Variety of macro financial waves on economic space gives new look on internal dynamics of macro finance and reveals hidden complexity of macro financial modeling and forecasting.
F00|Debt thresholds and real exchange rates: An emerging markets perspective|In this paper we empirically analyze nonlinearities in short-run real exchange rate dynamics. Our findings suggest that real exchange rate misalignments are considerably less persistent and more volatile during times of high debt. Assessing the variance of changes in misalignments, we retrieve evidence indicating that the nominal exchange rate and inflation differentials are more important determinants in states of high debt than in states of low debt. Overall, our results imply that nonlinearities have non-negligible implications for the mechanics of real exchange rate adjustment in emerging markets.
F00|Patent, R&D and internationalization for Korean healthcare industry|Using panel data, this study investigates how Patent and R&D expenditures affect internationalization in Korean healthcare industry. Korean healthcare industry is designated as one of the core bread and butter industries. Tremendous government investments in Korean healthcare industry are expected to increase Patent and R&D expenditures, causing internationalization for Korean healthcare industry. In material way, this study focuses on testing spillover effects between Patent and R&D expenditures on internationalization.
F00|The Influence of Financial and Industrial Policy on Harmonization of European and Asian Integration Processes|The article is devoted to a research of the influence of financial and industrial policy on harmonization of European and Asian integration processes. Considering geopolitical and macroeconomic risks, real opportunities for the growth recovery of the national economics and sustainable financial policy are limited. They also require integrated development of effective measures of state support for the recovery of national economic growth by supporting the number of main industries. The development of anti-crisis policy should be accelerated in order to create a favorable investment climate in Russia, increase the business activity of economic agents, decrease capital outflow, and reduce the amount of unsecured budgetary commitments.
F00|Oil Prices and Informational Frictions: The Time-Varying Impact of Fundamentals and Expectations|This paper accounts for informational frictions when modelling the time-varying relationship between crude oil prices, traditional fundamentals and expectations. Informational frictions force a wedge between oil prices and supply and/or demand shocks, especially during periods of elevated risk aversion and uncertainty. In such a context expectations can be a key driver of oil price movements. We utilize a variety of proxies for forward-looking expectations, including business confidence, consumer confidence and leading indicators. In addition, our paper implements a time-varying parameter approach to account empirically for time-varying informational frictions. Our results illustrate firstly that oil supply shocks played an important role in both the 1970’s and coinciding with the recent shale oil boom. Secondly, demand had a positive impact upon oil prices, especially from the mid-2000’s. Finally, we provide evidence that oil prices respond strongly to expectations but the source of the shock matter: business leaders’ expectations are positively related, while markets’ expectations are not strongly linked to oil prices.
F00|Export And Population Dynamics In The States Of Baja California, Mexico And California, United States, Exportacion Y Dinamica Poblacional En Los Estados De Baja California, Mexico Y California, Estados Unidos|Internationalization is an invaluable tool to expand markets. the investment flows and relocation processes productive. However, under a systemic optic, the incursion into foreign markets requires government cooperation, business determination and social participation. The tendency of an economy to internationalize is mainly reflected in the relations of public and private companies abroad through products, services or investments. The results must be reflected in population welfare. This study determines exports per capita in the states of Baja California (Mexico) and California (United States), seeking to infer their impact on revenues distribution and economic development
F00|Evaluating the Asian international input-output table in comparison with the three major multiregional input-output tables|This paper introduces the existing multiregional Input-Output (MRIO) Tables i.e., IDE, ADB, OECD, and GTAP with special attention to the method of constructing import matrix. Also, the similarities and differences among the four MRIO Tables are studied in this paper, setting the IDE table as the benchmark. From the results of comparison of major economic indicators with WDI, IDE and OECD shows similarity to WDI, compared to GTAP and ADB. However, TiVA indicators show considerably different values in motor vehicles and motorcycles in Indonesia. Whereas there is some possibilities Indonesia’s TiVA is overestimation, it can be said that the IDE table might captures the proper production structure. In order to understand the reason why different value in the IDE table occurs, an additional survey on import demand might be required.
F00|Capital accumulation in the center and the periphery along the neoliberal period: A comparative analysis of the United States, Spain and Brazil|This paper presents a comparative analysis of the process of capital accumulation in three economies, US, Spain and Brazil, between 1990 and 2014. The objective is to analyze the peculiarities existing in these cases, corresponding to the main contemporary economy (US), a developed one, but with a peripheral integration into a more developed area, such as the Euroarea (Spain), and a semiperipheral economy (Brazil); and in a period in which, specially for both Spain and Brazil, a neoliberal turn is carried out, and achieving certain monetary stalibity that ultimately affect the macroeconomic performance.
F00|Cognitive abilities and sustainable development: a global analysis|Existing studies explore the hypothesis that nations IQs explain cross-national differences in economic development. However, the conclusions of these findings are also rather limited as GDP per capita, a proxy for economic development, does not account social and external costs associated with economic activities and fails to capture the environmental degradation or resource depletion. In this study, we offer novel evidence on the effect of intelligence on genuine income that addresses the shortcomings of GDP per capita as a better proxy for inclusive development. Moreover, we also provide compelling evidence that intelligence is causal to genuine development processes.
F00|Firm Risk and Performance: The Role of Corporate Governance in Bertam Alliance Berhad|The aim of this study is to analyze company profit and firm performance with the specific risk. The data obtained from the annual report Bertam Alliance Berhad starting from the year 2012 to the year 2015. The measurement of liquidity ratio and operating ratio used to see the overall performance of the Bertam Alliance Berhad in 5 years. The other measurement that have been used is current ratio, debt to equity ratio, return on asset, return on equity and the average collection period. To see the relationship of the risks factors to the profitability, this study use liquidity ratio which is current ratio, GDP and operating ratio. The data was analysed by using correlation table. In this study found that the return of asset is positively significant to return on equity.
F00|Utopian Left-Wing Expectations and the Social Consequences of the 3rd Memorandum in Greece|In January 2015 the radical left SYRIZA has won the Greek national elections and formed a coalition government with Independent Greeks (ANEL), a right-wing populist party. After a seven-month negotiation with Greece’s creditors and the agreement for the implementation of a third memorandum of fiscal adjustment, SYRIZA announced the conduction of a second round of national elections in September 2015. After a second electoral victory, SYRIZA formed again a coalition government with ANEL. The main characteristic of SYRIZA’s pre-electoral campaign was that it has primarily focused on the commitment for austerity measures termination and on the implementation of tax alleviation. Even during the second electoral campaign in September 2015, after the agreement for the implementation of the third memorandum of fiscal adjustment, SYRIZA was promising that its implementation will be socially endued in order to reduce negative social consequences, such as those created by the previous memoranda. Practically though, after the first months of the new memorandum implementation, it is obvious that the government has introduced an unprecedented tax policy. Interestingly, this policy is not different from a traditional left logic of tax enforcement but actually leads to the implementation of horizontal austerity policies which firstly affect the socially vulnerable groups. From this point of view, while SYRIZA emphatically declare that it aims at resolving the crisis, its policies seem to deepen the depression. For instance, its inability to find alternative options to finance the social security system, leads to the implementation of restrictive policies which dismantle the welfare state. This paper aims at analyzing the policies of the first left government in Greece by focusing on the tentative social consequences of the third memorandum and at the same time, studying some of the basic factors for its electoral victory, such as populism.
F00|Oil Prices and Informational Frictions: The Time-Varying Impact of Fundamentals and Expectations|This paper accounts for informational frictions when modelling the time-varying relationship between crude oil prices, traditional fundamentals and expectations. Informational frictions force a wedge between oil prices and supply and/or demand shocks, especially during periods of elevated risk aversion and uncertainty. In such a context expectations can be a key driver of oil price movements. We utilize a variety of proxies for forward-looking expectations, including business confidence, consumer confidence and leading indicators. In addition, our paper implements a time-varying parameter approach to account empirically for time-varying informational frictions. Our results illustrate firstly that oil supply shocks played an important role in both the 1970’s and coinciding with the recent shale oil boom. Secondly, demand had a positive impact upon oil prices, especially from the mid-2000’s. Finally, we provide evidence that oil prices respond strongly to expectations but the source of the shock matter: business leaders’ expectations are positively related, while markets’ expectations are not strongly linked to oil prices.
F00|Impact of the Presence of Foreign Missions on Trade: Evidence from Turkey|This paper analyzes the impact of presence of foreign missions on trade using Turkey’s unique expansion in its foreign mission network (37 new embassies in 8 years) as the source of variation in a dynamic panel data setting. The dependent variable is the trade between Turkey and 186 countries from 2006 to 2014. The results indicate that presence of an embassy increases export value by 27% and this increase comes mainly from volume effect. Categorizing goods by the Rauch (1999) classification shows that increase in differentiated goods exports explains almost all of the change in total export value. There is no statistically significant impact on the exports of homogeneous goods. Replication of the analysis for imports suggests that presence of an embassy leads to 70% increase in imports and this increase is entirely driven by the homogeneous goods imports.
F00|Romanian Attitudes and Perceptions towards the 16+1 Cooperation Platform|The aim of this paper is to analyze Romanian citizens’ attitudes and perceptions towards the 16+1 framework, their determinants and effects. The influencing factors are correlated with the general perception of China and its image, while the effects are seen from the perspectives of the engagement and level of participation in joint initiatives. Recent literature underscores that although this platform offers a range of opportunities in each of the nine pillars of sectoral cooperation, Romania has adopted a passive attitude as regards large-scale projects developed with Chinese partners. Beyond EU specific technical barriers to such projects, the Romanian attitudes towards the 16+1 strongly affected cooperation intensity with China. Positions towards this initiative (opinions from general public, elites, politicians and experts) are identified through three main channels: mass media research, individual interviews and focus groups. The quantitative analysis, combined with qualitative research, emphasizes that in spite of the recognition by some groups of the potential benefits offered by the cooperation in the 16+1 format, reluctance remains. This is not due to China’s assets-liabilities balance or the lack of capacity to understand China, but on both insufficient information on 16+1 and political inertia.
F00|Corruption and Economic Development|This study investigates the impact of openness to trade and corruption on economic development for a cross-section of 143 countries for the year 2000 by analysing the effects of trade openness and corruption on income, productivity, innovation, and income inequality. Institutional, cultural and geographical factors, and country size are controlled for in the analysis. An instrumental variable approach has been adopted in order to address the endogeneity of corruption and openness to trade. The age of democracy and gravity-based predictors are chosen as the instruments for corruption and openness to trade, respectively. The estimates show that corruption negatively affects income per capita, productivity, and innovation, while it does not significantly impact income inequality (Gini). The control of corruption and the openness to trade affect output per worker through the total factor productivity. Both the control of corruption and openness to trade are statistically significant determinants of the 90/10 income gap. Landlockedness affects Gini Index directly, even after controlling for trade and corruption. These findings have important policy implications. For example, on the basis of the estimates, if Botswana improved its control of corruption to reach the level of Finland, its per capita income would rise by 2.7 times.
F00|Is peak globalisation upon us? Globalisation is much more than trade in goods|We examine the phenomenon of globalisation as it affects New Zealand. We look at its impact on New Zealand and ask whether it is a force which has had its day (peak globalisation)or is it continuing to morph and evolve.
F00|"""The Quality Of The Ecosystem Of Start-Up Companies In Poland As A Factor Of Their Internationalization In The Global Network Economy Environment - Research Project. Goals, Assumptions And Researc Methods ?"|"The aim of the presentation is to submit and put into discussion the research project ""The quality of the ecosystem of start-up companies in Poland as a factor of their internationalization in the global network economy environment? (later on termed ?Project?). The title issue will be put in the perspective of the experience of highly developed countries. The Project is aimed at comprehensive, thorough analysis of the actual state and economic conditions for the internationalization of Polish startups as well as potential future perspectives for their international expansion with special importance attached to the quality of so called ?ecosystems? in Poland as a factor of this expansion. Second, the analysis undertaken in the Project places the title issue, i.e. the internationalization of startups, in a broader context of the ?network economy? (also called ?knowledge based economy? or ?digital economy? and refers to the concept of ?born globals?. The comparative perspective for the studies of the subject issue is the characteristics of the startups, their business environment and particularly the tendencies and dynamics of startups foreign expansion observed in other European countries, boasting good performance and best indicators as to the internationalization of those firms, like among others Germany, the Netherlands, France, Great Britain, Italy and Spain. As supplementary research the Project intention is to present the relevant characteristics of the leading world startup centers (i.e. their ecosystems) in highly developed countries, mainly from the United States, Canada and Israel. Taking up ?internationalization? as the center of the project is valuable not only for scientific and cognitive purposes but also from the point of view of the current priorities of Poland?s economic policy. This project combines, both theoretically and empirically, the research fields of the widely understood quality of state ?ecosystem? as the environment for startup development and work, as well as the conditions of the global economy. The presentation on the Conference will be concentrated mainly on the scientific problem aimed to be solved by the proposed Project, Project's research hypotheses and the proposed methodology. Important argument for the innovative character of the Project is that its empirical part embraces various analytical methods used in micro- and macroeconomics. It applies behavioral methods used in sociological and psychological analyses in economics, such us: variance analysis, multifactorial variance analysis, i.e. ANOVA, ANCOVA, MANOVA and Principal Component Analysis. These will be used along with quantitative methods such as regression (widely-used"
F00|The Human Development Index In Canada: Ranking the Provinces and Territories Internationally, 2000-2015: An Update|Overall, our report highlights the diverse human development experiences of Canadians that are concealed by Canada’s overall HDI.
F00|The Contribution of Aboriginal People To Future Labour Force Growth In Canada|The objective of this report is to contribute to the debate on closing socio-economic gaps between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal people by projecting the contribution of Aboriginal people to future labour force growth in Canada as a whole and by region under various scenarios over the 2011-2036 period.
F00|The Contribution of Métis To Future Labour Force Growth In Canada|This report contributes to the debate on the role of Aboriginal people in the Canadian long-term economic growth by projecting the contribution of Métis people to future labour force growth in Canada as a whole and across regions under various projection scenarios. Based on our projections for the Métis labour force over the period 2011-2036, we find that the contribution of Métis to the total Canadian labour force is significant given their 1.2 per cent share in the total working age population in Canada. In our baseline scenario, the Métis people is projected to account for 6.4 per cent of total labour force growth. The Métis contribution is especially large in the regions with which the Métis has historical ties: namely the Prairie provinces and the Northern region. The contribution in these jurisdictions ranges from 11.8 per cent to 17.0 per cent. We find that the role of ethnic mobility is especially important for the Métis population growth. If we assume no ethnic mobility, the Métis contribution is projected to be 1.9 per cent of the total labour force growth in Canada. Nevertheless, this is still greater than the Métis share in the Canadian working age population in 2011.
F00|Current Account Imbalances, Real Exchange Rates, and Nominal Exchange Rate Variability|This paper analyzes the bivariate relation between large current account imbalances and the real exchange rate over different degrees of nominal exchange rate variability. Employing both linear and nonlinear panel estimation procedures, we find an inverse link between large imbalances and the real exchange rate at lower nominal exchange rate rigidity levels. This is in contrast to the often non-existent or positive comovement that materializes under regimes entailing lower nominal exchange rate variation. Our results thus suggest that greater nominal exchange rate adjustment can induce a stabilizing current account-real exchange rate relation. Along the cross-section, the most salient findings are i) the striking positive relation between current account persistence and real exchange rate persistence based on country-specific estimates and ii) the inverse correlation between persistence in either the current account or real exchange rate and nominal exchange rate volatility.
F00|What Mitigates Economic Growth Volatility in Morocco? : Remittances or FDI|The purpose of the paper is twofold. First, it seeks to meticulously analyze the volatility of economic growth and financial flows in the case of Morocco, i.e., remittances and Foreign Direct Investment. Second, it attempts to address the effects of these financial flows on the economic growth volatility. We provide strong evidence that remittances are less volatile than Foreign Direct Investment with respect to the duration, intensity and volatility clustering. Furthermore, remittances can mitigate the volatility of growth, while Foreign Direct Investment flows amplify it. Our results do not imply that financial flows should be privileged by Moroccan authorities. In fact, our results should encourage the government to implement proactive and favourable policies geared towards productive investment.
F00|The Prospects, Benefits and Challenges of Sui Generis Protection of Geographical Indications of South Africa|This article appraises the prospects, benefits and challenges of sui generis protection of geographical indications (GIs) in South Africa (SA). In SA, there is no specific legislation protecting GIs, and the country relies, amongst others, on the common law system and various legislations, such as the Agricultural Products Standards Act of 1990; Counterfeit Goods of 1997; the Liquor Products; the Trademark Act; the Intellectual Property Laws Amendment Act of 2013; and the Consumer Protection Act of 1998. It is therefore argued that SA needs a specific law that considers GIs as a specific, separate intellectual property right (IPR).
F00|Embassies and their role in practicing economic diplomacy. The case of Romania|Nowadays the international affairs environment has experienced major transformation, with the consequence that international trade and diplomatic relations have achieved a new significance and role. For the past years, relevant research was focused mainly on the historical development and the increasing need for economic diplomacy in the current process of globalization. Less research has been done in the factual field, emphasizing the correlation between efforts made by embassies as part of the economic diplomacy strategy of a country.In order to answer the research question, data was gathered in cooperation with a number of embassies and consulates and also national authorities representatives, such as experts from Ministry of External Affairs. The article will deliver an in-depth knowledge and describe how economic diplomatic activities are accomplished by embassies and reflected in the country?s economy.
F00|The main determinants of the sectors and industries of the Polish economy for foreign direct investment|On the basis of the available material I shall investigate the attractiveness of sectors and branches of the Polish economy for foreign direct investment (FDI).First of all, they are identified sectors and industries of the Polish economy which now became attractive from the foreign direct investors point of view. I shall also identify and specify the general conditions for investment in those sectors and industries.Next I shall indicate the change of the sectorally-trade attractiveness of the Polish economy since the 90s., that is since the initial period of transformation of the socio-economic development in the country took place. In that period there was a significant improvement in the general conditions for foreign capital in comparison with the period of real socialism.In the process of analysis I will attempt to compare the attractiveness of sectors and industries of the Polish economy and the economies of European countries, especially the Central and Eastern Europe as direct competitors in the Polish struggle for obtaining foreign capital.The basis of all of the analyzes will be mainly sources of the Polish Agency for Information and Foreign Investment, which, among other things, deals with searching for attractive locations for investment as well as materials Ministry of Economy and of the well-known consulting firm Ernst & Young.
F00|The mains determinants of the attractiveness of Polish regions for foreign direct investment|On the basis of available materials will be analyzed the attractiveness of the Polish economy in regional terms, from the point of view of a decision on the location of foreign direct investment (FDI).First of all, the regions with varying degrees of attractiveness for foreign direct investors will be identified.Identification of general prerequisites for direct investment will be carried, and specification of those provinces will be indicated.Next will be assessed the changes in the attractiveness of regions for FDI?s in the period since the 1990s, that is since the initial period of the transformation of socio-economic system in Poland. It should also be noted that during this period there was a significant improvement in overall conditions for foreign capital in comparison to the period of real socialism. In the next part will be assessed the attractiveness of Polish regions for FDI based on criteria such as: the functioning of special economic zones (SEZ), access to EU funds, promotional activities.The basis of all of the analyzes will be mainly: Materials from Research Institute of Market Economy in Gdansk and the Center for Regional and Local Analyses.
F00|Internal and external challenges for the European Union in the 21st century|The European Union is an example of really deep integration. Its gradual enlargement up to 28 member States has resulted in considerable disparities in socio-economic development. Global financial and economic crisis 2008+ additionally complicated the situation of the EU. The year 2015 brought some new challenges for the European Union (influx of migrants being one of the biggest ones). The paper examines selected internal and external challenges which the European Union has to face in the 21st century. The need for new sources of economic growth and competitive and sustainable development was discussed. New activities of the EU employment policy were described. Selected initiatives designed for strengthening Euro zone were analyzed. Ideas that emerge in the EU with regard to immigration crisis were presented.
F00|The organization acquiring foreign direct investment by Poland|Attracting foreign direct investment (FDI) by the country depends on the existing investment atmosphere, natural conditions, but also on activities such as the promotion of the country abroad and the support of foreign investors.It can be argued that since the beginning of the transformation of the economic system in Poland, the organization of obtaining FDI has improved.The primary objective of the study is to analyze the changes in the promotion of Poland and the quality of service of foreign investors since the turn of the transformation.The secondary objectives are: identification of institutions involved in the acquisition of FDI and characteristics of their activities, and finally evaluation of the effectiveness of promotional activities in Poland.The study was mostly prepared on the basis of material obtained in the State Foreign Investment Agency (PAIZ) and the website of the Polish Agency for Information and Foreign Investment (PAIiIZ), and also based on interviews with employees of these institutions.
F00|Public debt and relative prices in a cross-section of countries|Abstract This paper examines the effects of debt and distortionary labor taxation on the long-run behavior of the relative price of nontraded goods. At the theoretical level, in a two-sector open economy model we demonstrate that higher public debt, associated with higher taxation, contracts labor supply in both traded and nontraded goods sectors. Relative prices move inversely with relative supply shifts which, in turn, depend on relative factor intensities. At the empirical level, for a panel of advanced economies, we find statistically significant effects of public debt and taxes on the relative price of nontraded goods, with higher debt and taxes associated with higher relative prices.
F00|Taxation, Debt and Relative Prices in the Long Run: The Irish Experience|This paper investigates the effects of public debt and distortionary labour taxation on the long-run behaviour of Irish relative non-traded goods prices. We highlight that higher public debt, acting through higher taxes, has an equivocal impact on the relative supply of non-traded goods and, correspondingly, relative prices. Our empirical analysis for Ireland suggests that taxes and public debt play significant roles in the long run, comoving negatively with the relative price of non-tradables. Accordingly, shifts in public debt and taxation bear implications for the country’s international price competitiveness.
F00|Internationalization by State-owned Enterprises (SOEs) and Sovereign Wealth Funds (SWFs) after the 2008 Crisis. Looking for Generalizations|This paper seeks to detect (post) crisis tendencies in the international activities of state-owned enterprises (SOE) and sovereign wealth funds (SWF) and identify the main challenges posed in exploring this topic. In doing so it draws on the inductive approach and qualitative method and discusses available studies on recent internalization trends in SOEs and SWFs. The number of SWFs worldwide has been rising since 2008, despite the 2008 crisis which brought heavy losses and negative publicity that caused a rerouting of funds towards domestic purposes. The long-term perspective adopted by SWFs is expected to make less vulnerable to financial market volatility, which should stimulate FDI. SOTNCs are a minority among SOEs in general, i.e. only a fraction of SOEs worldwide can be labeled as state-owned transnational companies; and no exceptional impact of the 2008 crisis is apparent in their functioning The review of selected literature and UNCTAD survey reports is the basis for our conclusions and suggestions for future research avenues.
F00|Size and welfare costs of price differences across European countries|Studies employing micro price data suggest that price dispersion is larger between regions in different countries than between regions in the same country. To investigate the strength of this border effect, deviations from the law of one price are used in most studies to provide statistical evidence on the effect of borders on price dispersion. I propose an alternative measure of the economic costs of borders which has an explicitwelfare-theoretic foundation. Employing a unique micro price data set from households in Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands I provide evidence on the economic importance of price differences for households. I find that price dispersion within countries has only small economic importance, but that price dispersion between Belgium andGermany (and Belgium and theNetherlands) has considerable economic importance.
F00|Emotion at Stake—The Role of Stake Size and Emotions in a Power-to-Take Game Experiment in China with a Comparison to Europe|This paper experimentally investigates how monetary incentives and emotions influence behavior in a two-player power-to-take game (PTTG). In this game, one player can claim any part of the other's endowment (take rate), and the second player can respond by destroying any part of his or her own endowment. The experiment is run in China. We further compare our findings with the behavior of two European subject pools. Our results give new insights regarding emotion regulation. Even though stake size does not appear to matter for take rates and destruction rates, it does matter for the reaction function of the responder regarding the take rate. When stakes are high, there is less destruction for low and intermediate take rates, and more destruction for high take rates, compared to relatively low stakes. Under low incentives, ‘hot’ anger-type emotions are important for destruction, while ‘cool’ contempt becomes prominent under high monetary incentives. These results suggest emotion regulation in the high-stake condition. Moreover, emotions are found to fully mediate the impact of the take rate on destruction when stakes are low, whereas they only partially do so if stakes are high. Comparing the low-stakes data for China with existing European data, we find similarities in behavior, emotions and emotion intensities, as well as the full mediation of the take rate by emotions. We find some differences related to the type of emotions that are important for destruction. Whereas anger and joy are important in both, in addition, irritation and fear play a role in China, while this holds for contempt in the EU.
F00|Aufschwung bleibt moderat – Wirtschaftspolitik wenig wachstumsorientiert|Am 14. April 2016 stellte die Projektgruppe Gemeinschaftsdiagnose in Berlin ihr Frühjahrsgutachten der Presse vor. Ihrer Ansicht nach befindet sich die deutsche Wirtschaft in einem moderaten Aufschwung. Das Bruttoinlandsprodukt dürfte in diesem Jahr um 1,6% und im kommenden Jahr um 1,5% und damit mit Raten zulegen, die leicht über dem Wachstum des Produktionspotenzials liegen. Getragen wird der Aufschwung vom privaten Konsum, der vom anhaltenden Beschäftigungsaufbau, den spürbaren Steigerungen der Lohn- und Transfereinkommen und den Kaufkraftgewinnen infolge der gesunkenen Energiepreise profitiert. Zudem ist die Finanzpolitik, auch wegen der zunehmenden Aufwendungen zur Bewältigung der Flüchtlingsmigration, expansiv ausgerichtet. Während die Bauinvestitionen ebenfalls merklich ausgeweitet werden, bleibt die Investitionstätigkeit der Unternehmen verhalten. Aufgrund der nur allmählichen weltwirtschaftlichen Erholung und der starken Binnennachfrage ist vom Außenhandel kein positiver konjunktureller Impuls zu erwarten. Die öffentlichen Haushalte dürften im Prognosezeitraum deutliche Überschüsse erzielen. Würden diese Handlungsspielräume wie bereits in den vergangenen Jahren wenig wachstumsorientiert genutzt, wäre das nicht nachhaltig.
F00|Aufschwung bleibt moderat – Wirtschaftspolitik wenig wachstumsorientiert|Die deutsche Wirtschaft befindet sich in einem moderaten Aufschwung. Das Bruttoinlandsprodukt dürfte in diesem Jahr um 1,6 % und im kommenden Jahr um 1,5 % zulegen. Getragen wird der Aufschwung vom privaten Konsum, der vom anhaltenden Beschäftigungsaufbau, den spürbaren Steigerungen der Lohn- und Transfereinkommen und den Kaufkraftgewinnen infolge der gesunkenen Energiepreise profitiert. Zudem ist die Finanzpolitik, auch wegen der zunehmenden Aufwendungen zur Bewältigung der Flüchtlingsmigration, expansiv ausgerichtet. Während die Bauinvestitionen ebenfalls merklich ausgeweitet werden, bleibt die Investitionstätigkeit der Unternehmen verhalten. Aufgrund der nur allmählichen weltwirtschaftlichen Erholung und der starken Binnennachfrage ist vom Außenhandel kein positiver konjunktureller Impuls zu erwarten. Die öffentlichen Haushalte dürften im Prognosezeitraum deutliche Überschüsse erzielen. Würden diese Handlungsspielräume wie bereits in den vergangenen Jahren wenig wachstumsorientiert genutzt, wäre das nicht nachhaltig.
F00|Gemeinschaftsdiagnose im Herbst 2016: Deutsche Wirtschaft gut ausgelastet – Wirtschaftspolitik neu ausrichten|Die deutsche Wirtschaft befindet sich in einem moderaten Aufschwung. Das Bruttoinlandsprodukt dürfte in diesem Jahr um 1,9 % und im kommenden Jahr um 1,4 % zulegen. Im Jahr 2018 dürfte die Expansionsrate bei 1,6 % liegen. Die gesamtwirtschaftlichen Kapazitäten sind damit im Prognosezeitraum etwas stärker ausgelastet als im langjährigen Mittel. Dennoch sind es derzeit weniger die Unternehmensinvestitionen, die den Aufschwung tragen: Von der Weltkonjunktur gehen nur geringe stimulierende Effekte aus, sodass die Exporte nur moderat steigen. Zudem dürften sich in den außerordentlich niedrigen Kapitalmarktzinsen nicht nur die derzeitige Geldpolitik, sondern auch niedrige Wachstumserwartungen widerspiegeln. All dies hemmt die Ausrüstungsinvestitionen. So ist es weiterhin in erster Linie der Konsum, der den Aufschwung trägt. Der private Verbrauch profitiert dabei insbesondere vom anhaltenden Beschäftigungsaufbau, beim öffentlichen Konsum machen sich weiterhin die hohen Aufwendungen zur Unterbringung und Integration von Flüchtlingen bemerkbar. Der Wohnungsbau wird durch die niedrigen Zinsen angeregt.
F00|Deutsche Wirtschaft gut ausgelastet – Wirtschaftspolitik neu ausrichten|Die deutsche Wirtschaft befindet sich in einem moderaten Aufschwung. Das Bruttoinlandsprodukt dürfte in diesem Jahr um 1,9 Prozent und im kommenden Jahr um 1,4 Prozent zulegen. Im Jahr 2018 dürfte die Expansionsrate bei 1,6 Prozent liegen. Die gesamtwirtschaftlichen Kapazitäten sind damit im Prognosezeitraum etwas stärker ausgelastet als im langjährigen Mittel. Dennoch sind es derzeit weniger die Unternehmensinvestitionen, die den Aufschwung tragen: Von der Weltkonjunktur gehen nur geringe stimulierende Effekte aus, so dass die Exporte nur moderat steigen; zudem dürften sich in den außerordentlich niedrigen Kapitalmarktzinsen nicht nur die derzeitige Geldpolitik, sondern auch niedrige Wachstumserwartungen widerspiegeln. All dies hemmt die Ausrüstungsinvestitionen. So ist es weiterhin in erster Linie der Konsum, der den Aufschwung trägt. Der private Verbrauch profitiert dabei insbesondere vom anhaltenden Beschäftigungsaufbau, beim öffentlichen Konsum machen sich weiterhin die hohen Aufwendungen zur Unterbringung und Integration von Flüchtlingen bemerkbar. Der Wohnungsbau wird durch die niedrigen Zinsen angeregt.
F00|The BEAR toolbox|The Bayesian Estimation, Analysis and Regression toolbox (BEAR) is a comprehensive (Bayesian) (Panel) VAR toolbox for forecasting and policy analysis. BEAR is a MATLAB based toolbox which is easy for non-technical users to understand, augment and adapt. In particular, BEAR includes a user-friendly graphical interface which allows the tool to be used by country desk economists. Furthermore, BEAR is well documented, both within the code as well as including a detailed theoretical and user's guide. BEAR includes state-of-the art applications such as sign and magnitude restrictions, conditional forecasts, Bayesian forecast evaluation measures, Bayesian Panel VAR using different prior distributions (for example hierarchical priors), etc. BEAR is specifically developed for transparently supplying a tool for state-of-the-art research and is planned to be further developed to always be at the frontier of economic research. JEL Classification: C11, C30, C87, E00, F00
F00|Economic Problems of Exploring Hydrocarbons in Russian Northern Provinces in the Context of International Interests|The goal of the article is to analyze the present state and perspectives of exploring gas and oil resources of the Russian North in the context of economic interests of a number of foreign countries, to reveal both common things in interests of the both parties, and inconsistencies that must be aligned. The methodology of the research is based on the system approach to estimating the state of gas and oil resources of the Russian North and comprehensive analysis of aligning economic interests of Russia and a number of foreign countries. A complex of general scientific and special methods of research was used, including abstract-logical, balance, statistical analysis and others. The article shows that the Russian North is extremely rich in gas and oil resources that are both currently exploited and promising for reclaiming especially on the shelf of Arctic seas. It analyzes reasons of the decrease in the gas and oil production in the country that has occurred over recent years. It is caused by the fall of the demand for hydrocarbons in the world, sectoral sanctions, and the decrease in the production of the mineral resources base. Gas and oil resources of Russia fall within the interests of a number of foreign countries, mainly West European countries for which stable provision of the economy with raw hydrocarbons becomes one of the most important strategic tasks. Long-term economic interests of Russia coincide with the interests of the European Union (EU), however, not fully. The authors come to the conclusion that in case of supplying hydrocarbons economic interests of Russia and EU countries must be aligned not only in terms of searching for mutually profitable forms of cooperation but also solving basic inconsistencies that lie in the basis of opinions discrepancies.
F00|China and the evolution of the world economy|China's rapid growth and its growth model have accelerated important existing structural trends in the world economy and made them decisive characteristics of the global economy. In particular, China has ensured that this will be the era of the global market economy; the super-industrial economy; the post-industrial economy; the ecologically constrained economy; the complex economy; the highly globalized economy; the innovation economy; an economy with a new moral consciousness about the global supply chain; and an economy with an emerging new monetary system.
F00|Trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights agreements and the upsurge in foreign direct investment in developing countries|Globalization has brought about remarkable growth in worldwide foreign direct investment (FDI), especially in developing countries. Many previous papers have examined the drivers of FDI inflows to developing countries. Nevertheless, little attention has been paid to relationships between TRIPS (Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights) agreement and FDI. This paper examines whether TRIPS have spurred a sharp rise in FDI in developing countries. The research presented in this paper addresses the 1985 to 2012 time period to comprehensively examine the impact of TRIPS on inward FDI in 23 developing countries via Ordinary Least Square (OLS), Fixed Effects (FE) and System Generalized Method of Moments (System GMM) techniques. The empirical results show that enforcement of the TRIPS agreement constitutes a driving force of FDI in host countries. In addition, such effects vary with host country characteristics.
F00|Not all international monetary shocks are alike for the Japanese economy|This paper examines the influence of monetary aggregates shocks in the U.S., China and the Euro area on Japan. China's monetary expansion has significant effects on Japan's economy that are quite different from those of the U.S. and Euro area. In line with the implications of the Mundell–Fleming model when there are capital controls in place, Chinese monetary expansion is found to primarily affect Japan through trade. The income absorption effect of China's monetary expansion is substantial for Japan. China's monetary expansion results in significant increases in Japan's industrial production, exports and inflation, and decreases in the trade-weighted yen. After 24months, monetary shocks in China forecast 20% of the variation in Japan's real trade balance. In contrast, U.S. monetary expansion results in contraction in Japan's industrial production, exports and trade balance (expenditure-switching). Monetary expansion in the Euro area does not significantly affect Japan. Structural vector error correction models and a factor-augmented model are estimated to establish robustness of results.
F00|Constant Market Share Analysis: A Note|Constant Market Share Analysis (CMSA) is a method which decomposes the variation of market shares of any trader country. The more recent version is proposed by Fagerberg and Sollie (1985) that avoids some limits deriving from previously specifications. After explicating how CMSA works, this note presents some applications to the Italian case. Two are the most important contribution of this paper. First, it includes a complete framework on CMSA. Second, the formal derivation of market share variation is proposed.
F00|Policies to overcome stagnation: the crisis, and the possible futures, of all things euro|This article argues that the Europe's continuing economic underperformance, particularly in the eurozone, is neither a function of insufficient information (policymakers do not know the right policies) nor ideology (policymakers are unable to recognize the right policies due to ideological priors). Rather, this article places the continuation of policies that cause stagnation in a longer historical context. Building upon the insights of Kalecki (1943) regarding the political limits of full employment policies, it is argued that the shift from a regime that generated inflation, low profitability, and a high degree of equality to one that generates deflation, high profitability, and inequality has hamstrung the ability of policymakers to respond positively to the situation at hand. This has generated structural pressures for political realignment across cases that compound the economic problems of stagnation while exacerbating tensions between different European â€˜Varieties of Capitalism.â€™ The result is a set of â€˜second-bestâ€™ strategies that lead to second-best outcomes in both politics and economics that further stress the already stressed economies and polities of Europe.
F00|“Conditional PPP” and real exchange rate convergence in the euro area|While economic theory highlights the usefulness of flexible exchange rates in promoting adjustment in international relative prices, flexible exchange rates also can be a source of destabilizing shocks. We find that when countries joining the euro currency union abandoned their national exchange rates, the adjustment of real exchange rates toward their long-run equilibrium surprisingly became faster. To investigate, we distinguish between differing rates of purchasing power parity (PPP) convergence conditional on alternative shocks, which we refer to as “conditional PPP.” We find that the loss of the exchange rate as an adjustment mechanism after the introduction of the euro was more than compensated by the elimination of the exchange rate as a source of shocks, in combination with faster adjustment in national prices. These findings support claims that flexible exchange rates are not necessary to promote long-run international relative price adjustment.
F00|Offshoring R&D|Abstract This paper explores offshoring of firms’ research and development functions. Our analysis employs a previously untapped and unique Eurostat International Sourcing Survey. The results are easy to summarize. First, the magnitude of R&D offshoring is small. Second, a large majority of R&D is offshored within the enterprise group, in contrast to offshoring outside of the enterprise group. Third, most of R&D offshoring from Europe is directed to high-income European countries, not so to low-cost countries in Europe, China, or India. Fourth, R&D jobs do have been lost from offshoring; however, the negative employment impact has been moderate. But the Eurostat International Sourcing Survey does not allow entangling the full net employment effect of R&D offshoring, which could be either negative or positive.
F00|Russia’s Oil Dependence and the EU|Russia’s macro economic fate has for a long time been connected to its vast natural resources and oil in particular. This paper shows just how deep Russia’s dependence on oil is when it comes to its macro economic development (at least) since the break up of the Soviet Union. Although many analysts and policy makers discuss Russia’s oil dependence, not everyone fully appreciates its quantitative importance and what it means for Russian policy making. This paper provides a detailed analysis of the link between Russia’s economic growth and international oil prices, both when it comes to actual outcomes and the forecasts that are crucial for policy makers and other economic actors. The strength of the relationship is staggering. Depending on measures and time periods used, international oil prices account for 50 to over 90 percent of Russia’s actual growth or forecast errors. Since international oil prices are exogenous to Russian policy makers it means that they do not really control the fate of their economy. Good macro economic management, in particular a flexible exchange rate, can mitigate some macro economic volatility that are due to changes in international oil prices but structural reforms to support diversification are needed to take control of the country’s macro economic future. Investors and consumers in the EU could be Russia’s prime partners to make this happen and it would benefit a vast majority of citizens both in Russia and the EU. However, it will require significant policy changes on both sides that currently look doubtful for other reasons than simple economics.
F00|The nature and predictive power of preferences: Global evidence|This paper presents the Global Preference Survey, a globally representative dataset on risk and time preferences, positive and negative reciprocity, altruism, and trust. We collected these preference data as well as a rich set of covariates for 80,000 individuals, drawn as representative samples from 76 countries around the world, representing 90 percent of both the world’s population and global income. The global distribution of preferences exhibits substantial variation across countries, which is partly systematic: certain preferences appear in combination, and follow distinct economic, institutional, and geographic patterns. The heterogeneity in preferences across individuals is even more pronounced and varies systematically with age, gender, and cognitive ability. Around the world, our preference measures are predictive of a wide range of individual-level behaviors including savings and schooling decisions, labor market and health choices, prosocial behaviors, and family structure. We also shed light on the cultural origins of preference variation around the globe using data on language structure.
F00|Export Variety And Intra-Industry Trade: Theoretical And Empirical Evidence|This paper theoretically and empirically investigates the relationship between the number of product varieties and the extent of intra-industry trade (IIT). IIT provides more trade opportunities for countries in which differentiated products are produced. The model presented shows that the extent of bilateral IIT is higher the smaller the gap in the number of export varieties between two countries. The empirical analysis of Japan and twenty-five countries provides support for the theoretical model presented in this paper. The theory also shows that similar number of export varieties between two countries, that is, more IIT can be a tool to redress trade imbalance between two countries. The policy implication of the results is that promoting higher product variety will increase the opportunity for IIT regardless of country specific effects
F00|The Efficacy of Linkages for Relational Capability Building and Internationalization-Indian and Australian Mining Firms|"This research explores the significance of linkages in building relational capability between Australian and Indian mining firms which lead to new international opportunities. Building upon knowledge-based and network views, this qualitative study presents the ""The Relational Capability-Linkages Model."""
F00|Risk Sharing in Europe|We analyse if consumption can be internationally detached from GDP domestic shocks due to cross border risk sharing mechanisms. We update the measurement of risk sharing for industrialized OECD countries and for several subsets of European ones. We use panel VAR models to capture the dynamic behaviour of cross border consumption smoothing through the capital markets, government and credit market channels. We also check for the substitutability among channels. Finally, we track the evolution of risk sharing over time for each channel.
F00|Post-IPO performance and its association with subscription cascades and issuers’ strategic-political importance|This study focuses on the strategic-political importance of firms undertaking IPO in China’s international Hong Kong market. This market setting is of particular interest given the unique mix of state-backed and privately-owned issuers drawn to it. I find that an issuer’s strategic-political importance is strongly and positively related to post-IPO returns. An issuer’s strategic-political importance is also negatively correlated with the variance of changes in its post-listing earnings and revenue. Overall, the present study suggests that state support correlates with enhanced post-IPO stock returns and more stable sales turnover and earnings. However, results show that state ownership does not necessarily translate into increased post-IPO revenue and earnings growth. The paper’s second major contribution relates to the identification of pronounced subscription “cascades” (Welch in J Financ 67(2):695–732, 1992 ) and how these correlate with post-IPO returns. Results suggest that insipid (overly exuberant) subscription demand presages strong (weak) post-listing returns. Consistent with “cascade” arguments (Welch 1992 ), return reversals occur without commensurate revenue or earnings change. Finally, and in terms of valuation uncertainty (Miller in J Financ 32(4):1151–1168, 1977 ), findings point to an inverse association between post-IPO stock returns and the magnitude of an issue’s prospectus-disclosed offer price range. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2016
F00|Unified Growth Theory Contradicted by the Mathematical Analysis of the Historical Growth of Human Population|Data describing historical growth of human population, global and regional (Western Europe, Eastern Europe, Asia, former USSR, Africa and Latin America), are analysed. Results are in harmony with the earlier analysis of the historical growth of the world population in the past 12,000 years and with other independent studies. This analysis is also in harmony with the study of the historical economic growth. Within the range of analysable data, there was no Malthusian stagnation. Takeoffs from stagnation to growth, postulated by the Unified Growth Theory never happened. There were no escapes from the Malthusian trap because there was no trap in the growth of population. This analysis and the earlier studies of the Gross Domestic Product lead to the conclusion that there were also no takeoffs in the income per capita distributions, claimed by the Unified Growth Theory. Consequently, the claimed differential timing in takeoffs never happened. Unified Growth Theory is contradicted yet again by the mathematical analysis of the same data, which were used, but never analysed, during the formulation of this theory. The study presented here, as well as earlier publications on the related topics, shows also that certain fundamental postulates used in the economic and demographic research are repeatedly contradicted by the mathematical analysis of data.
F00|Mathematical Analysis of Historical Income Per Capita Distributions|Data describing historical growth of income per capita [Gross Domestic Product per capita (GDP/cap)] for the world economic growth and for the growth in Western Europe, Eastern Europe, Asia, former USSR, Africa and Latin America are analysed. They follow closely the linearly-modulated hyperbolic distributions represented by the ratios of hyperbolic distributions obtained by fitting the GDP and population data. Results of this analysis demonstrate that income per capita was increasing monotonically. There was no stagnation and there were no transitions from stagnation to growth. The usually postulated dramatic escapes from the Malthusian trap never happened because there was no trap in the economic growth. Unified Growth Theory is fundamentally incorrect because its central postulates are contradicted repeatedly by data, which were used but never analysed during the formulation of this theory. The large body of readily-available data opens new avenues for the economic and demographic research. They show that certain fundamental postulates revolving around the concept of Malthusian stagnation need to be replaced by the evidence-based interpretations. Within the range of analysable data, which for the growth of population extends down to 10,000 BC, growth of human population and economic growth were hyperbolic. There was no Malthusian stagnation and there were no transitions to distinctly faster trajectories. Industrial Revolution had no impact on changing growth trajectories.
F00|The Postulate of the Three Regimes of Economic Growth Contradicted by Data|Economic growth in Western Europe, Eastern Europe, Asia, countries of the former USSR, Africa and Latin America were analysed. It is demonstrated that the fundamental postulate of the Unified Growth Theory about the existence of the three regimes of growth (Malthusian regime, post-Malthusian regime and sustained-growth regime) is contradicted by data. These regimes did not exist. In particular, there was no escape from the Malthusian trap because there was no trap. Economic growth in all these regions was not stagnant but hyperbolic. Unified Growth Theory is fundamentally incorrect. However, this theory is also dangerously misleading because it claimsa transition from the endless epoch of stagnation to the new era of sustained economic growth, the interpretation creating the sense of security and a promise of prosperity. The data show that the opposite is true. Economic growth in the past was sustained and secure. Now, it is supportedby the increasing ecological deficit. The long-term sustained and secure economic growth has yet to be created. It did not happen automatically, as suggested incorrectly by the Unified Growth Theory.
F00|The Unresolved Mystery of the Great Divergence is Solved|The so-called great divergence in the income per capita is described in the Unified Growth Theory as the mind-boggling and unresolved mystery about the growth process. This mystery has now been solved: the great divergence never happened. It was created by the manipulation of data. Economic growth in various regions is at different levels of development but it follows similar, non-divergent trajectories. Unified Growth Theory is shown yet again to be incorrect and scientifically unacceptable. It promotes incorrect and even potentially dangerous concepts. The distorted presentation of data supporting the concept of the great divergence shows that economic growth is now developing along moderately-increasing trajectories but mathematical analysis of the same data and even their undistorted presentation shows that these trajectories are now increasing approximately vertically with time. So, while the distorted presentation of data used in the Unified Growth Theory and the spuriously-created great divergence suggest the generally sustainable and secure economic growth, the undistorted presentation of data demonstrates that the growth is unsustainable and insecure. Similar dangerously incorrect concept promoted by the Unified Growth Theory is the repeated doctrine of takeoffs from the hypothetical but non-existent stagnation to growth. They also suggest prosperous and secure future. Such takeoffs never happened but even without them the current economic growth is insecure.
F00|Bollywood, Iindia and Economic Growth: A Hundred Years History|The main content of the following article is to describe the economic growth of an indigenous economy and the factors of its internalization. Bollywood can be used as a paradigmatic showcase for the improvement of ideas in the development of industries of emerging economies. This paper, via an extensive analysis, describes Bollywood as an economic factor for Indian’s growth. The reasons that led to this growth are described in an extended way, as well as the role of globalization and Indian’s Diaspora on this development.
F00|Raja Junankar, Economics of Immigration: Immigration and the Australian Economy|The Economics of Immigration: Immigration and the Australian Economy is a compilation of academic articles written by P.N. Junankar and coauthors on the topic of immigration in Australia. From the effects of immigration on Australia’s economy to the Australian labor market environment immigrants encounter, this book addresses important questions regarding immigration that are relevant to any economy.
F00|Innovation in the Global Firm|How global are the gains from innovation? When firms operate production plants in multiple countries, technological improvements developed in one location may be shared with foreign sites for efficiency gain. We develop a model that accounts for such transfer, and apply it to measure private returns to R&D investment for a panel of U.S. multinationals during 1989-2008. Our estimates indicate that innovation increases performance at firm locations beyond the innovating site: the median U.S. multinational firm realizes abroad 20 percent of the return to its U.S. R&D investment, suggesting estimates based only on domestic operations understate multinationals' gain from innovation, and revealing a spatial disconnect between the costs and potential gains of policies that encourage multinationals' U.S. innovation.
F00|Global Competitiveness and Innovation in the Period 2013-2015|Understanding the relationship between competitiveness and innovation has become a key topic in the literature in the past decades. In the twenty-first century innovation proves to be an engine for competitiveness all over the world. Today it is a global game that stimulates economic growth and improves the quality of life. Innovation is driven by numerous actors such as research institutions, multinational and transnational corporations, small and medium enterprises, academic institutions and individuals. The aim of our paper is to present the evolution of global competitiveness and innovation in the period 2013-2015 by using the Global Competitiveness Index and the Global Innovation Index.Our research is based on a literature review.
F00|Considerations on the Impact of the Global Financial Crisis on Economies from Eastern Europe|The paper investigates the causes and consequences of the 2007-2008 global financial crisis on five Eastern European countries, namely the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania and Russia, with the purpose of identifying the common points and the differences between these economies in terms of crisis impact, with an accent on their capital markets. Our findings indicate that although the countries under scrutiny have displayed somehow different paths of economic development before the crisis, they were affected, to a higher or smaller extent, by the financial crisis. Also, the crisis was felt in these countries, at least in terms of impact on capital markets, with different lags: in some of these countries the crisis hit at beginning of 2008, while in others signs of the crisis were visible only towards the end of 2008.
F00|Wygladzenie falkowe jako kluczowy instrument w predykcji krotkookresowej|Celem artykulu jest przedstawienie autorskiej aplikacji falek do predykcji krotkookresowej szeregow czasowych. Proponowany do predykcji krotkookresowych szeregow czasowych (w szczegolnosci do predykcji wskaznikow makroekonomicznych) model jest autorskim modelem. Model oparty jest na analizie falkowej z falka Daubechies oraz modelu wyrownania wykladniczego. Model wyrownania wykladniczego zostal odpowiednio zmodyfikowany poprzez wprowadzenie funkcji falkowej i polaczony w jeden model prognostyczny.
F00|Digital DNA of economy of scale and scope|The research article aims to create a general fundamental theory on the Digital DNA of the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope. In the frames of our theory, we define the Digital DNA of the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope, making the following theoretical assumptions: 1) Digital DNA exists in the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope; 2) Digital DNA consists of a chain of the knowledge with all the information on the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope; 3) the Digital DNA uniquely identifies and accurately characterizes the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope in the time, scale, frequency domains; 4) the Digital DNA represents a genetic key, which may help us to better understand the generation of the discrete-time digital business cycles with the different amplitudes, frequencies, shapes and powers in the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope in the time, scale, frequency domains. In this innovative advanced research, we investigate the following research problems: 1) the existing damaging mechanisms of the Digital DNA’s complex knowledge base structure in the modern digital creative economies of the scales and scopes in the time, scale, frequency domains; 2) the possible repairing mechanisms of the Digital DNA’s complex knowledge base structure in the modern digital creative economies of the scales and scopes in the time, scale, frequency domains; 3) the specific influences by the damaged/repaired Digital DNA on the discrete-time digital business cycles generation/propagation in the modern digital creative economies of the scales and scopes in the time, scale, frequency domains. In addition, the innovative advanced research aims: 1) to perform the computer modeling on the Digital DNA’s complex knowledge base structure in the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope; 2) to decode the Digital DNA’s complex knowledge base structure in the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope.
F00|Oil prices and the world business cycle: A causal investigation|Oil shocks have been often considered as exogenous factors responsible of economic downturns. In this paper the hypothesized exogeneity of oil prices is investigated by using running cross-correlations, distributed lag-regressions, Granger causality tests and VAR models applied to annual data 1960-2014 of oil prices and global economic activity—as measured by world GDP. Strong evidence is found that (a) the relation between oil prices and the global economy has significantly changed since the 1960s to the present, and (b) oil prices are endogenously influenced by the level of activity in the global economy. Evidence of a negative effect of oil prices on the global economy is weak for the whole sample and null for recent decades. These findings are consistent with former results using the Kilian index, which is shown to be a leading indicator of activity in the world economy. As such it is significantly correlated with other indicators of the global business cycle, such as the rate of growth of world output and the annual growth of CO2 global emissions.
F00|New Result in Consumption Theory: Change in Savings and Income Growth – Nineteen Years Later|This new version uses the definitions and some of the results found in Sargent’s Macroeconomic Theory. Hall’s (1978) proof of the corollary 4, ct+1 = ct, can be found in Flavin (1981). Writing the same consumption stated in Flavin, for period t+1, in a different way for the summation of the expected future incomes, it is possible to show that changes in savings is a function of income growth. This new result has implications, for instance, in Keynes’ (1936) saving and dissaving.
F00|"العلاقات التجارية الفلسطينية الأوروبية الشراكة والواقع<BR>[Palestinian European Trade Relations ""Partnership and Reality""]"|This study aims at unveiling the reality of Palestinian-European trade relations and at identifying the mechanisms and programs pursued by the European Union to support Palestinian territories. This research studies the impact on economic sectors, productive activities and the access to European trade support for Palestinians by identifying the behavior and the nature of relations between the two sides and the extent of its development. The study revealed the reality of the Palestinian European Economic Partnership and the most important items that express the priority given to Palestine. The research manipulates the descriptive analysis approach, it shows the size and nature of changes in the foreign Palestinian trade with the European Union during the period from 1994 until 2014. It makes use of the latest studies, ideas, previous literature analysis, reports and statistics issued in this area to enrich the study. The study revealed some significant findings: the period in which commercial exchange rate is at best came in line with the availability of an appropriate atmosphere and political optimism. Despite the improved performance of the European support, the Israeli siege and enormous losses of the Palestinian economy might explain the noticeable deceleration in the economic growth rates of the last years. The results unveiled also that the agreements, lines of donations, mechanisms of cooperation, the European Neighbourhood agreement. are still below the required level due to the Israeli arbitrary measures, particularly with regard to restricted commercial activity. And this is not consistent with the hypothesis that the Palestinian-European partnership agreement is the only influential item in Palestinian-European economic relations.
F00|Editorial: Globalizacja i regionalizacja we współczesnym świecie - tom II<BR>[Editorial: Globalization and regionalization in modern World - Volume II]|Today's international economy is subject to dynamic changes and interactions. This is due to globalization processes that provide new features to international networks of economic relations. Globalization covers more and more spheres of human activity on international, national, regional and local levels. Such a turbulent environment creates the need for constant research on the nature of these relations.
F00|Shades and Penumbra of Globalization|Those who are often identified as challengers of globalization, from the standpoint of defending a defined modernity since the inception of capitalism1, they are, in most cases, only one or all of the contestants of the dominant paradigm of globalization. Almost no one denies that requires empirical reality - that the current world is changing, both in the most developed societies, and as a result their impact on other companies, globally. Change exists and it is not contested. Its interpretations are contested and the practice based on these interpretations that are to be adopted in relation to them. Stating that this practice is itself a component of globalization, one of the factors that shape, may extend or limit his influence and can “tame” those it deems undesirable effects. Therefore, the debate about globalization acquires exceptional importance in relation to reality. Because it has become one of the most important components of this reality, yet we, that is globalization. And because the way in which reality will evolve from now on will depend, in turn, how that will evolve debate about globalization, building intellectual infrastructure, knowledge and value that will underpin future political and economic action. As stated, rightly, Immanuel Wallerstein, just we humans are the ones who, through their ideas, beliefs and actions constitute uncertainty factors of the future.
F00|Energy And Innovation Sector Seen As Essential Factors Of Economic Security In The Third Millennium|The energy and innovation sector are key components of the economic security of Romania. In order to be able to keep the high standards with other competing countries with which Romania competes in different economic sector, our country must have a strong and independent energy and innovation sector
F00|The Evidence on Globalisation|" type=""main"" xml:id=""twec12174-abs-0001""> Globalisation is blamed for many socioeconomic shortcomings. I discuss the consequences of globalisation by surveying the empirical globalisation literature. My focus is on the KOF indices of globalisation that have been used in more than 100 studies. Early studies using the KOF index reported correlations between globalisation and several outcome variables. Studies published more recently identify causal effects. The evidence shows that globalisation has spurred economic growth, promoted gender equality and improved human rights. Moreover, globalisation did not erode welfare state activities, did not have any significant effect on labour market interaction and hardly influenced market deregulation. It increased, however, within-country income inequality. The consequences of globalisation thus turn out to be overall much more favourable than often conjectured in the public discourse."
F00|Secular Drivers of the Global Real Interest Rate|Long-term real interest rates across the world have fallen by about 450 basis points over the past 30 years. The co-movement in rates across both advanced and emerging economies suggests a common driver: the global neutral real rate may have fallen. In this paper we attempt to identify which secular trends could have driven such a fall. Although there is huge uncertainty, under plausible assumptions we think we can account for around 400 basis points of the 450 basis points fall. Our quantitative analysis highlights slowing global growth as one force that may have pushed down on real rates recently, but shifts in saving and investment preferences appear more important in explaining the long-term decline. We think the global saving schedule has shifted out in recent decades due to demographic forces, higher inequality and to a lesser extent the glut of precautionary saving by emerging markets. Meanwhile, desired levels of investment have fallen as a result of the falling relative price of capital, lower public investment, and due to an increase in the spread between risk-free and actual interest rates. Moreover, most of these forces look set to persist and some may even build further. This suggests that the global neutral rate may remain low and perhaps settle at (or slightly below) 1% in the medium to long run. If true, this will have widespread implications for policymakers — not least in how to manage the business cycle if monetary policy is frequently constrained by the zero lower bound.
F00|Global Finance Brief: Do Loan-to-Value Ratio Regulation Changes Affect Canada Mortgage Credit?|Analyzing the Canadian housing market to understand LTV ratio regulation changes
F00|Kräftiger Aufschwung dank günstigem Öl und schwachem Euro|Die deutsche Wirtschaft befindet sich in einem kräftigen Aufschwung. Sie wird stimuliert von unerwarteten expansiven Impulsen, insbesondere dem Verfall des Ölpreises und der starken Abwertung des Euro. Das Bruttoinlandsprodukt wird in diesem Jahr voraussichtlich um 2,1% steigen. Dabei ist der Konsum die Stütze des Aufschwungs. Zudem gehen vom übrigen Euroraum wieder leicht positive Impulse aus, sodass auch der Außenhandel zur Expansion beiträgt. Im kommenden Jahr dürfte sich das Tempo nur wenig verlangsamen. Die Abwertung des Euro wird die Konjunktur dabei weiter beleben, während die positiven Effekte des gesunkenen Ölpreises auslaufen. Alles in allem erwarten die Institute einen Anstieg der gesamtwirtschaftlichen Produktion im Jahr 2016 um 1,8 %.
F00|Kräftiger Aufschwung dank günstigem Öl und schwachem Euro|Am 16. April 2015 stellte die Projektgruppe Gemeinschaftsdiagnose in Berlin ihr Frühjahrsgutachten der Presse vor. Ihrer Ansicht nach befindet sich die deutsche Wirtschaft in einem kräftigen Aufschwung. Sie wird stimuliert von unerwarteten expansiven Impulsen, insbesondere dem Verfall des Ölpreises und der starken Abwertung des Euro. Das Bruttoinlandsprodukt wird in diesem Jahr voraussichtlich um 2,1% steigen. Das 68%-Prognoseintervall reicht dabei von 1,4 bis 2,8%. Dabei ist der Konsum die Stütze des Aufschwungs. Zudem gehen vom übrigen Euroraum wieder leicht positive Impulse aus, so dass auch der Außenhandel zur Expansion beiträgt. Im kommenden Jahr dürfte sich das Tempo nur wenig verlangsamen. Die Abwertung des Euro wird die Konjunktur dabei weiter beleben, während die positiven Effekte des gesunkenen Ölpreises auslaufen. Die öffentlichen Haushalte dürften in diesem und im nächsten Jahr mit deutlichen Überschüssen von jeweils über 20 Mrd. Euro abschließen. Angesichts struktureller Überschüsse ist die Gelegenheit jetzt günstig, den Einkommensteuertarif – insbesondere im Bereich kleiner und mittlerer Einkommen – leistungsfreundlicher zu gestalten.
F00|ifo Konjunkturprognose 2015/2016: Deutsche Wirtschaft im Aufschwung|Die deutsche Wirtschaft befindet sich derzeit in einem kräftigen Aufschwung. Das reale Bruttoinlandsprodukt wird in diesem Jahr voraussichtlich um 1,9% expandieren und im kommenden Jahr um 1,8%. Der private Konsum bleibt die Stütze des Aufschwungs, da die Einkommensperspektiven der privaten Haushalte aufgrund der sich weiter verbessernden Arbeitsmarktlage gut sind. Allerdings entfallen allmählich die Kaufkraftgewinne durch den Ölpreisrückgang, so dass sich die Konsumdynamik im Prognosezeitraum etwas abschwächen dürfte. Die Unternehmensinvestitionen werden in einem extrem günstigen Finanzierungsumfeld weiter expandieren. Zudem setzt sich der Bauboom fort. Die Abwertung des Euro regt die Exporte noch bis in die zweite Jahreshälfte dieses Jahres an. Im Verlauf des kommenden Jahres kühlt sich die Weltkonjunktur dann leicht ab und dämpft den Zuwachs der Exporte. Die Importe werden aufgrund der hohen binnenwirtschaftlichen Dynamik noch etwas schneller zunehmen als die Exporte. Insgesamt dürften wie schon im Vorjahr die nachfrageseitigen Impulse von der Binnenwirtschaft kommen.
F00|Secular drivers of the global real interest rate|Long-term real interest rates across the world have fallen by about 450 basis points over the past 30 years. The co-movement in rates across both advanced and emerging economies suggests a common driver: the global neutral real rate may have fallen. In this paper we attempt to identify which secular trends could have driven such a fall. Although there is huge uncertainty, under plausible assumptions we think we can account for around 400 basis points of the 450 basis points fall. Our quantitative analysis highlights slowing global growth as one force that may have pushed down on real rates recently, but shifts in saving and investment preferences appear more important in explaining the long-term decline. We think the global saving schedule has shifted out in recent decades due to demographic forces, higher inequality and to a lesser extent the glut of precautionary saving by emerging markets. Meanwhile, desired levels of investment have fallen as a result of the falling relative price of capital, lower public investment, and due to an increase in the spread between risk-free and actual interest rates. Moreover, most of these forces look set to persist and some may even build further. This suggests that the global neutral rate may remain low and perhaps settle at (or slightly below) 1% in the medium to long run. If true, this will have widespread implications for policymakers — not least in how to manage the business cycle if monetary policy is frequently constrained by the zero lower bound.
F00|When trade stops: Lessons from the Gaza blockade 2007–2010|This paper uses detailed household expenditure and firm production data to study the welfare consequences of the blockade imposed on the Gaza Strip between mid-2007 and mid-2010. Using the West Bank as a counterfactual economy, we find that welfare declined by 14%–27%. Moreover, households with larger pre-blockade expenditure levels experienced larger welfare losses. We show that this large decline in welfare may be due to a combination of resource reallocation and reduced productivity. Workers were reallocated from manufacturing to services, and from industries that use imported inputs intensively, or export. In addition, labor productivity fell by 20% on average.
F00|The U.S. housing price bubble: Bernanke versus Taylor|This paper examines the effects of two major macro-economic forces argued by opposing renowned U.S. economists to have contributed most significantly to the U.S. housing price bubble that preceded the recent global financial crisis. The first force examined, as argued by John Taylor, is the Federal Reserve's loose monetary policy stance from 2002 to 2005. The second force examined, as argued by Ben Bernanke, is the substantial global inflow of capital to the U.S. over the same time period. We develop and estimate a reduced form model for U.S. housing prices, and find evidence consistent with both factors’ contributing significantly to the recent macro-housing price behavior in the U.S.
F00|Modeling Developing Countries' Policies in General Equilibrium|Policies affecting resource allocation across tradable sectors and those affecting the incentives to produce tradable activities are key determinants of macroeconomic balance and growth. Computable general equilibrium models have made significant contributions to both types of policies. With advancements in computing power and software, these models have become easy to implement and are now widespread. The question then is when and how to formulate them to avoid the ¡®black box¡¯ syndrome. This book seeks to address these issues through carefully selected essays that analyse how to model general equilibrium linkages in a single economy, across developing and developed economies, and across both micro and macro policies. Micro policies examined include tariffs quotas and VERs, the choice of taxes to maximize government revenue, migration and remittances, and the political economy of tariff setting. Applications on macro policies cover capital inflows, real exchange rate determination, and the modeling of the effects of adjustment policies on income distribution. The book provides insights on the development of a family of models for diverse policy choices, focusing on the ways to model the following: links between tradable and non-tradable activities, labor markets, and portfolio choices given limited capital mobility. Selected essays are all inspired by specific policy problems, including the adaptation to external shocks (i.e. oil), consequences of capital inflows, determinants of migration and associated remittances, the productivity of foreign aid, and rent-seeking activities under trade regimes with non-price trade restrictions. Examples in this book lay out the theoretical foundations, alongside a variety of applications, to help formulate coherent and transparent models for policy analysis. Archetype economies are extensively used to show how differences in economic structure influence the effects of policies. Graduate students and policy analysts interested in modeling will find this a useful compendium of studies.
F00|Banking Unconditionally: The Political Economy of Chinese Finance in Latin America|Globalization scholars have long-debated to what extent economic integration, and specifically, mobile private capital constrains national policymaking. With Western capital reeling from the 2008 financial crisis, state-owned capital made inroads globally. China, as the world's largest saver, expanded its cross-border lending, funneling almost US$300 billion to developing countries since the crisis. What are the implications for debtor governments' room to maneuver? I argue that China's rapid financial expansion globally has helped increase national-level policy flexibility by removing the budget constraint traditionally imposed by the IMF and global markets. Unlike their stringent borrower conditionality, Chinese investors tend not to impose onerous policy conditions. Given the recent emergence of Chinese financing, I employ a comparative case study analysis of two of China's largest debtors â€” Brazil and Venezuela â€” before and after the introduction of Chinese credit. I find that government budget deficits increase as Chinese state-to-state financing accounts for a larger share of total external public financing. These findings offer important new insights for the study of globalization, the Latin American left, and China-Latin American relations, by helping explain the structural conditions that enable nations to veer from Western governance models.
F00|The Meaning of Fair Trade|No abstract is available for this item.
F00|International currency exposures, valuation effects and the global financial crisis|We examine the evolution of international currency exposures, with a particular focus on the 2002–12 period. During the run up to the global financial crisis, there was a widespread shift towards positive net foreign currency positions, such that relatively few countries exhibited the archetypal emerging-market “short foreign currency” position on the eve of the global financial crisis. During the crisis, the upheaval in currency markets generated substantial currency-generated valuation effects — much of which were not reversed. There is some evidence that the distribution of valuation effects was stabilizing in the sense of showing a negative covariation pattern with pre-crisis net foreign asset positions.
F00|International Currency Exposures, Valuation Effects, and the Global Financial Crisis|"We examine the evolution of international currency exposures, with a particular focus on the 2002-12 period. During the run up to the global financial crisis, there was a widespread shift towards positive net foreign currency positions, such that relatively few countries exhibited the archetypal emerging-market short foreign currency"" position on the eve of the global financial crisis. During the crisis, the upheaval in currency markets generated substantial currency-generated valuation effects - much of which were not reversed. There is some evidence that the distribution of valuation effects was stabilizing in the sense of showing a negative covariation pattern with pre-crisis net foreign asset positions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
F00|Rounding the Corners of the Policy Trilemma: Sources of Monetary Policy Autonomy|A central result in international macroeconomics is that a government cannot simultaneously opt for open financial markets, fixed exchange rates, and monetary autonomy; rather, it is constrained to choosing no more than two of these three. This paper considers whether partial capital controls and limited exchange rate flexibility allow for full monetary policy autonomy. We find partial capital controls do not generally allow for greater monetary control than with open capital accounts, unless they are quite extensive, but a moderate amount of exchange rate flexibility does allow for some degree of monetary autonomy, especially in emerging and developing economies. (JEL E52, F32, F33)
F00|Firm Learning and Growth|We study the implications of introducing learning (Jovanovic, 1982) in a standard monopolistically competitive environment with firm productivity heterogeneity. Our setup predicts that firm growth rates decrease with age, holding size constant, and decrease with size, holding age constant, a fact that models focusing on idiosyncratic productivity shocks have difficulty matching. We characterize the planner's problem and show that relative quantities between any two firms are the same in both planner's allocation and the decentralized economy. As a result, any inefficiency is driven by a discrepancy in the firm entry and exit thresholds. We calibrate the model using Colombian plant-level data and demonstrate how policies directly affecting firm entry and exit can be welfare enhancing. In particular, age-dependent subsidies allow young firms to avoid early exit and thus benefit consumers through access to a larger number of varieties. (Copyright: Elsevier)
F00|Mapping And Determinants Of Intra-Asean Foreign Direct Investment (FDI): Indonesia Case Study|As one of the pillars of the ASEAN Economic Community, capital flows are expected to increase among ASEAN countries through the implementation of the AEC at the end of 2015. As the country with the biggest economy in ASEAN, Indonesia is the largest recipient of foreign direct investment (FDI) from the region. This investment is expected to not only expand the size of the market and the search for resources, but also to make Indonesia a production base for exports. This research aims to map Indonesia’s FDI originating from ASEAN-5 countries and to identify the determinants of FDI. Besides that, this study also aims to analyse the behavior of Indonesia’s outward FDI to ASEAN-5 countries whilst also examining the shifting patterns of FDI into more high-tech sectors of the economy. The method used in this study is dynamic data panel analysis with Generalized Method of Moments (GMM) and structural breaks Bai and Perron analysis. The results of the study show that the determinants of inward intra-ASEAN FDI into Indonesia are the previous year’s FDI, Indonesia’s GDP, the GDP of the country of origin, distance, relative productivity, natural resources, road infrastructure, bilateral trade, and the volume of exports. Meanwhile, the determinants of Indonesia’s outward FDI are GDP of the destination country, bilateral trade, and the characteristics of the state of Singapore. The FDI that has entered Indonesia has tended to be orientated toward pursuing local markets, as is the case for Indonesia’s outward FDI. In regard to the apparent shift of Indonesia’s inward FDI to more high-tech sectors, a sustainable shift in this direction was not found. Rather, the study found that intra-ASEAN FDI into Indonesia tended to shift towards the tertiary sector.
F00|A Theoretical Approach On The Strategic Partnership Between The European Union And The Russian Federation|The purpose of this paper is to explore the theoretical approaches of the „strategic partnership” concept, and then applying them to the relationship and cooperation between the European Union and the Russian Federation, thus emphasizing its evolution. The base of this article lays on a literature review that gathers recent articles and several studies of some researchers in the field, providing some professional information on the subject. Findings reveal that there has not yet got to a general definition of the concepts, researchers and not only would agree upon, and, when applying it to the EU-Russia relation, that there are some mutual benefits as a result of the cooperation. This article shows that, despite of the fact that the startup of the cooperation between the two major global powers was a good one, it now has reached some kind of dead moment, when policy contradictions block the evolution of the partnership.
F00|The Relations Between The European Union And The Russian Federation Prior And After The Creation Of The Common Economic Space|Due to its geographical position and its cultural links, Russia has always had a special relation with Europe. In its attempt to shape its own place on the global stage, the Russian Federation has sometimes seen itself as an authentic European state, while in other cases and circumstances, it strongly supported and claimed its “Eurasian” features. Due to the enlargement of the European Union and its rise as a heavy international player, the European Union has turned into a geographical neighbor of the Russian Federation. From this perspective, it is not a surprising fact that the Russian Federation is to develop specific relations and shape a foreign policy with strategic features regarding the European Union. The institutional cooperation between the European Union and the Russian Federation aims at shaping a series of common objectives regarding the relations between the two sides and defining the actions needed in order to reach the proposed objectives, the implementation of the common projects considering the agreed order of priorities.
F00|Pursuing FDI policy in the EU – Member States and their policy space|This article looks into broader context of FDI policy in the European Union. It examines key aspects defining the available space for conducting the policy towards incoming and outflowing investments. From investigating general economic and political settings some conclusions as to the scope of FDI policy can be drawn. Changing international environment including the rise of Chinese OFDI, negotiated Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) and internal EU developments mainly Lisbon Treaty provisions as to the common investment policy, shape the FDI policy space available for the EU members.
F00|Örn B. Bodvarsson & Hendrik Van den Berg, The Economics of Immigration: Theory and Policy|The Economics of Immigration: Theory and Policy (Second edition)is designed as a survey book that addresses all facets of immigration. Though there is a great amount of information regarding immigration, the complexity of the topic has resulted in an absence of any comprehensive book the covers a wide range of issues. The book covers immigration theory, empirical evidence regarding those theories, special issues in immigration, and immigration policy throughout the world. Designed as a resource for both graduate students and researchers in the field, this book is successful at compiling all of the various literature and policy on immigration in a cohesive manner.
F00|The Value of Export Incentives|This study develops a methodology for the comparative analysis of industry-specific export incentives. The impact of different export incentives extended to the textiles sector in India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh is analyzed using industry-level data for the years 2001–11. Our findings show that Bangladesh operates a highly export-oriented regime – of the three countries, the value of its export incentives is highest. The study suggests that, in order to maintain its competitiveness in textile exports, Pakistan needs to enhance its export incentives, particularly for value-added textiles.
F00|Equilibrium Technology Diffusion, Trade, and Growth|How do reductions in barriers to international trade affect aggregate economic growth and welfare? We develop a novel dynamic model of growth and trade, driven by technology adoption, to better understand the interaction between technology diffusion, openness, and growth. In the model, heterogeneous firms choose to produce and trade or pay a cost and search within the economy to upgrade their technology. These upgrading and production choices determine the productivity distribution from which firms can acquire new technologies and, hence, the rate of technological diffusion and growth. In equilibrium, low productivity firms choose to upgrade their technology to remain competitive and profitable. Lower trade barriers enhance competitive forces that differentially affect firms of varying productivity levels. Lower barriers tend to reduce profits for all domestic firms by creating added competition from foreign firms, but improve profits for the highly productive firms by providing expanded opportunities through exporting. This shift in the relative value of firms provides increased incentives to upgrade technology, which are counterbalanced by an increasing cost of upgrading technology due to general equilibrium effects. In our baseline calibration, an increased growth rate generates a dynamic component of welfare that magnifies the traditional static component to increase the welfare gains from openness.
F00|Knowledge Economy Index in the Structure of World Economies|In conducting this article we considered that the XXI century is considered the century knowledge economy, because knowledge has become a vital asset for countries, companies and individuals. Therefore, the knowledge economy is a concept that refers to the use of knowledge to produce benefits, ie added value [1]. Thus, the benefit of the exploitation of knowledge (this resource materializes into inventions / innovations on new products / services performed by firms) differentiates the countries regarding growth potential and global competitive position. Thus, we analyzed two global indices with great interest to explain how to obtain competitive advantage and create national prosperity nationally and in terms of business organizations.
F00|Contemporary Issues in Economy. Proceedings of the International Conference on Applied Economics: Proceedings in Polish|The book contains papers in Polish language submitted to 8th International Conference on Applied Economics Contemporary Issues in Economy under the title Market or Government? 18-19 June 2015. Polish Security Printing Works was a strategic partner of the conference and European Regional Science Association was an international scientific institutional partner. The conference was hosted by The Department of Economics at The Faculty of Economics and Management at Nicolaus Copernicus University in Torun in Poland and was organized in collaboration with Polish Economic Society Branch in Torun, Institute of Economic Research and Faculty of Business at Brno University of Technology (Czech Republic), Kaunas University of Technology (Lithuania), Kyiv National Economic University named after Vadym Hetman (Ukraine), Pablo de Olavide University (Spain), Riga Technical University (Latvia), Steinbeis University Berlin (Germany). The conference was especially addressed to economist from all European Union countries and Eastern Europe. Main conference tracks included: a) Macroeconomics; Microeconomics; Econometrics; International Economics; b) Financial markets; Labour markets; Institutions; c) Business environment; Management and Marketing.
F00|Contemporary Issues in Economy. Proceedings of the International Conference on Applied Economics: Economics and Finance|The book contains papers in economics and finance submitted to 8th International Conference on Applied Economics Contemporary Issues in Economy under the title Market or Government? 18-19 June 2015. Polish Security Printing Works was a strategic partner of the conference and European Regional Science Association was an international scientific institutional partner. The conference was hosted by The Department of Economics at The Faculty of Economics and Management at Nicolaus Copernicus University in Torun in Poland and was organized in collaboration with Polish Economic Society Branch in Torun, Institute of Economic Research and Faculty of Business at Brno University of Technology (Czech Republic), Kaunas University of Technology (Lithuania), Kyiv National Economic University named after Vadym Hetman (Ukraine), Pablo de Olavide University (Spain), Riga Technical University (Latvia), Steinbeis University Berlin (Germany). The conference was especially addressed to economist from all European Union countries and Eastern Europe. Main conference tracks included: a) Macroeconomics; Microeconomics; Econometrics; International Economics; b) Financial markets; Labour markets; Institutions; c) Business environment; Management and Marketing.
F00|Political Economy Of Japan’S Decades Long Economic Stagnation|It is hard to imagine that after Japan’s miracle post-war growth it would go on to suffer more than two decades of stagnation. Although there have been some short-lived periods of recovery, such as in 1995-96, the average growth rate over the period of 1991-2014 was a mere 1%. Despite historically low interest rates and a series of fiscal stimuli, the growth has not revived. Despite the long economic stagnation, Japan still retains its strength in many areas. Its human and physical capital formations are among the highest in the world. The volume it spends on research and development is equally impressive. It still has world-leading firms and modern technologies. The methodology to be followed here is derived from the aims of the study and comparisons of international statistics provide the main means of addressing the research questions and the objectives of this paper. The study concludes that the neoliberal ‘market-centred’ policies have brought inequality, stagnation, and fiscal crisis to the state. Therefore, a radical critical political economy is required to analyse the situation more objectively, one which would mean increased levels of welfare and people-led measures.
F00|2008 Crises in Economies of Balkan Countries|Balkan countries, block of Albania, Serbia, Bosnia, Bulgaria, Romania, Montenegro, Macedonia have somewhat specific path toward future economic growth . Although some of them are part of EU community ( Bulgaria Romania ) and they have experienced the highest GDP growth rate 2014/2000 , significant number of countries still wait to become member of EU and to be able to further form a bridge toward Asia, Middle East, Africa. Ways to make further progress in such a heterogeneous environment, consequences of 2008 crises and ways how to incorporate predictions in GDP reasoning are some of points that this paper tackles.
F00|Demokratie , öffentliche Güter und Europa<BR>[Democracy, public Goods and Europe]|The rise of the extreme poles in the European political Spectrum, corresponds currently with a clear call for help by the site of simple People, combined with the desire for a serious confrontation with the tragic impasse reproduced by the extreme Problems of the everyday live . In this case, the Citizens spends little care about the Question whether the far-right, the Social Democrats, the Greens or left-wing populism becomes a drive, even if the conservatives in Europe continue their dominance. Much more the Citizens requires a reliable solution to their really important everyday problems. In this context, there is a need for Europe, to get out from the logic of closed circles , in which politicians negotiate with each other in groups or other forms of Representation . There is a clear necessity of recover the mean of sovereignty of the People in a holistic European Dimension that has to be institutionalized (Habermas 1996). Hence the lack of democracy. The progressive Forces of Europe, led by the Social Democrats should confront herself with the idea to define a new potential of public Goods in the context of a pan-European welfare state that is able to defuse the new inequalities in Europe. The e unification of Europe ultimately needs an appropriate institutional notionally foreplay, which can function as an ideal type in the consciousness of the citizen.
F00|Криптовалюта Как Ключ К Развитию Мировой Экономики<BR>[Cryptocurrency as a key to development of world economy]|For hundreds of years the world's money has been presented in the international exchange of gold and silver. They were used in their natural form. It is seems to be obvious, that current world’s money can’t take a role of the single world currency, which is a key to rapid and intensive economic growth. The goal of this research is to analyze aspects and features of cryptocurrency as one of the contenders for the role of single world currency.
F00|Degree of completion of the projects undertaken as part of preparations for Euro 2012|The most significant value added by Euro 2012 is undoubtedly the infrastructural changes. The event became a catalyst for the execution of more than two hundred projects for an amount of ca. PLN 100 billion. This paper focuses on the key projects, including above all the road construction projects, as well as those connected to road and rail infrastructure. Considering such significant outlays, the funding the preparation, particularly in a division into private and public sources, becomes an especially important issue. It is the predominant commitment of public funds that creates the need to justify their allocation, chiefly in the case of the sports venues, usually utilised by private sports clubs after the end of the event. Euro 2012 has been compared in this respect with other events of this rank, staged in Europe since the beginning of the 21st century.
F00|Selected Approaches to Measurement of National Competitiveness and the Results|The first objective of this paper is to briefly describe and compare the methodology of the two best known international rankings of competitiveness (World Competitiveness Yearbook and The Global Competitiveness Report). The method of construction of these scoreboards (proportion of hard and soft data, form of their aggregation, choice of respondents, etc.) does not make it possible to find a satisfactory answer to the question whether national competitiveness is objectively measurable. The second goal of this paper is to analyse the V4 results in these rankings. According to the GCR all the V4 are most successful in indicators called Efficiency enhancers. The low trust in the political representation and its activities is typical for the V4 countries. This negative attitude is projected into negative evaluation of the quality of public institutions and public administration.
F00|Position of the Polish economy in the international ranking of competitiveness|The aim of the herein paper is to present the level of competitiveness of the Polish economy against the background of the chosen countries in accordance with the standards of the world economic organizations. Such a defined aim determines the scope of the issues of the said paper, which consists of three sections. In the first section, the fundamental notion associated with the essence of competitiveness is explained, whereas in the second section a description has been provided of the economic situation of Poland, while in the third section the position and competitive capacity of Poland has been illustrated against the background of the chosen countries. Furthermore, in this section the rating of Poland in the particular rankings prepared by international economic institutions is presented, which classify countries from the viewpoint of their level of competitiveness, as well as attractiveness in terms of investment.
F00|The Visegrad Countries and European Union Membership - Selected Issues|The Visegrad Group consists of four Central European states: Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia. They started the accession procedure in mid 1990s and joined the European Union in May 2004. The aim of the paper is to analyse the economic, social and political impact of European Union membership on Visegrad countries. Key advantages resulting from the accession to the European Union were presented, including positive net position towards EU budget, participation in EU Policy of Economic, Social and Territorial Cohesion and Common Agricultural Policy, as well as export opportunities and increase in GDP per capita. In addition to that population trends, situation on the market of labour and net migration in four Visegrad countries were studied.
F00|Euro Zone Crisis: A Comprehensive Analysis With Special Emphasis On Portugal|Eurozone Crisis: A Comprehensive Analysis with Special Emphasis on PortugalIn 1992, the Maastricht Treaty formally created the European Union as the move towards a common market soon revealed a need for monetary coordination, and this eventually led to the circulation of the euro currency in January 2002. Nineteen of the twenty-eight EU member states are part of the EuroZone, while other EU states, including Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, and Romania, are required by treaty to eventually join. Even if the euro is destined to replace the dollar, it will happen slowly, and not cause a dollar collapse. Another reason why the shift to the euro, if it occurs, would happen slowly is because of the eurozone crisis. The European debt crisis is a multi-year debt crisis that has been taking place in several eurozone member states since the end of 2009. These states (Greece, Portugal, Ireland, Spain,Cyprus) were unable to repay or refinance their government debt or to bail out over-indebted banks under their national supervision without the assistance of third parties like the EFSF, the ECB, or the IMF.Portugal?s foreign debt-financed deficit?over 10 percent of GDP in 2009?meant that when investors withdrew, the country could no longer finance itself. This paper aims to draw a parallel between the Portuguese crisis and other European countries in similar situations with an in-depth analysis of the foreign exchange structure prevalent in the Eurozone. It will also infer common points surrounding these crises and examine possible solutions and safeguards for the future.
F00|Analysing bank real estate portfolio management by using impulse response function, Mahalanobis distance and financial turbulence|During the financial crisis that had its peak a few years ago, one of the interesting questions was raised. Does there exist a possibility that the aforementioned crisis will repeat. As real estate management took one of the key roles in the post-crisis period, it was expected that the lessons that crisis brought with itself, were learnt. Despite lagging effect that the aforementioned turbulence had on Western Europe, real estate prices kept raising and exhibited accelerating growth. This paper will try to address the aforementioned problem by analysing real estate portfolio management by using impulse response function. In order to analyse banking portfolio management, it was assumed that state of the art methods are used. Portfolio management is modelled by using Mahalanobis distance and financial turbulence index was analysed. As financial turbulence index was calculated for the total real estate share prices by taking the data from St. Louis FED database, interesting results were obtained. It was proved that real estate prices kept rising in Germany, Austria and Switzerland despite the warning foreshadowed by the financial crisis. Financial turbulence analysis pointed out that the volatility of real estate prices in the aforementioned countries was highest in the mid-2011 and it still has a high value. This indicates that real estate price bubble is a real threat to the whole financial system of Western Europe.
F00|ETFs performance Europe- a good start or not?|Under the premises that the U.S. Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) hold over 70% of the ETFs? World market, it seems that the European ones have been either under-researched or less demanded. This study provides some insights into the performance of two ETFs hubs, holding over 80% of the European ETFs activity, namely those operating in Luxembourg and Ireland, due also to their tax similarities. Following an updated literature review on the topic, the paper compares these two ETFs hubs by using secondary data publicly available, interpreted under a framework of previously identified performance methods: Tracking Error, Jensen?s alpha and Modigliani- M2 measure of performance. This methodology completes the descriptive statistics analysis, while aiming at answering two hypotheses. The first hypothesis states that the Tracking Error of ETFs compared to their benchmark or market indexes equals zero, which is confirmed by the study. The second hypothesis suggests that these particular ETFs do not present significant alphas, which is partially confirmed. Moreover, the second hypothesis is tested not only against various features of these funds ?benchmarks, but also from risk measurement perspectives, while employing correlation significance between the two countries ETFs. Overall, it appears that from the risk adjusted performance perspective, the ETFs domiciled in Luxembourg outperform the Irish ones, leading also to potential M&As in this industry.
F00|The Effects of Korean Country-of-Origin on Mongolian Consumer Product Evaluation and Purchase Intention|The economy of Mongolia has been growing, especially due to imports growing more than exports. The purpose of this study is to examine the impact of a Korean country-of-origin on Mongolian consumer product evaluation and purchase intention using a Korean laptop. Specifically, this study tested the independent and moderating roles of human values and socio-psychological variables in the relationships between country-of-origin, product evaluation, and purchase intention. The survey was conducted with 143 young respondents in Mongolia. The results of this study indicate that Korean country-of-origin positively affects Mongolian consumer product evaluation and purchase intention. Second, because the human value of power is tied into consumers’ social status and positions, Mongolian consumers with more power had weaker purchase intention for Korean country-of-origin products. However, findings show that the international social network moderates effects of Korean country-of-origin in product evaluation. In other words, Mongolian consumers with connections to international people tend to positively evaluate products imported from developed Asian countries.
F00|Contemporary economic relations between European Union and China (Wspolczesne relacje ekonomiczne pomiedzy Unia Europejska a Chinami)|The purpose of this article is to present the directions of development of economic cooperation between the EU-Member States and China. Various research and analyses show that the economic relations between the European Union and China will be strengthened. The main stimulus to intensify cooperation between the parties was the global economic and financial crisis, which led to economic imbalances in the world. As a result of the economic downturn of the past, plans to intensify cooperation on various levels arose, in particular by stimulating trade and flow of foreign investment. Today, the largest European trading partners for China are Germany, Great Britain, France, Italy and the Netherlands. The most promising sectors of cooperation between the partners are: infrastructure and transport, solutions for deploying technologies for alternative energy sources, transfer of green technologies, machinery and high technology equipment.
F00|How to construct nationally representative firm level data from the ORBIS global database|Firm-level data on productivity, financial activity and firms' international linkages have become essential for research in the fields of macro, international finance and growth. This paper describes the development of a firm-level global panel dataset for public and private companies based on the administrative microdataset ORBIS, provided commercially by Bureau van Dijk Electronic Publishing (BvD). The ORBIS database provides data on firms' financial and productive activities from balance sheets and income statements together with detailed information on firms' domestic and international ownership structure for over 130 million companies across the world. Researchers need to overcome several challenges before making the database usable for research. First, the database is not designed for large downloads that is essential for an econometric analysis. Second, there are several inherent biases in the database that affect the download process and lead to missing information. Third, the raw data may contain a number of irregularities which, if not dealt with, will result in data loss during a standard cleaning procedure. In combination, these issues cause minimal coverage of small firms, extensive missing data, and poor national representation. We give detailed instructions on the data gathering process from ORBIS in terms of downloading methodology and cleaning procedure so that a researcher can construct a database that is nationally representative with minimal missing information. We provide examples from several European countries to present the process and discuss the resulting dataset in detail.
F00|Monetary Policy and Structural Decline: Lessons from Japan for the European Crisis|Japan experienced a boom-and-bust cycle in the real estate and stock markets almost 20 years earlier than Europe. Since the bursting of the Japanese bubble economy, the country has fallen into a deep recession and has experimented with crisis therapies in the form of unconventional monetary expansion, Keynesian fiscal stimulus, and recapitalization of financial institutions. Japan reached a low interest rate environment in the mid 1990s and has accumulated an exceptionally high level of public debt during more than two decades of economic stagnation. This paper compares the boom-and-bust cycles in Japan and Europe with respect to the reasons for excessive booms, the characteristics of the crises, and the (potential) effects of the crisis therapies. It is argued that in both Japan and Europe the consequences of expansionary monetary and fiscal policies include the hysteresis of a low-interest rate and high government debt environment, the erosion of the allocation and signaling functions of the interest rate, the gradual quasi-nationalization of financial institutions, as well as gradual real income losses. The economic policy implication for Europe and Japan is the timely exit from crisis therapies in the form of excessively expansionary monetary and fiscal policies. © 2015 The Earth Institute at Columbia University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
F00|Shifting Drivers of Growth: Policy Implications for ASEAN-5|How the old saying “when the United States sneezes, the world catches a cold” holds true has been the subject of many research papers on global and country group business cycle synchronization and divergence. Instead of business cycle linkages, however, this paper examines the evolution of the dependence of ASEAN-5 and other Asian economies on their traditional and emerging growth engines (the United States, EU, Japan, China, and India). For this we use a structural vector autoregression model that yields time-varying growth multiplier effects. Although China has overtaken others as a major export destination for ASEAN-5 and despite the United States losing much of its relative economic clout in Asia, the multiplier effects show that the United States is still about 1.5 times more growth-enhancing than China for ASEAN-5. The EU has also not lost out completely to China as a growth engine. China, however, has overtaken Japan to become about 1.88 times more growth enhancing than Japan for ASEAN-5. India has yet to become a significant growth engine, although it is of increasing importance to Singapore, Malaysia, and Indonesia. These results call for new initiatives to balance the rising over-dependence on China. © 2015 The Earth Institute at Columbia University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
F00|In Search of a Strategy for Making Growth More Pro-Poor in the Philippines|Despite the large and expanding literature on pro-poor growth, quantitative studies identifying potential determinants of pro-poor growth remain scarce. This paper addresses this lacuna in the literature for the case of the Philippines. The main driver of rural poverty reduction has shifted from agricultural to non-agricultural growth in the Philippines, but agricultural investments can be still effective in areas with underdeveloped infrastructure. Non-agricultural income growth, on the other hand, can be made more pro-poor by reducing child mortality, facilitating international labor migration, investing in roads, and reducing income inequality. © 2015 The Earth Institute at Columbia University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
F00|Global Inequality of Opportunity: How Much of Our Income Is Determined by Where We Live?|Suppose that all people in the world are allocated only two characteristics over which they have (almost) no control: country of residence and income distribution within that country. Assume further that there is no migration. We show that more than one-half of variability in income of world population classified according to their household per capita in 1% income groups (by country) is accounted for by these two characteristics. The role of effort or luck cannot play a large role in explaining the global distribution of individual income. © 2015 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
F00|The nature and predictive power of preferences : global evidence|This paper presents the Global Preference Survey, a globally representative dataset on risk and time preferences, positive and negative reciprocity, altruism, and trust. We collected these preference data as well as a rich set of covariates for 80,000 individuals, drawn as representative samples from 76 countries around the world, representing 90 percent of both the world’s population and global income. The global distribution of preferences exhibits substantial variation across countries, which is partly systematic: certain preferences appear in combination, and follow distinct economic, institutional, and geographic patterns. The heterogeneity in preferences across individuals is even more pronounced and varies systematically with age, gender, and cognitive ability. Around the world, our preference measures are predictive of a wide range of individuallevel behaviors including savings and schooling decisions, labor market and health choices, prosocial behaviors, and family structure. We also shed light on the cultural origins of preference variation around the globe using data on language structure.
F00|The Fragility of Two Monetary Regimes: The European Monetary System and the Eurozone| We analyse the similarities and the differences in the fragility of the European Monetary System (EMS) and the Eurozone. We test the hypothesis that in the EMS, the fragility arose from the absence of a credible lender of last resort in the foreign exchange markets; whereas in the Eurozone, it was the absence of a lender of last resort in the long‐term government bond markets that caused the fragility. We conclude that in the EMS, the national central banks were weak and fragile, and the national governments were insulated from this weakness by the fact that they kept their own national currencies. In the Eurozone, the roles were reversed. The national central banks that became part of the Eurosystem were strengthened. This came at a huge price, that is, the fragilization of the national governments that could be brought down by the whims of fear and frenzy in financial markets. Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
F00|Product Differentiation And The Treatment Of Foreign Trade In Computable General Equilibrium Models Of Small Economies|This paper examines the treatment of exports and imports, and external closure rules, adopted in recent single-country computable general equilibrium models of small economies. The paper presents a simple, one-sector analytic model which captures the major features of the multi-sector counterpart used in applied models. The paper derives graphical and algebraic solutions to the model and shows that, unlike some earlier external closures, this one gives rise to a well-behaved, price-taking economy. The model is also useful to illustrate the role of elasticities in popular trade-theoretic models that include traded and non-traded goods.
F00|Product differentiation and the treatment of foreign trade in computable general equilibrium models of small economies|This paper examines the treatment of exports and imports, and external closure rules, adopted in recent single-country computable general equilibrium models of small economies. The paper presents a simple, one-sector analytic model which captures the major features of the multi-sector counterpart used in applied models. The paper derives graphical and algebraic solutions to the model and shows that, unlike some earlier external closures, this one gives rise to a well-behaved, price-taking economy. The model is also useful to illustrate the role of elasticities in popular trade-theoretic models that include traded and non-traded goods.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F00|Productivity and externalities: models of export-led growth|In developing countries, successful export-led growth (ELG) industrialization has been associated with rapid structural change and productivity growth. There are major difficulties in explaining this performance using a standard neoclassical growth model. To develop a more satisfactory framework, we start from empirical and theoretical work with models incorporating externalities. We develop a simple analytical model with an export externality that captures the large increase in both total factor productivity and trade share associated with ELG. A second model is developed to decompose growth into various components: (i) factor accumulation, (ii) a factor reallocation effect from moving factors from low to high productivity sectors, (iii) an export externality effect arising from exporting light and heavy manufactures and (iv) an import externality effect arising from importing capital goods (heavy manufactures). The second model is implemented with data for an archetype semi-industrial country. In addition to accounting for the higher total factor productivity growth observed in countries pursuing ELG strategies, the model captures the patterns of structural change experienced by such countries better than simpler neoclassical models without disequilibrium features or externalities.
F00|A General Equilibrium Analysis Of Foreign Exchange Shortages In A Developing Economy|An acute shortage of foreign exchange has been a recurring problem for many developing economies. In the development planning literature, the problem is usually discussed within the framework of the ‘two-gap’ or ‘multi-gap’ models developed and elaborated during the sixties. These models assume fixed input–output coefficients and limited possibilities for export expansion. As a result, a foreign exchange shortage becomes an almost absolute constraint on growth in that even if domestic savings were available in sufficient amounts to allow an increase in investment, the absence of the required complementary foreign exchange makes such an increase impossible. The neoclassical answer to this ‘structuralist’ view has always been to stress the role of relative prices and, in particular, exchange rate adjustment as a means of overcoming any foreign exchange shortage. Stated simply, this view treats the alleged foreign exchange gap as only reflecting an overvalued real exchange rate. If the exchange rate is allowed to clear the foreign exchange market, there can be no foreign exchange gap…
F00|A General Equilibrium Analysis of Foreign Exchange Shortages in a Developing Economy|An acute shortage of foreign exchange has been a recurring problem for many developing economies. In the development planning literature, the problem is usually discussed within the framework of the ‘two-gap’ or ‘multi-gap’ models developed and elaborated during the sixties. These models assume fixed input–output coefficients and limited possibilities for export expansion. As a result, a foreign exchange shortage becomes an almost absolute constraint on growth in that even if domestic savings were available in sufficient amounts to allow an increase in investment, the absence of the required complementary foreign exchange makes such an increase impossible. The neoclassical answer to this ‘structuralist’ view has always been to stress the role of relative prices and, in particular, exchange rate adjustment as a means of overcoming any foreign exchange shortage. Stated simply, this view treats the alleged foreign exchange gap as only reflecting an overvalued real exchange rate. If the exchange rate is allowed to clear the foreign exchange market, there can be no foreign exchange gap…<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F00|Productivity Growth, External Shocks, and Capital Inflows in Chile: A General Equilibrium Analysis|This paper uses a computable general equilibrium model to analyze the growth path of the Chilean economy during 1977–81. During that period a comprehensive package of reforms liberalized international trade and removed restrictive labor legislation. As a result of the reforms, there were large changes in relative prices and in the structure of production and demand, and the economy enjoyed unprecedented growth with declining inflation. But large macroeconomic imbalances become evident toward the end of the period and in 1982 Chile experienced an abrupt and severe recession. Taking the real exchange rate as an exogenous policy variable, and using the observed levels of employment growth and foreign capital inflows, this paper compares model-generated growth paths with those of the economy. First, the benchmark simulation path is used to estimate the magnitude and pattern of growth and productivity change during the 1971–81 period. Next, counterfactual simulations are used to assess how Chile's economic performance would have differed if (a) external events had been different; and (b) foreign capital inflows had been different. The analysis suggests that the macroeconomic imbalances that led to the crisis in 1982 were exacerbated by the large capital inflows and real exchange rate appreciation that resulted from the use of the exchange rate as a stabilization device.
F00|Productivity growth, external shocks, and capital inflows in Chile: A general equilibrium analysis|This paper uses a computable general equilibrium model to analyze the growth path of the Chilean economy during 1977–81. During that period a comprehensive package of reforms liberalized international trade and removed restrictive labor legislation. As a result of the reforms, there were large changes in relative prices and in the structure of production and demand, and the economy enjoyed unprecedented growth with declining inflation. But large macroeconomic imbalances become evident toward the end of the period and in 1982 Chile experienced an abrupt and severe recession. Taking the real exchange rate as an exogenous policy variable, and using the observed levels of employment growth and foreign capital inflows, this paper compares model-generated growth paths with those of the economy. First, the benchmark simulation path is used to estimate the magnitude and pattern of growth and productivity change during the 1971–81 period. Next, counterfactual simulations are used to assess how Chile's economic performance would have differed if (a) external events had been different; and (b) foreign capital inflows had been different. The analysis suggests that the macroeconomic imbalances that led to the crisis in 1982 were exacerbated by the large capital inflows and real exchange rate appreciation that resulted from the use of the exchange rate as a stabilization device.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F00|Exchange Rate-Based Disinflation, Wage Rigidity, And Capital Inflows|This paper studies two effects that accompanied the real exchange rate appreciation in Chile during 1979–81. First, econometric and simulation evidence is given that an alternative policy restricting capital inflows to a lower level would have led to a disproportionately larger fall in absorption than in income, and the decline in absorption would have fallen disproportionately more on consumption than on investment. Second, econometric and simulation evidence is given of the extent to which a more flexible wage indexation rule would have offset the adverse impact on the protected sector employment of lower capital inflows.
F00|Adjustment and income distribution|This paper presents a structural macro simulation model to quantify the effects of alternative stabilization packages on the distribution of income and wealth. The model combines the explicit microeconomic optimizing behavior characteristic of computable general equilibrium models with asset portfolio behavior of macroeconomic models in Tobin's tradition. In this model there are four main mechanisms by which policy changes affect the distribution of income and wealth. First, changes in factor rewards affect directly household income distribution. Second, household real incomes are affected by changes in their respective cost of living indexes. Third, household real incomes are affected by changes in real returns on financial assets since household incomes include income from financial holdings. Fourth, household wealth distribution is affected by capital gains and losses. Illustrative simulations with the model are carried out for a representative economy subject to the interest rate and terms-of-trade shocks of the early 1980s. The simulations suggest a large adverse impact on the distribution of income of a sharp contractionary package.
F00|Alternative Routes to Development|UP TO NOW, our analysis has focused on real activity in the economy and its implications for aggregate growth, factor accumulation, resource allocation, productivity growth, and changes in the structure of production and of demand. The role of market mechanisms and of relative prices in determining resource allocation and structural change has been left in the background. Yet in mixed economies, the policy instruments that are designed to promote development work through markets and prices. In this chapter, therefore, we explicitly consider how market mechanisms and relative prices affect industrialization under different development strategies…
F00|Trade Adjustment Policies And Income Distribution In Three Archetype Developing Economies|This paper explores quantitatively the macroeconomic and distributional impacts on non-oil producing, semi-industrial developing countries of external shocks originating in the world economy—in particular, rising costs of imports and shrinking export markets. The empirical analysis is done with a computable general equilibrium (CGE) model. The effects of the same external shock are modelled for three different archetype economies: a primary exporter, a manufacturing exporter, and a closed economy. Three different policy-adjustment regimes are considered: devaluation, premium rationing of imports (import licenses), and premium rationing in an environment with a fixed real wage for unskilled labor. By making simple assumptions about the way socioeconomic groups operate to influence decision-making, the paper also examines how the struggle between the gainers and losers is likely to affect the policy regime to be chosen.
F00|Trade adjustment policies and income distribution in three archetype developing economies|This paper explores quantitatively the macroeconomic and distributional impacts on non-oil producing, semi-industrial developing countries of external shocks originating in the world economy—in particular, rising costs of imports and shrinking export markets. The empirical analysis is done with a computable general equilibrium (CGE) model. The effects of the same external shock are modelled for three different archetype economies: a primary exporter, a manufacturing exporter, and a closed economy. Three different policy-adjustment regimes are considered: devaluation, premium rationing of imports (import licenses), and premium rationing in an environment with a fixed real wage for unskilled labor. By making simple assumptions about the way socioeconomic groups operate to influence decision-making, the paper also examines how the struggle between the gainers and losers is likely to affect the policy regime to be chosen.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F00|Distributional Effects of Adjustment Policies: Simulations for Archetype Economies in Africa and Latin America|For developing countries the 1980s was a decade of external shocks whose adverse effects were compounded by domestic macroeconomic imbalances and structural inefficiencies. The performance of developing countries during this decade, however, was not uniform. The effects of terms of trade and interest rate shocks are simulated for two model economies, one representing an average Latin American economy and the other representing an average African economy. In addition to the effects of the shocks, the effects of different adjustment policies are examined. As expected, identical shocks and adjustment packages yield different outcomes for growth, poverty, and income distribution in the two economies. The differences in results can be traced to specific features of the models, and, to the extent that the archetypes created are representative of real economies, have implications for adjustment policy prescriptions.
F00|Distributional Effects of Adjustment Policies: Simulations for Archetype Economies in Africa and Latin America| For developing countries the 1980s was a decade of external shocks whose adverse effects were compounded by domestic macroeconomic imbalances and structural inefficiencies. The performance of developing countries during this decade, however, was not uniform. The effects of terms of trade and interest rate shocks are simulated for two model economies, one representing an average Latin American economy and the other representing an average African economy. In addition to the effects of the shocks, the effects of different adjustment policies are examined. As expected, identical shocks and adjustment packages yield different outcomes for growth, poverty and income distribution in the two economies. The differences in results can be traced to specific features of the models, and, to the extent that the archetypes created are representative of real economies, have implications for adjustment policy prescriptions. Copyright 1991 by Oxford University Press.
F00|Modelling The Effects Of Protection In A Dynamic Framework|The effects of alternative trade strategies on development performance are analyzed using a small, dynamic, computable general equilibrium model. The static allocation costs of protection are quantitatively weighed against the dynamic benefits resulting from heterogenous capital goods and imperfect foresight. An attempt at quantifying the effects of protection on employment and savings behavior is made by using submodels specifying distortions in labor-markets and alternative savings functions.
F00|Modelling the effects of protection in a dynamic framework|The effects of alternative trade strategies on development performance are analyzed using a small, dynamic, computable general equilibrium model. The static allocation costs of protection are quantitatively weighed against the dynamic benefits resulting from heterogenous capital goods and imperfect foresight. An attempt at quantifying the effects of protection on employment and savings behavior is made by using submodels specifying distortions in labor-markets and alternative savings functions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F00|Lobbying, Counterlobbying, and the Structure of Tariff Protection in Poor and Rich Countries|A political economy model of protection is used to determine endogenously the inter-sectoral patterns of protection. Three propositions are derived that are consistent with the stylized patterns of tariff protection in rich and poor countries: Nominal protection rates escalate with the degree of processing, protection is higher on average in poor countries, and rich countries protect agriculture relatively more than they protect manufacturing, whereas poor countries do the reverse. Numerical simulations for archetypal rich and poor economies confirm that the endogenously determined structure of protection is broadly consistent with observed patterns of protection.
F00|Lobbying, Counterlobbying, and the Structure of Tariff Protection in Poor and Rich Countries| A political economy model of protection is used to determine endogenously the intersectoral patterns of protection. Three propositions are derived that are consistent with the stylized patterns of tariff protection in rich and poor countries: Nominal protection rates escalate with the degree of processing, protection is higher on average in poor countries, and rich countries protect agriculture relatively more than they protect manufacturing, whereas poor countries do the reverse. Numerical simulations for archetypal rich and poor economies confirm that the endogenously determined structure of protection is broadly consistent with observed patterns of protection. Copyright 2004, Oxford University Press.
F00|Globalization and migratory pressures from developing countries: a simulation analysis|The following sections are included:IntroductionA Ricardo–Viner model of migrationDecomposing the effects of globalization on the supply of migrants for two archetype economiesSimulation resultsSensitivity analysisConclusionsAPPENDIXNOTESREFERENCES
F00|Distortions In The Factor Market: Some General Equilibrium Estimates|The following sections are included:IntroductionMethodologyThe Empirical ResultsConclusionAppendixREFERENCES
F00|Distortions in the Factor Market: Some General Equilibrium Estimates|The following sections are included:IntroductionMethodologyThe Empirical ResultsConclusionAppendixREFERENCES<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F00|Trade Policy And Resource Allocation In The Presence Of Product Differentiation|The following sections are included:IntroductionProduct Differentiation and Domestic Prices: A Partial Equilibrium AnalysisIntermediate Products and Effective ProtectionA General Equilibrium Analysis of Resource PullsConclusionsReferences
F00|Trade Policy and Resource Allocation in the Presence of Product Differentiation|The following sections are included:IntroductionProduct Differentiation and Domestic Prices: A Partial Equilibrium AnalysisIntermediate Products and Effective ProtectionA General Equilibrium Analysis of Resource PullsConclusionsReferences<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F00|An Evaluation of Neutral Trade Policy Incentives Under Increasing Returns to Scale|New developments in the theory of international trade often suggest, implicitly or explicitly, that in an imperfectly competitive environment, government intervention may be needed to achieve optimality. The most celebrated example in this new literature is the profit-shifting argument of Brander and Spencer (1984). Another example, perhaps more widely applicable, is the argument developed by Krugman (1985) showing that protection can serve as an export promotion policy under certain circumstances. These arguments have fostered a literature on strategic trade theory, which deals with conditions of imperfect competition between international trading partners. The trade and development literature, on the other hand, concentrates on the implications of imperfectly competitive domestic markets…
F00|Industrial Organization and Trade Liberalization: Evidence from Korea|The following sections are included:IntroductionTrade Policies, Industrial Structure, and Industrial Organization Policies in KoreaModeling Imperfectly Competitive Domestic MarketsSimulation ResultsConclusionsReferences
F00|Industrial Organization and Trade Liberalization: Evidence from Korea|Drawing on evidence about industrial organization and market structure, the authors develop a computable general equilibrium model in selected industrial sectors with increasing returns to scale. They use this model to estimate the welfare gains Korea would realize from abolishing the import restraints prevailing in 1982. Under constant returns to scale, they estimate welfare gains to be 1 percent of GDP. With increasing returns to scale in three industrial sectors, they estimate welfare gains ranging from -0.5 percent to 10 percent of 1982 GDP, depending on assumptions about the pricing behavior (markup pricing or Cournot competition) and profit levels that existed under protection.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F00|Industrial Organization Implications of QR Trade Regimes: Evidence and Welfare Costs|Evidence of the relationship between trade regimes, concentration and profitability in semi-industrial countries' manufacturing sectors is reviewed. This evidence is used to justify the formulation and simulation of a three sector general equilibrium model in which the manufacturing sector's behavior is linked to the degree of restrictiveness of the QR regime. Simulations are conducted with several variants of the model to ascertain separately the effects of introducing economies of scale, firm entry/exit, departures from competitive pricing, and interactions between entry and pricing rules. Numerical results suggest that a 20 percent rationing rate of intermediates and consumption goods can have welfare costs of about 2.0 percent of national income in the absence of economies of scale and industrial organization interactions with the trade regime. When industrial organization features are included, the costs of the same 20 percent rationing quadruples.
