F01|Forecasting Exports across Europe: What Are the Superior Survey Indicators?|In this study, we systematically evaluate the potential of a bunch of survey-based indicators from different economic branches to forecasting export growth across a multitude of European countries. Our pseudo out-of-sample analyses reveal that the best-performing indicators beat a well-specified benchmark model in terms of forecast accuracy. It turns out that four indicators are superior: the Export Climate, the Production Expectations of domestic manufacturing firms, the Industrial Confidence Indicator, and the Economic Sentiment Indicator. Two robustness checks confirm these results. As exports are highly volatile and turn out to be a large demand-side component of gross domestic product, our results can be used by applied forecasters in order to choose the best-performing indicators and thus increasing the accuracy of export forecasts.
F01|Forecasting Imports with Information from Abroad|Globalization has led to huge increases in import volumes, but the literature on import forecasting is still in its infancy. We introduce the first leading indicator especially constructed for total import growth, the so-called Import Climate. It builds on the idea that the import demand of the domestic country should be reflected in the expected export developments of its main trading partners. A foreign country’s expected exports are, in turn, determined by business and consumer confidence in the countries it trades with and its price competitiveness. In a pseudo out-of-sample, real-time forecasting experiment, the Import Climate outperforms standard business cycle indicators at short horizons for France, Germany, Italy, and the United States for the first release of import data. For Spain and the United Kingdom, our leading indicator works particularly well with the latest vintage of import data.
F01|Measuring bilateral trade in terms of value added|"The increase in the fragmentation of production across countries and the subsequent growth in the trade of intermediate products have raised concerns about the suitability of conventional trade statistics to understand the economic consequences of trade. Several authors have attempted to disentangle value added content of trade. This technical report proposes a novel framework that enables to: 1 fully decompose the factor content of bilateral trade measured at the border; and 2 account for the role of the different countries and industries participating in the global value chain. Furthermore, because of the country and industry detail of this approach, it able to provide a new extension of the standard value added to exports ratio, and also reconcile the ""sink-based"" and ""source-based"" methods commonly used to report the value added in trade."
F01|The Evolution of the World’s Production Fragmentation: 2000 –2014, a network analysis|We employ network analysis to characterise the evolution of the world’s trade in value-added between 2000 and 2014. Relatively to previous studies, more recent time points are included, consolidating some of their conclusions. A small number of countries occupy central positions in the international production chains and concentration rules, along a few main production regions. Without Germany, Europe loses its pumping engine; the same for Asia without China and, in 2014, for the whole world, without the US. Will China eventually either absorb or dominate the other hubs, becoming the new central node of the World Trade Network?
F01|The three fundamental frameworks for the unification of the macro social sciences|"? This opening slide set advances McMillan 2015 (IISES Amsterdam) and McMillan 2017 (IISES Vienna) and focuses on the lateral integration of the three primary macro conceptual areas of political, economic/demographic and geopolitical frameworks to generate a ""unified theory of the philosophical and social sciences.""? Specifically, the three essential frameworks are. (1) Aristotle's Six Forms of Government, (2) the per capita GNP ratio signifying economic growth/population growth proportions, and (3) the Four Category Geopolitical Form Model framework of First, Second, Third and Fourth World country gradations. ? These three frameworks: (a) explain the full range of behavior pertaining to their respective area, (b) can incorporate all the subfield theories in their respective areas, (c) vary directly with one another in terms of a tight vs catastrophically loose wage labor price continuum, which (d) integrates the primary macro disciplines into a singular causal model. ? The independent variable of interval level Government Form interval level model of Aristotle. links the economic growth/population rates of change proportions because liberal democracies and First World countries only seem to exist in relatively tight wage labor market conditions, i.e. high economic growth and low population growth proportions. The Government Form Categories and the per capita GNP ratio link directly to the two primary trends of technology and population growth throughout history, that give rise to the two secondary trends of migration of First World manufacturing facilities to the South, and the mass migration of people to the North to explain current geopolitical outcomes. ? This system of frameworks links to the persistent primary and secondary trends to explain the permanently declining global wage labor equilibrium process as it directly the changing of geopolitical Forms over the next few decades. This system measures relative equality-inequality and relative stability-instability continuums that covary with the tight vs catastrophically lose wage labor continuum. This integrated model affirms Harsanyi?s (1969) assertion that the isolated subfield theories do not adequately anticipate first, second and third order effects. ? This system achieves the three longstanding objectives of the behavioral economics movement of: (a) Harsanyi?s ?integrated explanatory theory? and ?core model? of the social sciences discussed in his 1960, 1966 and 1969 papers, (b) it extends the Integrated Causal Model (ICM) of Tooby and Cosmides 1992 throughout the philosophical and social sciences, and (c) achieves Gintis? 2006 and 2009 ?unification of the behavioral sciences.?"
F01|FIW Note No. 27 - März 2019|FIW publishes biannually FIW Notes. They present an overview of the most important Austrian and international developments regarding International Economics.
F01|Global evidence on prospecitve migrants from developing countries|This paper examines the determinants of individual intentions to migrate abroad by using a recent global survey and by exploiting both within and cross-country variation in standard migration drivers. The sample includes more than 1 million individuals, drawn as representative samples from 159 countries around the world, representing 98 percent of the world's population and income. The analysis focuses on developing regions and shows that migration intentions differ substantially across countries and are correlated with structural economic factors such as farmland availability, rural population share and especially local joblessness. Heterogeneity within countries is even more pronounced though. International migration intentions vary systematically with key individual characteristics - age, gender, education and income - but some of these relationships are not similar across countries. Finally, we quantify the hump shape of the 'individual mobility transition' in countries with different levels of development and show that cross-border migration intentions rise sharply with income when respondents get richer among poorer people, while the same does not hold when richer respondents are in richer contexts.
F01|Forecasting Base Metal Prices with Commodity Currencies|In this paper we show that the Chilean exchange rate has the ability to predict the returns of the London Metal Exchange Index and of the six primary non-ferrous metals that are part of the index: aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc. The economic relationship hinges on the present-value theory for exchange rates, a floating exchange rate regime and the fact that copper represents about a half of Chilean exports and nearly 45% of Foreign Direct Investment. Consequently, the Chilean peso is heavily affected by fluctuations in the copper price. As all six base metal prices show an important comovement, we test whether the relationship between copper prices and Chilean exchange rates also holds true when it comes to the six primary non-ferrous metals. We find interesting evidence of predictability both in-sample and out-of-sample. Our paper is part of a growing literature that in the recent years has evaluated and called into question the ability of commodity currencies to forecast commodity prices.
F01|Globalization misguided views|Today, the world is in an evident disarray; many things seem to have gone wrong at once. Various topics: terrorism, drug trafficking, money laundering, black accounts; financial crises, income distribution, global coordination; or the social angriness and growing anti-migration —nationalistic-protectionist— sentiments and policies, show that something has changed for the worse. As we will see, all these events have a common deep cause that we must first understand, in order to be able to cope with its consequences. We are living a technological revolution that, in many ways, surpasses the so-called Industrial Revolutions, particularly because of the speed at which it is bringing change. We defend that institutions have not yet adapted to the new world that this technological revolution has brought about. Today’s inadequate institutional arrangements are sustained by old concepts or economic theories and ideas that no longer work as they did before. This mismatch between the new technological world and the old institutions explains most of today’s world economic problems.
F01|Globalización visiones equivocadas<BR>[Globalization misguided views]|Today, the world is in an evident disarray; many things seem to have gone wrong at once. Various topics: terrorism, drug trafficking, money laundering, black accounts; financial crises, income distribution, global coordination; or the social angriness and growing anti-migration —nationalistic-protectionist— sentiments and policies, show that something has changed for the worse. As we will see, all these events have a common deep cause that we must first understand, in order to be able to cope with its consequences. We are living a technological revolution that, in many ways, surpasses the so-called Industrial Revolutions, particularly because of the speed at which it is bringing change. We defend that institutions have not yet adapted to the new world that this technological revolution has brought about. Today’s inadequate institutional arrangements are sustained by old concepts or economic theories and ideas that no longer work as they did before. This mismatch between the new technological world and the old institutions explains most of today’s world economic problems.
F01|16+1, a New Issue in China-EU Relations?|The present paper investigates the positions of individual member states, European institutions and organizations towards the 16+1 cooperation framework. At the institutional level, the European Commission’s Joint communication on elements for a new EU strategy on China of June 2016, the reports and joint statements of the European Economic and Social Committee and China Economic and Social Council (May 2016 and June 2017) and European Parliament publications underline: the absence of a common EU-level strategy on recent large scale Chinese initiatives and some member states pursue individual economic interests, which do not correspond to those of the EU as a whole; 16+1 format as “controversial”, as its arrangements are “in conflict with the EU law” which leads to the “erosion of EU norms”; the necessity to “cooperate with the Commission, the EEAS and other Member States to help ensure that relevant aspects to the EU are in line with EU law, rules and policies, and that the overall outcome is beneficial for the EU as a whole”. We analyze the concerns and make specific proposals so that the 16+1 format might cease to be an issue in China-EU relations.
F01|Repercussions of International Trade on the Market Power of Firms in Different Market Structures|The purpose of this paper is to provide an introduction of market power in different market structures and how this market power diminishes because of international trade and the effects on welfare. A review of relevant literature from Pugel (2012), McConnel Bruce and Flynn (2012) and Bernheim and Winston (2014) provides the effects of international trade on the market power conditions in different market structures and the effects on welfare. Asprilla, Berman, Cadot and Jaud (2016), Devereux and Lee (2001) and Krugman (1994) serve to provide further evidence through PTM literature, bilateral exchange rate shocks and protectionism.
F01|Achieving Sustainable Development Goals in MENA countries: an Analytical and Econometric Approach|This paper assesses the achievements and disparties toward SDGs in MENA countries in two-stage performance analysis. First, we use a descriptive approach and then a composite indicator ‘SDG achievement index’ (SDGI) for the social develoment in the the region through Principle Component Analysis weighting. After that, the analysis examines the coherence between this index and income per capita. The descriptive analysis and the composite indicator confirm the existence of disparties between the countries of the region in all components of social development. Furthermore, the results reveal consistency between the SDGI and GDP per capita for some countries and inconsistency for others.
F01|To what extent is the Course Experience Questionnaire applicable to Japanese Education?|With a shift towards global education and ?world-class? universities, reliable methods to measure the quality of courses becomes more pertinent. The quality of Japanese higher education has been questioned. Simultaneously, the quality assessment system in Japanese higher education has been called fragmented. The Course Experience Questionnaire (CEQ) is recognised as a statically reliable and valid tool for assessing the efficacy of courses and is used in higher education in many countries around the world including Australia and the UK. Therefore, there is potential for its use in Japanese institutions. However, it is based on Western concepts of student learner theories. Confucian values influence Japanese education. Therefore, the extent to which the CEQ could be applicable for use in Japanese higher education requires examining. However, this remains largely unexplored. In this paper first, Japanese academia is examined using two constructs: 1. Hofstede?s cultural dimensions, and 2. a Confucian framework. The findings are then used to examine concepts within the CEQ, to unearth their applicability within Japanese education. This study reveals there are potentially complex ramifications related to implementing the CEQ as a tool for measurement in Japanese higher education. Further research into student learner theories in a Japanese context is recommended to find a way forward for global assessment in higher education.
F01|Comparative Analysis of Ethical Boundaries and Regulations for Lawyers in The United States, European Union and Russia/Legal Profession in a Comparative Context|This presentation is intended to expose participants to various types of regulation of lawyers in different parts of the world. It will comparatively examine the structure and ethical framework of the legal profession in the United States (mainly based on the ?Model Rules of Professional Conduct? issued by the American Bar Association), European Union (covered in the well-accepted cross-border legal practice regulation of lawyers-document titled the ?CCBE?), and in Russia (described in the ?Code of Professional Ethics for the Attorney?), as an example of a post-Soviet country, including the recourse that may be taken against attorneys for ethical misconduct and professional malpractice. Other topics to be covered will include a range of accompanying ethical and legal issues, such as the role of lawyers and judges, beginning and ending of the attorney-client relationship, globalization of the legal profession and the image and expectations of lawyers in parts of the world mentioned above. The presentation will also address various aspects of ethical law practice in selected countries described and analyze the reasons behind established traditions and practices in various legal systems.
F01|An Empirical Examination of the J-Curve: New Zealand's Bilateral Trade with Selected Countries|The J-curve hypothesis holds that the devaluation or depreciation of a country’s currency worsens the trade balance in the short run before improving the balance in the long run. This study investigates the short-run and long-run effects of nominal exchange rate changes on the bilateral trade balance between New Zealand, Australia, USA, UK, China, India, Japan and Singapore using quarterly data from 1990 to 2014. The results show some evidence of J-curve effects in the case of New Zealand and China and New Zealand and Japan but with no evidence to support J-curve effects in the case of New Zealand and Australia, USA, UK, India and Singapore. Diagnostic tests, however, suggest that there are some omitted variables in the models.
F01|FIW Note No. 25 - März 2018|FIW publishes biannually FIW Notes. They present an overview of the most important Austrian and international developments regarding International Economics.
F01|FIW Note No. 26 - September 2018|FIW publishes biannually FIW Notes. They present an overview of the most important Austrian and international developments regarding International Economics.
F01|The Falling Elasticity of Global Trade to Economic Activity: Testing the Demand Channel|Since the recovery from the great financial crisis in 2010, global real trade flows grew much slower than pre-crisis, in both absolute terms (growth rates) and relative terms (relative to GDP, from 2:1 in the great 1990’s to 1:1 since 2012) A debate has arisen as to whether this global trade slowdown, and related falling trade-to-income elasticity, was structural or cyclical. Some papers emphasized the slowing pace of international vertical specialization. Other works emphasized the prominent role of aggregate demand, notably when weighted by its trade component. Our paper goes in this latter direction. We estimated the standard import equation for 38 advanced and developing countries over the period 1995-2015, using an import intensity-adjusted measure of aggregate demand (IAD), calculated from input-output tables at country level, and compared results with regressions using GDP. The integration of IAD allows us to predict 76% to 86% of the changes in global imports, a better performance than if using GDP. The use of IAD also enabled us to measure the relative importance of each component of demand, according to their trade intensity. The model is able to account for over 90% of the recent trade slowdown (2012-2015), with IAD alone explaining 80% of it. The slowdown in global value chains explains more than half of the remaining share of the global trade slowdown, not explained by demand factors. Protectionism does not come up as statistically significant.
F01|Global evidence on prospective migrants from developing countries|This paper examines the determinants of individual intentions to migrate abroad by using a recent global survey and by exploiting both within and cross-country variation in standard migration drivers. The sample includes more than 1 million individuals, drawn as representative samples from 159 countries around the world, representing 98 percent of the world's population and income. The analysis focuses on developing regions and shows that migration intentions differ substantially across countries and are correlated with structural economic factors such as farmland availability, rural population share and especially local joblessness. Heterogeneity within countries is even more pronounced though. International migration intentions vary systematically with key individual characteristics - age, gender, education and income - but some of these relationships are not similar across countries. Finally, we quantify the hump shape of the 'individual mobility transition' in countries with different levels of development and show that cross-border migration intentions rise sharply with income when respondents get richer among poorer people, while the same does not hold when richer respondents are in richer contexts.
F01|How Sensitive is Regional Poverty Measurement in Latin America to the Value of the Poverty Line?|This paper contributes to the methodological literature on the estimation of international poverty lines for Latin America based on the official poverty lines chosen by the Latin American governments and commonly used in the public debate. The paper exploits a comprehensive data set of 86 up-to-date official extreme and total urban poverty lines across 18 countries in Latin America, as well as the recently updated values of the national purchasing power parity conversion factors from the 2011 International Comparison Program, and a set of harmonized household surveys. By using 3 and 6 US dollars per person a day at 2011 PPP as the extreme and total poverty lines for Latin America, this paper illustrates the sensitiveness of poverty rates to changes of the values of the poverty lines as a result of the recent update of the PPP values, the period of reference, and the relative cost of living across the countries in the region. The poverty lines with the 2011 PPP values lead to an increase in total poverty rates in Latin America when compared to the 2005 PPP values, while they leave the extreme poverty rate unaffected. In general, country-specific poverty rankings remain fairly stable to the values of the poverty lines selected.
F01|日本の酒類のグローバル化 : 輸入側・最終消費の実態分析|近年，日本から海外への酒類輸出が急増している．輸出と並んで，海外での現地生産も増えている．しかし，輸入や投資を受け入れる現地では，日本産酒類のプレゼンスはどの程度高いのだろうか．本稿では，3つの分析課題を設定し，主として聞き取り調査により実態を明らかにした．第１に，日本の酒類は輸入国においてどの程度浸透しているのか．第２に，浸透を促進または阻害する要因は何か．第３に，浸透を広めるために何が必要か．この問いへの解答は次の通りである．第１に，日本産酒類の現地でのシェアはきわめて低い．最も高いケースでも，韓国における日本産ビールのシェア５％程度である．第２に，日本産酒類の浸透を牽引しているものは，和食の広まりや日本料理店の増大である．ただし，ウイスキーは日本料理とは無関係に現地のレストランやバーに浸透できている．他方，浸透を阻害している要因は，促進要因と裏腹であり，日本料理という境界に他ならない．この境界を乗り越えない限りは，日本産酒類のこれ以上の浸透は望めない．第３に，さらなる浸透のためには，現地料理とのペアリングが重要である．たとえば清酒は，ワイン以上にあらゆる食材との相性がよい．このことを強調する発信や政策的支援が必要である．
F01|Chinese and Japanese infrastructure investment in Southeast Asia: from rivalry to cooperation?|This article focuses on Sino-Japanese competition dynamics in Southeast Asian infrastructure investment. It attempts to use Sino-Japanese competition for infrastructure financing and high-speed railway contracts as a case in point to explore whether and in what way the Sino-Japanese rivalry extends to the infrastructure sectors in Southeast Asia, what impacts it will create on the region in terms of investment models and regional financial architecture. This article concludes by saying that Sino-Japanese competition in Southeast Asian infrastructure could be constructive, since this competition can contain the two countries’ respective behavior and prompt them to improve their investment approaches. Thus, a multilateral cooperation framework among ASEAN, Japan and China would be needed so as to contain and soften Sino-Japanese overdue rivalry in Southeast Asia.
F01|Cadenas Globales de Valor: el caso de Bolivia|El presente documento analiza las Cadenas Globales de Valor (CGV) en Bolivia para 2002, 2005 y 2011, utilizando el Índice de Especialización Vertical (EV) de Hummels et al. (2001) y la medida Upstreamness de Antràs y Chor (2011) (citado en Antràs et al., 2012b) y Fally (2011). Los indicadores muestran que los patrones comerciales están representados por una concentración de las materias primas, las que también han aprovechado las ventajas derivadas de las CGV; mientras que los sectores de manufacturas han sido menos importantes en esta dinámica, e incluso han perdido su relevancia en el tiempo
F01|A Barometer of Canadian Financial System Vulnerabilities|This note presents a composite indicator of Canadian financial system vulnerabilities—the Vulnerabilities Barometer. It aims to complement the Bank of Canada’s vulnerabilities assessment by adding a quantitative and synthesized perspective to the more granular (distributional) analysis presented in the Financial System Review. •The Vulnerabilities Barometer for Canada is above the level reached in 2007. The current state is driven by housing market vulnerabilities and elevated household indebtedness. The oil price shock contributed to the recent increase in vulnerabilities, though this risk factor has eased since the end of 2016. •When assessed across countries, the Vulnerabilities Barometer sends earlier and better signals of future stress episodes than its components taken individually, or than the credit-to-GDP gap. It is also consistent with the narrative of stressful episodes for peer countries.
F01|Networks of volatility spillovers among stock markets|In our network analysis of 40 developed, emerging and frontier stock markets during the 2006–2014 period, we describe and model volatility spillovers during both the global financial crisis and tranquil periods. The resulting market interconnectedness is depicted by fitting a spatial model incorporating several exogenous characteristics. We document the presence of significant temporal proximity effects between markets and somewhat weaker temporal effects with regard to the US equity market — volatility spillovers decrease when markets are characterized by greater temporal proximity. Volatility spillovers also present a high degree of interconnectedness, which is measured by high spatial autocorrelation. This finding is confirmed by spatial regression models showing that indirect effects are much stronger than direct effects; i.e., market-related changes in ‘neighboring’ markets (within a network) affect volatility spillovers more than changes in the given market alone, suggesting that spatial effects simply cannot be ignored when modeling stock market relationships. Our results also link spillovers of escalating magnitude with increasing market size, market liquidity and economic openness.
F01|ifo Weltwirtschaftsklima hellt sich weiter auf – Ergebnisse des 135. World Economic Survey (WES) für das erste Quartal 2017|Das ifo Weltwirtschaftsklima hat sich weiter verbessert. Die Experten beurteilten die aktuelle Lage nicht mehr ganz so ungünstig wie zuvor, und auch die Konjunkturerwartungen hellten sich etwas auf. Dies deutet auf eine moderate Erholung der Weltwirtschaft. Das ifo Wirtschaftsklima verbesserte sich vor allem in den entwickelten Volkswirtschaften. Für Schwellen- und Entwicklungsländer blieb es ungünstig. Die kurz- und langfristigen Zinsen werden den Experten zufolge in den nächsten sechs Monaten steigen. In den USA erwarten sogar alle Befragten einen Anstieg der kurzfristigen Zinsen. Der Kurs des US-Dollar dürfte im Laufe der nächsten sechs Monate weiter zulegen.
F01|Integración latinoamericana y del Caribe: 200 años de la Carta de Jamaica a la CELAC|"El sueño de Integración Latinoamericano se inicia en 1815 con el manifiesto al continente conocido como “La Carta de Jamaica”, continuaría con el congreso anfictiónico de Panamá en 1826; pero solo en la cumbre de la CELAC en 2014 fue posible reunir a todos los países latinoamericanos y del caribe. Por diferentes razones Argentina, Brasil, Chile y Paraguay estuvieron ausentes de los intentos en el siglo XIX y parte del siglo XX. Desde la carta de Chapultepec en 1945 los procesos de integración toman forma a partir de la década de los 50, con experiencias que se inspiraron en la teoría pura del Comercio Internacional y específicamente en la experiencia de Europa Occidental. En el Siglo XXI con la caída del muro de Berlín y el afianzamiento del aperturismo económico se inicia un proceso nuevo de integración que modificó el mapa del poder político del continente, condicionado por la política exterior de Estados Unidos y con el surgimiento de los BRICS como una alternativa hacia el multilateralismo. ****** The dream of Latin American Integration began in 1815 with the manifesto to the continent known as ""The Letter of Jamaica"", it would continue with the Congreso Anfictiónico de Panamá in 1826; but only at the CELAC summit in 2014 was possible to join together all the Latin American and Caribbean countries. For different reasons Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Paraguay were absent from the attempts in the 19th century and part of the 20th century. From the Carta de Chapultepec in 1945 the integration processes take shape from the 50s, with experiences that were inspired by the pure theory of International Trade and specifically the Western European experience. In the 21st century, with the fall of the Berlin Wall and the consolidation of economic openness, a new process of integration began and modified the map of the political power of the continent, conditioned by the foreign policy of the United States and with the emergence of the BRICS as an alternative towards multilateralism."
F01|Israel Globalized: High Tech, Productivity and FDI|The paper reviews the role of globalization forces behind Israel's transformation from low tech to high tech economy
F01|Global earnings inequality, 1970–2015|We estimate trends in global earnings dispersion across occupational groups using a new database covering 66 developed and developing countries between 1970 and 2015. Our main finding is that global earnings inequality has declined, primarily during the 2000s, when the global Gini coefficient dropped nearly 10 points and the earnings share of the world’s poorest half doubled. Decomposition analyses emphasize the role of income convergence between poor and rich countries and that earnings have become more similar within occupations in traded industries. Sensitivity checks show that the results are robust to varying real exchange rates, inequality measures and population definitions.
F01|World Economy Gaining Momentum, Risks Remain High: DIW Economic Outlook|The world economy continues on its upward growth path, with global production expected to grow by 3.7 percent this year and slightly more than that in 2018. The economies in both the developed and the emerging countries are gaining momentum. Solid output growth is expected for the U.S. and euro area over the forecast period; China’s growth rates remain high, though they are declining somewhat; and Russia is coming out of its recession. Private consumption is driving growth in the developed countries, but the rise in inflation – which is due to higher energy prices – is expected to slow down consumption growth a bit. The global increase in prices is likely to also lead to a slightly more restrictive monetary policy overall. A number of economic policy-related risks – not least among them, the protectionism – could have a negative impact on the world economy, in particular on investment activity.
F01|German Economy: Strong Employment Growth, Weak Investment Activity: DIW Economic Outlook|The German economy's upward growth trend continues, with the economic output expected to increase by 1.4 percent this year with slightly overloaded capacities. Employment growth remains strong with the creation of 600,000 new jobs, which has in turn led to an increase in private consumption – one of the key growth drivers of the German economy. The higher inflation rates are dampening purchasing power, but they will subside later on in the forecast period. The high public budget surpluses will experience a sharp decline. Investment, on the other hand, remains weak, partially due to the fact that Brexit and Trump are creating uncertainty for German exporters. Frictions in the financial markets that may arise as a result of the upcoming elections – in France and the Netherlands, for example – could present risks for the real economy.
F01|Weltkonjunktur hellt sich weiter auf, Risiken bleiben hoch: Grundlinien der Wirtschaftsentwicklung im Frühjahr 2017|Die Weltkonjunktur hellt sich weiter auf. Die globale Wirtschaftsleistung dürfte in diesem Jahr um 3,7 Prozent zunehmen und im nächsten Jahr geringfügig stärker wachsen. Sowohl die entwickelten Volkswirtschaften als auch die Schwellenländer kommen besser in Schwung. Die USA und der Euroraum dürften im Prognosezeitraum solide Produktionszuwächse aufweisen, China verzeichnet zwar abnehmende, aber weiterhin hohe Wachstumsraten und Russland kommt aus der Rezession. In den entwickelten Volkswirtschaften treibt der private Verbrauch das Wachstum, allerdings dürfte die aufgrund gestiegener Energiepreise anziehende Inflation die Dynamik vielerorts etwas dämpfen. Der globale Preisanstieg wird voraussichtlich auch eine etwas restriktivere Geldpolitik zur Folge haben. Eine Reihe von Risiken wirtschaftspolitischer Natur, nicht zuletzt der um sich greifende Protektionismus, könnten sich weltweit insbesondere auf die Investitionstätigkeit negativ auswirken.
F01|Deutsche Wirtschaft: Beschäftigungsaufbau stark, Investitionstätigkeit schwach: Grundlinien der Wirtschaftsentwicklung im Frühjahr 2017|Der deutsche Konjunkturmotor ist weiter auf Touren: Die Wirtschaftsleistung dürfte in diesem Jahr bei leicht überausgelasteten Kapazitäten um 1,4 Prozent wachsen. Ins Gewicht fällt der anhaltend kräftige Beschäftigungsaufbau: Die Zahl der Arbeitsplätze steigt um 600 000. Das treibt den privaten Konsum, der das Wachstum der deutschen Wirtschaft weiter maßgeblich stützt. Die höhere Inflation dämpft zwar die Kaufkraft, wird aber im späteren Verlauf wieder etwas nachgeben. Die zuletzt hohen Überschüsse der öffentlichen Haushalte werden kräftig zurückgehen. Ein weiterer Wermutstropfen sind die nach wie vor schwachen Investitionen, die auch damit zusammenhängen, dass Brexit und Trump die deutschen Exporteure verunsichern. Risiken bergen mögliche Spannungen auf den Finanzmärkten, die etwa infolge der Wahlen in Frankreich und den Niederlanden entstehen und sich in die Realwirtschaft übertragen können.
F01|Skill Requirements across Firms and Labor Markets: Evidence from Job Postings for Professionals|We study variation in skill demands for professionals across firms and labor markets. We categorize a wide range of keywords found in job ads into 10 general skills. There is substantial variation in these skill requirements, even within narrowly defined occupations. Focusing particularly on cognitive and social skills, we find positive correlations between each skill and external measures of pay and firm performance. We also find evidence of a cognitive social skill complementarity for both outcomes. As a whole, job skills have explanatory power in pay and firm performance regressions beyond what is available in widely used labor market data.
F01|Skill Requirements across Firms and Labor Markets: Evidence from Job Postings for Professionals|We study variation in skill demands for professionals across firms and labor markets. We categorize a wide range of keywords found in job ads into 10 general skills. There is substantial variation in these skill requirements, even within narrowly defined occupations. Focusing particularly on cognitive and social skills, we find positive correlations between each skill and external measures of pay and firm performance. We also find evidence of a cognitive social skill complementarity for both outcomes. As a whole, job skills have explanatory power in pay and firm performance regressions beyond what is available in widely used labor market data.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F01|Re-examining the middle-income trap hypothesis (MITH): What to reject and what to revive?|Do middle-income countries face difficult challenges producing consistent growth? Using transition matrix analysis, we can easily reject any unconditional notion of a “middle-income trap” in the data. However, countries have different fundamentals and policies. Using a non-parametric classification technique, we search for variables that separate fast- and slow-growing countries. For middle-income countries, a relatively large working age population, sex ratio imbalance, macroeconomic stability, and financial development appear to be the key discriminatory variables. We do the same exercise for low-income countries. This framework yields conditions under which countries in the low- and middle-income ranges move forward or backward, or are trapped.
F01|Trend-cycle-seasonal interactions: identification and estimation|Economists typically use seasonally adjusted data in which the assumption is imposed that seasonality is uncorrelated with trend and cycle. The importance of this assumption has been highlighted by the Great Recession. The paper examines an unobserved components model that permits non-zero correlations between seasonal and nonseasonal shocks. Identification conditions for estimation of the parameters are discussed from the perspectives of both analytical and simulation results. Applications to UK household consumption expenditures and US employment reject the zero correlation restrictions and also show that the correlation assumptions imposed have important implications about the evolution of the trend and cycle in the post-Great Recession period.
F01|Remaking Energy Policies for Global Sustainability: The Case of Flying Geese Model and Path Dependencies in East Asia|In East Asia, the path of economic integration that started at the end of World War II, through catch-up industrialization, took a distinguished path. Started in Japan and supported by diffusion of technologies through learning and easier relocation of industries within the region, energy intensive industrialization expanded into countries with fewer development operations. Aided by official development assistance and foreign direct investment, the emergence of production networks across Southeast and East Asia permitted second- and third-tier economies to catch up with advanced economies in technology, technical skill development, and narrow the development gaps. The pattern of East Asia's catch-up has been extensively studied, with the 'Flying Geese' model being the well-known paradigm. This process of catch-up also leads to increased emissions and air, water, and soil pollutions, and to movement of emission intensity and pollutions to second- and third-tier economies. From the perspective of the energy-development nexus, does it mean that East Asia's growth pattern still could not break away from the historical path dependency in energy-intensive industrialization observed elsewhere? This and the following questions are pursued in the paper: What factors lead to the emergency and subsequent dispersal of the 'flying geese'? What were the main characteristics of integrated environmental and energy policy formulation during the dispersal, and what lessons could be learned from those experiences for sustainable future? To our knowledge, this paper is the first such direct attempt to understand the link between the Flying Geese model and energy policies in East Asian economic development. Using the historical data on trade and energy consumption, we demonstrate that East Asian governments have proactively addressed energy intensity concerns, and have further intensified the policy. We also draw lessons learned from the model for its potential application in solving global sustainability challenges.
F01|Will the 21st Century Be an Asian Century?: A Global Perspective|This paper discusses the issue of whether the 21st century will be an “Asian century.” According to a study commissioned by the Asian Development Bank, Asia 2050: Realizing the Asian Century, Asian countries will keep growing and eventually account for more than half of global GDP by 2050. The study, however, cautions that developing Asia may fall into the “middle-income trap” where growth stagnates due to the lack of productivity growth. This paper provides baseline projections for the world economy up to 2050 and argues that the “Asian century” scenario may be interpreted as one of the high growth cases for the model, and Asia may face the risk of stagnation due to the middle-income trap and/or “Asian conflict” resulting from political, security, and military tensions in Asia. The paper argues that in order to realise an “Asian century,” developing Asia needs to focus on technological progress, inclusive growth, environmental sustainability, institutional and governance quality, and regional cooperation and integration. It also points to possible global governance structures which are alternatives to an Asia-centric world, such as those of a “China century,” “American century 2.0,” “G-2,” “G-0,” and a “multi-polar” world. As the two major powers in this region, China and Japan need to cooperate with each other to maintain regional peace and security, and help realise the “Asian century.” The paper concludes that even when the “Asian century” arrives and Asia dominates the world in terms of economic size, it does not necessarily mean that Asia will dominate the world politically, institutionally, militarily, or in soft power. The 21st century will likely be a “multi-polar” world where the traditional powers of the West (the United States and European Union countries), Japan, and new rising powers (China, India, and other major emerging economies) collectively manage global economic and political affairs.
F01|Global earnings inequality, 1970-2015|We estimate trends in global earnings dispersion across occupational groups using a new database covering 66 developed and developing countries between 1970 and 2015. Our main finding is that global earnings inequality has declined, primarily during the 2000s, when the global Gini coefficient dropped nearly 10 points and the earnings share of the world's poorest half doubled. Decomposition analyses emphasize the role of income convergence between poor and rich countries and that earnings have become more similar within occupations in traded industries. Sensitivity checks show that the results are robust to varying real exchange rates, inequality measures and population definitions.
F01|Global Earnings Inequality, 1970–2015|We estimate trends in global earnings dispersion across occupational groups using a new database covering 66 developed and developing countries between 1970 and 2015. Our main finding is that global earnings inequality has declined, primarily during the 2000s, when the global Gini coefficient dropped nearly 10 points and the earnings share of the world’s poorest half doubled. Decomposition analyses emphasize the role of income convergence between poor and rich countries and that earnings have become more similar within occupations in traded industries. Sensitivity checks show that the results are robust to varying real exchange rates, inequality measures and population definitions.
F01|Utopian Left-Wing Expectations and the Social Consequences of the 3rd Memorandum in Greece|In January 2015 the radical left SYRIZA has won the Greek national elections and formed a coalition government with Independent Greeks (ANEL), a right-wing populist party. After a seven-month negotiation with Greece’s creditors and the agreement for the implementation of a third memorandum of fiscal adjustment, SYRIZA announced the conduction of a second round of national elections in September 2015. After a second electoral victory, SYRIZA formed again a coalition government with ANEL. The main characteristic of SYRIZA’s pre-electoral campaign was that it has primarily focused on the commitment for austerity measures termination and on the implementation of tax alleviation. Even during the second electoral campaign in September 2015, after the agreement for the implementation of the third memorandum of fiscal adjustment, SYRIZA was promising that its implementation will be socially endued in order to reduce negative social consequences, such as those created by the previous memoranda. Practically though, after the first months of the new memorandum implementation, it is obvious that the government has introduced an unprecedented tax policy. Interestingly, this policy is not different from a traditional left logic of tax enforcement but actually leads to the implementation of horizontal austerity policies which firstly affect the socially vulnerable groups. From this point of view, while SYRIZA emphatically declare that it aims at resolving the crisis, its policies seem to deepen the depression. For instance, its inability to find alternative options to finance the social security system, leads to the implementation of restrictive policies which dismantle the welfare state. This paper aims at analyzing the policies of the first left government in Greece by focusing on the tentative social consequences of the third memorandum and at the same time, studying some of the basic factors for its electoral victory, such as populism.
F01|Romanian Attitudes and Perceptions towards the 16+1 Cooperation Platform|The aim of this paper is to analyze Romanian citizens’ attitudes and perceptions towards the 16+1 framework, their determinants and effects. The influencing factors are correlated with the general perception of China and its image, while the effects are seen from the perspectives of the engagement and level of participation in joint initiatives. Recent literature underscores that although this platform offers a range of opportunities in each of the nine pillars of sectoral cooperation, Romania has adopted a passive attitude as regards large-scale projects developed with Chinese partners. Beyond EU specific technical barriers to such projects, the Romanian attitudes towards the 16+1 strongly affected cooperation intensity with China. Positions towards this initiative (opinions from general public, elites, politicians and experts) are identified through three main channels: mass media research, individual interviews and focus groups. The quantitative analysis, combined with qualitative research, emphasizes that in spite of the recognition by some groups of the potential benefits offered by the cooperation in the 16+1 format, reluctance remains. This is not due to China’s assets-liabilities balance or the lack of capacity to understand China, but on both insufficient information on 16+1 and political inertia.
F01|Climate Policy Without Intertemporal Dictatorship: Chichilnisky Criterion Versus Classical Utilitarianism In Dice|Unlike discounting and the damage function, the social welfare function has not received so much attention in the debate on climate economics. An important challenge has been to combine efficiency and equity considerations in a single social welfare framework. The Chichilnisky criterion is one way to resolve this. We consider its implementation in the climate-economy model Dynamic Integrated Climate-Economy (DICE), and compare results for different damage functions, namely the standard one in DICE and the one proposed by Weitzman implying potential large climate damages at high temperature increases. We calculate optimal climate policy for different parameter settings and compare the results with those under the green golden rule (only final utility matters) and classical utilitarianism (no discounting). Optimal emission abatement trajectories turn out to be very different between standard discounted utilitarianism, classical utilitarianism and Chichilnisky specifications. The results are very sensitive to the damage function, the climate sensitivity parameter and especially the “Chichilnisky weight” given to utility of generations in the far future. We discuss conditions and reasons for preferring either classical utilitarianism or the Chichilnisky criterion, and conclude that a critical factor is the time horizon used in climate policy analysis. Adopting sustainable preferences as formalized by the Chichilnisky criterion in climate policy analysis has the advantage that the very long-term implications of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere on the environment and human welfare are not downplayed.
F01|The Life-Cycle Dynamics of Exporters and Multinational Firms|This paper studies the life-cycle dynamics of exporters and multinational enterprises (MNEs). We present a dynamic model of trade and MNE activity in which the mode of serving a market depends on the well-known proximity-concentration tradeoff. We show that the option of performing MNE activities in the model produces life-cycle patterns for exporters that differ from those in an export-only model. Calibrating our model to rich firm-level data from France and Norway, our main quantitative finding is that a reduction in trade costs triggers much larger responses in growth rates and exit rates, for young exporters, in the model with MNEs than in the model without MNEs. We also show that the model is largely consistent with a set of new facts on the joint life-cycle dynamic behavior of exporters and MNEs.
F01|Do Remittances Promote Labor Productivity Growth in Mexico? An Empirical Analysis, 1970-2014|This paper investigates remittance flows to Mexico during the 1980-2014 period in absolute terms, relative to GDP, in comparison to FDI inflows, and in terms of their regional destination. Next, the paper reviews the growing literature that assesses the impact of remittances on investment spending and economic growth. Third, it presents a simple endogenous growth model that explicitly incorporates the potential impact of remittance flows on economic and labor productivity growth. Fourth, it presents a modified empirical counterpart to the simple model that tests for both single- and two-break unit root tests, as well as performs cointegration tests with an endogenously determined level shift over the 1970-2014 period. The error-correction model estimates suggest that remittance flows to Mexico have a positive and significant effect, albeit small, on both economic growth and labor productivity growth. The concluding section summarizes the major results and discusses potential avenues for future research on this important topic
F01|New Zealand and Indian Trade in Agricultural and Manufactured Products: An Empirical Analysis|This study examines and presents a model of manufactured and agricultural exports from New Zealand to India and the world and from India to New Zealand. Our findings show that a country’s population, GDP, GDP per capita and exchange rate are important causal factors that influence both New Zealand’s and India’s agricultural and manufactured exports. Our findings also demonstrate that New Zealand agricultural exports are highly elastic with respect to average population, showing that a one percent increase in the average population/or market size can increase New Zealand agricultural exports to India by six percent. This is contrary to the conventional wisdom about low elasticity pessimism with respect to agricultural products. These results have policy implications in the context of trade negotiations between New Zealand and India at the bilateral level and the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) in which both New Zealand and India are participating.
F01|FIW Note No. 23 - March 2017|FIW publishes biannually FIW Notes. They present an overview of the most important Austrian and international developments regarding International Economics.
F01|FIW Note No. 24 - September 2017|FIW publishes biannually FIW Notes. They present an overview of the most important Austrian and international developments regarding International Economics.
F01|Scientific output: labor or capital intensive? An analysis for selected countries|Abstract Scientific research contributes to sustainable economic growth environments. Hence, policy-makers should understand how the different inputs—namely labor and capital—are related to a country’s scientific output. This paper addresses this issue by estimating output elasticities for labor and capital using a panel of 31 countries in nine years. Due to the nature of scientific output, we also use spatial econometric models to take into account the spillover effects from knowledge produced as well as labor and capital. The results show that capital elasticity is closer to the labor elasticity. The results suggest a decreasing return to scale production of scientific output. The spatial model points to negative spillovers from capital expenditure and no spillovers from labor or the scientific output.
F01|An evidence-based approach to ending rural hunger|Progress toward food and nutrition security (FNS) needs to be sharply accelerated in order to achieve the Sustainable Development Goal for ending hunger and malnutrition, especially in rural areas. The G20 should target interventions and investment opportunities to maximize impact on people and transformation of rural areas. Currently, few G20 countries map investments, technical assistance, capacity building and policy improvement in a data-driven way. Such tracking of needs, policies, and resources could include G20 countries' domestic efforts alongside countries they support with development assistance. The G20 could develop such a methodology to identify countries and interventions where additional resources could have a lasting impact. They could then systematically track and streamline FNS actions taken across international organizations and initiatives to help ensure the SDG is achieved.
F01|The falling elasticity of global trade to economic activity: Testing the demand channel|Since the recovery from the great financial crisis in 2010, global real trade flows grew much slower than pre-crisis, in both absolute terms (growth rates) and relative terms (relative to GDP, from 2:1 in the great 1990's to 1:1 since 2012) A debate has arisen as to whether this global trade slowdown, and related falling trade-to-income elasticity, was structural or cyclical. Some papers emphasized the slowing pace of international vertical specialization. Other works emphasized the prominent role of aggregate demand, notably when weighted by its trade component. Our paper goes in this latter direction. We estimated the standard import equation for 38 advanced and developing countries over the period 1995-2015, using an import intensity-adjusted measure of aggregate demand (IAD), calculated from input-output tables at country level, and compared results with regressions using GDP. The integration of IAD allows us to predict 76% to 86% of the changes in global imports, a better performance than if using GDP. The use of IAD also enabled us to measure the relative importance of each component of demand, according to their trade intensity. The model is able to account for over 90% of the recent trade slowdown (2012-2015), with IAD alone explaining 80% of it. The slowdown in global value chains explains more than half of the remaining share of the global trade slowdown, not explained by demand factors. Protectionism does not come up as statistically significant.
F01|A global count of the extreme poor in 2012: data issues, methodology and initial results|Abstract The 2014 release of a new set of purchasing power parity (PPP) conversion factors (PPPs) for 2011 has prompted a revision of the World Bank’s international poverty line. In revising the line, we have sought to minimize changes to the real purchasing power of the earlier $1.25 line (in 2005 PPPs), so as to preserve the integrity of the goalposts for international targets such as the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the World Bank’s twin goals – which were set with respect to that line. In particular, the new line was obtained by inflating the same fifteen national poverty lines – originally used by Ravallion et al. (World Bank Econ. Rev. 23(2): 163–184 2009) to construct the $1.25 line – to 2011 prices in local currency units, and then converting them to US dollars using 2011 PPP conversion factors. With a small approximation, this procedure yields a new international poverty line of $1.90 per person per day. In combination with other changes described in the paper, this revision leads to relatively small changes in global poverty incidence for 2011: from 14.5 % using the old method to 14.1 % using the new method. In 2012, the new reference year for the global count, we find 12.7 % of the world’s population, or 897 million people, are living in extreme poverty. There are changes in the regional composition of poverty, but they are also relatively small. This paper documents methodological decisions taken in the process of updating both the poverty line and the consumption and income distributions at the country level, including issues of inter-temporal and spatial price adjustments. It also describes various caveats and limitations of the approach taken.
F01|A global count of the extreme poor in 2012: data issues, methodology and initial results|Abstract The 2014 release of a new set of purchasing power parity (PPP) conversion factors (PPPs) for 2011 has prompted a revision of the World Bank’s international poverty line. In revising the line, we have sought to minimize changes to the real purchasing power of the earlier $1.25 line (in 2005 PPPs), so as to preserve the integrity of the goalposts for international targets such as the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the World Bank’s twin goals – which were set with respect to that line. In particular, the new line was obtained by inflating the same fifteen national poverty lines – originally used by Ravallion et al. (World Bank Econ. Rev. 23(2): 163–184 2009) to construct the $1.25 line – to 2011 prices in local currency units, and then converting them to US dollars using 2011 PPP conversion factors. With a small approximation, this procedure yields a new international poverty line of $1.90 per person per day. In combination with other changes described in the paper, this revision leads to relatively small changes in global poverty incidence for 2011: from 14.5 % using the old method to 14.1 % using the new method. In 2012, the new reference year for the global count, we find 12.7 % of the world’s population, or 897 million people, are living in extreme poverty. There are changes in the regional composition of poverty, but they are also relatively small. This paper documents methodological decisions taken in the process of updating both the poverty line and the consumption and income distributions at the country level, including issues of inter-temporal and spatial price adjustments. It also describes various caveats and limitations of the approach taken.
F01|Unified Growth Theory Contradicted by the Mathematical Analysis of the Historical Growth of Human Population|Data describing historical growth of human population, global and regional (Western Europe, Eastern Europe, Asia, former USSR, Africa and Latin America), are analysed. Results are in harmony with the earlier analysis of the historical growth of the world population in the past 12,000 years and with other independent studies. This analysis is also in harmony with the study of the historical economic growth. Within the range of analysable data, there was no Malthusian stagnation. Takeoffs from stagnation to growth, postulated by the Unified Growth Theory never happened. There were no escapes from the Malthusian trap because there was no trap in the growth of population. This analysis and the earlier studies of the Gross Domestic Product lead to the conclusion that there were also no takeoffs in the income per capita distributions, claimed by the Unified Growth Theory. Consequently, the claimed differential timing in takeoffs never happened. Unified Growth Theory is contradicted yet again by the mathematical analysis of the same data, which were used, but never analysed, during the formulation of this theory. The study presented here, as well as earlier publications on the related topics, shows also that certain fundamental postulates used in the economic and demographic research are repeatedly contradicted by the mathematical analysis of data.
F01|Unified Growth Theory Contradicted by the Absence of Takeoffs in the Gross Domestic Product|Data describing historical economic growth are analysed. They demonstrate convincingly that the take offs from stagnation to growth, claimed in the Unified Growth Theory, never happened. This theory is again contradicted by the same data which were used, but never properly analysed, during its formulation. The absence of the claimed takeoffs demonstrates that the postulate of the differential takeoffs is also contradicted by data. Furthermore, this analysis demonstrates that the mathematically-analysable data contradict the concept of the prolonged Malthusian stagnation, its effects on the economic growth as well as the concept of a dramatic escape from the Malthusian trap.
F01|Keynesian Spiritus Animales Approach and the Transformation of the Capitalist System|Economic crises have radical consequences. They are major challenges for national and international social policy. The crises are also the cause of reform and of re-definition of theories. The Keynesian approach also emerged from an economic crisis and it has reformed the capitalist system. However, the Keynesian theory itself now needs to be reformed. This paper aims to bring light into the Keynesian theory and the transformation process of capital system. Finally, as lessons for the future two conclusions arise: Firstly, policy makers shall continue to have the assumption that economic crises do not have a simple and permanent solution, which is valid at any time. Secondly, it needs not only traditional economic policies, but especially institutional reforms and new innovative perspectives. In this respect, the Keynesian definition “animal spirit of capitalism” can be useful in predicting the next policy of the liberal economy in the age of globalism.
F01|Puzzling Properties of the Historical Growth Rate of Income Per Capita Explained|Galor discovered many mysteries of the growth process. He lists them in his Unified Growth Theory and wonders how they can be explained. Close inspection of his mysteries reveals that they are of his own creation. They do not exist. One of his claimed mysteries is the mystery of the alleged sudden spurt in the growth rate of income per capita and in the growth of population. This sudden spurt never happened. Precisely the same data, which were used in support of the Unified Growth Theory are in fact in its direct contradiction. They show that the created mysteries of growth do not exist. The difference between the diametrically opposite conclusions is that in order to support the Unified Growth Theory and to create the mysteries of growth data were appropriately manipulated and distorted but the contradicting evidence is based on their rigorous analysis. The mechanism of the historical economic growth and of the growth of human population is yet to be explained but it would be unproductive to try to look for explanations in the Unified Growth Theory. However, the problem is much deeper than just the examination of this theory. Demographic Growth Theory is based on the incorrect but deeply entrenched postulates developed by accretion over many years and now generally accepted in the economic and demographic research, postulates revolving around the concept of Malthusian stagnation and around a transition from stagnation to growth. The study presented here and earlier similar publications show that these postulates need to be replaced by interpretations based on the mathematical analysis of data and on the correct understanding of hyperbolic distributions.
F01|Growth of the World Population in the Past 12,000 Years and Its Link to the Economic Growth|Data describing the growth of the world population in the past 12,000 yearsare analysed. It is shown that,if unchecked, population does not increase exponentially but hyperbolically. This analysis reveals three approximately-determined episodes of hyperbolic growth: 10,000-500 BC, AD 500-1200 and AD 1400-1950, representing a total of about 89% of the past 12,000 years. It also reveals three demographic transitions: 500 BC-AD 500, AD 1200-1400 and AD 1950-present, representing the remaining 11% of the past 12,000 years. The first two transitions were between sustained hyperbolic trajectories. The current transition is to an unknown trajectory. There was never any form of dramatic transition from stagnation to growth, described often as a takeoff, because there was no stagnation in the growth of the world population. Correct understanding of the historical growth of human population is essential in the correct interpretation of the historical growth of income per capita.
F01|Asymmetric Convergence in Globalization? Findings from a Disaggregated Analysis|Using the KOF index of globalization that allows for the multidimensionality of the process, the paper sets out to examine the presence of convergence among countries in the three dimensions of the globalization process: economic, social, political. The sample used in the empirical investigation consists of 111 countries and covers the period 1971–2011. To allow for differences in the speed of convergence, countries were clustered into four income groups: high, upper middle, lower middle and low income in line with the World Bank’s classification. The results yielded and reported herein point to an asymmetric process of convergence with different speeds both between groups as well as in the different dimensions of globalization.
F01|World Economy Post-Crysis Development|Once the acute phases of the financial and euro crises were over, it was clear that it would take time for advanced economies to recover. The history of past financial crises gave a clear warning that recovery would typically be long and painful. The aim is to investigate the state of the world economy to make some conclusions for the less advanced countries, like Moldova. Research methodology involves analytical, comparative, foresight, induction and deduction methods. New development and planning institutions presume the rejection of forms of bureaucratic centralism and base on network forms of organization of the subject and the process of production, trade and services
F01|The Flow of Refugees and International Terrorism – Primarily a European Problem, but with Historical Roots and Geopolitical Dimensions|It is indisputable that the issue of refugees and terrorism is becoming more and more topical and most of all – a European problem, but with much broader dimensions that already have a geopolitical nature. However, it gains even larger topicality and significance after the two tragic terrorist attacks that were carried out in Paris and Brussels in November 2015 and March 2016 respectively. Unfortunately, however, when analyzed and commented upon, and during the attempts to counteract, solve and overcome these tragic events, some historical roots and the fundamental reasons that provoke them are underestimated and even downright ignored. This is precisely the purpose of the present study: first, to pay attention to their historical “roots”; and second, to attempt to reveal their fundamental prerequisites, motives and reasons, but in the most synthesized way possible, because the subject matter and the problems are quite extensive and complex.
F01|Cardiac Arrest or Dizzy Spell: Why is World Trade So Weak and What can Policy Do About It?|World trade growth was rapid in the two decades prior to the global financial crisis but has halved subsequently. There are both structural and cyclical reasons for the slowdown. A deceleration in the rate of trade liberalisation post 2000 was initially obscured by the ongoing expansion of global value chains and associated rapid emergence of China in the world economy. Post the financial crisis global value chains started to unwind and, possibly associated with this, Chinese and Asian trade weakened markedly. These structural changes were compounded by insipid demand due to anaemic growth of global investment, as well as intra-euro area trade, both of which are trade intensive. The slowdown in world trade growth post crisis, if sustained, will have serious consequences for the medium-term growth of productivity and living standards. Trade policy has significant potential to reinvigorate trade growth but the political environment for reforms is difficult, with a growing polarisation of OECD electorates into pro- and anti- globalisation supporters. Further trade and investment policy liberalisation should be introduced as part of a wider package of structural reforms to spread the benefits of freer trade and investment more widely. Arrêt cardiaque ou crise passagère : Pourquoi le commerce mondial est-il si faible et que peut faire la politique économique pour le relancer ? Le commerce mondial a cru rapidement au court des deux décennies qui ont précédé la crise financière de 2008. Mais sa croissance a été divisée par deux depuis. Des facteurs à la fois structurels et conjoncturels expliquent ce changement. Le ralentissement de la libéralisation du commerce mondial après 2000 a été masqué par l’expansion des chaines de valeur mondiale et l’insertion rapide de la Chine dans le commerce international. Après la crise, les chaines de valeur mondiale se sont détendues et le commerce Chinois et asiatique a ralenti, les deux phénomènes étant peut-être liés. Ces changements structurels ont été aggravés par une faible demande due à une croissance anémique de l’investissement international et du commerce intra-européen, les deux étant une source importante d’échanges commerciaux. S’il perdure, ce ralentissement de la croissance du commerce mondial aura des conséquences fâcheuses pour la croissance de la productivité et du niveau de vie. La politique commerciale dispose d’un potentiel pour relancer cette croissance, mais l’environnement politique actuel est peu favorable du fait d’une polarisation croissance au sein de l’électorat des pays de l’OCDE entre partisans de la globalisation et ceux plus sceptiques sur ses bienfaits. Une politique plus volontariste en matière de libéralisation des échanges et de l’investissement devrait être mise en place dans le cadre d’un plan global de reformes structurelles.
F01|Формування Державної Політики Стратегічного Розвитку Територій України В Умовах Євроінтеграції І Глобалізації<BR>[The formation of public policies of Ukraine territories strategic development in conditions of European integration and globalization]|В рамках статті виконане наукове обґрунтування напрямів вдосконалення державної політики стратегічного розвитку територій України в умовах євроінтеграції і глобалізації. За результатами дослідження розроблена схема взаємозв’язків у системі управління стратегічним розвитком території, яка враховує полісуб’єктність (державні і муніципальні органи управління, господарюючі суб’єкти, населення, громадські організації) впливу на процеси стратегічного розвитку з урахуванням зон розподілу відповідальності за реалізацію стратегій. Це дозволяє підвищити ефективність взаємодії при розробці та реалізації державної політики стратегічного розвитку територій; визначені пріоритетні напрями, які забезпечують реалізацію стратегічних завдань державної політики розвитку територій. Within the article the scientific substantiation of directions of improvement of the state policy of Ukraine areas strategic development in terms of European integration and globalization is done. The study developed a scheme of relationships in the system of area strategic development, which takes into account the polysubjectivity (state and municipal governments, business entities, communities, NGOs) to influence the strategic development with areas of shared responsibility for implementing strategies. This improves the efficiency of interaction in the development and implementation of state policy of strategic development areas; identified priority areas that give effect to the strategic objectives of areas public policy.
F01|Наслідки Глобалізації Товарних Ринків Для Національної Економіки України<BR>[The consequences of product markets globalization for Ukraine’s national economy]|В статті розглянуто характерні риси глобальних товарних ринків. Метою статті є виявлення джерел та наслідків глобалізації товарних ринків, що спостерігається у світовому господарстві та розробці рекомендацій щодо державного та корпоративного управління в умовах глобальної конкуренції. Приділено увагу транснаціональним корпораціям, що становлять найсуттєвішу конкуренцію на глобальних товарних ринках. Досліджено вплив транснаціонального бізнесу на товарні ринки, який, з одного боку, є породженням глобалізації, з іншого боку, сам стає каталізатором глобалізаційних процесів. Простежено місце України в глобальних рейтингах. Доведено, що серед можливих варіантів поводження українських підприємств на глобальних товарних ринках найбільш ефективним є шлях інноваційного розвитку. Не зважаючи на зниження регулятивної ролі держави в глобальній економіці, рекомендовано прийняття дієвих управлінських рішень щодо підтримки національного виробника, але не на шкоду здоровій глобальній конкуренції. The features of global commodity markets have been considered in the article. The purpose of the article is to identify the sources and consequences of commodity markets globalization observable in the world economy and to develop the recommendations as for the state and corporate governance in the context of global competition. The author’s attention is paid to transnational corporations that make up the most significant competition in the global commodity markets. The influence of transnational business on product markets has been investigated. The last is defined as a product of globalization on the one hand, and becomes a catalyst of globalization processes on the other hand. Also the place of Ukraine in global ratings has been traced. It has been proved that the most effective way of behavior of Ukrainian enterprises on the global commodity markets among all the possible variants is the way of innovation development. Despite the reduction of the government regulatory role in the global economy it has been recommended the adoption of effective management decisions to support of the domestic producers but not at the expense of a healthy global competition.
F01|Export Performance with Border Sharing Countries: An Assessment of Pakistan|This study analyzed the export performance of Pakistan with its border sharing countries for the year 2014. The study has followed Dalum et al. (1998) revealed symmetric comparative advantage index to measure export performance. The study has split the analysis into highest and marginal comparative advantage and disadvantage. Pakistan is exporting around 160, 155, 133 and 60 commodities at three-digit level of SITC (Rev 3) classification to Afghanistan, China, India and Iran respectively. We found that in more than half of these commodities exported to border sharing countries Pakistan has highest and marginal comparative disadvantage. Result shows that rice and cotton is of worth importance because both are cash crops of Pakistan. Rice is in marginal disadvantage segment for Afghanistan, China and Iran. Political and diplomatic channels are needed to improve the performance of cross border trading among the countries especially with border sharing countries.
F01|The Response of Banking Sector Development to Financial and Trade Openness in the presence of Global Financial Crisis in Africa|Africa’s financial system is strongly bank-based and so this paper investigate whether economic growth, financial openness and trade openness contribute to the development of the banking sector in the presence and absence of global financial crisis. The results from PMG/ARDL suggest that banking sector develops independently of economic growth in lower-middle and high income countries while it develops as demand for finance increases in low and uppermiddle income countries in Africa. Being cautious of global financial crisis, trade openness is found to be more effective in high and lower-middle income countries, financial openness is more effective in low income countries and neither is more effective in upper-middle income countries. It is also discovered that, in the long run, global financial crisis generally reduce banking sector development in Africa but not in high income countries however the banking sectors of lower-middle and low income countries suffer the most from such crisis.
F01|Retiro de estímulos monetarios en EE.UU. y la simulación de algunos efectos sobre las economías de Latinoamérica|La incertidumbre respecto al futuro de las políticas fiscal y monetaria en EE.UU. ha perturbado el comportamiento de los mercados financieros y cambiarios internacionales. Luego de diversos anuncios, en 2014 la Reserva Federal estadounidense decidió iniciar el retiro gradual de sus estímulos monetarios, surgiendo voces de alerta sobre la supuesta fragilidad de América Latina. En esa línea, el presente documento examina y simula para un grupo de economías de la región (Brasil, Chile, Colombia y Perú), a partir de la calibración de un Modelo de Equilibrio General Dinámico Estocástico, la ocurrencia de los siguientes eventos: a) endurecimiento en las condiciones de financiamiento/tasas de interés internacionales más altas y b) mayor demanda externa. De las simulaciones se puede deducir, en forma general, que una eventual recuperación de la economía de EE.UU. puede generar una caída en la brecha del producto, acompañada de menores presiones inflacionarias, dado un incremento en la tasa de interés internacional. Sin embargo, una mayor demanda externa, producto de mencionada recuperación, generaría en la región un incremento de la brecha del producto y presiones inflacionarias. El efecto final sobre el producto e inflación dependerá de cuál de los dos efectos es más importante y sobre la capacidad de reacción y fundamentos de cada economía.
F01|How Sustainable are the Sustainable Development Goals? An Analysis of the Staple Goals of ?No Poverty? and ?Zero Hunger??|In June 2012, The United nations Conference on Sustainable Development was held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The Conference, popularly known as Rio+20 produced a set of 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which were officially launched at the conclusion of the target year of achieving the 8 Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015. The objective of this paper is to analyze Goal 1 and Goal 2 of the SDG in relation to the set of 17 SDGs and with reference to the achievement of Goal 1 of the MDG.The primary focus of the MDGs was eradication of extreme poverty and hunger. Of the 8 MDGs adopted by the Millennium Summit of the United Nations in 2000, the first goal was ?To eradicate extreme poverty and hunger?. Extreme poverty was defined as earning $1.25 per day. The Millennium Development Goals Report 2015 published by the United Nations shows that extreme poverty in developing countries has declined from 47 percent of total population in 1990 to 14 per cent of total population in 2015. In terms of numbers, 836 million people in the developing countries still live in extreme poverty.While eradication of poverty and hunger still remain the fundamental focus of the SDGs, the Rio+20 produced a set of more elaborate goals more than twice the number of MDGs. The first two SDGs are:Goal 1: End poverty in all its form everywhereGoal 2: End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agricultureThe above two SDGs are further broken down into subsets of achievable goals with target dates ranging from 2025 to 2030.The paper analyzes poverty ?in all its form? and discusses the United Nation?s target dates of eradicating various forms of poverty. A historical analysis is presented about selecting the $1.25 per day on the purchasing power parity basis as the yardstick for extreme poverty. In doing so, the paper analyzes the set of 17 SDGs as the basis for sustainability of economic development.
F01|Comparing Africa, Asia and Latin America/Caribbean countries using per capita GDP, remittances, openness, capital/labor ratios and freedom|The focus of this paper is to evaluate similarities and differences between and within three regions: Africa, Asia, and Latin America/Caribbean. The five variables used (per capita GDP, remittances, openness, capital/labor ratio and freedom) broadly classify economic growth in these regions. For each of the five variables the null hypothesis is that the means of the three regions are equal. One-way analysis of variances is the tool of choice. Furthermore, the full samples are employed to test equality of the means between the three regions and all regions. The results show substantial gaps between the groups as well as factors under consideration. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2016
F01|Deutsche Wirtschaft gut ausgelastet — Wirtschaftspolitik neu ausrichten<BR>[German Economy on Track — Economic Policy Needs to be Realigned]|Zusammenfassung Die deutsche Wirtschaft befindet sich in einem moderaten Aufschwung. Die Gemeinschaftsdiagnose Herbst 2016 prognostiziert, dass das Bruttoinlandsprodukt 2016 um 1,9%, 2017 um 1,4% und 2018 um 1,6% zulegen dürfte. Dabei gehen von der Weltkonjunktur nur geringe stimulierende Effekte aus, zudem dürften sich in den außerordentlich niedrigen Kapitalmarktzinsen nicht nur die derzeitige Geldpolitik, sondern auch niedrige Wachstumserwartungen widerspiegeln. All dies hemmt die Ausrüstungsinvestitionen. So ist es weiterhin in erster Linie der Konsum, der den Aufschwung trägt.
F01|Anemic economic growth in advanced economies: structural factors and the impotence of expansionary macroeconomic policies|This paper assesses the role of some structural factors in determining the current anemic growth of the advanced economies, especially focusing on Southern Europe. It discusses what macroeconomic policies can do for reviving growth and illustrates some hypotheses: policy makers attempts to push GDP growth above its sustainable long-term rate through expansionary policies, excessive leverage and rising private and public debt generate instability and imbalances; economic fundamentals and easy credit push up the price of residential land and urban rents, thus crowding out investment in productive assets and depressing long-run growth; supporting asset prices, central banks may end up exacerbating the causes making growth anemic; Summers secular stagnation and its policy implications do not appear very plausible; the persistency of wide competitiveness imbalances among different areas determines an unequal spatial distribution of high value-added activities, which collides with the worldwide tendency towards the equalization of workersâ€šÃ„Ã´ education levels and aspirations.
F01|Russia: A New Imperialist Power?|This paper argues the importance of using modern methodology of Marxist analysis for the study of imperialism and the so-called “empires”. This methodology allows to show the mechanisms of economic, political, ideological, and so on manipulating the “periphery” from the “center” capital and the states. On this methodological basis it is proved that capitals and state machines of semi-periphery countries in general and Russia in particular are mostly objects of imperialist subjugation and manipulation and only in some rare cases these countries and their capitals are able to be subjects of the imperialist policy. The analysis of the contradictions in the relations of the Russian Federation, Ukraine and the West is given. It is provided the system of political, economic and geo-political arguments proving that Russia as a rule does not act as a subject of the imperialist policy, and only in some cases (generally relying on the Soviet legacy) Russia is able to withstand the “rules of the game”, given by the imperialist powers. It is argued that these some cases when Russia withstands the “rules of the game” is the main reason for the imperialist powers’ diatribes against “Russian imperialism”.
F01|Prices, Markups, and Trade Reform| This paper examines how prices, markups, and marginal costs respond to trade liberalization. We develop a framework to estimate markups from production data with multi‐product firms. This approach does not require assumptions on the market structure or demand curves faced by firms, nor assumptions on how firms allocate their inputs across products. We exploit quantity and price information to disentangle markups from quantity‐based productivity, and then compute marginal costs by dividing observed prices by the estimated markups. We use India's trade liberalization episode to examine how firms adjust these performance measures. Not surprisingly, we find that trade liberalization lowers factory‐gate prices and that output tariff declines have the expected pro‐competitive effects. However, the price declines are small relative to the declines in marginal costs, which fall predominantly because of the input tariff liberalization. The reason for this incomplete cost pass‐through to prices is that firms offset their reductions in marginal costs by raising markups. Our results demonstrate substantial heterogeneity and variability in markups across firms and time and suggest that producers benefited relative to consumers, at least immediately after the reforms.
F01|FIW Note No. 11 - March 2013|FIW publishes quarterly FIW Notes. They present an overview of the most important Austrian and international developments regarding international economics. There is only a German version available.
F01|FIW Note No. 22 - September 2016|FIW publishes biannually FIW Notes. They present an overview of the most important Austrian and international developments regarding International Economics.
F01|Las pequeñas economías insulares africanas, 1950-2010. Una perspectiva comparada|Island economies have some common specific features, such as fragmentation of the internal market due to their archipelagic nature, or their remoteness from foreign markets. This affects the export of their products as well as what they consume and cannot, or it is not profitable, produce locally. They also tend to suffer from a strong atomization of their companies. These and other circumstances have conditioned and determine the evolution of the main macroeconomic indicators. This paper is a comparative study of the socioeconomic situation found in some African island regions —Cape Verde, Comores Islands, Canary Islands, Mauritius, Reunion, Sao Tome and Principe, and Seychelles. It makes a long-term analysis (1950-2010) in order to provide a broad enough perspective to understand how each of them has faced these challenges and the different results obtained. KEY Classification-JEL: F01. N17. O11. O57
F01|Currency Diversification of Banks: A Spontaneous Buffer Against Financial Losses|The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has introduced in December 2010 a Basel III framework for more resilient banks and banking system. We posit in this paper that, in addition to the current regulatory instruments currently under the review of authorities, the currency diversification of banks' balance sheets can be a source of banking stability considering both assets and liabilities simultaneously. Our conclusions are based on a simplified definition of a globalized bank's balance sheet. As banks' balance sheets are expressed in domestic currency, our model implies an exchange rate conversion of each foreign component. Risks are introduced with stochastic processes in assets, liabilities and exchange rate. In accordance with the Basel III framework and the Basel III Leverage ratio, the bank's leverage ratio is limited. Our model provides detailed information in each risk faced by global banks including foreign exchange risk. Although our conclusions depend on the variance covariance matrix of assets, liabilities and foreign exchange rate, our main results confirm the positive impact of currency diversification on banking stability considering the current banking system.
F01|Alternative versions of the global competitive industrial performance ranking constructed by methods from social choice theory|The Competitive Industrial Performance index (developed by experts of the UNIDO) is designed as a measure of national competitiveness. Index is an aggregate of eight observable variables, representing different dimensions of competitive industrial performance. Instead of using a cardinal aggregation function, what CIP’s authors do, it is proposed to apply ordinal ranking methods borrowed from social choice: either direct ranking methods based on the majority relation (e.g. the Copeland rule, the Markovian method) or a multistage procedure of selection and exclusion of the best alternatives, as determined by a majority relation-based social choice solution concept (tournament solution), such as the uncovered set and the minimal externally stable set. The same method of binary comparisons based on the majority rule is used to analyze rank correlations. It is demonstrated that the ranking is robust but some of the new aggregate rankings represent the set of criteria better than the original ranking based on the CIP.
F01|What Is Behind the Weakness in Global Investment?|The recovery in private business investment globally remains extremely weak more than seven years after the financial crisis. This paper contributes to the ongoing policy debate on the factors behind this weakness by analyzing the role of growth prospects and uncertainty in explaining developments in non-residential private business investment in large advanced economies since the crisis. Augmenting the traditional models of investment with measures of growth expectations for output and uncertainty about global demand improves considerably the ability to explain investment growth. Our results suggest that the main driver behind the weakness in global investment in recent years is primarily a pessimistic outlook on the part of firms regarding the strength of future demand. Lower levels of uncertainty have supported investment growth modestly over 2013–14. Similarly, diminishing credit constraints, lower borrowing costs and relatively stronger corporate profits have also supported the recovery in business investment from 2010 onward. Our findings have two important implications for the global outlook for investment. First, the expected improvements in global growth should support a recovery in investment; however, a slowdown in growth in emerging-market economies or further growth disappointment in advanced economies could restrain this recovery. Second, the ongoing recovery in investment remains vulnerable to uncertainty shocks.
F01|The Case of Serial Disappointment|Similar to those of other forecasters, the Bank of Canada’s forecasts of global GDP growth have shown persistent negative errors over the past five years. This is in contrast to the pre-crisis period, when errors were consistently positive as global GDP surprised to the upside. All major regions have contributed to the forecast errors observed since 2011, although the United States has been the most persistent source of notable errors. In turn, the Bank of Canada’s gauge of foreign demand for Canadian exports—the foreign activity measure—has been continuously revised down. Average forecast errors for Canadian GDP growth are also negative over this period, particularly at the one-year-ahead horizon. The most important contributors to this unexpected weakness are exports and business fixed investment, the effects of which were only partly offset by positive surprises on housing. We find that the one-year-ahead export errors can be linked in part to the unanticipated weakness in US growth. Canadian competitiveness may also have been weaker than assumed. The errors on business investment correlate with measures of firm sentiment and uncertainty, as well as with deviations in oil prices from the view in the Bank’s baseline forecast. The possibility that a period of negative surprises in foreign and domestic output growth could continue over the coming years raises important questions for future study by central banks and policy-makers.
F01|The Global Benefits of Low Oil Prices: More Than Meets the Eye|Between mid-2014 and early 2016, oil prices fell by roughly 65 per cent. This note documents the channels through which this oil price decline is expected to affect the global economy. One important and immediate channel is through higher expenditures, especially in net oil-importing countries. Although there is considerable uncertainty over the estimated impact, to date, these expenditures appear to have been small, because the response of investment in oil-producing countries has been negative, large and quick to materialize. This negative response has dominated the positive response of expenditures in oil-importing countries. It is also important, however, to consider how the oil price decline can improve private and public sector balance sheets, as it is expected to support private and public spending in future years. To this extent, global benefits go beyond what is captured in current GDP measures and, as such, there is more to this issue than meets the eye.
F01|Cross Border Mergers And Acquisitions - An Overview Of Their Evolution And Trends|The paper aims to explore the world of cross-border mergers and acquisitions (M&As), in order to capture the dynamic image of a global picture encapsulating a quarter of century (1990-2014) of evolution - mostly by analyzing the UNCTAD's data on the subject. The research goals are to identify the main evolutions and trends of the cross-border M&As, on one hand, and to set the backgrounds for future research on the field, on the other hand - considering that the participants to this process, their motivators, specific choices and strategies, as well as their main challenges and expected outcomes are continuously changing, asking for more and more refined and sophisticated approaches.
F01|Student Responses to the Changing Content of School Meals in India|Can countries with binding budget constraints increase the benefits of school transfers through better program design? A cost-neutral change is used in the design of Indiaâ€™s school meal program to study this question. Municipal schools in Delhi switched from packaged snacks to cooked meals in 2003, with no change in payments to meal providers. Variation in the timing of this transition is used and child-level panel data to estimate a 3 percentage point rise in average monthly attendance in response to the new program. The effects are largest for early grades, morning school shifts and schools serving diverse menus.
F01|Who has terror angst? Perceptions of the effects of terror on the world economy| We examine sources of biased terror perceptions. In particular, we investigate how international experts of the IFO World Economic Survey assess the effect of terror on the world economy and the economy of their own country. The results show that respondents from terror-stricken countries have more favourable views on the effect of terror on the word economy (but not on their own countries). Male respondents and those from democratic and richer countries are likewise more optimistic.
F01|Economic Analysis and Forecasting in the Global Economy and in Emerging and Developing Regions Including Africa: How Informative is the Ifo World Economic Survey (WES)?|Economists around the world rely in addition to official statistics on business (and consumer) surveys, which are more up-to-date. However, for many emerging and developing countries there is a lack of such surveys. This gap can, at least partly, be filled by the Ifo World Economic Survey (WES). In this paper we first describe this survey and also examine how helpful it is for macroeconomic analysis and short-term forecasting. We find that this survey provides important up-to-date information about the cyclical stage of the global economy and of major emerging and developing regions including Africa. Increasing the number of participating experts could further improve its usefulness for macroeconomic analysis in these regions.
F01|ifo Weltwirtschaftsklima hellt sich etwas auf|Das Klima in der Weltwirtschaft hat sich leicht verbessert. Der ifo Indikator stieg im zweiten Quartal. Zwar verschlechterten sich die Beurteilungen der Experten zur Lage leicht, ihre Erwartungen waren jedoch positiver als im Vorquartal.
F01|Der UNCTAD World Investment Report 2016: Die Entwicklung ausländischer Direktinvestitionen|Ausländische Direktinvestitionen repräsentieren neben Exporten einen wesentlichen Faktor in der internationalen ökonomischen Integration. Vor allem multinationale Unternehmen haben durch Auslandsgesellschaften in den letzten Jahrzehnten wesentlich zum Wachstum ausländischer Direktinvestitionen beigetragen. Eine umfassende Analyse mit aktuellen Statistiken bietet die Konferenz der Vereinten Nationen für Handel und Entwicklung im Rahmen ihres jährlich veröffentlichten World Investment Reports. Der Artikel fasst die wesentlichen Entwicklungen und Ergebnisse des World Investment Reports 2016 zusammen.
F01|ifo Weltwirtschaftsklima hellt sich wieder auf – Ergebnisse des 134. World Economic Survey (WES) für das vierte Quartal 2016|Das Klima in der Weltwirtschaft hat sich verbessert, liegt aber noch unter seinem langfristigen Durchschnitt. Die Beurteilungen zur aktuellen Wirtschaftslage blieben unverändert ungünstig. Die Erwartungen hellten sich dagegen etwas auf.
F01|ifo Konjunkturprognose 2016–2018: Robuste deutsche Konjunktur vor einem Jahr ungewisser internationaler Wirtschaftspolitik|Am 16. Dezember 2016 stellte das ifo Institut seine Prognose für die Jahre 2016, 2017 und 2018 vor. Der robuste Aufschwung, in dem sich die deutsche Wirtschaft seit dem Jahr 2013 befindet, wird sich fortsetzen. In diesem Jahr ist mit einem Zuwachs des realen BIP von 1,9% zu rechnen. 2017 dürfte der Anstieg auf 1,5% zurückgehen, was jedoch nur auf eine im Vergleich zum Vorjahr geringere Anzahl von Arbeitstagen zurückzuführen ist. Im Jahr 2018 wird das reale BIP vor­aussichtlich um 1,7% expandieren. Allerdings sind die Risiken, mit denen diese Prognose behaftet ist, außerordentlich hoch. Mit dem Brexit-Referendum, der US-Präsidentenwahl und der gescheiterten Verfassungsreform in Italien hat sich die globale politische Landschaft stark verändert, was weitreichende und in hohem Maße ungewisse Konsequenzen für die Weltwirtschaft und Deutschland in den kommenden Jahren haben könnte. Wird die US-amerikanische Finanzpolitik – wie vom neugewählten Präsidenten angekündigt – deutlich expansiver, dürfte dies der Konjunktur in den USA und dem Rest der Welt signifikante positive Impulse bescheren. Ein hohes und fortwährendes Maß an politischer Unsicherheit sowie zunehmende politische und wirtschaftliche Desintegration würden die wirtschaftlichen Aussichten merklich beeinträchtigen.
F01|German Economy Back on Track, Despite Weak Global Economy|The global economy is stalling. Global production increased by only 3.3 percent last year—the lowest growth rate since the financial crisis—and is expected to rise by only 3.3 percent in 2016 as well, which is lower than originally predicted. The reason for the sluggish growth lies primarily in the changes taking place in the emerging countries: the Chinese economy continues to lose momentum, and low export revenues in the commodity-exporting countries are hindering economic activity. In the industrialized countries, however, the moderate pace of growth continues, not least due to increased purchasing power, which is in turn partly due to the decreased energy costs. In these countries, consumption remains an important pillar of growth and the labor market situation is improving. By contrast, investment remains subdued and only minor stimuli are expected from net exports since the momentum in the emerging countries is likely to increase only slightly in the coming year. The risks to the global economy are skewed to the downside. Increased uncertainty in the financial markets could worsen financing conditions. The euro area is facing the risk of deflation. In spite of the currently gloomy global economic environment, the German economy is developing robustly. Although weak demand in the overseas markets led to a decline in German’s industrial production in the second half of 2015, it has been on the rise once again since the beginning of this year. During the forecast period, exports should benefit from a gradually improving global economy. Germany’s strong domestic economy, which is fueled primarily by increased private consumption, serves as a critical growth-driver. Employment continues to grow and wage increases can still be observed. The money being spent on the housing, care, and integration of the refugees is boosting consumption—and although these costs are substantial, the public budget will continue to run high surpluses. Financial leeway, however, is expected to become more limited.The German economy is likely to grow by 1.6 percent this year by 1.6 percent, and by 1.5 percent in the coming year.
F01|Private Consumption Will Remain a Powerful Growth Driver: Eight Questions to Simon Junker|No abstract is available for this item.
F01|Global Growth Still Subdued|The world economy has yet to regain momentum: after the already weak final quarter of 2015, the pace of expansion slowed down again in the first quarter of 2016. In the emerging countries’ economies, growth is expected to remain subdued, especially in China, where the gradual slowdown continues as overcapacities are reduced. Russia and Brazil are likely to remain in recession: apart from the still-low commodity prices, domestic issues are aggravating the situation. Growth is just barely stable in the industrialized countries, which means they cannot compensate for the emerging countries’ weaknesses. In the industrialized countries, the primary growth driver is still domestic demand. Strong consumption growth is expected in the US as well as in the euro area, primarily as a result of the improving labor market situation. All in all, the global economic growth rate is expected to be 3.2 percent in 2016, which is lower than previously forecasted. The uncertainty about China’s future economic development and the potential impact of a Brexit are the primary risks that are curbing optimism.
F01|German Economy on a Stable Growth Path|Supported by dynamic domestic demand, the German economy is expected to grow by 1.7 percent this year. As consumption and investment in construction are likely to weaken in the coming year, is hardly contributing to growth 2017 should amount to roughly 1.4 percent. Foreign trade is contributing relatively little to growth. In both years of the forecast period, capacities will be at more or less normal levels of utilization; there are no signs of overheating. In the medium term, however, stronger investment in the capital stock is necessary to increase the growth potential of the German economy.
F01|A Brexit Would Significantly Dampen Germany’s Economic Growth: Seven Questions to Ferdinand Fichtner|No abstract is available for this item.
F01|Brexit Decision Puts Strain on German Economy|As a result of Britain’s decision to leave the EU, global economic output is likely to grow at a somewhat slower pace than anticipated. The decision will have consequences for the UK and for the euro area in particular; this is also confirmed by simulations produced by the National Institute Global Econometric Model (NiGEM). An expected deterioration of economic relations—especially between the UK and the EU—and the associated increase in uncertainty have led to greater investment restraint. This has been accompanied by a devaluation of the British pound. Both will inhibit the development of the German economy with its strong focus on foreign trade. It will also dampen domestic investment and result in a lower level of consumption due to slightly weaker real wage growth. All in all, the German economy is likely to grow at a slower rate than previously predicted due to the Brexit decision. Growth is forecasted to be 0.1 percentage points lower in 2016 and 0.3 percentage points lower in 2017.
F01|Post-Brexit Uncertainty Is the Foremost Short-Run Drag: Six Questions to Ferdinand Fichtner|No abstract is available for this item.
F01|Subdued Global Growth, Restrained European Expansion|No abstract is available for this item.
F01|German Economy: Upward Trend Continues Despite Brexit Vote’s Dampening Effect|No abstract is available for this item.
F01|Brexit Decision Is Poison for Investment in Germany: Seven Questions to Ferdinand Fichtner|No abstract is available for this item.
F01|Global Economy Picking Up|The world economy is gaining momentum after sluggish growth in the first half 2016 – which was primarily due to a weak expansion in the emerging markets – gave way to a slight acceleration. This trend is likely to continue, and will increasingly benefit the developed economies as well. The brightening labor market situation in advanced countries is leading to a higher level of consumer demand, which will remain a primary growth driver. As a result of the improved sales opportunities, the currently weak corporate investment activity should pick up again. The growth of global economic output is expected to amount to 3.3 percent this year, and is expected to be slightly higher in the coming two years. This development will be supported by fiscal policy, while monetary policy is likely to become more contractionary globally in the course of further U. S. interest rate hikes. There remain significant risks, however – especially in Europe, where political uncertainty is high due to the Brexit decision and the upcoming elections in key EU member states, among other factors.
F01|Despite Weaker Job Market, Germany’s Economic Upswing Continues|In spite of persisting unfavorable external economic conditions, the German economy’s upward trend continues, with a growth of 1.2 percent expected for the coming year – slightly less than the 1.8 percent growth rate of 2016, a difference primarily due to the fact that 2017 has fewer workdays. A growth rate of 1.6 percent is expected for 2018. Although employment growth has slowed down somewhat since this past summer, private consumption remains the German economy’s primary growth driver – but given the higher inflation, this dynamic will lose momentum in the course of the coming quarters. Exports are picking up in the moderately recovering global economy, and this will be even more noticeable lateron in the forecast period. Though investment activity will be somewhat stimulated by the improvement in foreign demand, it will remain rather modest.
F01|Wachstum der Weltwirtschaft bleibt schwach: Frühjahrsgrundlinien 2016|The global economy is stalling. Global production increased by only 3.3 percent last year—the lowest growth rate since the financial crisis—and is expected to rise by only 3.3 percent in 2016 as well, which is lower than originally predicted. The reason for the sluggish growth lies primarily in the changes taking place in the emerging countries: the Chinese economy continues to lose momentum, and low export revenues in the commodity- exporting countries are hindering economic activity. In the industrialized countries, however, the moderate pace of growth continues, not least due to increased purchasing power, which is in turn partly due to the decreased energy costs. In these countries, consumption remains an important pillar of growth, and thus the labor market situation is also improving. By contrast, investment remains subdued and only minor stimuli are expected from net exports since the momentum in the emerging countries is likely to increase only slightly in the coming year. The risks to the global economy are skewed to the downside. Increased uncertainty in the financial markets could worsen financing conditions. The euro area is facing the risk of deflation. Die Weltwirtschaft kommt nicht in Fahrt. Nachdem die globale Produktion im vergangenen Jahr mit 3,3 Prozent so langsam gewachsen ist wie seit der Finanzkrise 2009 nicht mehr, dürfte sie in diesem Jahr auch nur um 3,3 Prozent zulegen – und damit weniger als zuletzt prognostiziert. Ursächlich hierfür ist vor allem die Entwicklung in den Schwellenländern. Die Konjunktur in China verliert weiter an Tempo. Überdies dämpfen in rohstoffexportierenden Ländern die niedrigen Exporterlöse die Aktivität. In den Industrieländern setzt sich das moderate Wachstumstempo hingegen fort – nicht zuletzt aufgrund gestiegener Kaufkraft, zu der auch gesunkene Energiepreise beitragen. Der Konsum ist hier nach wie vor wichtigste Wachstumsstütze, so dass sich die Lage auf den Arbeitsmärkten wiederum verbessert. Hingegen bleibt die Investitionstätigkeit verhalten. Auch vom Außenhandel sind nur geringe Impulse zu erwarten, da sich die Dynamik in den Schwellenländern im kommenden Jahr lediglich leicht erhöhen dürfte. Die Risiken für die Weltkonjunktur haben zugenommen. Insbesondere die gestiegene Unsicherheit an den Finanzmärkten könnte die Finanzierungsbedingungen verschlechtern. Im Euroraum besteht die Gefahr von Deflation.
F01|Deutsche Wirtschaft trotz unsicherer Weltkonjunktur auf Kurs: Frühjahrsgrundlinien 2016|The global economy is stalling. Global production increased by only 3.3 percent last year—the lowest growth rate since the financial crisis—and is expected to rise by only 3.3 percent in 2016 as well, which is lower than originally predicted. The reason for the sluggish growth lies primarily in the changes taking place in the emerging countries: the Chinese economy continues to lose momentum, and low export revenues in the commodity- exporting countries are hindering economic activity. In the industrialized countries, however, the moderate pace of growth continues, not least due to increased purchasing power, which is in turn partly due to the decreased energy costs. In these countries, consumption remains an important pillar of growth, and thus the labor market situation is also improving. By contrast, investment remains subdued and only minor stimuli are expected from net exports since the momentum in the emerging countries is likely to increase only slightly in the coming year. The risks to the global economy are skewed to the downside. Increased uncertainty in the financial markets could worsen financing conditions. The euro area is facing the risk of deflation. Die deutsche Wirtschaft entwickelt sich trotz eines eingetrübten weltwirtschaftlichen Umfelds robust. Auf vielen ausländischen Absatzmärkten lief die Nachfrage zuletzt schwach, weshalb die deutsche Industrieproduktion im zweiten Halbjahr 2015 rückläufig war. Bereits zum Jahresauftakt hat sie aber wieder zugelegt. Im Prognosezeitraum dürften die Exporte von einer sich allmählich aufhellenden weltwirtschaftlichen Entwicklung profitieren. Maßgeblich zum Wachstum trägt die kräftige Binnenkonjunktur bei, die vor allem durch den kräftigen privaten Verbrauch befeuert wird. So setzt sich der Beschäftigungsaufbau fort und die Lohnsteigerungen bleiben spürbar. Auch die Ausgaben für Unterbringung, Versorgung und Integration der Geflüchteten schieben den Konsum an. Die Kosten im Zuge der Flüchtlingsmigration sind beträchtlich, dennoch wird der öffentliche Gesamthaushalt weiterhin hohe Überschüsse erzielen. Im Prognosezeitraum werden die Finanzierungsspielräume aber enger. Die deutsche Wirtschaft dürfte in diesem Jahr um 1,6 Prozent wachsen, im kommenden Jahr um 1,5 Prozent.
F01|Europa und die Weltwirtschaft: globale Konjunktur ist weiter gedämpft: Sommergrundlinien 2016|The world economy has yet to regain momentum: after the already weak final quarter of 2015, the pace of expansion slowed down again in the first quarter of 2016. In the emerging countries’ economies, the pace of expansion is expected to remain subdued, especially in China, where the gradual slowdown continues as overcapacities are reduced. Russia and Brazil are likely to remain in recession: apart from the still-low commodity prices, domestic issues are aggravating the situation. Growth is just barely stable in the industrialized countries, which means they cannot compensate for the emerging countries’ weaknesses. In the industrialized countries, the primary growth driver is still domestic demand. Strong consumption growth is expected in the US as well as in the euro area, primarily as a result of the improving labor market situation. All in all, the global economic growth rate is expected to be 3.2 percent in 2016, which is lower than previously forecasted. The uncertainty about China’s future economic development and the potential impact of a Brexit are the primary risks that are curbing optimism. Die Weltwirtschaft kommt weiterhin nicht in Fahrt. Nach dem bereits schwachen Jahresende 2015 hat sich das Expansionstempo im Auftaktquartal 2016 erneut verlangsamt. In den Schwellenländern dürfte die Konjunktur auch weiterhin gedämpft bleiben. Vor allem in China setzt sich die graduelle Wachstumsabschwächung im Zuge des Abbaus von Überkapazitäten fort. Russland und Brasilien dürften in der Rezession bleiben; neben den nach wie vor niedrigen Rohstoffpreisen tun hausgemachte Probleme ihr Übriges. Die entwickelten Volkswirtschaften können dies nicht ausgleichen, da die Konjunktur hier lediglich stabil verläuft. Hauptstütze bleibt dort die Binnennachfrage. Vor allem in den USA, aber auch im Euroraum ist mit kräftigen Konsumzuwächsen zu rechnen, die insbesondere aus der sich verbessernden Lage am Arbeitsmarkt resultieren. Unter dem Strich dürfte am Ende dieses Jahres mit 3,2 Prozent ein geringeres Wachstum der globalen Wirtschaftsleistung stehen als noch zuletzt erwartet. Insbesondere die Unsicherheit über die weitere konjunkturelle Entwicklung in China und die möglichen Auswirkungen eines Brexits bremsen den Optimismus.
F01|Deutsche Wirtschaft folgt stabilem Aufwärtstrend: Sommergrundlinien 2016|Supported by dynamic domestic development, the German economy is expected to grow by 1.7 percent this year. As consumption and investment in construction are likely to weaken in the coming year, growth in 2017 should amount to roughly 1.4 percent. Foreign trade is contributing relatively little to growth. In both years of the forecast period, capacities will be at more or less normal levels of utilization; there are no signs of overheating. In the medium term, however, stronger investment in the capital stock is necessary to increase the growth potential of the German economy. Die deutsche Wirtschaft dürfte, getragen von einer dynamischen Binnenkonjunktur, in diesem Jahr um 1,7 Prozent wachsen. Im kommenden Jahr schwächen sich der Konsum sowie die Bauinvestitionen ab, das Wachstum wird wohl 1,4 Prozent betragen. Der Außenhandel schiebt das Wachstum kaum an. In beiden Jahren des Prognosezeitraums werden die Kapazitäten in etwa normal ausgelastet; eine Überhitzung zeichnet sich nicht ab. Mittelfristig sind aber kräftigere Investitionen in den Kapitalstock erforderlich, um das Wachstumspotential der deutschen Wirtschaft zu erhöhen.
F01|Der Brexit würde das Wirtschaftswachstum in Deutschland deutlich dämpfen: Sieben Fragen an Ferdinand Fichtner|No abstract is available for this item.
F01|Brexit-Entscheidung belastet deutsche Konjunktur|As a result of Britain’s decision to leave the EU, global economic output is likely to grow at a somewhat slower pace than anticipated. The decision will have consequences for the UK and for the euro area in particular; this is also confirmed by simulations produced by the global econometric model, NiGEM. An expected deterioration of economic relations, especially between the UK and the EU, and the associated increase in uncertainty lead to greater investment restraint. This has been accompanied by a devaluation of the British pound. Both will inhibit the development of the German economy with its strong focus on foreign trade. It will also dampen domestic investment and result in a lower level of consumption due to slightly weaker wage growth. All in all, the German economy is likely to grow at a slower rate than previously predicted due to the Brexit decision: growth is forecasted to be lower by 0.1 percentage points in 2016 and by 0.3 percentage points in 2017. Durch die Brexit-Entscheidung dürfte die Wirtschaftsleistung weltweit mit etwas geringerem Tempo als erwartet zulegen. Vor allem im Vereinigten Königreich und im Euroraum macht sich die Entscheidung bemerkbar; dies bilden auch Simulationen mit dem NiGEM-Modell ab. So führen die erwartete Verschlechterung der wirtschaftlichen Beziehungen insbesondere zwischen dem Vereinigten Königreich und der Europäischen Union und die damit verbundene erhöhte Unsicherheit zu Investitionszurückhaltung. Damit einher geht eine Abwertung der britischen Währung. Beides hemmt die Entwicklung der deutschen Wirtschaft mit ihrer starken Ausrichtung auf den Außenhandel. Dies dämpft auch die Investitionstätigkeit im Inland und führt wegen einer etwas schwächeren Einkommensentwicklung zu geringerer Konsumdynamik. Alles in allem dürfte die deutsche Wirtschaft infolge der Brexit-Entscheidung um 0,1 Prozentpunkte in diesem und um 0,3 Prozentpunkte im kommenden Jahr schwächer als bisher erwartet wachsen.
F01|Konjunkturelle Bremse unmittelbar nach dem Brexit-Votum ist die Unsicherheit: Sechs Fragen an Ferdinand Fichtner|No abstract is available for this item.
F01|Globales Wachstum verhalten, zögerliche Entwicklung in Europa: Herbstgrundlinien 2016|Global economic growth remains subdued. Leaving our forecast for this year unchanged, the pace of growth is expected to stand at 3.2 percent in 2016 and to increase somewhat over the following two years. In the advanced economies, the main growth driver will continue to be private consumption, which in turn is supported primarily by a steadily improving labor market and increases in real incomes. In Europe, the uncertainty associated with the Brexit decision will have a dampening effect on growth. In the emerging markets, the moderate increase in the pace of expansion should continue. In Russia and Brazil, the economic contraction process will gradually come to a halt, while in China, the current growth rate will remain stable thanks to solid consumer demand. Nevertheless, there are still a number of risks for the global economy: in particular, there’s the uncertainty related to the Brexit decision, and tensions remain high in some parts of the European banking sector. Das Wachstum der Weltwirtschaft bleibt verhalten. Das Expansionstempo dürfte in diesem Jahr – wie zuvor prognostiziert – bei 3,2 Prozent liegen und in den beiden Folgejahren etwas zunehmen. In den entwickelten Volkswirtschaften dürfte der private Konsum Hauptwachstumstreiber bleiben. Hierzu tragen vor allem die stetige Verbesserung der Lage auf dem Arbeitsmarkt und steigende Realeinkommen bei. In Europa wird wohl die Unsicherheit im Zusammenhang mit der Brexit-Entscheidung etwas auf dem Wachstum lasten. In den Schwellenländern dürfte sich die moderate Erhöhung des Expansionstempos fortsetzen. In Russland und Brasilien wird der wirtschaftliche Schrumpfungsprozess allmählich zum Stillstand kommen, und in China wird das aktuelle Wachstumstempo dank einer soliden Konsumnachfrage wohl gehalten werden. Allerdings besteht eine Reihe von Risiken für die Weltkonjunktur. In Europa etwa bleibt die Unsicherheit aufgrund der Brexit-Entscheidung sowie der angespannten Lage in einigen Teilen des Bankensektors hoch.
F01|Deutsche Wirtschaft: Aufwärtstrend setzt sich fort, Brexit dämpft: Herbstgrundlinien 2016|The German economy has been growing significantly recently, also due to strong foreign trade, and will experience a powerful increase of 1.9 percent in 2016. In the coming quarters, the drag of the Brexit decision should become noticeable. This will dampen the year-on-year growth rate in 2017 to 1.0 percent, alongside somewhat weaker private consumption dynamics. From the second half of 2017 onward, industry will start benefitting once again from a more dynamic development in key foreign markets, and in 2018, the German economy is expected to grow by 1.6 percent. Throughout the forecast period, the increase in employment should continue, and private consumption will contribute to growth—albeit at a somewhat slower pace. The unemployment rate should continue to drop: from 6.1 and 5.9 percent in 2016 and 2017 respectively to 5.8 percent by 2018. At 0.5 percent, inflation is low again this year, but at one-and-a-half percent, it will be higher in both 2017 and 2018. Corporate investment remains weak and won’t start picking up momentum until the end of next year, in view of accelerating global growth dynamics. The government surplus is expected to increase to 27 billion euros this year; however, the surplus will be smaller in the coming years, at 14 billion euros in 2017 and 16 billion euros in 2018. Die deutsche Wirtschaft ist – auch dank des Außenhandels – zuletzt deutlich gewachsen und wird im Jahresvergleich kräftig, um 1,9 Prozent, zulegen. In den kommenden Quartalen dürften sich die Auswirkungen der Brexit-Entscheidung bemerkbar machen. Neben einer schwächeren Dynamik des privaten Konsums dürfte dies dazu beitragen, dass das Wachstum im Jahr 2017 wohl 1,0 Prozent betragen wird. Ab der zweiten Hälfte des kommenden Jahres profitiert die Industrie wieder von einer dynamischeren Entwicklung wichtiger Auslandsmärkte; im Jahr 2018 dürfte die deutsche Wirtschaft um 1,6 Prozent wachsen. Im gesamten Prognosezeitraum wird sich der Beschäftigungsaufbau wohl fortsetzen und der private Konsum das Wachstum stützen, wenngleich in geringerem Ausmaß. Die Arbeitslosenquote dürfte weiter sinken, von 6,1 und 5,9 Prozent in den Jahren 2016 und 2017 bis auf 5,8 Prozent im Jahr 2018. Die Inflation ist mit 0,5 Prozent in diesem Jahr erneut niedrig, liegt in den kommenden beiden Jahren mit anderthalb Prozent aber etwas höher. Die Unternehmensinvestitionen bleiben schwach und werden wohl erst im späteren Verlauf etwas an Tempo gewinnen. Der Finanzierungssaldo des Staates dürfte dieses Jahr auf 27 Milliarden Euro steigen, in den kommenden Jahren aber mit 15 beziehungsweise 16 Milliarden Euro niedriger ausfallen.
F01|Brexit-Votum ist Gift für die Investitionstätigkeit in Deutschland: Sieben Fragen an Ferdinand Fichtner|No abstract is available for this item.
F01|Deutsche Wirtschaft gut ausgelastet – Wirtschaftspolitik neu ausrichten: Gemeinschaftsdiagnose Herbst 2016|The German economy is experiencing a moderate recovery: the GDP is expected to grow by 1.9 percent this year, 1.4 percent next year, and 1.6 percent in 2018. Over the course of the forecast period, capacity utilization will be somewhat higher than the long-term average. Nevertheless, corporate investment's contribution to the current upswing is minimal: the global economy is generating only minor stimulating effects, which means that exports are only increasing moderately; as well, the extremely low interest rates on the capital market are likely to reflect not only the current monetary policy, but also the low growth expectations. All of these factors are inhibiting equipment investment, and thus consumption continues to be the main growth driver. Private consumption is benefiting from the sustained increase in employment; the high expenditure for housing and integrating the refugees is still havinga strong impact on public spending. Residential construction is getting a boost from the low interest rates. Die deutsche Wirtschaft befindet sich in einem moderaten Aufschwung. Das Bruttoinlandsprodukt dürfte in diesem Jahr um 1,9 Prozent und im kommenden Jahr um 1,4 Prozent zulegen. Im Jahr 2018 dürfte die Expansionsrate bei 1,6 Prozent liegen. Die gesamtwirtschaftlichen Kapazitäten sind damit im Prognosezeitraum etwas stärker ausgelastet als im langjährigen Mittel. Dennoch sind es derzeit weniger die Unternehmensinvestitionen, die den Aufschwung tragen: Von der Weltkonjunktur gehen nur geringe stimulierende Effekte aus, so dass die Exporte nur moderat steigen; zudem dürften sich in den außerordentlich niedrigen Kapitalmarktzinsen nicht nur die derzeitige Geldpolitik, sondern auch niedrige Wachstumserwartungen widerspiegeln. All dies hemmt die Ausrüstungsinvestitionen. So ist es weiterhin in erster Linie der Konsum, der den Aufschwung trägt. Der private Verbrauch profitiert dabei insbesondere vom anhaltenden Beschäftigungsaufbau, beim öffentlichen Konsum machen sich weiterhin die hohen Aufwendungen zur Unterbringung und Integration von Flüchtlingen bemerkbar. Der Wohnungsbau wird durch die niedrigen Zinsen angeregt.
F01|Weltwirtschaft nimmt etwas Fahrt auf: Wintergrundlinien 2016|The world economy is gaining momentum after sluggish growth in the first half 2016 – primarily due to a weak expansion in the emerging markets – gave way to a slight acceleration. This trend is likely to continue, and will increasingly benefit the developed economies as well. The brightening labor market situation in advanced countries is leading to a higher level of consumer demand, which will remain a primary growth driver. As a result of the improved sales opportunities, the currently weak corporate investment activity should pick up again. The growth of global economic output is expected to amount to 3.3 percent this year, and is expected to be slightly higher in the coming two years. This development will be supported by fiscal policy, while monetary policy is likely to become more contractionary globally in the course of further U.S. interest rate hikes. There remain significant risks, however – especially in Europe, where political uncertainty is high due to the Brexit decision and the upcoming elections in key EU member states, among other factors. Die Weltwirtschaft kommt wieder etwas mehr in Schwung. Nachdem die Expansion in der ersten Jahreshälfte äußerst verhalten war, weil vor allem die Schwellenländer auf der Bremse standen, gab es zuletzt eine leichte Beschleunigung. Diese Entwicklung dürfte sich fortsetzen, wovon zunehmend auch die entwickelten Volkswirtschaften profitieren. Dort hellt sich die Lage am Arbeitsmarkt auf, was eine hohe Konsumnachfrage nach sich zieht. Diese bleibt eine Hauptstütze des Wachstums. Aufgrund besserer Absatzmöglichkeiten wird sich die bisher schwache Investitionstätigkeit der Unternehmen wohl etwas beleben. Der Anstieg der weltweiten Wirtschaftsleistung dürfte in diesem Jahr damit bei 3,3 Prozent liegen und in den kommenden beiden Jahren noch etwas höher ausfallen. Unterstützt wird diese Entwicklung von der Finanzpolitik, während die Geldpolitik im Zuge weiterer Zinsanhebungen in den USA global eher restriktiver ausgerichtet sein dürfte. Die Risiken sind indes nach wie vor beträchtlich – insbesondere in Europa, wo die politische Unsicherheit unter anderem aufgrund der Brexit-Entscheidung und anstehender Wahlen in wichtigen EU-Mitgliedsländern hoch ist.
F01|Deutsche Wirtschaft setzt Aufschwung fort – trotz schwächeren Beschäftigungsaufbaus: Wintergrundlinien 2016|In spite of persisting unfavorable external economic conditions, the German economy’s upward trend continues, with a growth of 1.2 percent expected for the coming year – slightly less than the 1.8 percent growth rate of 2016, a difference primarily due to the fact that 2017 has fewer workdays. A growth rate of 1.6 percent is expected for 2018. Although employment growth has slowed down somewhat since this past summer, private consumption remains the German economy’s primary growth driver – but given the higher inflation, this dynamic will lose momentum in the course of the coming quarters. Exports are picking up in the moderately recovering global economy, and this will be even more noticeable lateron in the forecast period. Though investment activity will be somewhat stimulated by the improvement in foreign demand, it will remain rather modest. Die deutsche Wirtschaft setzt in weiterhin schwierigem Umfeld ihre Aufwärtsbewegung fort und dürfte im kommenden Jahr mit 1,2 Prozent etwas schwächer wachsen als 2016 (1,8 Prozent); dies liegt jedoch vor allem an der geringeren Zahl an Arbeitstagen. Im Jahr 2018 werden es voraussichtlich 1,6 Prozent sein. Trotz eines flacheren Beschäftigungsaufbaus seit Sommer 2016 bleibt der private Verbrauch Wachstumstreiber. Angesichts höherer Inflation schwächt sich die Dynamik im Weiteren aber ab. Die Exporte legen im Fahrwasser einer sich etwas erholenden Weltkonjunktur etwas stärker zu, vor allem im späteren Verlauf, und regen dann auch die Investitionstätigkeit an. Diese bleibt aber alles in allem recht verhalten.
F01|Türkiye’de Cari Ýþlemler Açýðýnýn Sürdürülebilirliði|Makro ekonomik politikalarýn nihai amacý bir ülke ekonomisinde iç ve dýþ dengenin eþ anlý olarak saðlanmasýdýr. Ýç dengenin saðlanmasý ve sürdürülmesi, fiyat istikrarý, tam istihdam ve bununla uyumlu ekonomik büyüme amaçlarýna ulaþmayý ifade etmektedir. Dýþ denge ise ülkenin toplam gideri ile gelirlerinin birbirine denk olmasý gerektiðini ifade etmektedir. Ülkenin dýþ ekonomik iliþkilerinin incelenmesinde ve olasý sorunlarýn önceden tespitinde cari iþlemler hesabý önemli bir rol oynamaktadýr. Bu nedenle dýþ denge cari dengenin sürdürülebilirliði ile ifade edilmektedir. Bu çalýþmanýn amacý, 1987-2014 yýllarý arasýnda Türkiye’de cari açýðýn sürdürülebilirliðini incelemek olacaktýr. Bu çalýþmada, cari açýklarýn sürdürülebilirliðinin test edilmesi için Husted (1992) modeli kullanýlmýþtýr. Ýhracat ve ithalat arasýnda uzun dönemli bir iliþkinin olup olmadýðý test edilmiþtir.
F01|Transatlantik Serbest Ticaret Anlaþmasý Sürecinde AB – ABD ve Türkiye|Avrupa Birliði ve Amerika Birleþik Devletleri (ABD) arasýnda oluþturulmuþ Yüksek Seviyeli Çalýþma Grubu “Nihai Rapor”unda iki ekonomi arasýnda ticari ve yatýrým iliþkilerini ele alan kapsamlý bir anlaþmanýn yapýlmasý önerisiyle ‘ABD – AB Transatlantik Ticaret ve Yatýrým Ortaklýðý (TTYO)’ çalýþmalarýna baþlanmýþtýr. AB ve ABD’nin planladýðý bu anlaþma Dünya gayri safi milli hâsýlasýnýn neredeyse yarýsýný ve küresel ticaret akýþýnýn da üçte birini teþkil etmektedir. AB ve ABD’nin bu anlaþmaya Türkiye’yi de dâhil etmesi halinde ülkemizde önemli ticari ve hukuki sonuçlar doðuracak nitelikte bir geliþme yaþanabilecektir. Aksi durumda ise yapýlacak bu anlaþma ülkemiz dýþ ticaretini negatif etkileyebilecektir. Yapýlan bu çalýþma ile ABD – AB Serbest Ticaret Anlaþmasý ile Türkiye aleyhine oluþacak ticaret sapmasýnýn Gümrük Birliði'nin iþleyiþini tehdit eder boyuta ulaþma riski ortaya konularak, alternatif stratejilerle oluþturulmak istenen Türkiye – ABD Transatlantik Serbest Ticaret Anlaþmasýnýn önemi ortaya konulmaya çalýþýlmýþtýr.
F01|China and the evolution of the world economy|China's rapid growth and its growth model have accelerated important existing structural trends in the world economy and made them decisive characteristics of the global economy. In particular, China has ensured that this will be the era of the global market economy; the super-industrial economy; the post-industrial economy; the ecologically constrained economy; the complex economy; the highly globalized economy; the innovation economy; an economy with a new moral consciousness about the global supply chain; and an economy with an emerging new monetary system.
F01|The Mixture as Before? Student Responses to the Changing Content of School Meals in India|We study how attendance rates of primary school children respond to cost neutral changes in the design of India's school meal program. Municipal schools in the capital region of Delhi switched from packaged food to on-site cooked meals in 2003, with insignificant changes in the budget available per meal. We use the staggered implementation of this transition and child-level panel data to find that cooked meals resulted in a 3-4 percentage point rise in average monthly attendance with the largest effects observed for early grades. The impact on girls was especially large, but since they attend morning shift schools while boys attend the afternoon shifts, these gender effects may simply reflect benefits from better timed meals. We also find attendance gains concentrated in schools that served diverse menus. Our results suggest that even within constrained budgets, better designed school transfer programs can improve student level outcomes.
F01|Student responses to the changing content of school meals in India|Can countries with binding budget constraints increase the benefits of school transfers through better program design? We use a cost-neutral change in the design of India's school meal program to study this question. Municipal schools in Delhi switched from packaged snacks to cooked meals in 2003, with no change in payments to meal providers. We use variation in the timing of this transition and child-level panel data to estimate a 3 percentage point rise in average monthly attendance in response to the new program. The effects are largest for early grades, morning school shifts and schools serving diverse menus.
F01|Estimates Of The World Distribution Of Personal Incomes Based On Country Sample Clones|In this paper, the world distribution of personal incomes (WDPI) is estimated using a global sample comprising country sample clones. A clone is a random sample that reproduces – with predetermined high probability and precision – an unknown survey sample using information that is ‘encoded’ in the estimated parameters of a country’s personal income distribution. The clone creation method is based on the sequential probability ratio test. The clones discussed in this paper are generated from the lognormal distribution using information encoded in countries’ Gini indices, and are scaled to both per capita GDP and per capita household final consumption expenditures (HFCE). Statistical analysis of a global sample from the WDPI in the 1990-2010 period shows the following. The WDPI exhibited a twin-peaks shape in the initial years, but such bimodality disappeared in subsequent years. Inequality and poverty decreased in accordance with a three-phase pattern over the period. Whether clones are scaled to GDP or HFCE matters when evaluating inequality and poverty levels, but not when determining the general direction of their trends.
F01|Currency Diversification of Banks: A Spontaneous Buffer Against Financial Losses|The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has introduced in December 2010 a Basel III framework for more resilient banks and banking system. We posit in this paper that, in addition to the current regulatory instruments currently under the review of authorities, the currency diversification of banks’ balance sheets can be a source of banking stability considering both assets and liabilities simultaneously. Our conclusions are based on a simplified definition of a globalized bank’s balance sheet. As banks’ balance sheets are expressed in domestic currency, our model implies an exchange rate conversion of each foreign component. Risks are introduced with stochastic processes in assets, liabilities and exchange rate. In accordance with the Basel III framework and the Basel III Leverage ratio, the bank’s leverage ratio is limited. Our model provides detailed information in each risk faced by global banks including foreign exchange risk. Although our conclusions depend on the variance covariance matrix of assets, liabilities and foreign exchange rate, our main results confirm the positive impact of currency diversification on banking stability considering the current banking system.
F01|Peer-Group Detection of Banks and Resilience to Distress|The paper looks at the importance of the true business model in shaping the risk profile of financial institutions. We adopt a novel indirect clustering approach to enrich the classic bank business model classification on a global data set including about 11,000 banks, both listed and non-listed representing more than 180 countries over the period 2005-2014. A comprehensive list of global distress events, which combines bankruptcies, liquidations, defaults, distressed mergers, and public bailouts, is regressed against financial statement ratios (i.e. proxies for CAMELS) and controlling for macro and sectoral effects using a rare-event logit model. Our findings suggest that individual characteristics along with macro and sectoral factors contribute differently, sometimes with opposite sign, to the likelihood of distress and to the volatility of business models with the exception of liquidity whose contribution appears exogenous to business model choice. By capturing the switching behaviour across groups, we find that business model volatility exacerbates vulnerability and distress, especially if moving from wholesale-oriented to deposit oriented groups.
F01|Globalization, Democracy and Economic Growth in Developing Countries: A Panel Causality Analysis|Purpose: This paper investigates the relationship between globalization, democracy and economic growth of 52 developing countries. Methodology: For this purpose, we have applied fully modified OLS (FMOLS), pooled mean group (PMG) cointegration techniques and the VECM method to a non-stationary heterogeneous dynamic panel over the period 1980-2010. For empirical analysis, we have used the composite indicator of globalization and two different indicators of democracy. We also highlighted the importance of simultaneous adoption of democracy and globalization for developing countries. Findings: The empirical results strongly support the long-run relationship between economic growth, democracy and globalization. The VECM Granger causality analysis reveals the evidence of bidirectional causality between economic growth and globalization. Causal relationship between democracy and economic growth depends on the indicators used to measure democracy. The results further explain that globalization adds in economic growth and democracy impedes economic growth. Recommendations: This suggests that negative impact of democracy on economic growth can be minimized by improving organizational structure of democratic institution in developing countries.
F01|The Mixture as Before? Student Responses to the Changing Content of School Meals in India|We study how attendance rates of primary school children respond to cost neutral changes in the design of Indiaâ€™s school meal program. Municipal schools in the capital region of Delhi switched from packaged food to on-site cooked meals in 2003, with insignificant changes in the budget available per meal. We use the staggered implementation of this transition and child-level panel data to find that cooked meals resulted in a 3-4 percentage point rise in average monthly attendance with the largest effects observed for early grades. The impact on girls was especially large, but since they attend morning shift schools while boys attend the afternoon shifts, these gender effects may simply reflect benefits from better timed meals. We also find attendance gains concentrated in schools that served diverse menus. Our results suggest that even within constrained budgets, better designed school transfer programs can improve student level outcomes.
F01|The Tpp And Ttip Trade Agreements: The International Negotiation Process|Free trade is one of the ultimate purposes of the free trade agreements currently negotiated over the world. Two of these trials are represented by the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP). The common feature of these two trade deals is represented by the United States, a global actor that is making sure that it will be able to trade in best conditions on both of its geographical shores: on the Pacific and on The Atlantic. The negotiations are still ongoing, but results are expected on both sides. An important issue for the third parties, but not only, is represented by the secrecy of the negotiations undertaken and the lack of transparency shown by the negotiating Governments. If the agreements are concluded, a major global impact on trade and investments is expected, with significant positive implications for the TPP and TTIP negotiating states.
F01|Global Agri-Food Export Competitiveness| The article investigates agri-food export competitiveness of 23 countries on global markets using revealed comparative advantage (B) index in the 2000-2011 periods. Results indicate that main global agri-food exporting countries have revealed comparative advantages. The panel unit root tests suggest convergence in the dynamics of the B indices. Mobility indices indicate relatively low mobility in the B indices at the product level. The Kaplan-Meier survival rates of the B indices on long-term are among the highest for the Netherlands, France, Belgium, the United States, Argentina and New Zealand. The level of economic development, the share of agricultural employment, subsidies to agriculture, and differentiated consumer agri-food products increases the likelihood of failure in comparative advantage, while agricultural land abundance and export diversification reduces.
F01|International Rice Outlook, Baseline Projections 2014-2024| This outlook contains updated baseline rice projections from the Arkansas Global Rice Economics Program (AGREP) for the U.S. and international rice economies. The purpose of this document is to present the current state and the expected directions of the rice economies in the world by assessing their potential supply and demand paths over the next decade. This set of projections serves as a baseline for evaluating and comparing alternative macroeconomic, policy, weather, and technological scenarios. The estimates are intended for use by government agencies and officials, farmers, consumers, agribusinesses and other stakeholders who conduct medium- and long-term planning. The AGREP baseline projections are grounded in a series of assumptions about the general economy, agricultural policies, weather, and technological change. It is generally assumed that current agricultural policies will continue in the United States and other countries reported in this study. The projections included in this outlook are based on information available as of January 2015. In light of the volatility of the global rice economy, a stochastic analysis is included in this report to provide a better understanding of the probable distribution of future outcomes. The stochastic estimates establish likely upper and lower bounds for selected variables.
F01|Energy And Innovation Sector Seen As Essential Factors Of Economic Security In The Third Millennium|The energy and innovation sector are key components of the economic security of Romania. In order to be able to keep the high standards with other competing countries with which Romania competes in different economic sector, our country must have a strong and independent energy and innovation sector
F01|From a model of growth to a global crisis|"The paper analyses the unprecedented coordinated actions to suppress the ""free fall"" of the United States and world economy. It then shows the role of monetary and fiscal policy of governments. The article reveals are the fundamental similarities and differences between the Great Depression of the 30-ies of the last century and the current Great Recession. It indicates the controversial results of the policies in the United States and the European Union and the emerging trend towards deflation."
F01|ifo Weltwirtschaftsklima nahezu unverändert – Ergebnisse des 127. World Economic Survey (WES) für das erste Quartal 2015|Der ifo Indikator für die Weltwirtschaft ist leicht gestiegen, nachdem er im Vorquartal kräftig gesunken war. Die Besserung des Weltwirtschaftsklimas resultiert ausschließlich aus etwas positiveren Konjunkturerwartungen. Die Einschätzungen zur aktuellen Lage verharren auf dem Niveau des Vorquartals. Die Weltkonjunktur als Ganzes zeigt wenig Dynamik, regional betrachtet gibt es allerdings erhebliche Unterschiede.
F01|Neuerungen in der weltweiten Expertenbefragung »Ifo World Economic Survey« – Frage zu den mittelfristigen Inflationserwartungen|Seit dem vierten Quartal 2014 wird im Rahmen des »Ifo World Economic Survey« (WES) die Frage nach der erwarteten Inflationsrate in drei bis fünf Jahren gestellt. Die Ergebnisse dieser Frage werden für einzelne Länder sowie aggregiert für wichtige Wirtschaftsräume (wie z.B. den Euroraum) veröffentlicht. In diesem Beitrag wird eine erste Auswertung der bisherigen Befragungsergebnisse vorgenommen.
F01|ifo Weltwirtschaftsklima hellt sich auf: Ergebnisse des 128. World Economic Survey (WES) für das zweite Quartal 2015|Der ifo Indikator für die Weltwirtschaft ist im Vergleich zum Vorquartal gestiegen. Sowohl die Lagebeurteilung als auch die Erwartungen verbesserten sich. Die WES-Experten gehen in diesem Jahr von 2,3% Wirtschaftswachstum für die Welt aus. Die Weltkonjunktur gewinnt langsam wieder an Fahrt. Das Wirtschaftsklima verbesserte sich in Europa deutlich, und hier insbesondere in Mittel- und Osteuropa. In Asien hellte es sich leicht auf und erreichte wieder seinen langfristigen Durchschnitt. In Nordamerika ging der Indikator um fast 10 Indexpunkte zurück, blieb aber weiter deutlich über seinem langjährigen Durchschnitt. In den GUS-Staaten erholte sich das Wirtschaftsklima leicht, liegt aber weiterhin merklich unter seinem langfristigen Durchschnitt. Im Nahen Osten und Lateinamerika setzte sich der Rückgang des Indikators fort; er fiel auf den niedrigsten Wert seit fast sechs Jahren. Nach Einschätzung der WES-Experten dürfte sich das Wirtschaftswachstum in Europa, mit 1,7%, und den USA, mit 2,7%, in diesem Jahr beschleunigen. Hingegen liegen die erwarteten Wachstumsraten für Lateinamerika (1,3%) und Asien (3,6%) unter den Vorjahreswerten. Für Russland und die Ukraine prognostizieren die Experten eine tiefe Rezession. Für 2015 erwarten die Umfrageteilnehmer im weltweiten Durchschnitt einen Preisanstieg von 3,0% und damit etwas weniger als zu Jahresanfang (3,1%). Die Inflationserwartungen für den Euroraum belaufen sich in diesem Jahr auf 0,6% (und liegen damit weiterhin klar unter der Zielmarke der EZB von knapp 2%. Die mittelfristigen Inflationserwartungen, für das Jahr 2020, sind dagegen auf 2,0% gestiegen und entsprechen damit weitgehend dem Inflationsziel der EZB. Im weltweiten Durchschnitt werden die Leitzinsen der Notenbanken und damit auch die kurzfristigen Zinsen weitgehend stabil bleiben, während die langfristigen Kapitalmarktzinsen im Laufe der nächsten sechs Monate moderat steigen dürften. Der US-Dollar wurde von mehr WES-Experten als in der vorangegangenen Umfrage
F01|ifo Weltwirtschaftsklima kühlt sich ab|Der ifo Indikator für die Weltwirtschaft ist nach einer leichten Erholung in der ersten Jahreshälfte wieder gesunken und liegt nun geringfügig unter seinem langfristigen Durchschnitt. Während sich die Lagebeurteilungen im Vergleich zum Vorquartal verschlechterten, bleiben die Erwartungen unverändert positiv. Ein durchgreifender Aufschwung der Weltkonjunktur lässt auf sich warten. Das Wirtschaftsklima verschlechterte sich nahezu in allen Regionen. In Europa und Nordamerika bleibt der Indikator trotzdem auf relativ hohem Niveau. In Asien und Afrika sank er jedoch unter den jeweiligen langfristigen Durchschnitt. Im Nahen Osten und in Ozeanien verschlechterte sich der Wert weiter und liegt auf dem niedrigsten Stand seit sechs Jahren. In den GUS-Staaten und Lateinamerika ist der Sinkflug des Indikators zumindest gestoppt: Das Wirtschaftsklima erholte sich in beiden Regionen leicht, auch wenn es weiterhin sehr unterkühlt ist.
F01|ifo Weltwirtschaftsklima kühlt sich spürbar ab – Ergebnisse des 130. World Economic Survey (WES) für das vierte Quartal 2015|Der ifo Indikator für die Weltwirtschaft hat sich eingetrübt und liegt unter seinem langfristigen Durchschnitt. Zwar verschlechterten sich die Lagebeurteilungen nur geringfügig, die Erwartungen sind aber deutlich weniger positiv als im Vorquartal.
F01|Survey-based indicators vs. hard data: What improves export forecasts in Europe?|We evaluate whether survey-based indicators produce lower forecast errors for export growth than indicators obtained from hard data such as price and cost competitiveness measures. Our pseudo out-of-sample analyzes and forecast encompassing tests reveal that survey-based indicators outperform the benchmark model as well as the indicators from hard data for most of our 20 European states and the aggregates EA-18 and EU-28. The most accurate forecasts are on average produced by the confidence indicator in the manufacturing sector, the economic sentiment indicator and the production expectations. However, large country differences in the forecast accuracy of survey-based indicators emerge. These differences are mainly explained with country-specific export compositions. A larger share in raw material or oil exports worsens the accuracy of soft indicators. The accuracy of soft indicators improves if countries have a larger share in exports of machinery goods. For hard indicators, we find only weak evidence for the export composition to explain differences in forecast accuracy.
F01|Different Dynamics For Some Countries Of Cee|The study addresses the economic development of four European countries - Romania, Hungary, Czech Republic, and Poland beginning with 1990. It will be employed a descriptive analysis of their trade and growth dynamics. Emphasis will be placed on the determinants of economic growth of this group of countries in general and foreign trade in particular. The results indicate a heterogeneous dynamics of economic performances explained by specific characteristics and less by exogenous aspects related to trade partners and commercial structure, regional integration or foreign policy influenced by geographic proximity. In what concerns Romania, it appears to have been driven by a weaker engine of economic growth in the last two centuries.
F01|Foreign Direct Investments – An Essential Factor For Economic Growth In Transition Economies|The purpose of this analysis is to analyse the connection between foreign direct investments and economic growth in transition economies during a period of increased integration of financial systems in the global financial system. The research focuses on the relationship between foreign direct investments and economic growth during 1970-2013, by means of methods such as the graphic, the regression and the correlation ones. The research findings show that there is a direct and strong connection between the inward financial flows of foreign direct investments and the GDP during the period under analysis in transition economies. In transition economies, a high inward flow of foreign direct investments leads to an increase of the Gross Domestic Product per capita, while a positive development of the standard of living will attract new inward FDI flows, since transition economies are seen as attractive recipients/hosts for foreign direct investments.
F01|Household Debt and Uncertainty: Private Consumption after the Great Recession|Household debt in many advanced economies has increased significantly since the 1980s and accelerated in the years before the Great Recession, resulting in an aggregate reduction of saving rates in the developed economies. Now, some of those economies are deleveraging, which may affect their recovery. We try to disentangle how these financial developments work for private consumption in a panel of OECD countries, after controlling for the traditional determinants (income, net financial and non-financial wealth and interest rates). We find that consistent with the perceived changes in the distribution of financial constrains across countries, aggregate consumption is also driven by the dynamics of housing debt accumulation and deleveraging. Precautionary savings, due to labor income uncertainty, have also influenced household decisions especially during the 2007-2009 period.
F01|Re-examining the Middle-Income Trap Hypothesis: What to Reject and What to Revive?|Why do some economies grow faster than others? Do economies in the middle-income range face especially difficult challenges producing consistent growth? Using a transition matrix analysis on decade-level growth rates, we find that the data clearly reject the idea that middle-income economies either have a high absolute probability of being stuck where they are or have a higher relative probability of being stuck than the low- or high-income groups. In this sense, the notion of a “middle-income trap” is not supported by the data. However, economies in a given income range have different fundamentals and policies, and relative growth across economies may depend on these variables. Since development economists and practitioners have proposed a long list of variables that could affect growth, we employ a recently developed nonparametric classification technique (conditional inference tree and random forest) to decipher the relevance and relative importance of various growth determinants. We find that the list of variables that can help distinguish fast- and slow-growing economies is relatively short, and varies by income groups. For low-income economies, favorable demographics, macroeconomic stability, good education system, and good transport infrastructure appear to be the most important separating variables. For middle-income economies, favorable demographics, macroeconomic stability, sound global economic environment, and openness to foreign direct investment (FDI) appear to be the key discriminatory variables. This framework also yields conditions under which economies in the low- and middle-income range are trapped or even move backward.
F01|Upswing in a Subdued Global Economy: DIW Economic Outlook|The German economy continues to recover, and will grow by 2.2 percent in 2015 and by 1.9 percent in 2016. The unemployment rate will further decline, to 6.4 percent this year and 6.1percent in 2016. Inflation, which averages 0.5 percent this year, will be substantially dampened by the slump in oil prices; in 2016 as well, inflation will remain low, at 1.2 percent. The global economy continues in its recovery. In industrialized countries, a gradually improving situation in labor markets, as well as the slump in oil prices, is propelling the purchasing power of private consumers. Corporate investment activity should also pick up, benefitting from easy monetary policy. In many economies in the euro area, unemployment remains high and the public and private debt is dampening demand. For the time being, growth in the emerging markets is expected to lag behind. Overall, the average annual growth rate of the global economy is expected to be 3.8 percent in 2015, and 4.0 percent in the following year. The German economy is currently recovering, driven by strong domestic demand, and should be back on its potential path later on. Inflation is bound to remain weak. There is no sign of the German economy overheating; important markets have lost momentum when compared to the pre-crisis years - foreign trade is therefore likely to provide only minor stimulus, and in this environment, investments in equipment and machinery will only experiencea moderate expansion. Government revenues are surging: despite a rather loose spending behavior, the public budget surpluses will reach approximately 0.5 percent in both years of the forecast period.
F01|Upswing of German Economy Prevails|No abstract is available for this item.
F01|Robust Growth in a Difficult Environment: Eight Questions to Ferdinand Fichtner|No abstract is available for this item.
F01|DIW Economic Outlook|The German economy is on track, and will likely grow by 1.8 percent this year; in the coming year, with a slight increase in dynamics, it will grow by 1.9 percent. With these figures DIW Berlin confirms its forecast from this summer. Employment growth continues; the unemployment rate will decrease this year to 6.4 percent, where it will remain in 2016. Due to the sharp drop in oil prices this year, inflation is low and stands at 0.4 percent; next year it will climb to 1.4 percent. Global economic growth is likely to experience a slight increase during the forecast period. In the industrialized countries in particular, the renewed drop in energy prices keeps inflation rates low. In addition, many countries have experienced steady improvements in labor markets. Together, these two factors support consumption and the purchasing power of households. Recovery in the euro area is moving forward. The euro’s external value is low, the monetary policy is very expansionary, and major trading partners are growing vigorously; consumption is likely to develop well, and in the course of time, corporate investment is also expected to recover. In the emerging markets, growth will remain subdued this year. Higher financial market volatility is leading to deterioration in financing conditions. They are expected to contribute more to global growth next year, when for example Russia and Brazil have emerged from recession. German exports continue their upward trend: A strong upturn in major industrial countries, as well as the continued recovery within the euro area, are compensating for the somewhat weaker demand from the emerging countries. In net terms, however, foreign trade barely contributes to growth, because imports will increase significantly as part of the dynamic domestic economy. Consumption is supporting the growth of the German economy. The low inflation substantially supports consumers’ purchasing power. But nominal incomes are also experiencing strong increases: The employment growth continues — the number of employed individuals is expected to rise at roughly the rate of previous quarters — and wages have noticeably increased, also due to the introduction of the minimum wage. Other important factors are the significant increases in social benefits; these are primarily due to a sharp increase in pensions, but also to the benefits being received by the refugees, which should give private consumption an additional boost. In contrast, investment will be rather subdued overall. Concerns about the future of the euro area are likely to dampen investment plans. Furthermore, considerable uncertainties about the development of important markets have recently intensified, particularly in China. There are also unresolved geopolitical conflicts, especially the tensions with Russia. Nevertheless, a moderate expansion of investment in equipment is emerging. With robust foreign demand and fully utilized capacities in the industry, these investments are expected to rise over time, especially since the dynamic domestic demand should provide an impetus. However, the risks to the economy remain high and in fact have recently increased. The impending interest rate turnaround in the U.S. could lead to unexpectedly strong capital outflows from the emerging countries; given the high private debt — especially since it is often in foreign currency — this could dampen economic momentum in these countries as well. Although a significant slump in the Chinese economy is expected to be handled with expansionary measures by the government, there is the risk that they may not take sufficient countermeasures in time. It has also been shown in the past that uncertainty about the further development of European integration can flare up quickly. In addition, the recently high volatility of oil prices shows that a new stable equilibrium still has not been established on the market. The planning uncertainty bound up with this could dampen the disposition of many corporations more strongly than assumed here.
F01|The Situation in the Euro Area Continues to Present Risks: Eight Questions to Ferdinand Fichtner|No abstract is available for this item.
F01|Domestic Demand Drives German Economy|The German economy is expected to grow by 1.7 percent this year, and to maintain this pace in 2016 as well. The rate of growth should slow down slightly (to 1.5 percent) in 2017, but only because the number of working days will be lower due to the timing of public holidays. The global economy is growing at a slower pace than it has been in recent years, but will pick up speed during the forecast period. The recessions in Russia and Brazil are coming to an end, China is orienting its economy toward more consumption—so far, without any major disruptions—and growth in the U.S. and the UK remains strong. The euro area is on the path to recovery, albeit at a moderate pace: Job creation, while modest, and an increase in real income are spurring demand in many countries. The global economy’s average annual growth rate is expected to rise from 3.4 percent this year to 3.6 next year, and to 3.9 percent in the following year. In Germany, strong private consumption is the primary growth driver. The main reason for this is the ongoing pattern of strong growth of the wage bill. In the coming year, this year’s positive effect of lower oil prices on households' purchasing power will fall away—yet positive impulses will also arise as a result of the refugee influx. This is connected with the care, accommodation, and integration of refugees and with the consumption this creates, as well as with increased activity in the construction industry. In contrast, investment in equipment will develop only modestly. In addition to the overall slightly weaker global sales prospects, there are also domestic factors with dampening effects. Despite robust exports, foreign trade will not contribute to growth in net terms since the dynamic domestic economy is spurring imports more powerfully.
F01|Germany Economy Growing at Slightly Above-Average Rate: Eight Questions to Simon Junker|No abstract is available for this item.
F01|Aufschwung bei gedämpfter Weltkonjunktur: Frühjahrsgrundlinien 2015|The German economy continues to recover, and will grow by 2.2 percent in 2015. With slightly abated increases, the annual growth rate will be 1.9 percent in 2016. Driven by this favorable economic development, the unemployment rate will further decline, to 6.4 percent this year and 6.1 percent in 2016. Inflation, which averages 0.5 percent this year, will be substantially dampened by the slump in oil prices; in 2016 as well, inflation will remain low, at 1.2 percent. The global economy continues in its recovery. The moderate upswing is primarily driven by the growth of consumption in industrialized countries. A gradually improving situation in labor markets, as well as the slump in oil prices, is propelling the purchasing power of private consumers. Together with expansionary monetary policy these developments are expected to stimulate corporate investment activity. In the euro area as well, growth is supported by consumer demand. However, there are a number of structurally burdensome factors: In the crisis-stricken countries in particular, unemployment remains high and the public and private debt are dampening demand. For the time being, growth in the emerging markets is expected to lag behind. Overall, the average annual growth rate of the global economy is expected to be 3.8 percent in 2015, with an increase to 4.0 percent in the following year. The German economy is currently recovering, driven by strong domestic demand, and should be back on its potential path over the course of this year. Growth will be based, more heavily than it was before the crisis, on consumption, which benefits from ongoing employment growth and substantial wage increases. Despite full capacity utilization, inflation is bound to remain weak; there is no sign of the German economy overheating. Important markets have lost momentum when compared to the pre-crisis years - foreign trade is therefore likely to provide only minor stimulus. In this environment, investments in equipment and machinery will only experience a moderate expansion, and relative to GDP, will remain well below their pre-crisis levels. It should be added that there are still risks to financial stability, which might also dampen corporations' enthusiasm for investments. Construction spending will soften, due to the recent abatement in yields from residential investment. Overall, the risk of the economy overheating is low. Government revenues are surging: Despite a rather loose spending behavior, the public budget surpluses will reach approximately 0.5 percent in both years of the forecast period. Die deutsche Wirtschaft erholt sich weiter und wird in diesem Jahr wohl um 2,2 Prozent wachsen. Bei etwas schwächeren Zuwächsen beträgt das Plus im kommenden Jahr 1,9 Prozent. Im Zuge der günstigen konjunkturellen Entwicklung wird die Arbeitslosenquote weiter sinken, auf 6,4 Prozent in diesem Jahr und 6,1 Prozent im kommenden Jahr. Die Inflation wird in diesem Jahr durch die Ölpreise gedämpft und beläuft sich jahresdurchschnittlich auf 0,5 Prozent; aber auch im kommenden Jahr bleibt sie mit 1,2 Prozent niedrig. Diekonjunkturelle Erholung der Weltwirtschaft setzt sich fort. Der moderate Aufschwung wird vor allem von der Konsumentwicklung in den Industrieländern getragen. Eine sich allmählichverbessernde Arbeitsmarktsituation, aber auch die gesunkenen Ölpreise, schieben über die Kaufkraft den privaten Verbrauch an; die Investitionstätigkeit der Unternehmen dürfte etwas anziehen. Auch im Euroraum stützt die Konsumnachfrage das Wachstum; allerdings besteht eine Reihe von strukturell belastenden Faktoren fort. Insbesondere in den Krisenländern ist die Arbeitslosigkeit weiter hoch und die öffentliche und private Verschuldung belasten die Nachfrage. In den Schwellenländern dürfte das Wachstum zunächst schwach bleiben. Alles in allem dürfte die jahresdurchschnittliche Wachstumsrate der Weltwirtschaft im Jahr 2015 bei 3,8 Prozent und im darauffolgenden Jahr bei 4,0 Prozent liegen.Trotz insgesamt günstiger Aussichten bleiben konjunkturelle Risiken bestehen: Die Finanzmärkte könnten etwa auf ein Wiederaufflammen der Krise im Euroraum, aber auch auf eine Verschärfung des Ukraine-Konflikts erneut mit erheblicher Anspannung reagieren. Getrieben durch eine starke Binnennachfrage wächst die deutsche Wirtschaft kräftig und dürfte im späteren Verlauf auf den Potentialpfad einschwenken. Das Wachstum wird stärker als vor der Krise vom Konsum getragen, der vom anhaltenden Beschäftigungsaufbau und spürbaren Lohnzuwächsen profitiert. Trotz ausgelasteter Kapazitäten bleibt die Inflationsrate niedrig; Anzeichen für eine Überhitzung der deutschen Wirtschaft gibt es nicht. Wichtige Absatzmärkte haben im Vergleich zu den Vorkrisenjahren an Dynamik verloren, der Außenhandel dürfte daher lediglich geringe Impulse liefern; in diesem Umfeld werden dieInvestitionen in Ausrüstungen wohl nur moderat ausgeweitet und, anteilig an der Wirtschaftsleistung, weit unter ihrem Vorkrisenniveau bleiben. Hinzu kommt, dass nach wie vor Risiken für die Finanzmarktstabilität bestehen, die zusätzlich die Investitionsfreude der Unternehmen dämpfen könnten. Die Bauinvestitionen dürften aufgrund verminderter Renditechancen im Wohnungsbau an Schwung verlieren. Alles in allem ist damit die Gefahr einer Überhitzung der deutschen Wirtschaft gering. Die Einnahmen des Staates expandieren kräftig; trotz eines gelockerten Ausgabekurses werden die öffentlichen Haushalte daher in beiden Jahren des Prognosezeitraums Überschüsse von jeweils etwa einem halben Prozent erzielen.
F01|Deutsche Wirtschaft setzt Aufschwung fort: Sommergrundlinien 2015|The German economy is continuing on an upward trend. Due to surprisingly weak production at the start of this year, GDP is likely to increase by 1.8 percent and is therefore growing somewhat slower this year than previously predicted. Growth of 1.9 percent is still expected for the coming year. After an unexpectedly weak first quarter, the global economy is expected to regain momentum as the year progresses. While growth in the emerging economies increased only slowly, both cyclically and structurally, recovery will primarily be driven by positive consumer spending in industrialized countries. With low inflation and an improving labor market situation in those countries, household income and purchasing power are likely to increase. The global economy’s average annual growth rate is predicted to reach 3.5 percent in 2015 and 4.0 percent in 2016. Inflation is expected to remain at two percent this year and increase to three percent next year. Germany’s strong domestic economy is driving growth. Most recently, additional social benefits and, above all, low inflation temporarily boosted real incomes; nevertheless, consumer spending will increase substantially going forward due to favorable developments in the labor market. Companies are moderately expanding their investment in equipment; however, uncertainties related to the crisis in the euro area, geopolitical tensions, and concerns about economic development in important emerging countries have a dampening effect. Exports are benefiting from the global economic recovery and temporarily also from the depreciation of the euro; overall, the stimulus from net foreign trade is likely to be modest. Die deutsche Wirtschaft setzt ihren Aufschwung fort. Aufgrund der überraschend schwachen Produktion zum Jahresbeginn wird das Bruttoinlandsprodukt im laufenden Jahr wohl um 1,8 Prozent und damit im jahresdurchschnittlichen Vergleich etwas weniger zulegen als bislang erwartet. Für das kommende Jahr ist nach wie vor mit einem Zuwachs von 1,9 Prozent zu rechnen. Die Weltwirtschaft dürfte nach einem unerwartet schwachen Auftaktquartal im Jahresverlauf an Schwung gewinnen. Während sich das Wachstum in den Schwellenländern sowohl konjunkturell als auch strukturell bedingt nur langsam erhöht, wird die Erholung vor allem von der Konsumentwicklung in den Industrieländern getragen. Dort dürften geringe Inflationsraten und eine sich verbessernde Situation auf dem Arbeitsmarkt die Einkommen der Haushalte und deren Kaufkraft erhöhen. Die jahresdurchschnittliche Wachstumsrate der Weltwirtschaft dürfte im Jahr 2015 bei 3,5 Prozent und im darauffolgenden Jahr bei 4,0 Prozent liegen. Die Teuerung bleibt in diesem Jahr bei zwei Prozent und steigt im nächsten Jahr auf drei Prozent. In Deutschland trägt die kräftige Binnenkonjunktur das Wachstum. Zuletzt hatten zusätzliche Sozialleistungen, vor allem aber die niedrige Teuerung die Realeinkommen vorübergehend beflügelt; aufgrund der günstigen Entwicklung auf dem Arbeitsmarkt wird der private Verbrauch aber auch im weiteren Verlauf spürbar zulegen. Die Unternehmen weiten ihre Investitionen in Ausrüstungen verhalten aus; Unwägbarkeiten im Zusammenhang mit der Krise im Euroraum, geopolitische Spannungen und Sorgen über die wirtschaftliche Entwicklung wichtiger Schwellenländer wirken dämpfend. Die Exporte profitieren von der weltwirtschaftlichen Erholung und zeitweilig auch von der Euroabwertung; alles in allem dürfte per Saldo aber nur ein geringer Impuls vom Außenhandel ausgehen.
F01|Robustes Wachstum in schwierigem Umfeld: Acht Fragen an Ferdinand Fichtner|No abstract is available for this item.
F01|Herbstgrundlinien 2015|The German economy is on track, and will likely grow by 1.8 percent this year; in the coming year, with a slight increase in dynamics, it will grow by 1.9 percent. With these figures DIW Berlin confirms its forecast from this summer. Employment growth continues; the unemployment rate will decrease this year to 6.4 percent, where it will remain in 2016. Due to the sharp drop in oil prices this year, inflation is low and stands at 0.4 percent; next year it will climb to 1.4 percent. Global economic growth is likely to experience a slight increase during the forecast period. In the industrialized countries in particular, the renewed drop in energy prices keeps inflation rates low. In addition, many countries have experienced steady improvements in labor markets. Together, these two factors support consumption and the purchasing power of households. Recovery in the euro area is moving forward. The euro’s external value is low, the monetary policy is very expansionary, and major trading partners are growing vigorously; consumption is likely to develop well, and in the course of time, corporate investment is also expected to recover. In the emerging markets, growth will remain subdued this year. Higher financial market volatility is leading to deterioration in financing conditions. They are expected to contribute more to global growth next year, when for example Russia and Brazil have emerged from recession. German exports continue in their upward trend: A strong upturn in major industrial countries, as well as the continued recovery within the euro area, are compensating for the somewhat weaker demand from the emerging countries. In net terms, however, foreign trade is still barely contributing to growth, because imports will increase significantly as part of the dynamic domestic economy. Consumption is supporting the growth of the German economy. The low inflation substantially supports consumers’ purchasing power. But nominal incomes are also experiencing strong increases: The employment growth continues—the number of employed individuals is expected to rise at roughly the rate of previous quarters—and wages have noticeably increased, also due to the introduction of the minimum wage. Other important factors are the significant increases in social benefits; these are primarily due to a sharp increase in pensions, but also to the benefits being received by the refugees, which should give private consumption an additional boost. In contrast, investment will be rather subdued overall. Concerns about the future of the euro area are likely to dampen investment plans. Furthermore, considerable uncertainties about the development of important markets have recently intensified, particularly in China. There are also unresolved geopolitical conflicts, especially the tensions with Russia. Nevertheless, a moderate expansion of investment in equipment is emerging. With robust foreign demand and fully utilized capacities in the industry, these investments are expected to rise over time, especially since the dynamic domestic demand should provide an impetus. However, the risks to the economy remain high and in fact have recently increased. The impending interest rate turnaround in the U.S. could lead to unexpectedly strong capital outflows from the emerging countries; given the high private debt—especially since it is often in foreign currency—this could dampen economic momentum in these countries as well. Although a significant slump in the Chinese economy is expected to be handled with expansionary measures by the government, there is the risk that they may not take sufficient countermeasures in time. It has also been shown in the past that uncertainty about the further development of European integration can flare up quickly. In addition, the recently high volatility of oil prices shows that a new stable equilibrium still has not been established on the market. The planning uncertainty bound up with this could dampen the disposition of many corporations more strongly than assumed here. Die deutsche Wirtschaft hält Kurs und wird in diesem Jahr wohl um 1,8 Prozent wachsen, im kommenden Jahr, bei leicht anziehender Dynamik, um 1,9 Prozent. Damit hält das DIW Berlin an seiner Prognose vom Sommer dieses Jahres fest. Der Beschäftigungsaufbau setzt sich fort; die Arbeitslosenquote sinkt in diesem Jahr auf 6,4 Prozent und verharrt dort. Die Inflation ist aufgrund der deutlich gesunkenen Ölpreise in diesem Jahr niedrig und liegt bei 0,4 Prozent; im kommenden Jahr beläuft sie sich auf 1,4 Prozent. Die Zuwächse der Weltwirtschaft dürften sich im Prognosezeitraum etwas erhöhen. Vor allem in den Industrieländern sorgen die erneut gesunkenen Energiepreise für weiterhin niedrige Inflationsraten. Hinzu kommen die in vielen Ländern stetigen Verbesserungen auf dem Arbeitsmarkt. Zusammen stützt dies die Kaufkraft der Haushalte und den Konsum. Im Euroraum schreitet die Erholung voran. Der Außenwert des Euro ist schwach, die Geldpolitik sehr expansiv und wichtige Handelspartner wachsen kräftig, so dass sich der Konsum gut entwickeln und im weiteren Verlauf auch die Investitionstätigkeit der Unternehmen erholen dürfte. Für die Schwellenländer ist zunächst nicht mit kräftigem Wachstum zu rechnen. Stärkere Schwankungen an den Finanzmärkten führen zu schlechteren Finanzierungsbedingungen. Erst im kommenden Jahr, wenn etwa Russland und Brasilien die Rezession hinter sich lassen, dürfte sich die Konjunktur etwas stabilisieren. Die deutschen Exporte folgen weiter ihrem Aufwärtstrend: Ein kräftigerer Aufschwung in wichtigen Industrieländern, aber auch die fortgesetzte Erholung im Euroraum kompensieren die etwas schwächere Nachfrage aus den Schwellenländern. Per saldo trägt der Außenhandel jedoch kaum noch zum Wachstum bei, denn die Importe werden im Zuge der dynamischen Binnenkonjunktur deutlich steigen. Der Konsum stützt das Wachstum der deutschen Wirtschaft. Der Beschäftigungsaufbau setzt sich fort – die Zahl der Erwerbstätigen dürfte etwa mit dem Tempo der vorangegangenen Quartale steigen – und die Löhne legen spürbar zu, in diesem Jahr auch wegen der Einführung des gesetzlichen Mindestlohns. Hinzu kommen deutliche Zuwächse bei den Sozialleistungen; dies liegt vor allem an kräftig steigenden Renten, aber auch den Flüchtlingen fließen Leistungen zu, die den privaten Verbrauch anschieben dürften. Die Investitionen werden sich dagegen insgesamt eher verhalten entwickeln. Die Sorgen um die Zukunft des Euroraums dürften die Investitionspläne dämpfen. Zudem bestehen erhebliche Unsicherheiten über die Entwicklung wichtiger Absatzmärkte, insbesondere in China, die sich zuletzt sogar intensiviert haben. Hinzu kommen ungelöste geopolitische Konflikte, vor allem die Spannungen mit Russland. Dennoch zeichnet sich eine moderate Ausweitung der Investitionen in Ausrüstungen ab. Bei robuster Auslandsnachfrage und ausgelasteten Kapazitäten in der Industrie dürften sie im Verlauf sogar anziehen, zumal die dynamische Binnennachfrage Impulse geben dürfte. Die Risiken für die Konjunktur bleiben indes hoch und haben zuletzt sogar zugenommen. Die bevorstehende Zinswende in den USA könnte zu unerwartet starken Kapitalabflüssen aus den Schwellenländern führen; dies könnte angesichts der hohen privaten Verschuldung – gerade auch weil diese oftmals in Fremdwährung besteht – die konjunkturelle Dynamik in diesen Ländern zusätzlich dämpfen. Einer deutlichen Abkühlung der chinesischen Wirtschaft dürfte die Regierung zwar mit expansiven Maßnahmen begegnen, allerdings besteht das Risiko, dass sie nicht rechtzeitig oder aber nicht ausreichend gegensteuern kann. Auch hat sich in der Vergangenheit gezeigt, dass die Unsicherheit über die weitere Entwicklung der europäischen Integration schnell wieder aufflammen kann. Zudem weist die zuletzt hohe Volatilität der Ölpreise darauf hin, dass sich auf dem Markt noch kein stabiles Gleichgewicht eingestellt hat. Die damit verbundene Planungsunsicherheit könnte die Dispositionen vieler Unternehmen stärker dämpfen als hier unterstellt.
F01|Die Entwicklung im Euroraum ist nach wie vor ein Risiko: Acht Fragen an Ferdinand Fichtner|No abstract is available for this item.
F01|Inlandsnachfrage treibt deutsche Wirtschaft an: Wintergrundlinien 2015|The German economy is expected to grow by 1.7 percent this year, and to maintain this pace in 2016 as well. The rate of growth should slow down slightly (to 1.5 percent) in 2017, but only because the number of working days will be lower due to the timing of public holidays. The global economy is growing at a slower pace than it has been in recent years, but will pick up speed during the forecast period. The recessions in Russia and Brazil are coming to an end, China is orienting its economy toward more consumption—so far, without any major disruptions—and growth in the U.S. and the UK remains strong. The euro area is on the path to recovery, albeit at amoderate pace: Job creation, while modest, and an increase in real income are spurring demand in many countries. The global economy’s average annual growth rateis expected to rise from 3.4 percent this year to 3.6 next year, and to 3.9 percent in the following year. In Germany, strong private consumption is the primary growth driver. The main reason for this is the ongoing pattern of strong growth of the wage bill. In the coming year, however, the lower oil prices’ ability to increase purchasing power will fall away—yet positive impulses will also arise as a result of the refugee influx. This is connected with the care, accommodation, and integration of refugees and with the consumption this creates, as well as with increased activity in the construction industry. In contrast, investment in equipment will develop only modestly. In addition to the overall slightly weaker global sales prospects, there are also domestic factors with dampening effects. Despite robust exports, foreign trade will not contribute to growth in net terms since the dynamic domestic economy is spurring imports more powerfully. Die deutsche Wirtschaft dürfte in diesem Jahr um 1,7 Prozent wachsen und dieses Tempo im nächsten Jahr halten. Im Jahr 2017 wird sie zwar voraussichtlich mit einer etwas geringeren Rate zulegen (1,5 Prozent) – allerdings nur, weil die Zahl der Arbeitstage aufgrund der Lage der Feiertage niedriger sein wird. Die Weltwirtschaft stabilisiert sich bei geringerem Tempo als in den vergangenen Jahren, wird im Prognosezeitraum aber wohl etwas Fahrt aufnehmen. Die Konjunktur hatte sich zuletzt weltweit zwar etwas abgeschwächt, in Russland und Brasilien zeichnet sich jedoch ein Ende der Rezessionen ab, China richtet seine Wirtschaft bislang ohne größere Verwerfungen auf mehr Konsum aus und die wirtschaftliche Entwicklung in den USA und in Großbritannien bleibt kräftig. Auch im Euroraum geht es weiter moderat aufwärts. Der – wenn auch verhaltene – Beschäftigungsaufbau und steigende Realeinkommen schieben vielerorts die Entwicklung an. Die jahresdurchschnittliche Wachstumsrate der Weltwirtschaft dürfte nach 3,4 Prozent in diesem Jahr auf 3,6 Prozent im nächsten Jahr und 3,9 Prozent im übernächsten Jahr steigen. In Deutschland trägt vor allem der kräftige private Verbrauch zum Wachstum bei. Maßgeblich hierfür sind die anhaltend kräftigen Zuwächse der Lohnsumme. Allerdings entfällt im kommenden Jahr der kaufkraftsteigernde Effekt der gesunkenen Ölpreise. Demgegenüber stehen positive Impulse aufgrund der Flüchtlingsmigration. Zum einen hängt dies mit der Unterbringung, Versorgung und Integration der Flüchtlinge und mit dem Konsum, den diese entfalten, zusammen, zum anderen aber auch mit einer erhöhten Aktivität in der Bauwirtschaft. Die Investitionen in Ausrüstungen entwickeln sich dagegen verhalten. Zu den insgesamt etwas schwächeren globalen Absatzperspektiven kommen auch dämpfende inländische Faktoren. Der Außenhandel wird trotz robuster Exporte per saldo nicht zum Wachstum beitragen, da die dynamische Binnenkonjunktur die Importe kräftiger anschiebt.
F01|Die deutsche Wirtschaft wächst leicht überdurchschnittlich: Acht Fragen an Simon Junker|No abstract is available for this item.
F01|Does foreign direct investment impede environmental quality in high-, middle-, and low-income countries?|Under a multivariate framework, this paper aims to investigate the nonlinear correlation between foreign direct investment and environmental degradation for high-, middle-, and low-income countries with economic growth and energy consumption as additional determinants of environmental degradation. All variables were found to be nonstationary and cointegrated based on recent panel data unit-root tests and cointegration techniques. On applying fully modified ordinary least squares (FMOLS), the long-run results suggest the presence of an environmental Kuznets curve. In turn, foreign direct investment increases environmental degradation, thus confirming the pollution haven hypothesis (PHH). Moreover, the bidirectional causality between CO2 emissions and foreign direct investment is observed globally. The findings are sensitive to different income groups and regional analyses. In particular, these empirical findings aid sound economic policymaking for improving environmental quality and sustainable economic development.
F01|International trade and R&D spillovers|Departing from the usual tenets of proportionality between cross-border trade flows and knowledge spillovers, we investigate whether relatively intense trade relationships are associated with particularly large international R&D spillovers. A nonlinear specification nesting the hypothesis of global and trade-unrelated R&D spillovers is estimated on a sample of 24 advanced countries over 1971–2004. We find evidence that trade patterns positively affect the international transmission of knowledge, in particular when we consider bilateral trade flows that, thanks to the estimation of an auxiliary gravity model, are normalized for the size and the distance of the trading partners. Finally, we discuss the patterns of the bilateral relationships characterized by both relatively intense trade and large R&D spillovers.
F01|The nonlinear relationships between stock indexes and exchange rates|The Lagrange multiplier (LM) principle is used to study the causality in variance and the relationships between the stock indexes and exchange rates of Brazil, Russia, India, and China (BRIC). Weekly closing prices from February 2002 to December 2013 are used for the analysis. The full study period is divided into two sub-periods after the Chow breakpoint test and Quandt–Andrews unknown breakpoint test. The causality is from exchange rate to stock in the first sub-period and no causality relationship between stock index and exchange rate in the second sub-period for Brazil. The causality is from stock index to exchange rate in both the first sub-period and the second sub-period for Russia. The causality is from exchange rate to stock index in both the first sub-period and the second sub-period for India. There is no causality relationship between stock index and exchange rate in the first sub-period, and from exchange rate to stock index in the second sub-period for China. The study results support the argument that volatility can be transmitted between stock index and exchange rate even when the returns of these two variables are either statistically uncorrelated or exhibit no causality in means.
F01|Commodity prices and BRIC and G3 liquidity: A SFAVEC approach|This paper investigates the influence of liquidity in the major developed and major developing economies on commodity prices. Liquidity is taken to be M2. A novel finding is that unanticipated increases in the BRIC countries’ liquidity is associated with significant and persistent increases in commodity prices that are much larger than the effect of unanticipated increases in G3 liquidity, and the difference increases over time. Over 1999–2012 BRIC liquidity is strongly linked with global energy prices and global real activity whereas G3 liquidity is not. The impact of BRIC liquidity on mineral and metal prices is twice as large as that of G3 liquidity. Granger casualty goes from liquidity to commodity prices. BRIC and G3 liquidity and commodity prices are cointegrated. BRIC and G3 liquidity and global output and global prices are cointegrated. We construct a structural factor-augmented error correction (SFAVEC) model.
F01|Globalization and the transmission of social values: The case of tolerance|Tolerance – respecting those who are different – is arguably of particular importance in an era of globalization, where a potential for economic, social and personal development is increasingly a function of interaction with others different from oneself. We investigate whether globalization induces parents to want to instill tolerance in their children, the main idea being that this quality would equip children for greater success in a more integrated world. Using a survey measure, we indeed find that globalization enhances the willingness to transmit such social values. More precisely, economic and social, but not to the same extent political, globalization has this effect, as shown by using the KOF Index of Globalization in regression analysis of up to 59 countries. Extreme bounds analysis and outlier tests indicate robustness. Overall, our results suggest that certain kinds of globalization seem able to shape values in ways considered desirable by many.
F01|The Greek Economy: Which Way Forward?|In the past 6 years the Greek economy has gone through a massive adjustment at a steep price. The economy finally grew in 2014, by 0.6 percent, but the recovery is weak, slow and fragile. This paper argues that prolonged mass unemployment and reduced living standards, brought about by years of recession and budget cuts, are unnecessary, and that a robust recovery is feasible. It presents an alternative macroeconomic scenario with a moderate fiscal stimulus, which brings the economy much closer to full employment over the next five years, with a lower net debt than currently projected by the IMF. This alternative is just one of many possible scenarios, some of which might include debt cancellation, or more help from the European Central Bank in maintaining low interest rates, especially in light of its recently announced quantitative easing program. The current program, which forecasts a weak recovery with many downside risks, as well as continued mass unemployment in the years ahead, should be replaced with policies that offer a much stronger and faster recovery.
F01|Influence of Globalization on the Regional Capital Markets and Consequences; Evidence from Warsaw Stock Exchange|The Warsaw Stock Exchange (WSE) is one of the newcomers on the European stock market and at the same time is one of the fast developing stock exchanges in Europe. The development of WSE could be an example of successful development of a national stock exchange into a regional in a relatively short period of time. This article provides analysis of the main trends of development of the WSE through its history to show how globalization influenced regional stock exchanges and to determine key factors that affected its successful development. The WSE is one of the most popular stock exchanges in the Central and Eastern Europe (CEE). Two main lists: Main List and NewConnect are characterized by types of investors, trading turnover and number of companies listed. The article provides quantitative and qualitative analysis of the official reports and analytical papers of key audit and consulting experts that cover both lists of the exchange. The article provides comparison of WSE key performance parameters with major European stock exchanges through 2001 - 2014 and shows those main characteristics of the stock exchange that were mostly influenced by the globalization. Further, the paper shows main consequences of globalization affecting regional stock exchanges. Collected information and results are presented both in tables and in graphical formats.
F01|A Behavior‐Based Approach to the Estimation of Poverty in India|Estimates of poverty in India are crucial inputs for the understanding of world poverty, yet there is much disagreement about the numbers and the legitimacy of methods used to derive them. In this paper, we propose and justify an alternative approach to identify the poor, which uses the proportion of income spent on food. Our estimates have weaker data requirements than official methods, and they compare favorably with several validation tests. Most notably, households around our state poverty lines obtain their calories from similar sources, whereas this is not true of official poverty lines. We also find that rates of self‐reported hunger are higher in states that we classify as poor.
F01|Modeling Developing Countries' Policies in General Equilibrium|Policies affecting resource allocation across tradable sectors and those affecting the incentives to produce tradable activities are key determinants of macroeconomic balance and growth. Computable general equilibrium models have made significant contributions to both types of policies. With advancements in computing power and software, these models have become easy to implement and are now widespread. The question then is when and how to formulate them to avoid the ¡®black box¡¯ syndrome. This book seeks to address these issues through carefully selected essays that analyse how to model general equilibrium linkages in a single economy, across developing and developed economies, and across both micro and macro policies. Micro policies examined include tariffs quotas and VERs, the choice of taxes to maximize government revenue, migration and remittances, and the political economy of tariff setting. Applications on macro policies cover capital inflows, real exchange rate determination, and the modeling of the effects of adjustment policies on income distribution. The book provides insights on the development of a family of models for diverse policy choices, focusing on the ways to model the following: links between tradable and non-tradable activities, labor markets, and portfolio choices given limited capital mobility. Selected essays are all inspired by specific policy problems, including the adaptation to external shocks (i.e. oil), consequences of capital inflows, determinants of migration and associated remittances, the productivity of foreign aid, and rent-seeking activities under trade regimes with non-price trade restrictions. Examples in this book lay out the theoretical foundations, alongside a variety of applications, to help formulate coherent and transparent models for policy analysis. Archetype economies are extensively used to show how differences in economic structure influence the effects of policies. Graduate students and policy analysts interested in modeling will find this a useful compendium of studies.
F01|Identifying Directions for Russia’s Science and Technology Cooperation|Strong international partnerships are a key vehicle for building an efficient national innovation system. Successful global cooperation needs comprehensive knowledge of the features of the science and technology (S&T) sphere in a changing environment of global division of labour, competition, and political climates. New realities and trends emerge, changing the established ‘rules of the game’ and calling for immediate actions from politicians, experts, and various economic actors. The authors propose an analytical approach to build and examine an empirical database. Drawing on bibliometric analysis and expert survey tools, such an approach helps allows identifying the most promising areas for Russia’s international S&T cooperation. The authors assess the scope for applying the proposed methodology. Based on the latest available data in Web of Science, the international scientific citation indexing service (2014 and early 2015), they compare the structure and variation over time of scientific specializations in Russia, leading S&T countries, and several rapidly growing global economies. The cooperation priorities that were identified via matrix analysis were complemented with data from expert surveys. The surveys highlighted the partner organizations, thematic areas, and instruments of S&T cooperation, which indicate some of the future possibilities for Russia’s international S&T cooperation.
F01|Identifying Directions for Russia’s Science and Technology Cooperation|Strong international partnerships are a key vehicle for building an efficient national innovation system. Successful global cooperation needs comprehensive knowledge of the features of the science and technology (S&T) sphere in a changing environment of global division of labour, competition, and political climates. New realities and trends emerge, changing the established ‘rules of the game’ and calling for immediate actions from politicians, experts, and various economic actors. We propose an analytical approach to build and examine an empirical database. Drawing on bibliometric analysis and expert survey tools, such an approach helps us identify the most promising areas for Russia’s international S&T cooperation. We assess the scope for applying the proposed methodology. Based on the latest available data in Web of Science, the international scientific citation indexing service (2014 and early 2015), we compare the structure and variation over time of scientific specializations in Russia, leading S&T countries, and several fast growing global economies. The cooperation priorities that we identified via matrix analysis were complemented with data from expert surveys. The surveys highlighted the partner organizations, thematic areas, and instruments of S&T cooperation, which indicate some of the future possibilities for Russia’s international S&T cooperation.
F01|Empirical Analysis of Multinational S&T Collaboration Priorities –The Case of Russia|The problem of rationalizing S&T cooperation, including identifying the most promising areas and forms for S&T cooperation (geographical and thematic) and state support instruments, is critically important to many countries. In view of the growing complexity of global trends and domestic restrictions on development and the emergence of new factors affecting contacts with foreign countries, there are increasing demands in the international arena to collect and analyse relevant information required to make substantiated administrative decisions on various levels, including with regard to international S&T collaboration. In these conditions, researchers and experts tend to resort to a broad range of empirical methods, while politicians make more active use of their results in administrative practice and international contacts. This working paper describes and systematizes analysis results in the field of international S&T collaboration based on a bibliometric study. The authors combine quantitative methods of bibliometrics and sociology to identify prospective partners and promising areas for collaboration. In addition, the possibility of using the proposed approach to provide information support for current state policy-making is assessed, and key results of the study are examined
F01|Structural Changes in the Global Commodities Market|Commodities play an important part in the growth of the material production and in the world trade in goods and services. The access to raw materials is vital for sustaining the economic and social development of any country and for satisfying domestic demand for material goods. Increasing demand for commodities and the need for assuring a sustainable supply pose great challenges on the world economy. This paper is dealing with the main developments which occured during the last 15 years in the global commodity market, a major driver of the world economy, pointing out to the rapidly growing consumption, on the one hand, and the remarkable role played by China, an extremely dynamic economy, which has become by far the largest world consumer for such important commodities as aluminium, copper, nickel, meat, soybeans, on the other hand.
F01|Global poverty goals and prices : how purchasing power parity matters|With the recent release of the 2011 purchasing power parity (PPP) data from the International Comparison Program (ICP), analysts and institutions are confronted with the question of whether and how to use them for global poverty estimation. The previous round of PPP data from 2005 led to a large increase in the estimated number of poor in the world. The 2011 price data suggest that developing countries? incomes in PPP-adjusted dollars are significantly higher than indicated by the 2005 PPP data. This has created the anticipation that the new PPP data will decrease significantly the count of poor people in the world. This paper presents evidence that if the global poverty line is updated with the 2011 PPP data based on the same set of national poverty lines that define the $1.25 line in 2005 PPPs, and if the 2011 PPP conversion factors are used without adjustments to selected countries, the 2011 poverty rate is within half a percentage point of the current global estimate based on 2005 PPPs. The analysis also indicates that the goal of ?ending? extreme poverty by 2030 continues to be an ambitious one.
F01|Africa’s Rising Exposure to China: How Large Are Spillovers Through Trade?|The rapid growth in China’s domestic investment in recent decades has generated a large appetite for global goods, including from sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). This paper estimates the impact of changes in China’s investment growth on SSA’s exports. Although rising trading links with China have allowed African countries to diversify their export base across countries away from advanced economies, they have also led SSA countries to become more susceptible to spillovers from China. Based on panel data analysis, a one percentage point increase (decline) in China’s domestic investment growth is associated with an average 0.6 percentage point increase (decline) in SSA countries’ export growth. This impact is larger for resource-rich countries, especially oil exporters. These effects could be mitigated, however, to the extent that countries can reorient their exports. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2015
F01|Aufhebung Mindestkurs: Rosskur für Schweizer Wirtschaft|This text presents the economic forecast released by the KOF Swiss Economic Institute at ETH Zurich on 26 March 2015. After an introduction describing the starting points and crucial assumptions underlying the forecast, we summarise the key results for Switzerland. Then we turn to the international economy and its effects on Switzerland and look into the Swiss economy in more detail. For the latter, we forecast the main demand components of GDP as well as important macroeconomic prices and figures, such as employment and unemployment, the price level and the exchange rate. For the 2015-2016 period covered by this forecast, we expect a recession stretching over the first three quarters of 2015. After this, the Swiss economy is expected to recover relatively swiftly.
F01|Erholung in der EU – Taucher in der Schweiz|This text presents the economic forecast released by the KOF Swiss Economic Institute at ETH Zurich on 12 June 2015. After an introduction describing the starting points and crucial assumptions underlying the forecast, we summarise the key results for Switzerland. Then we turn to the international economy and its effects on Switzerland and the Swiss economy in detail. For the latter, we forecast the main demand components of GDP as well as important macroeconomic prices and other key variables, such as employment and unemployment, the price level and the exchange rate. For the 2015/2016 period covered by this forecast, we expect a recession stretching over the first two quarters of 2015. After this, the Swiss economy should recover, but a swift return to the pre-SNB-shock growth rates is not expected.
F01|Preissenkungen haben Einbruch abgefedert – Abwertung hellt Aussichten auf|This text contains the autumn forecast 2015 of the KOF Swiss Economic Institute at ETH Zurich, released on 1 October 2015. The first part discusses recent economic developments abroad and in Switzerland, and presents the main forecast results across the various sectors of the economy. In the second part, detailed forecasts for Switzerland follow, split up into the main demand components of GDP. We expect the Swiss economy to grow by 0.9% in 2015, 1.4% in 2016 and 1.8% in 2017, respectively, representing a small upward revision compared with our last forecast from June 2015. In particular, the positive economic development in Europe and the depreciation of the Swiss franc during the second half of 2015 are specified as reasons for this adjustment. The negative price developments during the first half of 2015 are also newsworthy, as both the general price level and sales prices in certain sectors are falling.
F01|Moderates Wachstum, Steigende Arbeitslosigkeit|This text contains the 2015 winter forecast 2015 by the KOF Swiss Economic Institute at ETH Zurich, released on 17 December 2015. The first part discusses recent economic developments abroad and in Switzerland, and presents the main forecast results across the various sectors of the economy. In the second part, detailed forecasts for Switzerland follow, split up into the main demand components of GDP. We expect the Swiss economy to grow by 0.7% in 2015, 1.1% in 2016 and 2.0% in 2017, respectively, representing a small downward revision for 2015 and 2016 compared with our last forecast from October 2015.
F01|National Disaster Management Authority in Pakistan: Role of Pakistan Army in Disaster Management|Pakistan army as a institution has been playing various role in the development of the country. The history shows that army has played a very significant role in coping up the emergencies facing the nation. Government often turn to military, when there is a natural or man induced disaster in Pakistan. The Armed forces obviously need to be involved in humanitarianemergencies and disaster management operations. The Pakistan army plays a vital role in the disaster management in history of Pakistan. Pakistan army is full equipped with organized management to assist the government in the emergencies in medical services, rescueoperation and support activities. Army has well trained personnel with professional skills to provide assistance in the emergency situation facing the country in collaboration with National Disaster Management Authority. Moreover, as an army organization, it has an enormous to serve as an additional instrument for effective delivery of emergency assistance. The objective of this research paper is to describe the role of the army institution in providing a coordinated and prompt response to any disaster situation a country is facing. The paper examines the types of disasters, a country is facing and highlights the role of Pakistan army in coping the types of disasters that may be natural disasters or man-made disaster. The research paper a covers following areas in details, Hazards profile of Pakistan, Disaster management system in Pakistan and role of Pakistan Army in disaster Management and concluded with the Recommendations. In the end, the paper provides recommendations for building up an effective coordination between the related agencies in coping with the disasters.
F01|Health Tourism and Regulation for Social Security Applications|The basic objective of this study is to handle the health tourism, which is developing rapidly and began to hold an important place in world tourism pie, so that in the World economy, conceptually, after reviewing the development of health tourism in the world and in Turkey, by means of statistical data taken from national and international organizations such as, Ministry of Health, UNWTO, International Spa Association (ISPA), to emphasize the obligation of coordination and/or harmonization of the social security applications between the related countries, so that the health tourism can reach globally a better place and so Turkey as well.
F01|Feeding Large Econometric Models by a Mixed Approach of Classical Decomposition of Series and Dynamic Factor Analysis: Application to Wharton-UAM Model/Alimentando grandes modelos econométricos mediante la combinación de la descomposición clásica de series y el análisis factorial dinámico: Una aplicación para el modelo Wharton-UAM|The aim of this article is to submit an applied methodology to design long term scenarios that, many times, are needed to feed large econometric models in their most classical approach of L.R.Klein's legacy. In our proposal we mix the classical decomposition of time series with dynamic factor analysis, which, in fact, is closely linked to most recent Klein's works on High Frequency Models. The methodological approach is illustrated through an application for the set of exogenous variables that shape the international environment of the Wharton-UAM model for the Spanish economy. El objetivo de este artículo es la presentación de un enfoque metodológico para diseñar escenarios a largo plazo que son necesarios para alimentar grandes modelos econométricos en su planteamiento más clásico recogido en la obra de L.R.Klein. En nuestra propuesta mezclamos la descomposición clásica de series con el análisis factorial dinámico, que enlaza nuevamente con los trabajos más recientes de Klein sobre los modelos de alta frecuencia. La propuesta metodológica se ilustra con una aplicación práctica de estimación a largo plazo del conjunto de variables exógenas que conforman el entorno internacional del modelo Wharton-UAM de la economía española.
F01|Factors explaining emerging economies’ growth slowdown|Over the past decade, emerging market economies have staged a period of impressive growth, boosting their share in world GDP. In recent years, however, growth in emerging markets has slowed substantially and is projected to remain sluggish for the foreseeable future. The aim of the article is to highlight several structural factors that can explain this synchronised slowdown. The article focuses on four structural factors that have already had an impact on the economic performance of emerging economies. These include the rebalancing of growth in China, with significant spillover effects on other emerging market as well as advanced economies ; the recent slump in commodity prices ; an excessive build-up of private sector leverage in Central and Eastern European countries in the run-up to the crisis and changing trends in global value chains. The article continues by looking at two factors that will play out in the more medium term, i.e. the middle-income trap – a sustained period of low growth following a period of high growth, largely attributable to a slowdown in productivity growth – and the gradual disappearance of the demographic dividend in some emerging market countries.
F01|The Long Term Global Context And Its Implications On International Trade|The paper analyzes the long term factors of influence for international trade and includes among them: output measured by GDP as representing the supply, population as representing the demand, and a number of variables that influence supply and demand (purchasing power, institutional changes, technology, climate change, etc.). The conclusion is that the relative position of the major players in the world economy will change in the coming decades and that decision makers at macroeconomic level have to take into account all these factors of influence in order to participate in a competitive and efficient manner to the global trade flows.
F01|Dynamics And New Challenges In The Global Commodity Market|Global economy and particularly the world production of goods depends to a large extent on the supply of raw materials, of resource inputs extracted from the environment as well as an easy access to them. Commodities play an important part in the growth of global production and in the world trade in goods and services. The access to raw materials is vital for sustaining the productive capacity of the economy and also for satisfying domestic demand for industrial goods. On the other side, increasing demand for commodities and the need for assuring a sustainable supply pose great challenges on the world economy. The issue of raw materials supply represents a high-priority theme in the political agenda of the European Union. The Raw Materials Initiative launched in 2008 by the European Commission is based on three main pillars: - to ensure the access to raw materials on world market at undistorted conditions; - to foster sustainable supply of raw materials from European sources; - to reduce the EU's consumption of primary raw materials. (EC, 2008). To this end, EC has started to take action in order to ensure access to resources and avoid supply shortages. A great deal of attention is being paid to the study of recent developments in the global and particular commodity markets, taking into consideration fundamental aspects as supply concentration, governance of producing countries, the pressure of demand and its impact on prices, material's substitutability, stressing the role of resource consumption efficiency, recycling and substitution of vital raw materials and thus providing policy makers and industry with reliable information on how to efficiently manage resource inputs. This paper is dealing with the main developments which occurred during the past decade or so in the global commodity market, a major driver of the world economy, with particular reference to selected key-markets - as: aluminium, copper, nickel; cotton; corn, meat-swine, rice, wheat, soybeans; oil - emphasizing the issue of price volatility and new challenges in the market.
F01|The “New Silk Road” and the Black Sea Region|A couple of years ago started a huge eco­nomical and political project, aimed at restoring the old Silk Road and reconnecting via rail and road the Chinese producer’s with the European market. Simultaneously the project should en­sure access to the energy resources of Central Asia. The project is driven by China because of its needs and its potential. There is rivalry among the possible participants for choosing the right March routes and the concomitant „Economic belt” of accelerated development. Though external power, the USA also try to con­trol the progress of the project on the so called “Great Chessboard” (Zb.Brzezinski). One possible March route to Europe crosses the Black sea region and offers Bul­garia the opportunity of becoming a regional logistic centre. While the neighboring coun­tries seek actively China’s partnership and drive their own projects as part of the great one, Bulgaria remains passive, taking the risk of being rounded once again, despite the fa­vorable location.
F01|Demokratie , öffentliche Güter und Europa<BR>[Democracy, public Goods and Europe]|The rise of the extreme poles in the European political Spectrum, corresponds currently with a clear call for help by the site of simple People, combined with the desire for a serious confrontation with the tragic impasse reproduced by the extreme Problems of the everyday live . In this case, the Citizens spends little care about the Question whether the far-right, the Social Democrats, the Greens or left-wing populism becomes a drive, even if the conservatives in Europe continue their dominance. Much more the Citizens requires a reliable solution to their really important everyday problems. In this context, there is a need for Europe, to get out from the logic of closed circles , in which politicians negotiate with each other in groups or other forms of Representation . There is a clear necessity of recover the mean of sovereignty of the People in a holistic European Dimension that has to be institutionalized (Habermas 1996). Hence the lack of democracy. The progressive Forces of Europe, led by the Social Democrats should confront herself with the idea to define a new potential of public Goods in the context of a pan-European welfare state that is able to defuse the new inequalities in Europe. The e unification of Europe ultimately needs an appropriate institutional notionally foreplay, which can function as an ideal type in the consciousness of the citizen.
F01|Global and country-specific factors in real effective exchange rates|Using the Bayesian factor model, we decompose movements in real effective exchange rates, which can be considered a measure of external competitiveness, into global and country-specific factors. In data from a number of developed and developing countries, we find a particular global trend in these rates, but a substantial proportion of the variation in these rates is found to be country-specific. In addition, consistent with economic theory, this global factor is closely related to a trend in the global interest rate, while country-specific factors to idiosyncratic movements in countries’ own interest rates.
F01|Piketty is wrong|Piketty argues that there are long-run fundamental laws in capitalism that will necessarily concentrate the income in favor of the privileged 1 or 10% of the population. Piketty's two fundamental laws are really theoretical propositions that presume relative rigidity in the rate of return of capital and in the net savings rate. We show that such propositions are incompatible with seventy-five years of studies estimating the value of the elasticity of substitution between capital and labor, and with the theoretical models of savings optimizing behavior. We argue that Piketty's laws are wrong and that they contradict the essence of market dynamics. Economic agents optimize and neither the rate of return of capital nor the net savings rate can remain relatively stable as Piketty supposes. Using empirical estimates of the long-run elasticity of substitution between capital and labor, and analyzing the relationship between the net savings rate and the real growth rate of the economy, we show that Piketty's forecast for the second half of the twenty-first century is inadequate. We propose alternative forecasts.
F01|Re-examining the Middle Income Trap Hypothesis: What to Reject and What to Revive?|Do middle-income countries face difficult challenges producing consistent growth? Using transition matrix analysis, we can easily reject any unconditional notion of a “middle-income trap” in the data. However, countries have different fundamentals and policies. Using a non-parametric classification technique, we search for variables that separate fast- and slow-growing countries. For middle-income countries, a relatively large working age population, sex ratio imbalance, macroeconomic stability, and financial development appear to be the key discriminatory variables. We do the same exercise for low-income countries. This framework yields conditions under which countries in the low- and middle-income ranges are trapped or even move backward.
F01|Brownfield Sites and Attracting Foreign Brownfield Investments: The Case of Serbia. - Le aree industriali dismesse e attrattività per gli investimenti esteri: il caso della Serbia|The main objective of this paper is to study the impact of brownfield sites in the area of attracting foreign brownfield investments (FBI) in Serbia. The paper analyzes cross-section data in the time period from 2005 to 2013. It applies multiple regression technique and measures the impact of macroeconomic and transition variables on attracting foreign investments in brownfield sites in Serbia. The research has shown that macroeconomic indicators such as unemployment rate, average annual wages, gross domestic product, consumer price and exchange rate are statistically significant, while real GDP growth, subsidies and other transfers are statistically insignificant. In terms of transition factors we have found price liberalization, large scale privatization, small scale privatization, rail lines (total route-km) to be statistically significant, while roads (total network-km), governance and enterprise restructuring are statistically insignificant. - Scopo di questo studio è quello di esaminare la capacità delle aree industriali dismesse in Serbia di attrarre investimenti esteri. Si analizzano dati cross-section nel periodo 2005-2013. Si applica una tecnica di regressione multipla e si misura l’impatto delle variabili macroeconomiche e di transizione sulla capacità di attrarre investimenti esteri nei siti industriali dismessi serbi. La ricerca ha mostrato che gli indicatori macroeconomici quali il tasso di disoccupazione, i salari medi annuali, il PIL, i prezzi al consumo e i tassi di cambio sono statisticamente significativi, mentre la crescita del PIL reale, i sussidi ed altri trasferimenti sono statisticamente non significativi. Quanto ai fattori transitori, sono risultati statisticamente significativi la liberalizzazione dei prezzi, le privatizzazioni su larga e su piccola scala, i collegamenti ferroviari (totale tratte per km), mentre non sono risultati statisticamente significativi i collegamenti stradali (totale della rete per km), le caratteristiche della governance e le ristrutturazioni d’impresa.
F01|Saving Multilateralism in a higgledy-piggledy Trading System|Whether international economic integration arrangements result in a more liberal trade at the multilateral level cannot be proven with ease. Integration may start this process, but it may also reverse it. New mega-integration deals such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership, Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership and Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership are under negotiation. The American policy of creating trade rules for decades to come without the involvement of China in rulemaking may backfire. If China faces a choice of capitulation or exclusion, it may create a parallel trade and payments system. The World Trade Organization still has important assets: to convene meetings and to settle trade disputes. If the World Trade Organization transforms its role from trade liberalisation forum into an institution which supervises and administers international trade rules and obligations, this may be a realistic development given the Doha Round agony and the meagre final result in Bali (2013).
F01|Does International Trade Reduce Political Disputes?|The effect of economic integration and other factors on interstate conflict has been examined with a delimited geographical scope. A logistic regression analysis is adopted with one-year lagged independent variables regressed on dependent variable of interstate conflict. It is revealed that the pacification effect of economic openness and economic dependence on trade of the East African countriesâ€”Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania and Ugandaâ€”is significant. In addition, it is found that an improvement in the democratic situation of the dyads reduces the likelihood of eruption of interstate conflict in the region. The article has uncovered that higher national capability asymmetry in East African region among the specified countries leads to an increase in the possibility of violence.
F01|The Future Of Peace Process In Turkey: Threats And Opportunities|The peace process aiming to end violent and long lasting Kurdish Problem in Turkey, has been continuing peacefully for more than two years. When comparing Turkey's peace process to the equivalent cases of Northern Ireland, the Basque and South Africa, it has been much more peaceful despite minor escalations. In spite of some existing problematic issues in the process, there has progress. The literature has so far been dealt with many aspects of the Kurdish peace process in Turkey, but few has analyzed the threats to and opportunities of the process. Thus, this paper, aims to replenish the missing part of the literature. The peace process arose out of the opportunity provided by a proper environment of both domestic and global political climate. Yet, by the time the process was underway, it faced new threats and opportunities. Peace processes can face structural, cyclical, and contextual threats, such as lack of a mediator, usage of conflict language, absence of mechanism that deals with transitional justice, change in the international environment, problems of transparency and participation. Therefore, it is critical for a sustainable peace process that the structural necessities, procedural developments and contextual requirements are carefully dealt with. As of now, Turkey does not appear to be well-protected from these threats. However, this paper identifies a number of potential opportunities to strengthen the peace process to better cope with these threats, one of which includes the existence of a strong political will on both sides. With the recent geo-political and strategic developments in the region, it has denoted the need for cooperation of both parties and the transformation of the negotiation process into a new and comprehensive stage. So while the future of the peace process in Turkey remains vulnerable to both real and perceived threats, it also entails some opportunities, all of which this paper explores.
F01|Teacher education for global citizenship: A case study of foreign language teachers preparing our young learners for new brave, new globalised world|From a socio-cultural perspective, language teachers take up the responsibility of mediating and supporting a student?s language learning by designing a curriculum which goes further than just teaching the linguistic elements of a language. When language teachers draw on culture and interculturality, language becomes an instrument whilst social interaction becomes a significant driver for meaningful communication. Australia is one of the most culturally diverse nations in the world. 23% of the population is overseas born and 25% of the Australian born has at least one or both parents born overseas. Across the total Australian school population, about 25% of all students are of a language background other than English. In short, Australian classrooms have a linguistic and cultural richness which brings a unique vibrancy to the classroom. However, schools are also aware of the unique position they are in understanding and engaging young learners in mainstream society. This paper proposes that language teachers are in a unique yet often, undervalued position of being multicultural educators as well as language educators. Further, that language teachers are often powerful mediators of a student?s entry into global citizenship. This paper reports on a case study of a pilot program where primary school teachers (elementary level) of various languages took up the challenge of addressing issues of multicultural awareness, global citizenship and interculturality through the development of communicative competence in the target language. It looks at how these teachers drew on strategies that connect culture and language in a way that moves the student towards cognitive, social and personal development whilst learning the language. The case study provides insights into a model and considerations that might be used in professional learning and teacher education courses to help students negotiate their own lived experience and entry to what is often a new linguistic and socio-cultural context for students. The case study demonstrates that teacher education has a particular role to play in preparing teachers to establishing a classroom culture of respect and cultural curiosity via subtle but considered themes around interculturality and citizenship. Moreover, that the languages teacher plays a strong role in facilitating a student?s sense of these concepts and engagement in an increasing multicultural society.
F01|Benefits of Dual-Career Support for Expatriate Spouses|The purpose of the paper is to explore the benefits of on-assignment dual-career support for expatriate spouses. The article is based on survey data collected from a large organization in the oil and gas industry. The author argues in favor of the hypothesis that dual-career support is beneficial for trailing spouses. Cultural and occupational support is perceived as most favorable. The main limitation is that the study?s focus was solely on the preferences of spouses of employees working in one company in the oil and gas industry. The findings must therefore be understood in the context of this environment. Based on the research results, HR practitioners are advised to set up or adjust their international assignment guidelines to fit the needs of dual-career couples.
F01|Global Risk Management â€“ A Necessity in a World of Vulnerabilities and of ECO-Economy and BIO -ECO-Economy Needed by ECO-SANO-Genesis|The Vision of the Eco-Bio-Economy is to sustain development of the humankind welfare in all forms, through an economy of future dedicated to human life through the rational use of the environmental resources. The present work attempts to discuss the issues that humanity faces at the beginning of a new global economic paradigm. The minimum point of the financial crisis started in 2008 meets the final years of the decline phase of the long term global economic cycle. The feeling is one of lack of vision on the part of Governments, of improvisation, of passive reaction, such as seeing and doing. One feels that the economic context is worn out , dysfunctional because of deep recovery problems. The perception, not far from the taugh reality, is that of a national competition meant to minimize losses caused by the financial crisis and to use beggar thy neighbor types of policies, similar to finding the way out of the crisis on the expense of others.
F01|Global Poverty Goals and Prices: How Purchasing Power Parity Matters|With the recent release of the 2011 purchasing power parity (PPP) data from the International Comparison Program (ICP), analysts and institutions are confronted with the question of whether and how to use them for global poverty estimation. The previous round of PPP data from 2005 led to a large increase in the estimated number of poor in the world. The 2011 price data suggest that developing countries' incomes in PPP-adjusted dollars are significantly higher than indicated by the 2005 PPP data. This has created the anticipation that the new PPP data will decrease significantly the count of poor people in the world. This paper presents evidence that if the global poverty line is updated with the 2011 PPP data based on the same set of national poverty lines that define the $1.25 line in 2005 PPPs, and if the 2011 PPP conversion factors are used without adjustments to selected countries, the 2011 poverty rate is within half a percentage point of the current global estimate based on 2005 PPPs. The analysis also indicates that the goal of 'ending' extreme poverty by 2030 continues to be an ambitious one.
F01|Survey-based indicators vs. hard data: What improves export forecasts in Europe?|In this study, we evaluate whether survey-based indicators produce lower forecast errors for export growth than indicators obtained from hard data such as price and cost competitiveness measures. Our pseudo out-of-sample analyses and forecastencompassing tests reveal that survey-based indicators outperform the benchmark model as well as the indicators from hard data for most of the twenty European states focused on in our study and the aggregates EA-18 and EU-28. The most accurate forecasts are on average produced by the confidence indicator in the manufacturing sector, the economic sentiment indicator and the production expectations. However, large country differences in the forecast accuracy of survey-based indicators emerge. These differences are mainly explained by country-specific export compositions. A larger share in raw material or oil exports worsens the accuracy of soft indicators. The accuracy of soft indicators improves if countries have a larger share in exports of machinery goods. For hard indicators, we find only weak evidence for the export composition to explain differences in forecast accuracy.
F01|Product Differentiation And The Treatment Of Foreign Trade In Computable General Equilibrium Models Of Small Economies|This paper examines the treatment of exports and imports, and external closure rules, adopted in recent single-country computable general equilibrium models of small economies. The paper presents a simple, one-sector analytic model which captures the major features of the multi-sector counterpart used in applied models. The paper derives graphical and algebraic solutions to the model and shows that, unlike some earlier external closures, this one gives rise to a well-behaved, price-taking economy. The model is also useful to illustrate the role of elasticities in popular trade-theoretic models that include traded and non-traded goods.
F01|Product differentiation and the treatment of foreign trade in computable general equilibrium models of small economies|This paper examines the treatment of exports and imports, and external closure rules, adopted in recent single-country computable general equilibrium models of small economies. The paper presents a simple, one-sector analytic model which captures the major features of the multi-sector counterpart used in applied models. The paper derives graphical and algebraic solutions to the model and shows that, unlike some earlier external closures, this one gives rise to a well-behaved, price-taking economy. The model is also useful to illustrate the role of elasticities in popular trade-theoretic models that include traded and non-traded goods.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
