F10|Exchange Rates, Retailers, and Importing: Theory and Firm-Level Evidence|We develop a model with firm heterogeneity in importing and cross-border shopping among consumers. Exchange-rate appreciations lower the cost of imported goods, but also lead to more cross-border shopping; hence, the net impact on aggregate retail prices and sales is ambiguous. Using Canadian firm-level data from 2002 to 2012, we find empirical support for several predictions of the model. We then estimate the model-implied exchange-rate elasticities of aggregate retail prices and sales. Our benchmark results indicate a deflationary effect of appreciations on retail prices and a small positive effect on sales. From 2002 to 2012, the Canadian exchange rate appreciated by 57%, which, according to our model, led to a 6.5% reduction in the retail price index. We also find that the estimated elasticities of aggregate retail prices and sales grew over this period, driven by import growth from China. This suggests that the transmission of exchange-rate movements to prices has grown since the early 2000s, which has consequences for the role of Canada’s flexible exchange rate regime in supporting inflation stability.
F10|Trade and credit: revisiting the evidence|This paper explores the effects of bank lending shocks on export behavior of Spanish firms. For that purpose, we combine Balance of Payments data on exports at the firmproduct-destination level with a matched bank-firm dataset incorporating information on the universe of corporate loans from 2002 to 2013. Armed with this dataset, we identify bankyear specific credit supply shocks following Amiti and Weinstein (2018) and estimate their impact on firms’ exports at the product-destination level. According to our estimates, credit supply shocks have sizable effects on both the intensive margin (amount exported) and the extensive margin of trade (decision to export).
F10|The Micro-economics of Export Supply: Firm-Level Evidence from Mexico|This paper uses firm-level data for Mexican exporters to understand how firm-level export decisions shape a country's aggregate exports. The data allows for a characterization of both the crosssectional distribution of Mexican exports, across destinations and across exporting firms, and of the time-series variation in aggregate exports and its relation to time-series variation in the export supply decisions of firms. It is found that the cross-sectional variation of exports is mostly accounted for the extensive margins of trade, particularly the extensive margin of number of products exported, while the time-series variation in aggregate exports is mostly accounted for by the intensive margin of trade, and in particular by the growth of exporting firms that retain their export status from year to year.
F10|Cadenas globales de valor, crecimiento y protección arancelaria en Colombia|Este documento realiza un análisis detallado de la dispersión del arancel en Colombia, evaluando su evolución desde la implementación de la apertura económica en la década de los noventa, y presenta un marco comparativo de los niveles de dispersión del arancel nacional frente al de los países de la región. El análisis de la dispersión del arancel en Colombia, junto con los niveles de este en cada uno de los sectores de la economía nacional, servirán de insumo para la estimación de un arancel menos disperso que permita la incursión de la economía colombiana en las cadenas globales de valor.
F10|Estimación de las elasticidades de oferta y demanda de importaciones en Colombia|El presente artículo estima las elasticidades de oferta y demanda de importaciones a un nivel de desagregación de Nandina 10 dígitos para Colombia. A diferencia de las estimaciones previamente realizadas, la metodología utilizada admite un nivel de desagregación en las elasticidades calculadas, casi a nivel de producto. Además, permite una estimación insesgada de las elasticidades de oferta y demanda de importaciones debido a que toma en cuenta la entrada y salida de empresas a lo largo del tiempo. Los resultados muestran las elasticidades de oferta y demanda de importaciones para un total de 7055 posiciones Nandina. Los valores de las elasticidades son altamente diferenciados entre productos y sectores.
F10|La estimación del equivalente arancelario de las barreras no arancelarias y de la protección total en Colombia|Este documento utiliza desarrollos metodológicos recientes para la estimación del equivalente arancelario de las barreras no arancelarias en Colombia a un nivel de desagregación de Nandina 10 dígitos. A este mismo nivel de desagregación se estima la protección total, el índice de protección al comercio (TRI) y el índice conjunto de protección al comercio (OTRI). Los resultados muestran un alto grado de sustituibilidad entre la barreras arancelarias y no arancelarias en Colombia, siendo estas últimas un instrumento de protección ampliamente utilizado en los diferentes sectores económicos. Igualmente se evidencia un alto y creciente nivel de protección en Colombia, siendo el sector agropecuario el que presenta un mayor índice de restricción al comercio. Contrario a lo esperado, no parece existir una apertura económica a los mercados internacionales.
F10|Estimating Cross-Industry Cross-Country Interaction Models Using Benchmark Industry Characteristics|"Cross-industry cross-country models are applied widely in economics. For example, to investigate the effect of financial development on economic growth or the effect of institutional quality on international trade. The literature estimates the effect of interest by examining the interaction between country characteristics|for example, financial development or institutional quality -and theoretically relevant technological industry characteristics- for example, dependence on external finance or relationship-specific inputs. As the relevant industry characteristics are unobservable for most countries, they are proxied by industry characteristics of a benchmark country. We analyze this approach when there is cross-country heterogeneity in technological industry characteristics. First, we show that the estimation approach in the literature is biased and that the bias cannot be signed if technologically similar countries are similar in terms of other characteristics. Second, we derive necessary and sufficient conditions for identification of the effect of interest. Third, we use the new identification approach to reestimate the impact of institutional quality on comparative advantage in industries that rely on relationship-specific inputs."
F10|Bundling and exporting: evidence from German SMEs|This paper studies the effect of bundling products and services on the export performance of firms. Using a unique sample, we document several facts about German small and medium enterprises (SMEs). First, bundling is a relatively rare activity, which is unevenly spread across sectors. Second, SMEs that bundle products and services are more productive than those selling products and services separately. Third, these firms tend to be more internationally oriented. While most of the existing literature focuses on large firms, we contribute to the literature by uncovering a robust positive relation between product-service bundling and exporting in SMEs. Importantly, the competitiveness-enhancing effect of bundling goes beyond manufacturing, affecting non-manufacturing firms also. To mitigate endogeneity concerns, we exploit the panel structure of the data and implement several (doubly robust) propensity score matching techniques.
F10|Taking a Bigger Slice of the Global Value Chain Pie: An Industry-Level Analysis|This paper analyzes how countries are linked into global value chains and their export performance in value added terms. We estimate the relationship between a country¡¯s mode of integration into global value chains, represented by global value chain participation and position indices, and its share in world¡¯s total value added at the aggregate and sectoral levels. We use OECD-WTO Trade in Value Added data of 61 countries over the period between 2000 and 2011. Based on the estimation results, we find that the extent of their upstream and downstream activities within global value chains is one of the key determinants of countries¡¯ export performance in value added terms. At the aggregate level, countries located upstream are associated with a higher share in total valued added. At the sectoral level, the positive effect of participating in global value chains thorough upstream activities on the share in total value added is apparent in the automotive industry, whereas the benefits of downstream activities are pronounced in the electrical and optical industry. Countries are expected to reap benefits from linking into global value chains either through forward or backward linkages in the textiles and foods industry. Thus, the effects of the mode of integration into global value chains on the share in total value added are found to be heterogeneous across industries.
F10|Estimating Cross-Industry Cross-Country Interaction Models Using Benchmark Industry Characteristics|Cross-industry cross-country models are applied widely in economics. For example, to investigate the effect of financial development on economic growth or the effect of institutional quality on international trade. The literature estimates the effect of interest by examining the interaction between country characteristicsâ€”for example, financial development or institutional qualityâ€”and theoretically relevant technological industry characteristicsâ€”for example, dependence on external finance or relationship-specific inputs. As the relevant industry characteristics are unobservable for most countries, they are proxied by industry characteristics of a benchmark country. We analyze this approach when there is cross-country heterogeneity in technological industry characteristics. First, we show that the estimation approach in the literature is biased and that the bias cannot be signed if technologically similar countries are similar in terms of other characteristics. Second, we derive necessary and sufficient conditions for identification of the effect of interest. Third, we use the new identification approach to reestimate the impact of institutional quality on comparative advantage in industries that rely on relationship-specific inputs.
F10|Spillovers and Exports: A Meta-Analysis|This study uses meta-analysis to analyze the empirical literature on spillovers and exports. It collects 3,291 estimated spillover effects from 99 studies. The estimated spillover effects in the literature span a large number of types and measures of both exports and spillovers. As a result, we transform estimates to partial correlation coefficients (PCCs). We analyze these transformed effects using four different versions of Weighted Least Squares estimators, incorporating both meta-analytic “Fixed Effects” and “Random Effects”. Our analysis produces three main findings. First, while we estimate a mean overall effect of spillovers on exports that is statistically significant, the size of the effect is economically negligible. Second, we find evidence of positive publication bias using conventional Funnel Asymmetry Tests. However, the size of the estimated publication bias is small, and disappears in some regressions when other explanatory variables are included in the analysis. Third, using both Bayesian Model Averaging and frequentist WLS estimation, we find that some data, estimation, and study characteristics are significant in some regressions. However, only a few of the characteristics are robust, and none are large in size.
F10|The Origins of Firm Heterogeneity: A Production Network Approach|This paper evaluates the firm size distribution and firm growth in the presence of production networks. Firms can be large because they attract (i) more suppliers and customers, (ii) larger or better suppliers and customers and (iii) find better matches along these supplier-buyer relationships. In a simple model of monopolistic competition, firms sell to other firms as well as to final demand. The model presents a decomposition of firm sizes into various structural components along supplier, buyer and match characteristics. Using unique data on supplier-buyer relationships across the universe of firms covering all economic activities in Belgium, we present three key results. First, the production network explains all of the variance of the size distribution relative to sales to final demand. Second, inter-firm demand vastly dominates the traditional productivity channel on the supply side. Third, on both the demand and supply side, the extensive margin dominates the intensive margin. In other words: firms are big because they have many rather than important customers/suppliers.
F10|Aggregation and the Gravity Equation|One of the most successful empirical relationships in international trade is the gravity equation. A key decision for researchers in estimating this relationship is the level of aggregation, since the gravity equation is log linear, whereas aggregation involves summing the level rather than the log of trade. In this paper, we derive a Jensen's inequality correction term for nested constant elasticity of substitution preferences, such that a log-linear gravity equation holds exactly for each nest. We provide evidence that sectoral composition is quantitatively relevant for the aggregate effect of distance on international trade, particularly for more disaggregated definitions of sectors.
F10|What are the Price Effects of Trade? Evidence from the US and Implications for Quantitative Trade Models|This paper finds that U.S. consumer prices fell substantially due to increased trade with China. With comprehensive price micro-data and two complementary identification strategies, we estimate that a 1pp increase in import penetration from China causes a 1.91% decline in consumer prices. This price response is driven by declining markups for domestically-produced goods, and is one order of magnitude larger than in standard trade models that abstract from strategic price-setting. The estimates imply that trade with China increased U.S. consumer surplus by about $400,000 per displaced job, and that product categories catering to low-income consumers experienced larger price declines.
F10|Trade Shocks and Credit Reallocation|The effect of trade liberalization on welfare and economic activity remains one of the most important questions in economics. The literature identifies a number of key determinants that reduce the potential gains from trade, by focusing on frictions to labor mobility across regions or sectors. This paper contributes to this debate by exploring a novel channel, namely the reallocation of credit in the aftermath of a trade shock. We find that there are endogenous financial frictions that arise from trade liberalization and spillovers between losers and winners from trade that go through banks, as banks can be negatively affected by a trade shock through the portfolio of firms they lend to. Using data from the Italian credit registry, matched with bank and firm level data, we follow the evolution of bank and firm activities prior to and after the entry of China into the WTO. We identify the sectors most affected by import competition from China and estimate the transmission of this trade shock from firms to their lending banks, and the consequence of the shock on banks' lending to other firms. We find that, controlling for credit demand, banks exposed to the China shock decrease their lending relative to non-exposed banks. Importantly, this lending is reduced both for firms exposed to competition from China and to those that are not and that we should expect to expand. The main mechanism is related to the reduction of the core capital of banks, and their resulting funding capacity, through the rise of non-performing loans. We quantify the impact of this effect on real outcomes such as employment, investment, and output and we find relevant aggregate implications. These findings provide evidence that following a trade shock, bank lending has a key impact on the reallocation channel and on the potential gains from trade.
F10|Arming in the Global Economy: The Importance of Trade with Enemies and Friends|We analyze how trade openness matters for interstate conflict over productive resources. Our analysis features a terms-of-trade channel that makes security policies trade-regime dependent. Specifically, trade between two adversaries reduces each one's incentive to arm given the opponent's arming. If these countries have a sufficiently similar mix of initial resource endowments, greater trade openness brings with it a reduction in resources diverted to conflict and thus wasted, as well as the familiar gains from trade. Although a move to trade can otherwise induce greater arming by one of them and thus need not be welfare improving for both, aggregate arming falls. By contrast, when the two adversaries do not trade with each other but instead trade with a third (friendly) country, a move from autarky to trade intensifies conflict between the two adversaries, inducing greater arming. With data from the years surrounding the end of the Cold War, we exploit the contrasting implications of trade costs between enemies versus trade costs between friends to provide some evidence that is consistent with the theory.
F10|Firms' Exports, Volatility and Skills: Evidence from France|Inequalities between workers of different skills have been growing in the era of globalization. Firms' internationalization mode has an impact on job stability. Exporting firms are not only exposed to different foreign shocks, they also pay skill-intensive fixed costs to serve foreign markets. This implies that, for larger exporters, the labor demand for skilled workers is expected to be less volatile than for unskilled workers. In this paper we study the relationship between firms' export activity and job stability across employment skills. Relying on detailed firm-level data from France for the period 1996-2007, we show that firms with higher export intensity exhibit a lower volatility of skilled labor demand relative to the volatility of unskilled labor demand. Our identification strategy is based on an instrumental variable approach to provide evidence on the causal effect of the export performance of the firm on the volatility of employment of different skills. Our findings suggest that exporting increases the stability of skilled jobs, but feeds the precariousness of unskilled ones.
F10|The Intensive Margin in Trade|"The Melitz model highlights the importance of the extensive margin (the number of firms exporting) for trade flows. Using the World Bank's Exporter Dynamics Database (EDD) featuring firm-level exports from 50 countries, we find that around 50% of variation in exports is along the extensive margin --- a quantitative victory for the Melitz framework. The remaining 50% on the intensive margin (exports per exporting firm) contradicts a special case of Melitz with Pareto-distributed firm productivity, which has become a tractable benchmark. This benchmark model predicts that, conditional on the fixed costs of exporting, all variation in exports across trading partners should occur on the extensive margin. We find that moving from a Pareto to a lognormal distribution allows the Melitz model to match the role of the intensive margin in the EDD. We use likelihood methods and the EDD to estimate a generalized Melitz model with a joint lognormal distribution for firm-level productivity, fixed costs and demand shifters, and use ""exact hat algebra"" to quantify the effects of a decline in trade costs on trade flows and welfare in the estimated model. The welfare effects turn out to be quite close to those in the standard Melitz-Pareto model when we choose the Pareto shape parameter to fit the average trade elasticity implied by our estimated Melitz-lognormal model, although there are significant differences regarding the effects on trade flows."
F10|Phase Out Tariffs, Phase In Trade?|What causes U.S. trade with Mexico and Canada to continue growing faster, for up to a decade, relative to countries with which the U.S. does not have a free trade agreement? Baier and Bergstrand (2007) suggest that tariff phase-out and delayed pass-through of tariffs into import prices could cause such prolonged differential import growth. We examine how tariff cuts negotiated under the Canada-US Free Trade Agreement and the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) affected U.S. import growth in 1989�2016 using detailed product-level data on tariff phase-out in the original treaties. We find essentially no evidence for the tariff phase-out or delayed pass through explanations. Rather, we find evidence for an important role played by NAFTA tariff cuts reducing the impacts of frictions at various extensive margins.
F10|Trade Blocs and Trade Wars during the Interwar Period|What precisely were the causes and consequences of the trade wars in the 1930s? Were there perhaps deeper forces at work in reorienting global trade prior to the outbreak of World War II? And what lessons may this particular historical episode provide for the present day? To answer these questions, we distinguish between long-run secular trends in the period from 1920 to 1939 related to the formation of trade blocs (in particular, the British Commonwealth) and short-run disruptions associated with the trade wars of the 1930s (in particular, large and widespread declines in bilateral trade, the narrowing of trade imbalances, and sharp drops in average traded distances). We argue that the trade wars mainly served to intensify pre-existing efforts towards the formation of trade blocs which dated from at least 1920. More speculatively, we argue that the trade wars of the present day may serve a similar purpose as those in the 1930s, that is, the intensification of China- and US-centric trade bloc.
F10|Putting Canada in the penalty box: trade and welfare effects of eliminating NAFTA|Three years ago, very few economists would have imagined that one of the newest and fastest growing research areas in international trade is the use of quantitative trade models to estimate the economic welfare losses from dissolutions of major countries’ economic integration agreements (EIAs). In 2016, “Brexit” was passed in a United Kingdom referendum. Moreover, in 2019, the existence of the entire North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) is at risk if the United States withdraws - a threat President Trump has made if the proposed United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement is not passed by the U.S. Congress. We use state-of-the-art econometric methodology to estimate the partial (average treatment) effects on international trade flows of the six major types of EIAs. Armed with precise estimates of the average treatment effect for a free trade agreement, we examine the general equilibrium trade and welfare effects of the elimination of NAFTA (and for robustness U.S. withdrawal only). Although all the member countries’ standards of living fall, surprisingly the smallest economy, Mexico, is not the biggest loser; Canada is the biggest loser. Canada's welfare (per capita income) loss of 2.11 percent is nearly two times that of Mexico's loss of 1.15 percent and is nearly eight times the United States’ loss of 0.27 percent. The simulations will illustrate the important influence of trade costs - international and intranational - in contributing to the gains (or losses) from an economic integration agreement's formation (or elimination).
F10|On the Effects of Sanctions on Trade and Welfare: New Evidence Based on Structural Gravity and a New Database|Using a new, global data base covering the years 1950 to 2015, we study the impact of sanctions on international trade and welfare. We make use of the rich dimensionality of our data and of the latest developments in the structural gravity literature. Starting with a broad evaluation by sanction type, we carefully investigate the case of Iran. Effects are significant but also widely heterogeneous across sanctioning countries. Moreover, they depend on the direction of trade. We also perform a counterfactual analysis which translates our partial equilibrium sanction estimates into heterogeneous but intuitive general equilibrium.
F10|Trade Liberalization, Selection and Technology Adoption with Vertical Linkages|This paper analyses the role played by vertical linkages on the effects of trade liberalization on technology adoption and their consequences on average productivity and welfare in a trade model with heterogeneous firms. We find that the strength of vertical linkages shapes the effects that trade liberalization produces on firms’ survival and technology upgrading decisions, having an impact on the average productivity of the economy and, ultimately, on welfare.
F10|From theory to policy with gravitas: A solution to the mystery of the excess trade balances|"Bilateral trade balances often play an important role in the international trade policy debate. Academic economists understand that they are misleading indicators of competitiveness and of the gains from trade. However, they also recognize their political relevance, calling for accurate statistical measurement and for more scholarly work. Disturbingly, Davis and Weinstein (2002) argue that the canonical gravity model of trade fails when confronted with bilateral trade balances data, dubbing this ""The Mystery of the Excess Trade Balances"". Capitalizing on the latest developments in the theoretical and empirical gravity literature, we demonstrate that the workhorse international trade model actually performs well in explaining bilateral trade balances. Moreover, in our data, only 11 to 13% of the variance in bilateral balances is due to asymmetric bilateral trade costs, belying beliefs that bilateral imbalances are driven by 'unfair' manipulation of terms-of-trade. We also perform several general equilibrium experiments within the same structural gravity framework to show that free trade agreements tend to exacerbate bilateral imbalances and that macroeconomic rebalancing leads to adjustment with all trade partners."
F10|Forecasting Exports across Europe: What Are the Superior Survey Indicators?|In this study, we systematically evaluate the potential of a bunch of survey-based indicators from different economic branches to forecasting export growth across a multitude of European countries. Our pseudo out-of-sample analyses reveal that the best-performing indicators beat a well-specified benchmark model in terms of forecast accuracy. It turns out that four indicators are superior: the Export Climate, the Production Expectations of domestic manufacturing firms, the Industrial Confidence Indicator, and the Economic Sentiment Indicator. Two robustness checks confirm these results. As exports are highly volatile and turn out to be a large demand-side component of gross domestic product, our results can be used by applied forecasters in order to choose the best-performing indicators and thus increasing the accuracy of export forecasts.
F10|Service Imports, Workforce Composition, and Firm Performance: Evidence from Finnish Microdata|This paper uses unique Finnish firm-level micro data on service imports, work-force composition, and firm characteristics to examine changes in employment composition and performance of Finnish service importers during a period of a significant increase in services imports (2002-2012). We use world service export supply shocks, which we allocate to firms based on their highly specialized service input structure, as an instrument to identify the impact of service offshoring. We find that firms that increase imports of service inputs reduce employment of low-skill service workers, increase employment of (high-skilled) managers and improve their performance in terms of sales (turnover), assets, service exports, and firm survival. The employment composition and performance responses to service imports differ across firms in the manufacturing sector and those in the service sector.
F10|Forecasting Imports with Information from Abroad|Globalization has led to huge increases in import volumes, but the literature on import forecasting is still in its infancy. We introduce the first leading indicator especially constructed for total import growth, the so-called Import Climate. It builds on the idea that the import demand of the domestic country should be reflected in the expected export developments of its main trading partners. A foreign country’s expected exports are, in turn, determined by business and consumer confidence in the countries it trades with and its price competitiveness. In a pseudo out-of-sample, real-time forecasting experiment, the Import Climate outperforms standard business cycle indicators at short horizons for France, Germany, Italy, and the United States for the first release of import data. For Spain and the United Kingdom, our leading indicator works particularly well with the latest vintage of import data.
F10|Search Frictions in International Good Markets|We develop and estimate a model of search frictions in international good markets and study its implications for individual and aggregate trade flows. We introduce random meeting of buyers in an otherwise standard Eaton and Kortum (2002) (EK) framework. We show that search frictions impede aggregate exports but have a non-trivial impact on individual firms' trade. A reduction in these frictions increases sellers' exposure to foreign buyers but also reduces their chance to be the lowest cost supplier because of more competition among sellers. We build on this model to structurally estimate search frictions faced by French exporters using a generalized method of moments and firm-to-firm French export data. We document the magnitude of these frictions across sectors and destinations and show that their presence help; i) reconcile the EK framework with heterogeneity in firm-level export behaviours; and ii) quantify the relative role of search frictions and productivity heterogeneity in the selection of firms into export.
F10|Distance(s) and the Volatility of International Trade(s)|Does distance matter for the volatility of international real and financial transactions? We show that it does, in addition to its well-established relevance for the level of trade. A simple model of trade with endogenous markups shows that demand shocks have a larger impact on trade between more distant countries. We test this implication in two steps, relying on a broad range of real and financial transactions measures, as well as several different metrics of distance (physical, linguistic, and internet). We first show that during the Great Trade Collapse of 2007-09 international transactions fell more between countries that are more distant along the various metrics, and find that the different distance measures magnify each other’s respective impacts. We then focus on a longer panel analysis of trade in goods and show that trade is more volatile between more distant countries, with again a magnification pattern across metrics of distance.
F10|From Local to Global: A Unified Theory of Public Basic Research|We analyze public investment in basic research in a multi-country, multi-industry environment with international trade. In our economy, basic research generates ideas which private firms take up in applied research to develop new varieties. Such development requires industryspecific know-how. A country's current specialization in international trade thus determines which ideas can be commercialized domestically. We demonstrate that the equilibrium is consistent with key patterns observed from the data. We then compare basic research investments of national governments with optimal investments of a global social planner. We show that national investments are inefficient along three dimensions: (1) There is typically too little total investment in basic research. (2) Basic research is too heavily concentrated in industrialized countries. (3) And basic research is potentially insufficiently directed to support innovation in complex, high-tech industries.
F10|What are the Price Effects of Trade? Evidence from the U.S. and Implications for Quantitative Trade Models|This paper fi nds that U.S. consumer prices fell substantially due to increased trade with China. With comprehensive price micro-data and two complementary identi cation strategies, we estimate that a 1pp increase in import penetration from China causes a 1.91% decline in consumer prices. This price response is driven by declining markups for domestically-produced goods, and is one order of magnitude larger than in standard trade models that abstract from strategic price-setting. The estimates imply that trade with China increased U.S. consumer surplus by about $400,000 per displaced job, and that product categories catering to low-income consumers experienced larger price declines.
F10|The Textbook Case for Industrial Policy: Theory Meets Data|The textbook case for industrial policy is well understood. If some sectors are subject to external economies of scale, whereas others are not, a government should subsidize the first group of sectors at the expense of the second. The empirical relevance of this argument, however, remains unclear. In this paper we develop a strategy to estimate sector-level economies of scale and evaluate the gains from such policy interventions in an open economy. Our benchmark results point towards significant and heterogeneous economies of scale across manufacturing sectors, but only modest gains from industrial policy, below 1% of GDP on average. Though these gains can be larger in some of the alternative environments that we consider, they are always smaller than the gains from optimal trade policy.
F10|Early 20th Century American Exceptionalism: Production, Trade and Diffusion of the Automobile|The beginning of the twentieth century provides a unique opportunity to explore the interaction of rapid technological progress and trade barriers in shaping the worldwide diffusion of a new, highly traded good: the automobile. We scrape historical data on the quantity and value of passenger vehicles exported from the United States to other destination countries, annually from 1913 to 1940. We model the rise of US automobile from global obscurity toward a level dependent upon the extent of long-run pass-through of US prices into destination markets and destination GDP per capita. The results based on a diffusion model with CES preferences and non-unitary income elasticity shows that 62% of the gap in diffusion levels between the U.S. and the rest of the world is due to price frictions such as markups, tariffs, and trade costs, while the remaining 38% is due to income effects.
F10|Export competitiveness - Fuel Price nexus in Developing Countries: Real or False Concern?|This paper investigates the impact of domestic fuel price increases on export growth in a sample of 77 developing countries over the period 2000-2014. Using a fixed-effect estimator and the local projection approach, we find that an increase in domestic gasoline or diesel price adversely affects real non-fuel export growth, but only in the short run as the impact phases out within two years after the shock. The results also suggest that the negative effect of fuel price increase on exports is mainly noticeable in countries with a high-energy dependency ratio and countries where access to an alternative source of energy, such as electricity, is constrained, thus preventing producers from altering energy consumption mix in response to fuel price changes.
F10|Export competitiveness - Fuel Price nexus in Developing Countries: Real or False Concern?|This paper investigates the impact of domestic fuel price increases on export growth in a sample of 77 developing countries over the period 2000-2014. Using a fixed-effect estimator and the local projection approach, we find that an increase in domestic gasoline or diesel price adversely affects real non-fuel export growth, but only in the short run as the impact phases out within two years after the shock. The results also suggest that the negative effect of fuel price increase on exports is mainly noticeable in countries with a high-energy dependency ratio and countries where access to an alternative source of energy, such as electricity, is constrained, thus preventing producers from altering energy consumption mix in response to fuel price changes.
F10|On the Heterogeneous Welfare Gains and Losses from Trade|How are the gains and losses from trade distributed across individuals within a country? First, we document that tradable goods and services constitute a larger fraction of expenditures for low-wealth and low-income households. Second, we build a trade model with nonhomothetic preferences—to generate the documented relationship between tradable expenditure shares, income, and wealth—and uninsurable earnings risk—to generate heterogeneity in income and wealth. Third, we use the calibrated model to quantify the differential welfare gains and losses from trade along the income and wealth distribution. In a numerical exercise, we permanently reduce trade costs so as to generate a rise in import share of GDP commensurate with that seen in the data from 2001 to 2014. We find that households in the lowest wealth decile experience welfare gains over the transition, measured by permanent consumption equivalents, that are 67 percent larger than those in the highest wealth decile.
F10|On the Heterogeneous Welfare Gains and Losses from Trade|How are the gains and losses from trade distributed across individuals within a country? First, we document that tradable goods constitute a larger fraction of expenditures for poor households. Second, we build a trade model with nonhomothetic preferences—to generate the documented relationship between tradable expenditure shares, income, and wealth—and uninsurable earnings risk—to generate heterogeneity in income and wealth. Third, we use the calibrated model to quantify the differential welfare gains and losses from trade along the income and wealth distribution. In a numerical exercise, we permanently reduce trade costs so as to generate a rise in import share of GDP commensurate with that seen in the data from 2001 to 2014. We find that households in the lowest wealth decile experience welfare gains over the transition, measured by permanent consumption equivalents, that are 67 percent larger than those in the highest wealth decile.
F10|On the Heterogeneous Welfare Gains and Losses from Trade|How are the gains and losses from trade distributed across individuals within a country? First, we document that tradable goods and services constitute a larger fraction of expenditures for low-wealth and low-income households. Second, we build a trade model with nonhomothetic preferences—to generate the documented relationship between tradable expenditure shares, income, and wealth—and uninsurable earnings risk—to generate heterogeneity in income and wealth. Third, we use the calibrated model to quantify the differential welfare gains and losses from trade along the income and wealth distribution. In a numerical exercise, we permanently reduce trade costs so as to generate a rise in import share of GDP commensurate with that seen in the data from 2001 to 2014. We find that households in the lowest wealth decile experience welfare gains over the transition, measured by permanent consumption equivalents, that are 57 percent larger than those in the highest wealth decile.
F10|What are the Price Effects of Trade? Evidence from the U.S. and Implications for Quantitative Trade Models|This paper finds that U.S. consumer prices fell substantially due to increased trade with China. With comprehensive price micro-data and two complementary identification strategies, we estimate that a 1pp increase in import penetration from China causes a 1.91% decline in consumer prices. This price response is driven by declining markups for domestically-produced goods, and is one order of magnitude larger than in standard trade models that abstract from strategic price-setting. The estimates imply that trade with China increased U.S. consumer surplus by about $400,000 per displaced job, and that product categories catering to low-income consumers experienced larger price declines.
F10|What Does Financial Crisis Tell Us About Exporter Behavior and Credit Reallocation?|Using Japanese firm data covering the Japanese financial crisis in the early 1990s, we find that exporters' domestic sales declined more significantly than their foreign sales, which in turn declined more significantly than non-exporters' sales. This stylized fact provides a new litmus test for different theories proposed in the literature to explain a trade collapse associated with a financial crisis. In this paper we embed the Melitz's (2003) model into a tractable DSGE framework with incomplete financial markets and endogenous credit allocation to explain both the Japanese firm-level data and the well-documented aggregate trade collapse during a financial crisis in world economic history. The model highlights the role of credit reallocation between non-exporters and exporters as the main mechanism in explaining exporters' behaviors and trade collapse following a financial crisis.
F10|The use by Russia of the WTO dispute settlement mechanisms|The Russian Federation acceded to the World Trade Organization (WTO), and so became subject to its international trade dispute settlement procedures, on August 22, 2012. The mechanism was adopted by the WTO under the Understanding on Rules and Procedures Governing the Settlement of Disputes (DSU)2. Thus, from August 2012 onwards, Russia has enjoyed the right to defend its trade interests by applying this particular instrument
F10|Russia’s Foreign trade in 2018|In November 2018, the Organization for Economic Development and Cooperation (OECD) presented its updated forecasts2, according to which global economic growth would slow down from the current 3.7 percent (the OECD’s estimate as of 2018) to 3.5 percent in 2019–2020. Earlier, the OECD’s experts expected a 3.7 percent growth in global GDP in 2019. But growth in trade and investments slowed down on the back of the US protectionist policy. Growth in interest rates and appreciation of the US dollar exchange rate resulted in the capital outflow from developing countries and depreciation of their currencies. In the OECD zone, monetary stimulation measures are gradually scaled down. Trade conflicts between the US and China constitute a separate negative factor. According to the OECD’s estimate, imposition by the US of a 25 percent duty on Chinese imports and adoption by China of similar measures may cost the global economy, US economy and Chinese economy 0.5 percent of GDP, 0.8 percent of GDP and 1 percent of GDP, respectively.
F10|Decomposition of economic growth in the Russian Federation through 2024|In 2018, the growth rate of GDP in Russia (2.3 percent) represents a record high of per annum economic growth rate since 2012. This year-end result is notably above the estimates offered by a majority of international financial organizations (the IMF, World Bank, the OECD), as well as by Russian banking analysts and experts. The volume of GDP in nominal terms surged above RUB 100 trillion, to RUB 103,626.6 billion (or approximately USD 1,657 billion when recalculated at the annual average RUB-to-USD rate). Growth was also displayed by most of the basic indicators: thus, the industrial production index in 2018 gained 2.9 percent, freight turnover – 2.9 percent, retail trade turnover – 2.6 percent. Special note should be made of the movement pattern of fixed investment: according to preliminary estimates released by Rosstat, its annual growth index amounted to 4.3 percent. Considering the fact that, in 2017, the amount of fixed investment in constant prices increased by 4.8 percent, it can be said that over the period 2017–2018, the investment sphere indeed experienced intense growth; however, the main contribution to that growth was made either by budget-funded investments (the completion of building construction projects in preparation for the World Cup; the construction of the bridge to the Crimea; the Sabetta Airport and Seaport; and infrastructure in the city of Moscow), or investments by state-owned companies (Nord Stream 2 natural gas pipeline; Yamal LNG; etc.).
F10|Mining Of Classification Trees To Analyze A Multidimensional Phenomenon|During periods of remarkable trade openness, increase income inequality in many countries. This paper analyzes how factors that influence inequality due to commercial globalization interact each other. For which a reliable Classifier Tree -selected through a modeling process of bootstrapping- is built, it has 14 knowledge rules and classifies 84% of the observations correctly. This model indicates that inequality?s changes into a country, due greater economic integration, depend principally on the labor market? structure ?in agricultural countries and urbanization processes (industrialization) it reduces depending in turn on the rule of law; on the other hand, in countries with a strong service sector and good trade terms it increases in periods of stagnation or with low levels of high technology exports.
F10|Patterns of Economic Growth in Dependent Market Economies: The Case of Central Eastern Europe|The development pattern of certain Central Eastern European Countries has always represented a special case within Europe?s overall economic growth as well as social progress. Current paper examines the main growth tendencies of the so-called dependent market economies (DMEs) and also provides an extended definition for latter model. In frames of the comparative analysis, the research is based on investigating the relationship between the presence and activity of TNCs and MNCs through their FDI inflow contribution to the destination countries, the performance of the main investor economies and trading countries and also the GDP growth of the DMEs. According to the evidence, in certain countries ? e.g. Hungary ? a dual economic structure has emerged strongly relying on the multinational sector successfully being integrated into the world economy and a weak domestic sector that is in most cases, not capable of selling its goods and services in a global market. The lack of high value added production and the constant reliance on cheap labour force may further deepen the diverging tendency compared to the developed economies. Our main hypothesis assumes that integrated peripheries ? due to certain asymmetric interdependencies ? are not likely to produce significant long-term economic convergence to the centre economies with the current conditions of global capitalism and a strongly FDI based growth path they have developed.
F10|Why Export Is Hope For Economic Growth For North Macedonia|The development of international trade today represents one of the priorities of the world economies. Scientific studies dealing with the relationship between foreign trade and economic development are numerous and with no doubt increase the interest among the readers. As a result, researchers make a variety of analyzes and conclusions that presents valuable contributions to the science of economics. North Macedonia in its macroeconomic policy as a priority enlist the development of international trade. However, the trade balance in 2018 year revealed the existing problem of trade deficit, as again reached a very high percentage. This is a signal that warns the country?s economy in the present and in the future. The causes of this situation are various, but some are more fundamental. As one of the most was undoubtedly the global financial and economic crisis that were present especially in the European Union member countries. Countries being in this situation, reduced the demand for goods from the different companies from North Macedonia. But this is not the only reason for the difficult position of North Macedonia. Another unfavorable condition is the economic structure of the North Macedonian economy which perhaps is the most important reason. To get out of this situation, North Macedonia in the future must change its economic structure and should be oriented in producing goods that are required more in the global market. It cannot hope to compete in the world market with the goods that competes nowadays in order to be able to improve the balance of foreign trade.
F10|A Trade-Based Misallocation Index|This paper, based on a model of trade in the presence of sectoral distortions, develops a one dimensional sectoral misallocation index. It estimates the index using product-level bilateral trade data at the sector-country-year level since 1962. The geographical distribution of the misallocation index suggests substantial within-region differences across countries and across time. Notably, a large and historical allocative efficiency gap exists across the West and the East of Europe, while the latter shows a remarkable progress in catching up. On the other hand, the substantial gap between the North and South America is highly persistent. The paper then investigates the negative association of misallocation to economic performance through multivariate regression analysis. The index of misallocation inversely and robustly predicts cross-country productivity differences, contains valuable information on top of factors of production, and outperforms measures of diversification, product sophistication, and openness when time invariant country characteristics are accounted for.
F10|On the Impact of Trade in a Common Property Renewable Resource Oligopoly|We consider a common-pool renewable resource differential game. We show that within this dynamic oligopolistic framework, free trade may lead to a lower discounted sum of consumer surplus and of social welfare than autarky. Trade restrictions may be supported based on both resource conservation and effciency motives. A priori, this fi nding is not straightforward; a move from Autarky to Free Trade causes industry output to first increase and then decrease over time. While producers are shown to be always worse off under free trade than under autarky, consumers are better off in the short run and worse off in the long run. We determine the conditions under which the long-run effects outweigh the short-run effects of trade, leading to a decrease in the discounted sum of not only consumer surplus, but also social welfare.
F10|Old Firms and New Export Flows: Does Experience Increase Survival?|In this paper we present new empirical evidence on the relationship between exporting experience and the duration of export relationships at the firm-product-destination level. Our starting hypothesis that more experienced exporters would have longer lived product-market trade relationships is quite strongly rejected in baseline specifications. However,we find that when we introduce interaction effects between experience and product scope and also between experience and similarity to the firm's core export product, our results change considerably. These findings suggest that at some level of experience as an exporter there is a decline in the marginal return on the positive effects on survival of product diversification and proximity. We suggest that this is evidence that more experienced firms launch product-destination pairs further away from their core competence and/or into more risky markets which therefore increases the risk of failure of any individual product-destination pairing.
F10|Products or Markets: What Type of Experience Matters for Export Survival?|Previous research has generally shown that increased export experience has a positive impact on the subsequent survival of newly launched export relationships of a firm. In this paper, we find that there are important differences in the effects of firm experience on export survival depending on the source of the experience. Specifically, experience built up by a firm from previously exporting a particular product before launching it in a new market has a strong positive impact on the survival of a new product-market relationship. In contrast, experience within a market prior to adding a new product has a mainly negative effect on the survival probability of the additional product. This shows that taking a successful product to new markets is more likely to succeed than expanding product range within a market.
F10|The breadth of preferential trade agreements and the margins of exports|We use recently available data on the core economic provisions of PTAs to identify which (types of) provisions seem to promote bilateral exports and the intensive and extensive margins of exports. Our evidence suggests that measures applied at the border tend to be aimed at expanding existing trade, while measures applied behind the border are aimed at creating trade in new products. Preferential measures tended to increase bilateral total exports and bilateral exports at the intensive margin, but have no significant effect on bilateral exports at the extensive margin. Measures applied on an MFN basis are unlikely to provide improved market access for PTA partners. When includeds individually we find that no provision has a statistically significant effect of the same sign on both trade margins, confirming the view that existing and potential exporters have opposing interests in PTA formation. Finally, we provide estimated effects for selected PTAs.
F10|Domestic intellectual property rights protection and exports: Accessing the credit channel|Recent studies on the export effects of domestic intellectual property rights protection focus on the innovation, border and technology transfer channels to underscore the pathways by which effective domestic IPRs protection influences own country's export. I extend this literature by arguing that another pathway domestic IPRs protection affects own country's export is via the credit channel i.e. firms access to external finance. Among many others, this occurs because effective domestic IPRs protection creates a scenario wherein exporters can use their intellectual properties in the same way they use tangible assets as collateral in order to overcome the huge variable and upfront fixed costs they face. To underscore this pathway, I evaluate the export effect of domestic IPRs protection within the comparative model framework and find empirical evidence for my hypothesis, with the results indicating that countries with more effective IPRs protection export more from sectors that depend more on external finance and that have more intangible assets.
F10|On the Impact of Trade in a Common Property Renewable Resource Oligopoly|We consider a common-pool renewable resource differential game. We show that within this dynamic oligopolistic framework, free trade may lead to a lower discounted sum of consumer surplus and of social welfare than autarky. Trade restrictions may be supported based on both resource conservation and efficiency motives. A priori, this fi…nding is not straightforward; a move from Autarky to Free Trade causes industry output to fi…rst increase and then decrease over time. While producers are shown to be always worse off under free trade than under autarky, consumers are better off in the short run and worse o¤ in the long run. We determine the conditions under which the long-run effects outweigh the short-run effects of trade, leading to a decrease in the discounted sum of not only consumer surplus, but also social welfare.
F10|Economic preferences and trade outcomes|Utilizing the new Global Preference Survey (GPS) by Falk et al. (2018) and its data of unique scope on national preference structures in patience, risk attitude, reciprocity, trust and altruism, we are the first to explore a potential in uence on international trade outcomes of this broad set of economic and social preferences in a unified setting. Adding to the evidence on preferences' importance for aggregate outcomes, we find distinct relationships between national preference leanings and marked differences in trade ows and relationships, both on the country-level and between bilateral partners. Our main results suggest that countries differing in their willingness to behave negatively reciprocal tend to trade significantly less amongst each other, while countries that are patient or risk-averse tend to shift towards exporting more differentiated goods as opposed to homogeneous goods and vice versa.
F10|Return of the tariffs: The interwar trade collapse revisited|Was the collapse of world trade between 1928 and 1937 caused by higher transport costs, increased protectionism or the collapse of the gold standard? Using recent advances in the estimation of gravity equations, I examine the partial and general equilibrium effects of bilateral distance, international borders, and the payment system on trade. My results suggest that had average tari and non-tari trade barriers remained at their 1928 level, total international trade would have been 64.6 % higher in 1937. Had the gold standard not collapsed in 1931 and had the British Empire not departed to establish its own currency and trade blocs, international trade would have been 3 % larger. Finally, had transport costs remained at their 1928 level, global trade would not have been significantly different nine years on. These results are supported by over 6,000 new hand-collected observations of ad-valorem ocean freight rates for cotton, which show an average increase of only 1.2 percentage points between 1928 and 1936. When expressed as an index, the movement of freight rates mirrors the evolution of the elasticity of trade to distance over the period.
F10|The effects of income and inflation on financial development: Evidence from heterogeneous panels|This paper examines four unresolved issues regarding the effects of GDP and inflation on financial development: (i) Does GDP have uniform impact on financial development in heterogeneous income countries? (ii) Is the relationship non-linear? (iii) Does financial development vary with inflation rates? (iv) Does inflation moderate the effect of GDP on financial development? The authors employ the newly developed dynamic Common Correlated Effects (CCE) and dynamic panel system Generalized Method of Moments (GMM) on data from 125 countries. These techniques enable us to control for crosssectional dependence, heterogeneity and endogeneity. They show that GDP has a positive impact on financial development in high and middle-income countries, and the relationship is non-linear in over 60% of the countries. The authors also reveal that inflation has a negative effect on financial development in high- and medium-inflationary countries. Besides, high inflation moderates the effect of GDP on financial development in over 70% of the countries. They also show the countries where higher GDP is better for financial development and where it is not. They recommend some policy options based on the findings.
F10|Bearing the cost of politics: Consumer prices and welfare in Russia|In August 2014, the Russian Federation implemented an embargo on select food and agricultural imports from Western countries in response to the economic sanctions. The measure was designed to harm producers in United States, European Union, Norway, Ukraine, along other Western countries. In this study we quantify the effect of the embargo for welfare and consumer prices in Russia. We first provide evidence for the direct effect on consumer prices with a difference-in-differences approach with a highly detailed monthly dataset of consumer prices in Russia between 2011-2016. The results suggest that the embargo caused consumer prices of embargoed goods to rise in the short run by 8.9% - 12.6%. Regions of Russia with previously above-average levels of food imports from sanctioned countries experienced a stronger impact. In the medium run the effect reduces to 1.2% - 6.3%. The results also indicate that the policy shock has been transmitted to non-embargoed sectors by means of domestic inputoutput production linkages. We then use a Ricardian model of trade with domestic sectoral linkages, trade in intermediate goods and sectoral heterogeneity in production to perform counterfactual simulations, isolate the direct and indirect price effects, and compute welfare measures for a situation without embargo. Our simulations suggest that the self-imposed embargo caused a decline in Russian welfare by 1.88% and an increase in the overall price index by 0.19%.
F10|Distance(s) and the volatility of international trade(s)|Does distance matter for the volatility of international real and financial transactions? We show that it does, in addition to its well-established relevance for the level of trade. A simple model of trade with endogenous markups shows that demand shocks have a larger impact on trade between more distant countries. We test this implication in two steps, relying on a broad range of real and financial transactions measures, as well as several different metrics of distance (physical, linguistic, and internet). We first show that during the Great Trade Collapse of 2007-09 international transactions fell more between countries that are more distant along the various metrics, and find that the different distance measures magnify each other’s respective impacts. We then focus on a longer panel analysis of trade in goods and show that trade is more volatile between more distant countries, with again a magnification pattern across metrics of distance. JEL Classification: F10, F30
F10|The European economic crisis from 2007 onwards in the context of a global crisis of over-production of capital - a Marxian monetary theory of value interpretation|This paper attempts to clarify how the European economic crisis from 2007 onwards can be understood from the perspective of a Marxian monetary theory of value that emphasizes in-trinsic, structural flaws regarding capitalist reproduction. Chapter two provides an empirical description of the European economic crisis, which to some extent already reflects the struc-tural theoretical framework presented in chapter three. Regarding the theoretical framework Michael Heinrich's interpretation of 'the' Marxian monetary theory of value will be presented. Heinrich identifies connections between production and realization, between profit and inter-est rate as well as between industrial and fictitious capital, which represent contradictory tendencies for which capitalism does not have simple balancing processes. In the context of a discussion of 'structural logical aspects' of Marx's Critique of the Political Economy, explana-tory deficits of Heinrich's approach are analyzed. In the following, it is argued that Fred Mose-ley's view of these 'structural logical aspects' allows empirical 'applications' of Marxian mon-etary theories of value. It is concluded that a Marxian monetary theory of value, with the characteristics of expansive capital accumulation and its limitations, facilitates a structural analysis of the European economic crisis from 2007 onwards. In this line of argument, expan-sive production patterns are expressed, among other things, in global restructuring processes, while consumption limitations are mitigated by expansive financial markets and shifts in ex-port destinations.
F10|Distance(s) and the Volatility of International Trade(s)|Does distance matter for the volatility of international real and financial transactions? We show that it does, in addition to its well-established relevance for the level of trade. A simple model of trade with endogenous markups shows that demand shocks have a larger impact on trade between more distant countries. We test this implication in two steps, relying on a broad range of real and financial transactions measures, as well as several different metrics of distance (physical, linguistic, and internet). We first show that during the Great Trade Collapse of 2007-09 international transactions fell more between countries that are more distant along the various metrics, and find that the different distance measures magnify each other's respective impacts. We then focus on a longer panel analysis of trade in goods and show that trade is more volatile between more distant countries, with again a magnification pattern across metrics of distance.
F10|Optimal Route in International Transportation of Thailand – Guangxi (China)|Objective - This study examines the selection of international transportation routes from Thailand to Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region (Guangxi), People's Republic of China. Guangxi has been designated a significant role as the gateway to ASEAN and has several land borders and seaports connecting to countries in ASEAN. Methodology/Technique - In this work, we studied 6 connecting routes, 3 of which are road routes, namely routes R8, R9, and R12 and 3 other multimodal (road-sea) routes operating from/to Laemchabang port and Nanning of Guangxi, route through Haiphong port of Vietnam, route through Qinzhou port of China, and route through Guangzhou port of China. We analysed the data using the Cost/Time Distance Model, in combination with surveys and in-depth interviews, to investigate the limitations and benefits of each route. Findings - Base on costs in 2017, we found that sea routes have much lower costs than the land routes in general; the lowest cost is route through Qinzhou port. On the other hand, the time used in transportation is much shorter for the land routes; the shortest route is the R12 route. Furthermore, in terms of limitations and benefits, we found that the Qinzhou route has many limitations such as long custom processes for fruit and agricultural products and no backhaul cargo. Meanwhile, the limitations for route R8 include crossing Mekong river on truck ferries and the presence of very steep mountain roads in the Lao People's Democratic Republic. Route R12 winds down the mountain both in Vietnam and Laos, whereas route R9 is advantageous; most of that route has a flat terrain and is operated under the Cross-Border Transport Agreement (CBTA). The route through Haiphong port is also advantageous with a direct highway from Haiphong to Hanoi of Vietnam. In conclusion, it is suggested that road transportation is more efficient than sea transportation. Novelty - Further consideration among road routes and, with emphasis on costs and time, the best route is then route R12. However, if one is concerned with risk of damage to products, then route R9 is the best. The optimal route from Thailand to Guangxi depends on the conditions and decision criteria of the stakeholders.
F10|Causality of Economic Growth and Openness in ASEAN-5|Objective – This study aims to determine the relationship between FDI and trade and its effect on economic growth in ASEAN-5 countries using the Engel-Granger causality method. Methodology/Technique – The study uses OLS panel regression analysis to identify the relationship between the variables in each country. The results of the Engel-Granger causality test indicate that there is a two-way relationship between economic growth and FDI, and economic growth and international trade. Findings – When tested together through panel regression, it is concluded that the best model is a random effect method (REM) in which FDI and international trade significantly influence economic growth in the same direction. However, the relationship between FDI and international trade and its effect on economic growth in Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand was negative, whilst in Malaysia and Singapore the relationship has a directional trend. Novelty – To reinforce the FDI inflows, authorities should continue the progressive reduction of barriers, and increase the sophistication of quality exports to compete in the global market. This paper is the first of its kind to analyze the role of both FDI and exports in the ASEAN5 economies using panel analysis. Type of Paper: Empirical.
F10|Agricultural Trade Liberalisation in the 21st Century: Has It Done the Business?|Based on a novel, detailed, time‐consistent tariff database taking account of import protection developments in the agricultural sector since 2001, we propose a statistical decomposition of the changes in the various types of tariffs. The results show that the multilateral system has played a limited role in trade liberalisation over the period. Many countries have continued to apply much lower tariffs on agricultural products than their WTO ceilings. Moreover, there has been substantial unilateral dismantling of tariffs over the period, so that much of the liberalisation took place outside WTO and regional agreements. The number of regional trade agreements has surged, but their impact on applied agricultural tariffs has been limited. Finally, we investigate the tariffs, trade and production implications for food and agricultural products of two extreme scenarios in the future development of trade negotiations: an ambitious surge of regional agreements and a trade war within the WTO context.
F10|Globalization, Job Tasks and the Demand for Different Occupations|Globalization has increased in recent decades, resulting in structural changes of production and labor demand. This paper examines how the increased global engagement of firms affects the structure of the workforce. We find that the aggregate distribution of occupations in Sweden has become more skilled between 1997 and 2013. Moreover, firms with a high degree of international orientation have a relatively skilled distribution of occupations and firms with low international orientation have a relatively unskilled distribution of occupations. High- and low-skilled occupations have increased in importance whereas middle-skilled occupations have declined with a resulting job polarization. We also discuss and analyze the role played by new technology and automatization.
F10|The Compensation Hypothesis Revisited and Reversed|This note describes how research on the link between globalization and openness has changed over time. Early contributions assumed that countries develop welfare states to compensate for volatility caused by economic openness (the compensation hypothesis). Recent findings have cast doubts on several steps in the causal chain implied by the compensation hypothesis. In many ways economic openness has been shown to be particularly beneficial for countries with high taxes and high income equality. Countries with large welfare states can use economic openness to mitigate some of the unintended side-effects of social protection and high taxes. The compensation hypothesis can thus be reformulated: Through trade, the citizens in large welfare states can enjoy some of the benefits associated with cheap labor and high wage dispersion despite their domestic economy being characterized by the opposite.
F10|Import Demand Elasticities Based on Quantity Data: Theory, Evidence and Implications for the Gains from Trade|Correct estimates of import demand elasticities are essential for measuring the gains from trade and predicting the impact of trade policies. We show that estimates of import demand elasticities hinge critically on whether they are derived using trade quantities or trade values, and this difference is due to properties of the estimators. Using partial identification methods, we show theoretically that the upper bound on the set of plausible estimates is lower when using traded quantities, compared to the standard approach using trade values. Our theoretical predictions are confirmed using detailed product-level data on U.S. imports for the years 1993‒2006. Our proposed method using traded quantities leads to smaller point estimates of the import demand elasticities for many goods and imply larger gains from trade compared to estimates based on trade values.
F10|Structural Transformation and Quality Ladders: Solving the “Theil's Cube”|We propose a decomposition of weighted Theil index of export concentration into the quantity- and quality-driven terms and calculate the proposed components for 5038 product groups and 120 countries. We link our findings to the debate on the role of quality upgrading in structural transformation. The results do not support the idea that climbing quality ladders (or quality upgrading within the actually exported products) is the best way to proceed with structural transformation: for most countries, the share of the quality-driven component of weighted Theil index doesn’t exceed 20 per cent
F10|FIDELIO 3 manual: Equations and data sources|"FIDELIO (Fully Interregional Dynamic Econometric Long-term Input-Output) is a multi-sectoral model developed by the unit B.5 of the Directorate General Joint Research Centre (JRC) â€” the circular economy and industrial leadership unit. Compared to neoclassical CGE models â€” which assume that the perfect flexibility of prices and quantities ensures the full use of the factors of production at all times â€” FIDELIO integrates some new-Keynesian features: consumption adjusts slowly to its optimal level according to an error correction model and wages do not clear the labour market. The assumptions that prices do not clear the markets and market ""imperfections"" exist generate the dynamics of the model that is solved sequentially (recursive dynamic). In addition, FIDELIO is an econometric model since the calibration of most of the behavioural parameters of the model (dynamic adjustment lags of prices and quantities, and elasticities) is based on econometric estimations.This technical report illustrates the third version of the FIDELIO model, FIDELIO 3. The changes introduced in the subsequent versions of the model have two main objectives. The first one is to increase the coverage of the model. The second one is to improve the efficiency and the capacity of the model to evaluate sustainable production and consumption policies. The aim of this report is twofold. First, it contains all the equations of the current version of the model; second, it illustrates the characteristics of the data used by FIDELIO 3."
F10|On Trade and the Stability of (Armed) Peace|"We consider an environment in which two sovereign states with overlapping ownership claims on a resource/asset first arm and then choose whether to resolve their dispute violently through war or peacefully through settlement. Both approaches depend on the states' military capacities, but have very different outcomes. War precludes trade between the two states and can be destructive; however, once a winner is declared, arming is unnecessary in future periods. By contrast, a peaceful resolution under the threat of war today avoids destruction and supports mutually advantageous trade; yet, settlements must be renegotiated and the states must arm in future periods to resolve their ongoing dispute. Paying special attention to the importance of trade on arming incentives and payoffs in this context, we explore the conditions under which ""armed peace"" arises as the perfectly coalition-proof equilibrium over time. Our analysis reveals that, depending on the destructiveness of war, time preferences, and the distribution of initial resource endowments, greater gains from trade (jointly determined by trade costs and the substitutability of traded commodities) can reduce arming and pacify international tensions. Even when the gains from trade are relatively small, peace might be sustainable, but only for more uneven distributions of initial resources."
F10|B for Brexit: A Survey of the Economics Academic Literature|"This paper surveys the economics academic literature on Brexit. It is organised in: pillars, channels, and consequences. The two building blocks to understand Brexit are the economic history of the UK-EU relationship and the literature on the political economy of globalisation and populism. The paper then reviews the evidence on the standard mechanisms through which the UK benefited from EU integration (trade, migration and FDI). Next it surveys the short-run effects of the vote and discuss expected long-term consequences of ""Brexit proper."" It concludes by identifying some main gaps in the economics literature on Brexit."
F10|Credit constraints and firm exports: Evidence from SMEs in emerging and developing countries|We study the relationship between credit contraints and export behavior using a large and heterogeneous sample of small and medium size firms from 65 emerging and developing countries between 2003 and 2014. We measure credit contraints by means of each firm's self-assessment of whether it is credit rationed, and we follow an instrumental variable approach that uses firm-level instruments to address the potential endogeneity of credit constraints with respect to export performance. We find robust evidence of a negative, statistically and economically significant effect of financial constraints on both the probability that a firm exports (the extensive margin of exports) and the share of exports over total sales (the intensive margin of exports).
F10|The impact of global value chains on the euro area economy|The studies summarised in this paper focus on the economic implications of euro area firms’ participation in global value chains (GVCs). They show how, and to what extent, a large set of economic variables and inter-linkages have been affected by international production sharing. The core conclusion is that GVC participation has major implications for the euro area economy. Consequently, there is a case for making adjustments to standard macroeconomic analysis and forecasting for the euro area, taking due account of data availability and constraints. JEL Classification: F6, F10, F14, F16, E3
F10|Economic structures 20 years into the euro|Well-functioning economic structures are key for resilient and prospering euro area economies. The global financial and sovereign debt crises exposed the limited resilience of the euro area’s economic structures. Economic growth was masking underlying weaknesses in several euro area countries. With the inception of the crises, significant efforts have been undertaken by Member States individually and collectively to strengthen resilience of economic structures and the smooth functioning of the euro area. National fiscal policies were consolidated to keep the increase in government debt contained and structural reform momentum increased notably in the second decade, particularly in those countries most hit by the crisis. The strengthened national economic structures were supported by a reformed EU crisis and economic governance framework. However, overall economic structures in euro area countries are still not fully commensurate with the requirements of a monetary union. Moreover, remaining challenges, such as population ageing, low productivity and the implications of digitalisation, will need to be addressed to increase economic resilience and long-term growth. JEL Classification: E31, E32, E60, E62, F10, J11, O43
F10|GVC journeys: Industrialisation and deindustrialisation in the age of the second unbundling|Offshoring and participation in global value chains (GVCs) are critical to understanding the rapid deindustrialisation of G7 nations and the rapid industrialisation of a handful of developing nations. This paper distinguishes between trade in final goods and trade in parts to track the shifting pattern of the location of manufacturing. We introduce a simple empirical measure of comparative advantage in parts on one hand and in final goods on the other. We illustrate how this distinction can help organise thinking on the patterns of industrialisation and deindustrialisation—namely the ‘GVC journeys’ of advanced and emerging economies. We also provide one simple model. The model highlights the interactions of trade costs and the knowledge transfers to accompany offshoring of parts production and assembly, which we call trade-led versus knowledge-led globalisation.
F10|GVC Journeys: Industrialisation and Deindustrialisation in the Age of the Second Unbundling|"Offshoring and participation in Global Value Chains (GVCs) are critical to understanding the rapid deindustrialisation of G7 nations and the rapid industrialisation of a handful of developing nations. This paper distinguishes between trade in final goods and trade in parts to track the shifting pattern of the location of manufacturing. We introduce a simple empirical measure of comparative advantage in parts on one hand and in final goods on the other. We illustrate how this distinction can help organise thinking on the patterns of industrialisation and deindustrialisation-namely the""GVC journeys"" of advanced and emerging economies. We also provide one simple model. The model highlights the interactions of trade costs and the knowledge transfers to accompany offshoring of parts production and assembly, which we call trade-led versus knowledgeled globalisation.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
F10|Firm Heterogeneity and the Activity of Japanese Manufacturing Multinationals in India|This paper anatomizes the linkage between country/region characteristics and Japanese MNE activity in India from both theoretical and empirical sides. We construct a North-South firm-heterogeneity model with FDI and exchange rate. We use this model to make three contributions: First, we theoretically reveal how country characteristics affect the average sales of the firm in the host country. Secondly, we make clear the state-level characteristics on three main industrialized areas in India using the data from some valuable databases. Thirdly, we estimate determinant factors of average sales of each Japanese affiliate firms in India focusing on regional characteristics derived in the theoretical part using firm-level data. We also construct several proxy variables of determinant factors of average sales in state-level and put into estimated regression equation. This empirical analysis targets at the 1990s and 2000s. Over this period, India enjoyed steady economic growth and it can be linked with increase of FDI inflow and technological spillover from MNEs. We find out that some regional characteristics such as level of human-capital or transportation cost in each state and also exchange rate have a significant effect on average sales of each Japanese affiliate firms in India.
F10|Consumption home bias and ethnocentrism: an international duopoly|We define a model with two countries and two vertically differentiated goods, a high and a low quality variant, and heterogenous consumers with respect to their willingness to pay for quality. Consumers in one country are ethnocentric in consumption. They thrive additional satisfaction when consuming a domestic good rather than a foreign one, since only the former can satisfy their sense of place. We investigate the role of trade costs and ethnocentric attitude in shaping the equilibrium configuration of the international duopoly.
F10|Is export diversification or export specialization responsible for economic growth in BRICS countries?|Is it export diversification or export specialization that is more useful towards promoting economic growth in the BRICS economies? To answer this query, we estimate a growth model augmented with trade activity to capture the diversification-concentration trade-off with economic growth over the period of 1995 to 2017. Our baseline Fully-Modified Ordinary Least Squares (FMOLS) and Dynamic Ordinary Least Squares (DOLS) regressions confirm a negative effect of diversification on growth whereas concentration has a positive effect on growth. We further estimate panel quantile regressions for the growth specifications and find that i) moderate levels of concentration are best for economic growth ii) diversification adversely affects growth across all quantiles though the effect diminishes as one approaches higher levels of diversification. This points to a semi inverted U-shaped diversification schedule, of which the BRICS countries have crossed their ‘inflexion point’ of development and need to re-specialize their export baskets.
F10|The spillover effects of Chinese economy on Southeast Asia and Oceania|The slowdown of economy and widening of domestic imbalances in China bothers economists and politicians across the globe. The effects of a Chinese transition to a new growth model for other countries are uncertain. We quantify them by estimating the influence of a negative output shock in China on a number of different economies. We concentrate on China’s neighbouring countries. We compare the results from the Global VAR model and from the Bayesian VAR models that include Chinese variables as endogenous. Also we search for determinants of Chinese spillovers for the global economy. To this end, having a large number of factors potentially explaining differences in responses compared to the number of observations, we use Bayesian model averaging. We find that spillovers are stronger to economies with less flexible exchange rates, a higher share of manufacturing in gross value added and to economies which are larger.
F10|Quality, Variable Markups, and Welfare: A Quantitative General Equilibrium Analysis of Export Prices|"Modern trade models attribute the dispersion of prices across countries to physical and man-made barriers to trade, to the pricing-to-market by heterogeneous producers, and to differences in the quality of output offered by firms. This paper analyzes a quantitative general equilibrium model that incorporates all three of these mechanisms. Estimating the model parameters from Chinese firm-level trade data, we find that our model that incorporates per unit trade costs imply lower gains from trade relative to standard models because these costs are a greater burden to the most productive firms. We also show that changes in specific trade costs induce larger shifts in import prices than do changes in ad valorem trade costs that equivalently restrict trade. The results highlight the importance of modelling ""Washington Apples"" effects in quantitative trade models."
F10|Trade Diversion and Trade Deficits: The Case of the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement|We study whether tariff preferences conferred on South Korean goods through the implementation of the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement (KORUS) drew U.S. import demand away from other U.S. trading partners through the phenomenon known as trade diversion. In the two years following the implementation of KORUS, trade diversion was particularly strong for U.S. imports of consumption goods and for trade partners who already had free trade agreements with the U.S. Our estimates of trade diversion sum to $13.1 billion in 2013 and $13.8 billion in 2014. Notably, these estimates of trade diversion are roughly of the same magnitude as the increase in the U.S. bilateral goods trade deficit with South Korea. Thus, while increased U.S. imports from South Korea may have increased the U.S.-South Korea bilateral trade deficit, the fact that KORUS diverted U.S. import demand away from other trading partners implies new U.S. imports from Korea stimulated by the KORUS did not expand the overall U.S. trade deficit.
F10|Trade Diversion and Trade Deficits: The Case of the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement|We study whether tariff preferences conferred on South Korean goods through the implementation of the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement (KORUS) drew U.S. import demand away from other U.S. trading partners through the phenomenon known as trade diversion. In the two years following the implementation of KORUS, trade diversion was particularly strong for U.S. imports of consumption goods and for trade partners who already had free trade agreements with the U.S. Our estimates of trade diversion sum to $13.1 billion in 2013 and $13.8 billion in 2014. Notably, these estimates of trade diversion are roughly of the same magnitude as the increase in the U.S. bilateral goods trade deficit with South Korea. Thus, while increased U.S. imports from South Korea may have increased the U.S.-South Korea bilateral trade deficit, the fact that KORUS diverted U.S. import demand away from other trading partners implies new U.S. imports from Korea stimulated by the KORUS did not expand the overall U.S. trade deficit.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F10|Trade Shocks and the Shifting Landscape of U.S. Manufacturing|Using data over more than a century, we show that shifts in the location of manufacturing industries are a domestic reflection of what the international trade literature refers to as the product cycle in a cross-country context, with industries spawning in high-wage areas with larger pools of educated workers and moving to lower-wage areas with less education as they age or become “standardized.” We exploit the China shock industries as a set of industries that were in the late-stage product cycle by 1990 and show how the activity in those industries shifted from high-innovation areas to low-education areas over the 20th century. The analysis also suggests that the resilience of local labor markets to manufacturing shocks depends on local industries’ phase in the product cycle, on local education levels, and on local manufacturing wages. The risk of unemployment and detachment from the labor force rises most when a shock hits in areas where an industry already has begun phasing out, wages are high, or education levels are low. The results are consistent with the belief that there are long-term, secular trends in U.S. industrial structure driving the movement of industries, which shocks may mitigate or accelerate.
F10|The Political Economy Consequences of China's Export Slowdown|We study how adverse economic shocks influence political outcomes in authoritarian regimes in strong states, by examining the 2013-2015 export slowdown in China. We exploit detailed customs data and the variation they reveal about Chinese prefectures’ underlying exposure to the global trade slowdown, in order to implement a shift-share instrumental variables strategy. Prefectures that experienced a more severe export slowdown witnessed a significant increase in incidents of labor strikes. This was accompanied by a heightened emphasis in such prefectures on upholding domestic stability, as evidenced from: (i) textual analysis measures we constructed from official annual work reports using machine-learning algorithms; and (ii) data we gathered on local fiscal expenditures channelled towards public security uses and social spending. The central government was subsequently more likely to replace the party secretary in prefectures that saw a high level of “excess strikes”, above what could be predicted from the observed export slowdown, suggesting that local leaders were held to account on yardsticks related to political stability.
F10|The Textbook Case for Industrial Policy: Theory Meets Data|The textbook case for industrial policy is well understood. If some sectors are subject to external economies of scale, whereas others are not, a government should subsidize the first group of sectors at the expense of the second. The empirical relevance of this argument, however, remains unclear. In this paper we develop a strategy to estimate sector-level economies of scale and evaluate the gains from such policy interventions in an open economy. Our benchmark results point towards significant and heterogeneous economies of scale across manufacturing sectors, but only modest gains from industrial policy, below 1% of GDP on average. Though these gains can be larger in some of the alternative environments that we consider, they are always smaller than the gains from optimal trade policy.
F10|Collective Reputation in Trade: Evidence from the Chinese Dairy Industry|Collective reputation implies an important externality. Among firms trading internationally, quality shocks about one firm’s products could affect the demand of other firms from the same origin country. We study this issue in the context of a large-scale scandal that affected the Chinese dairy industry in 2008. Leveraging rich firm-product level administrative data and official quality inspection reports, we find that the export revenue of contaminated firms dropped by 84% after the scandal, relative to the national industrial trend, and the spillover effect on non-contaminated firms is measured at 64% of the direct effect. Notably, firms deemed innocent by government inspections did not fare any better than noninspected firms. These findings highlight the importance of collective reputation in international trade and the challenges governments might face in signaling quality and restoring trust. Finally, we investigate potential mechanisms that could mediate the strength of the reputation spillover. We find that the spillover effects are smaller in destinations where people have better information about parties involved in the scandal. New firms are more vulnerable to the collective reputation damage than established firms. Supply chain structure matters especially in settings where firms are less vertically integrated and exhibit fragmented upstream-downstream relationships.
F10|Importing After Exporting|In this paper, we uncover a novel fact about the relationship between exporting and importing. Using a comprehensive database of Argentine rms, we nd that exporting to a new destination increases the probability of a rm beginning to import from that market within the lapse of one year. We develop a standard model of import behavior and, by testing its predictions, we rule out productivity as an explanation and argue that export entry reduces import xed costs. We show that the e ect is stronger in distant markets and when importing involves non-homogenous and rarely imported goods. Taken together, our results suggest that rms gain knowledge on -or establish links with- potential suppliers after export entry, which reduces the costs associated with searching for import sources.
F10|Local content requirements and their economic effect on shipbuilding: A quantitative assessment|This study quantifies the significant economic gains that are expected to be revealed through the abolition or relaxation of local content based policies. The work analyses two specific local content policies affecting directly or indirectly the shipbuilding industry in two countries: Brazil’s local content requirement as part of national concession contracts in the oil and gas sector, and the long-standing US Jones Act obliging intra-US seaborne trade to be conducted on US built and US flagged vessels. The paper’s static simulation exploits OECD’s latest Trade-in-Value-Added (TiVA) data – a rich database on Inter-Country Input-Output relationships. The database has been disaggregated to the level of the shipbuilding industry, enabling an assessment of the effect of the two selected policies on inter-industry trade. The simulation results suggest large economic benefits for both countries in the long-term despite initial losses in the target industry.
F10|Regional Integration in Border Cities|This report, part of the “Cities” collection, highlights the contribution of border towns to the process of regional integration in West Africa. For 18 countries, six indicators are used to identify the specificities of border towns at the local, national and international levels: demography, urban morphology, formal enterprises, health infrastructure, road accessibility, border control posts. These indicators are analysed from the perspective of three geographical scales of regional integration (density, distance and division). The report details the economic and institutional obstacles facing border towns. It concludes with place-based political options to facilitate the economic and political development of West African border towns.Also in this Collection:“Population and Morphology of Border Cities”, No. 21“Businesses and Health in Border Cities”, No. 22“Accessibility and Infrastructure in Border Cities”, No. 23
F10|Population and Morphology of Border Cities|This report, part of the “Cities” collection, provides an analysis of the demographic and morphological changes in West African border cities since the mid-20th century. Using the Africapolis harmonised database makes it possible to show that since 1950 border cities have experienced higher rates of growth than other cities in the region. While the average size of cities increases with distance from a border, the opposite is true for urban density; it decreases as distance from a border increases. This suggests that border cities form urban centres that differ from other such centres due to the fact that they specialise in the commercial activities that stimulate growth and foster higher densities. The report identifies the 27 main cross-border agglomerations in the region and discusses their specificcharacteristics.Also in this Collection:“Regional Integration in Border Cities”, No. 20“Businesses and Health in Border Cities”, No. 22“Accessibility and Infrastructure in Border Cities”, No. 23
F10|Businesses and Health in Border Cities|This report, part of the “Cities” collection, analyses the spatial distribution of formal enter¬prises and health infrastructure in West Africa. The analysis shows that sectors crucial for regional integration are concentrated in economic capitals rather than in border areas. These results illustrate the difficulty that many West African countries have in distributing the potential for economic development throughout the country. The mapping of health infrastructure shows that border towns have a surplus of medical centres and a deficit of hospitals and maternity wards relative to their urban populations. The report identifies several regions in which closer co-operation could favour the establishment of cross-border health facilities.Also in this Collection: “Regional Integration in Border Cities”, No. 20 “Population and Morphology of Border Cities”, No. 21 “Accessibility and Infrastructure in Border Cities”, No. 23
F10|Intégration régionale des villes frontalières|Cette Note qui fait partie de la Collection « Villes », souligne la contribution des villes frontalières au processus d’intégration régionale en Afrique de l’Ouest. Six indicateurs permettent d’appréhender les dynamiques locales développées en milieu urbain, les effets de la distance sur la cohésion nationale, et l’impact des divisions territoriales au plan international dans 18 pays. Cette analyse met en évidence les obstacles qui limitent le potentiel d’intégration des villes frontalières du point de vue des échanges socio-économiques et des institutions. La Note conclut par une synthèse des politiques territorialisées pouvant être mises en place dans la région pour faciliter le développement économique et politique des villes frontalières ouest-africaines.Aussi dans cette Collection : « Population et morphologies des villes frontalières », No 21 « Entreprises et santé dans les villes frontalières », No 22 « Accessibilité et infrastructures des villes frontalières », No 23
F10|Population et morphologies des villes frontalières|Cette Note qui fait partie de la Collection « Villes », analyse l’évolution démographique et morphologique des villes frontalières d’Afrique de l’Ouest depuis le milieu du XXe siècle. L’utilisation d’une base de données harmonisée – ce qu’offre Africapolis – permet de montrer que les villes frontalières ont connu une croissance plus importante que les autres villes de la région depuis 1950. Alors que la taille moyenne des villes augmente avec la distance aux frontières, la densité urbaine diminue à mesure qu’on s’en éloigne. Ces résultats suggèrent que les villes frontalières forment des ensembles urbains différents des autres, notamment du fait de leur spécialisation dans les activités commerciales, qui stimulent la croissance et encourage les fortes densités. Le document identifie enfin 27 agglomérations transfrontalières principales dans la région et discute leurs particularités.Aussi dans cette Collection : « Intégration régionale des villes frontalières », No 20 « Entreprises et santé dans les villes frontalières », No 22 « Accessibilité et infrastructures des villes frontalières », No 23
F10|Entreprises et santé dans les villes frontalières|Cette Note qui fait partie de la Collection « Villes », analyse la répartition spatiale des entreprises formelles et des infrastructures de santé en Afrique de l’Ouest. L’analyse montre que les secteurs cruciaux pour l’intégration régionale sont concentrés dans les capitales économiques plutôt que dans les espaces frontaliers. Ces résultats illustrent la difficulté qu’ont de nombreux pays ouest-africains à distribuer le potentiel de développement économique sur l’ensemble du territoire national. La cartographie des infrastructures de santé montre que les villes frontalières présentent un excédent de centres médicaux et un déficit d’hôpitaux et de maternités relativement à leur population urbaine. La Note identifie plusieurs régions dans lesquelles une coopération plus étroite pourrait favoriser la mise en place d’établissements de santé transfrontaliers.Aussi dans cette Collection : « Intégration régionale des villes frontalières », No 20 « Population et morphologies des villes frontalières », No 21 « Accessibilité et infrastructures des villes frontalières », No 23
F10|North-South Uneven Development and Income Distribution under the Balance of Payments Constraint|This study builds a North-South trade and uneven development model, and investigates the effects of changes in income distribution (the profit share) on economic growth rates of both countries. How a change in the profit share affects both countries' growth rates differs for the short-run equilibirum and the long-run equilibrium. For example, in the short-run equilibirum, an increase in the profit share of the North deteriorates the terms of trade of the South, and then, decreases the growth rate of the South. On the other hand, in the long-run equilibrium, an increase in the profit share of the North either increases or decreases the growth rate of the South through Thirlwall's law.
F10|Do Cross-border Patents Promote Trade?|"While we would expect that cross-border patents are used to protect a technology that is made available in another country, that technology could either be produced locally or imported. International patent filings could therefore be either complements or substitutes to international trade. This study combines data on patenting and trade for 149 countries and 249 industries between 1974 and 2006 with a ""three-way"" PPML panel data model that addresses several biases emphasized in the trade literature in order to provide a systematic analysis of how bilateral trade responds to cross-border patent filings. We find that cross-border patents have a positive (complementary) overall effect on the patent-filing country's exports to the patent-granting country and no effect overall on imports flowing in the opposite direction. These effects vary substantially across industries and destination markets. Patents promote significantly more bilateral export growth--and significantly less bilateral import growth--in less-differentiated industries and are found to have stronger effects on exports to more distant destinations. These findings support the interpretation that cross-border patents are mainly used to protect cost and/or quality innovations from being adopted by producers of competing products in the patent-granting country."
F10|Resource Abundance, Market Size, and the Choice of Technology|How resource abundance and market size affect the choice of increasing returns technologies is studied in an overlapping-generations general equilibrium model in which manufacturing firms engage in oligopolistic competition. The model is surprisingly tractable. First, for the steady state, the wage rate, the level of technology, and capital stock are not affected by the amount of natural resources. An increase in the share of agricultural revenue going to natural resources leads to a lower wage rate and firms choose less advanced technologies. Second, an increase in market size increases the equilibrium wage rate, level of technology, and capital stock. Finally, other things equal, a country with a lower endowment of natural resources or a higher market size has a comparative advantage in producing the manufactured good.
F10|Impacts of Exchange Rate on Vietnam-Japan Trade Balance: A Nonlinear Asymmetric Cointegration Approach|The paper examines the impacts of exchange rate on Vietnam’s trade balance with Japan based on the employment of industry-level data in a set of linear and nonlinear auto-regressive distributed lag models. Results from the models indicate a degree of bias in regression when using aggregate data and a linear ARDL approach. Among 19 industries under consideration, the NARDL model presents different responses from 16 industries, which account for 40% of imports and 60% of exports between Vietnam and Japan, to exchange rate movements. The trade balance of each industry responds differently towards exchange rate and asymmetric reactions are found in 9 out of 16 industries affected by changes in exchange rate. The model using aggregate data shows that exchange rate positively affects Vietnam-Japan trade balance in case of currency depreciation, whereas currency appreciation has no impact on the trade balance between the two countries. Besides, results of the model using aggregate data reveal that the level of economic activity of Japan exerts positive impacts on Vietnam’s trade balance with Japan.
F10|New Approach to Estimating Gravity Models with Heteroscedasticity and Zero Trade Values|This paper proposes new estimation techniques for gravity models with zero trade values and heteroscedasticity. We revisit the standard PPML estimator and we propose an improved version. We also propose various Heckman estimators with different distributions of the residuals, nonlinear forms of both selection and measure equations, and various process of the variance. We add to the existent literature alternative estimation methods taking into account the non-linearity of both the variance and the selection equation. Moreover, because of the unavailability of pre-set package in the econometrics software (Stata, Eviews, Matlab, etc.) to perform the estimation of the above-mentioned Heckman versions, we had to code it in Matlab using a combination of fminsearch and fminunc functions. Using numerical gradient matrix G, we report standard errors based on the BHHH technique. The proposed new Heckman version could be used in other applications. Our results suggest that previous empirical studies might be overestimating the contribution of the GDP of both import and export countries in determining the bilateral trade.
F10|World Equivalent Factor Endowments Determine Local Factor Rewards When Countries Have Different Productivities|This study derived the solution of general trade equilibrium by the Trefler Hicks-Neutral HOV Model (Trefler model), which reflects productivities different across countries. The study found that the Trefler model is with a single diversification cone of commodity price , although it is with two diversification cones of factor endowments. This feature provides a chance to attain the general trade equilibrium and non-equalized factor price. The study uses a geometric approach on a generalized Integrated World Equilibrium (IWE) diagram, which presents the equivalent factor endowments defined by Trefler (1993). The non-equalized factor price at the equilibrium by the Trefler model is with two useful properties. The first one is that the equilibrium prices are the functions of world equivalent factor endowments so that it remains the same when the allocation of equivalent factor endowments changes. The second property is that the localized factor prices ensure gains from trade for countries participating in trade. A new logic explored is that the world equivalent factor endowments determine world commodity price and local factor rewards of all countries.
F10|The Relationship between Economic Growth, Exports and Imports in Morocco: An Empirical Validation Based on VAR Modeling Techniques and Causality in the Meaning of Granger|This paper analyzes the relationship between economic growth, export and import in Morocco. VAR modeling techniques and Granger causality are used in empirical work. The study showed a causal effect ranging from economic growth in exports. Evidence shows that economic growth favors exports. However, there is no effect that goes for export to growth. In addition, there is no relationship between imports and economic growth.
F10|The Simplest Factor Price Non-Equalization When Countries Have Different Productivities|This study derived the solution of general trade equilibrium for the 2×2×2 Trefler Hicks-Neutral HOV Model (Trefler, 1993), which incorporates productivities different across countries. This is the first theoretical result of price-trade equilibrium under factor price non-equalization. The non-equalized factor price at the equilibrium is with two useful properties. The first one is that the equilibrium price (world commodity price and two sets of localized factor price) are the functions of world effective factor endowments so that it remains the same when the allocation of equivalent factor endowments changes. The second property is that the equilibrium factor prices ensure gains from trade for countries participating in trade. A new logic explored from this study is that the world effective factor endowments determine world commodity price and local factor rewards of all countries.
F10|Domestic Investment, Export, Import and Economic Growth in Brazil: An Application of Vector Error Correction Model|This paper aims to investigate the nexus between domestic investment, exports, imports, and economic growth for the Brazilian economy during the period 1970-2017, using the VECM methodology. In the short-run, our empirical results pointed out that import, exports, and domestic investment cause economic growth. Also, economic growth causes exports. Exports, imports, and economic growth cause domestic investment. However, in the long-run, our results revealed that domestic investment and exports have a positive effect on economic growth. Also, imports have a negative effect on economic growth. The results recorded a positive impact of economic growth and imports on domestic investment. Exports have a negative effect on domestic investment. Finally, we record the absence of significant impact of economic growth, exports and domestic investment on imports, and economic growth, domestic investment, and imports on exports. Due to the importance of these aspects to the economic performance of Brazil, the policymakers are invited to orient these issues towards the sustainability facets to guarantee a sustained growth path.
F10|Domestic Investment, Export, Import and Economic Growth in Brazil: An Application of Vector Error Correction Model|This paper aims to investigate the nexus between domestic investment, exports, imports, and economic growth for the Brazilian economy during the period 1970-2017, using the VECM methodology. In the short-run, our empirical results pointed out that import, exports, and domestic investment cause economic growth. Also, economic growth causes exports. Exports, imports, and economic growth cause domestic investment. However, in the long-run, our results revealed that domestic investment and exports have a positive effect on economic growth. Also, imports have a negative effect on economic growth. The results recorded a positive impact of economic growth and imports on domestic investment. Exports have a negative effect on domestic investment. Finally, we record the absence of significant impact of economic growth, exports and domestic investment on imports, and economic growth, domestic investment, and imports on exports. Due to the importance of these aspects to the economic performance of Brazil, the policymakers are invited to orient these issues towards the sustainability facets to guarantee a sustained growth path.
F10|The Effect of Trade Liberalization on Expenditure Structure of Pakistan|Demand side public policy plays a risk reducing role for imperfect sectors of the developing economies through public investment during liberalization. Public sector investment, composition and structure play an important role to determine the comparative advantage for the productive sector. This study explores the effect of trade liberalization and trade tax revenue on the expenditure structure of Pakistan during 1975-2016. Autoregressive Distributed Lag approach has been used for examining the long run co-integration among the expenditure structure and trade liberalization and Vector Error-Correction model is used for short run dynamics of the concerned variables. The empirical result shows that trade tax revenue has a positive impact on the expenditure structure in the long run but not in the short run. Trade liberalization, budget deficits and defense expenditure have negative associations with expenditure structure.
F10|The Effect of Border Barriers to Services Trade on Goods Trade|This paper has two objectives: (i) to introduce border policy-induced barriers (PIBs) to services trade and (ii) analyze the impact of border PIBs in services sectors on goods trade. The World Input-Output Database covering 43 countries is used over the period 2000-2014. A three-stage analysis is employed. The measures of bilateral services trade barriers calculated in each services sector in the first stage are decomposed into its cultural/geographical and policy-induced parts in the second stage. Border PIBs to services trade are used in the structural gravity estimations of bilateral goods trade in the final stage. The results demonstrate significant and robust adverse effects of barriers to services trade on goods trade. When the level of development is taken into consideration, there are marked differences in the impact of these barriers on goods trade.
F10|The Well-meaning Economist|Economists usually inform policymakers with conclusions that come from studying the conditional expectation, i.e. arithmetic mean, of some potential outcome. But there are other means to study, from the same 'quasilinear' family. And they can support very different conclusions. In trade research, for instance, studying other means can transform the perceived roles of colonial history, geography, and trade wars. In wages research, studying other means can reverse perceived earnings differentials between groups. Similar scenarios will be common in other tasks of policy evaluation and forecasting. To choose means well I propose selection criteria, which also consider options that are outside of the quasilinear family, such as quantiles. Optimal choices are application-specific and ideally accommodate the preferences of the relevant policymaker. In the wages case, policymaker aversion to inequality makes it sensible to reject the arithmetic mean for another quasilinear one.
F10|Organizing Global Supply Chains: Input-Output Linkages and Vertical Integration|"We study whether and how the technological importance of an input - measured by its cost share - is related to the decision of whether to ""make"" or ""buy"" that input. Using detailed French international trade data and an instrumental variable approach based on self-constructed input-output tables, we show that French multinationals vertically integrate those inputs that have high cost shares. A stylized incomplete contracting model with both ex ante and ex post inefficiencies explains why: technologically more important inputs are ""made"" when transaction cost economics type forces (TCE; favoring integration) overpower property rights type forces (PRT; favoring outsourcing). Additional results related to the contracting environment and headquarters intensity consistent with our theoretical framework show that both TCE and PRT type forces are needed to fully explain the empirical patterns in the data."
F10|Estimación de las elasticidades de oferta y demanda de importaciones en Colombia|El presente artículo estima las elasticidades de oferta y demanda de importaciones a un nivel de desagregación de Nandina 10 dígitos para Colombia. A diferencia de las estimaciones previamente realizadas, la metodología utilizada admite un nivel de desagregación en las elasticidades calculadas, casi a nivel de producto. Además, permite una estimación insesgada de las elasticidades de oferta y demanda de importaciones debido a que toma en cuenta la entrada y salida de empresas a lo largo del tiempo. Los resultados muestran las elasticidades de oferta y demanda de importaciones para un total de 7055 posiciones Nandina. Los valores de las elasticidades son altamente diferenciados entre productos y sectores. **** ABSTRACT: This article estimates the imports supply and demand elasticities at a 10-digit Nandina disaggregation level for Colombia. Unlike the estimates previously made, the methodology used admits a level of disaggregation in the calculated elasticities, almost at the product level. In addition, it allows an unbiased estimation of the imports supply and demand elasticities because it takes into account the entry and exit of firms over time. The results show the imports supply and demand elasticities for 7055 Nandina positions. The values of the elasticities are highly differentiated between products and sectors.
F10|La estimación del equivalente arancelario de las barreras no arancelarias y de la protección total en Colombia|Este documento utiliza desarrollos metodológicos recientes para la estimación del equivalente arancelario de las barreras no arancelarias en Colombia a un nivel de desagregación de Nandina 10 dígitos. A este mismo nivel de desagregación se estima la protección total, el índice de protección al comercio (TRI) y el índice conjunto de protección al comercio (OTRI). Los resultados muestran un alto grado de sustituibilidad entre la barreras arancelarias y no arancelarias en Colombia, siendo estas últimas un instrumento de regulación ampliamente utilizado en los diferentes sectores económicos. Igualmente se evidencia un alto y creciente nivel de protección en Colombia, siendo el sector agropecuario el que presenta un mayor índice de restricción al comercio. Contrario a lo esperado, no parece existir una apertura económica a los mercados internacionales. **** ABSTRACT: This document uses recent methodological developments to estimate the ad-valorem equivalent of non-tariff barriers in Colombia at 10-digit Nandina disaggregation level. At this same level of disaggregation, total protection, the trade restrictiveness index (TRI) and the overall trade restrictiveness index (OTRI) are estimated. The results show a high degree of substitutability between tariff and non-tariff barriers in Colombia, the latter being a regulation instrument widely used in different economic sectors. There is also evidence of a high and growing level of protectionism in Colombia, being the agriculture the highest trade restrictive sector. Contrary to expectations, there does not seem to be an economic opening to international markets.
F10|Cadenas globales de valor, crecimiento y protección arancelaria en Colombia|Este documento realiza un análisis detallado de la dispersión del arancel en Colombia, evaluando su evolución desde la implementación de la apertura económica en la década de los noventa, y presenta un marco comparativo de los niveles de dispersión del arancel nacional frente al de los países de la región. El análisis de la dispersión del arancel en Colombia, junto con los niveles de este en cada uno de los sectores de la economía nacional, servirán de insumo para la estimación de un arancel menos disperso que permita la incursión de la economía colombiana en las cadenas globales de valor. **** ABSTRACT: The present paper makes a detailed analysis of the tariff dispersion in Colombia, considering its evolution since the implementation of the economic opening in the nineties. The document presents a comparative framework between dispersion levels of the national tariff against that of the countries in the region. The analysis of tariff dispersion in Colombia and the levels of this in each sector of the national economy contributes as input for the estimation of a less dispersed tariff that allows the incursion of the Colombian economy in the global value chains.
F10|Responses to Trade Opening: Evidence and Lessons from Asia|In various Asian countries, international trade has raised productivity, lowered markups through import competition (while increasing them through cheaper inputs that can be imported), raised wages, expanded employment, and, above all, reduced poverty. This is in sharp contrast to the impact of trade in some of the Latin American countries, which suggests exercising caution in extrapolating results to Asian countries that have not yet been studied. There are also a few adverse consequences of trade that have already been found for Asia. Apart from raising inequality, trade can increase informality, especially in the presence of labor-market rigidities. Additionally, there are the adverse effects stemming from trade adjustment as a result of worker mobility costs. In this context, this study discusses various policies that researchers have recommended.
F10|The Microeconomics of New Trade Models|I provide a uni ed framework to analyze models of monopolistic competition with firm heterogeneity a la Melitz under standard demands and any productivity distribution. By using this methodology, I disentangle the effects of trade liberalizations on the domestic market in terms of new export opportunities and tougher import competition. I show that while the former entails pro-competitive effects, contrary to what might be expected, tougher import competition has no impact on either domestic firms' prices, quantities or their survival productivity cutoff; it only affects the mass of domestic incumbents. The results applied to the case of two big economies imply that a unilateral liberalization only entails worse export conditions for the liberalizing country, thus explaining the Metzler paradox found under this setup. In a model in which firms have knowledge of their productivity and are heterogeneous, I show that the disciplinary effects from the import-competition channel are reactivated.
F10|An Analysis of International Trade of Pakistan: With a Focus on Exports|Pakistan is facing a persistent trade deficit, resulting in foreign debts—leading to compromise on national policies and sovereignty. This study analyzes international trade of Pakistan with a special focus on exports. The analysis is conducted by various lenses including goods traded, trading partners (in exports as well as imports), trading regions (including Australian, Asian, African, European and American regions) and economic cooperation organizations including Organization of Islamic Cooperation-OIC, Economic Cooperation Organization-ECO, and Association of Islamic Developing countries (D-8). International trade Data is extracted from State bank of Pakistan for 12 years (Jul-03 to Jun-15). Findings suggest Pakistan has trade linkages with multiple countries, across various regions, however, the volume of exports is significantly low than potential, as well as, than the volume of imports—resulting in trade deficit. The major import partners are China, UAE, Singapore, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, while major export-partners of Pakistan are United States of America, China, Afghanistan, United Kingdom, United Arab Emirates and Germany. Pakistan needs to capitalize on less-expensive young population (rising in skills), low cost (indigenous) raw material, basic industrial infrastructure and agricultural and natural resources, etc. to achieve higher economic growth and exports. Policy makers need to encourage exports in less focused regions including Centrel Asia, Middle East, Africa, Australia and South America. To the best of author’s knowledge, this is first ever effort to present a comprehensive analysis of international trade of Pakistan and suggest measures to improve the state of affairs, in recent years.
F10|Trade Openness and Economic Growth in SADC Countries|In spite of the wave of liberalisation studied during the past decades, the debate still remains open on the issue of the trade openness and economic growth nexus. The paper reviews the relationship between trade openness and economic growth for 11 SADC countries for the period between 1990 and 2016. Investments, labour and inflation are incorporated in the model to form a multivariate framework. The study employed the ARDL-bounds test approach and the Pooled Mean Group (PMG) model to estimate the long-run relationship among the variables. The evidence suggests that co-integration is detected at the 1% level in all countries with the exception of Malawi, Mauritius, Swaziland and Tanzania. Co-integration is only detected at the 10% level in Tanzania while Malawi, Mauritius and Swaziland the null of no co-integration is not rejected. Furthermore, the PMG results revealed that trade openness has a negative impact on economic growth in the long-run. A positive relationship between the variables was found only in the short-run. Apertura commerciale e crescita economica nei paesi SADC Nonostante l’onda liberista che ha caratterizzato gli studi degli ultimi decenni, il dibattito sulla relazione tra apertura commerciale e crescita economica è ancora aperto. Questo articolo rivede detta relazione su un campione di 11 paesi SADC (Southern African Development Cooperation) nel periodo 1990-2016. Investimenti, lavoro e inflazione sono incorporati nel modello. Lo studio impiega i test ARDL-bound (Autoregressive Distributed Lag) e il modello PMG (Pooled Mean Group) per valutare la relazione di lungo periodo tra le variabili. Vi sono evidenze di cointegrazione all’1% in tutti i paesi ad eccezione di Malawi, Muritius, Swaziland e Tanzania. La cointegrazione è significativa solo al 10% in Tanzania mentre per Malawi, Mauritius e Swaziland non si rifiuta il valore zero di non cointegrazione. Inoltre, i risultati PGM rivelano che l’apertura commerciale ha un impatto negativo sulla crescita economica nel lungo periodo. Una relazione positiva tra le due variabili è stata riscontrata solo nel breve periodo.
F10|Financial and Product Market Integration under Increasing Returns to Scale|The impact of financial integration and product market integration is studied in a general equilibrium model with increasing returns in both the manufacturing sector and the financial sector. Firms engage in oligopolistic competition. An increase of the degree of competition in the financial sector resulting from financial integration may not change the degree of competition in the product market. With product market integration, the level of technology, the wage rate, and the interest rate paid to depositors increase. Joint integration increases the level of technology, the wage rate, and the interest rate paid to depositors. The impact of separate financial integration or separate product market integration will not be reversed under joint integration. Social welfare increases under all integration regimes.
F10|The Origins of the Division of Labor in Pre-modern Times|This research explores the historical roots of the division of labor in pre-modern societies. It advances the hypothesis and establishes empirically that intra-ethnic diversity had a positive effect on the division of labor across ethnicities in the pre-modern era. Exploiting a variety of identification strategies and a novel ethnic level dataset combining geocoded ethnographic, linguistic and genetic data, it establishes that higher levels of intra-ethnic diversity were conducive to economic specialization in the pre-modern era. The findings are robust to a host of geographical, institutional, cultural and historical confounders, and suggest that variation in intra-ethnic diversity is the main predictor of the division of labor in pre-modern times.
F10|East Asia’s Pattern of Export Specialization: Does Indonesia Compete with Japan, China, Hong Kong, Korea and Singapore?|The purpose of this paper is to analyze the comparative advantage of East Asian countries (China, Japan, Hong Kong, South Korea, Singapore and Indonesia) and to investigate whether Indonesia is competing in the similar groups of products - based on the 3-digit SITC Revision 2 for 237 groups of products published by the UN-COMTRADE. First, we calculate the Revealed Symmetric Comparative Advantage (RSCA) index to know the pattern of comparative advantage for each the East Asian countries. Second, we calculate the distribution of RSCA (value of mean, median, standard deviation and skewness of comparative advantage) from each the East Asian countries to analyze the dynamics of comparative advantage. Third, we examine the correlation of Indonesia’s RSCA with the RSCA of each the East Asian countries for the period 1995-2015 to determine whether Indonesia has a similar pattern of specialization and whether competing in the same product market with the East Asian countries. The result of the analysis shows that China is the biggest competitor for Indonesia, and Japan has very different patterns of specialization.
F10|Export Survival of Manufacturing Firms in Ethiopia:Empirical Evidence|This study used panel data for manufacturing firms from 2006 to 2016 to analyze the patterns and determinants of export survival of exporting firms in Ethiopia. The empirical investigation has two parts: non-parametric and semi-parametric methods. The non-parametric method analyzes the survivor function and the hazard (exit) rate of firms on the whole sample and by groups, while the semi-parametric analyzes a regression outputs based on the discrete-time model of proportional hazard model. The result from the survivor function analysis shows that, at the end of the study period, the number of firms that survive in export market are more than 50%. Moreover, the result of the hazard rate reveals as the duration of time increases, the rate at which firms exit the export market decreases sharply. With regard to our semi-parametric analyses, we examine the factors that affect survival of manufacturing firms in international market and observed the direction of the impacts they have on the survival rates. The findings show that large and medium firms, firms that have higher productivity, export oriented firms, private owned enterprises, firms located in textile and garment industries, firms located outside Addis Ababa and firms categorized as importers have higher probability of staying in export markets than the others.
F10|West Kalimantan Integrated Border Area Development|This study identifies concrete and high-impact projects that will advance implementation of an integrated border area development program for West Kalimantan. This part of the study determines what the integrated border economic area should look like. The process involves carrying out a scoping study in the province and, based on those findings, preparing a concept report on program design and how it should be prepared and implemented.
F10|Exploring Brexit with dynamic spatial panel models : some possible outcomes for employment across the EU regions|Starting with a reduced form derived from standard urban economics theory, this paper estimates the possible job-shortfall across UK and EU regions using a time-space dynamic panel data model with a Spatial Moving Average Random Effects (SMA-RE) structure of the disturbances. The paper provides a logical rational for the presence of spatial and temporal dependencies involving the endogenous variable, leading to estimates based on a dynamic spatial Generalized Moments (GM) estimator proposed by Baltagi, Fingleton and Pirotte (2018). Given state-of-the art interregional trade estimates, the simulations are based on a linear predictor which utilizes different regional interdependency matrices according to assumptions about interregional trade post-Brexit.
F10|“Flying Geese” Paradigm: Review, Analytical Tool and Application|The “flying geese” (FG) pattern is one of the well-recognized models to be strongly considered in explaining economic development in the East Asian region. This paper scrutinizes the flying geese (FG) pattern in East Asia. Firstly, the evolution of FG concept starting from the original Akamatsu’s concept to the modern one is briefly discussed. Secondly, this paper develops an analytical tool namely “products mapping” which is constructed by combining two fundamental variables derived from the FG concept i.e. comparative advantage and trade balance. Thirdly, this paper applies the analytical tool in the case of Japan and Indonesia
F10|The US-China Trade Competition: An Overview|An impending trade war between US and China, the world’s two largest economies can cause insurmountable consequences of unfathomable magnitude. It can cause distortions in the complex web of interconnected commodity and value chains sprawled across the boundaries, ultimately leading to suboptimal social welfare of the international community. The present paper intends to provide an overview of the US-China trade imbalance and resulting trade tensions that it begets .The paper analyses various reasons for the US- China trade competition and its implications on world trade quoting world bank data from 1992-2016 and concludes by proposing the likelihood of not getting the scenario escalated.
F10|Trade Revenue Implications of Trade Liberalization in Pakistan|This study attempts to investigate the effect of free trade on trade tax revenue in case of Pakistan during 1972-2014. For time series analysis, Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model has been used for examining the long run co-integration among the variables and Vector Error-Correction model is used for short run dynamics of the variables. The empirical results show that quantitative trade restriction is positively linked with trade tax revenue. On the basis of empirical findings, this study suggests that trade liberalization has negative impact on trade tax revenue. We improve the volume of average tariff rate; it may cause to increase the trade tax revenue for Pakistan in both short run and long run.
F10|Britain & Africa: heading for the Brexit rocks|High-flying illusions on the part of the proponents and grim predictions of the sceptics characterize the controversy about Brexit. The article analyses five issues at stake for the Post-Brexit relationships between Britain, the EU and Africa with a focus on the Commonwealth Sub-Saharan Africa: market access, FDI, aid, security and partnership . The British government’s vision of a ‘Global Britain’ relies heavily on a reinforced co-operation with Commonwealth nations. However, most likely this would be possible only at the expense of the poor in Africa and elsewhere. Concerning security cooperation with Africa, London apparently exaggerated its defence input in order to enhance its bargaining position with the EU. It will be crucial for both the EU and UK to find post-Brexit agreements to stem irregular migration and the growth of jihadist groups and terrorism. In a nutshell, the analysis of these different policy field shows that expectations of Brexiteers and African politicians alike concerning an enhanced, partner-like Post-Brexit Commonwealth relationship are largely unfounded.
F10|North-South Trade and Uneven Development in a Classical Conventional Wage Share Growth Model|This study presents a model of North-South trade and uneven development, and investigates the growth rates of both countries under the trade pattern such that the North specializes in investment goods while the South specializes in consumption goods. In contrast to existing studies, we close the model by fixing each countries' income distribution, specifically, the ratio of labor share to capital share. Using the model, we conduct the following two analyses. First, assuming that both countries already engage in international trade and that the North specializes in investment goods while the South specializes in consumption goods, we investigate the dynamics of both countries' growth rates and the terms of trade. Second, we investigate the condition under which such a trade pattern holds, and compare equilibrium variables under autarky and equilibrium values under free trade. From the first analysis, it follows that both countries grow at the same rate in the long run. From the second analysis, however, it follows that in the first place, the terms of trade must lie within the interval between the relative prices of both countries and that both countries' growth rates may not equalize as long as both countries engage in trade.
F10|The Nexus Between Industrial Exports And Economic Growth In Tunisia: Empirical Analysis|This paper investigates the relationship between industrial exports and economic growth in Tunisia. In order to achieve this purpose, annual data for the periods between 1969 and 2015 were tested using the Johansen co-integration analysis of Vector Error Correction Model and the Granger-Causality tests. According to the result of the analysis, it was determined that there is a negative relationship between industrial exports and economic growth in the long run. Otherwise, and on the basis of the results of the Granger causality test, we noted the absence of a causal relationship between industrial exports and economic growth in the short term. These results provide evidence that industrial exports, thus, are not seen as the source of economic growth in Tunisia and suffer a lot of problems and poor economic strategy.
F10|A Ricardian model of international trade with oligopolistic competition| This paper studies a Ricardian model of international trade with a continuum of products in a general equilibrium model in which firms engage in oligopolistic competition. It provides a bridge between trade models based on perfect competition and models based on imperfect competition. Compared with a model based on perfect competition, the incorporation of fixed cost leads to the result that an increase of domestic labor may increase the relative wage of the domestic country.
F10|Recent US-China Tariff War: Opportunities for Indian Pharmaceutical Exports?|The inception of World Trade Organization (WTO) in 1995 was expected to reduce trade barriers across member countries on one hand and facilitate growth though promotion of international trade in merchandise products and services on the other. The subsequent WTO-led reforms deepened the globalization wave. In recent times however, the world is witnessing a phase of ‘de-globalization’, with rise in trade barriers and inwardness. The recent increase in US tariffs on Chinese exports and countermeasures imposed by China are a case in point. In 2014 India has initiated the Make-in-India scheme for deepening industrialization and facilitating exports. The current paper evaluates the possible opportunities for expanding Indian pharmaceutical exports in the US market, given the increase in tariff against Chinese products with the help of select trade indices. The analysis portrays a modest opportunity for Indian pharmaceutical exports in the US market, based on their past performance. Only six products at HS 6-digit level, based on the six indicators, are found to be enjoying competitiveness in the US market. The paper concludes that facilitating R&D in pharma segment as well as expanding the coverage of mutual recognition of standards in US may be explored as possible steps for enhancing Indian exports.
F10|Studiu retrospectiv privind comerțul exterior al României în ultimii 100 de ani<BR>[A retrospective study on Romania’s external trade in the past 100 years]|Throughout the last century, Romania's economy has suffered major adverse costs, especially caused by external factors, with an adverse impact both on the volume of foreign trade and its commodity structure and geographical orientation. The study focuses on the evolution of Romania's foreign trade over the past 100 years trying to highlight the main features and trends in the different stages of the Romanian economy development, covering the periods 1918-1947, 1948-1989 and 1990-2017, marked by the the interwar economy particularities, the socialist political and economic regime, and the Romania's transition to the market economy, in the context of pre-accession and integration in the European Union. The presentation of the main coordinates of Romania's trade policies precedes the foreign trade quantitative and qualitative analysis for each of the above mentioned periods.
F10|The Impact of Trade Liberalisation on Economic Growth in Switzerland|The objective of this study is to analyse the effect of trade liberalization on economic growth in Switzerland using annual data from 1990 to 2014. In doing so, the study incorporated Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) and the Employment Rate (EMP) as additional variable to form a multivariate framework. The Auto-Regressive Distributive Lag (ARDL) test was used to test the existence of a long run relationship among the variables. The empirical findings indicated that Trade Openness had a positive and significant effect on economic growth in Switzerland. Thus, the study recommend that there is a need for the country to put strong initiative on adding value on her exports so as to compensate for imports.
F10|Compás Empresarial y de Competitividad No. 2 Somos lo que hacemos El valor agregado de las exportaciones de Colombia y el Valle del Cauca 2016<BR>[Business and Competitiveness Compass No. 2 We are what we do The added value of exports of Colombia and the Valle del Cauca 2016 ]|This paper presents the calculation of the added value of Colombia's exports and Valle del Cauca in 2016. Through the use of product input matrices, it was found that the added value of Colombian exports, measured as a percentage of the value Total exports was 86.5%. For Valle del Cauca, this indicator was 60.9%, reflecting a greater industrial vocation that demands more inputs, both domestic and imported. The exports of the productive sector that contributed more value added to the economy of Valle del Cauca were those of food products. The different indicators used to analyze the national export structure show that Valle del Cauca stands out as one of the departments with the most diversified and sophisticated export offer in the country. Likewise, it is one of the departments that, in greater proportion, imports and exports raw materials and high-tech intermediate goods. Among the main challenges in terms of public policy and business development that stem from this study, are the consolidation of more integrated regional economies, and the attraction of foreign direct investment in sectors that stimulate the production of intermediate goods in the region.
F10|World Equalized Factor Price and Integrated World Trade Space|This study derived a general equilibrium for the Heckscher-Ohlin model at the context of higher dimensions. The equalized factor price at the equilibrium is the Dixit-Norman price, i.e. that the world price will remain the same when allocations of factor endowments change within the IWE box . The study explored a way to show the legacy of comparative advantages on the Heckscher-Ohlin model and demonstrated that the equalized factor price and world commodity price at the equilibrium ensured that the countries participating free trade gain from trade. The solution analytically addresses the Heckscher-Ohlin theorem with trade volume, the Factor-Price Equalization theorem with price solution, and comparative advantages with gains from trade. It shows the hided important logic in the IWE and the Heckscher-Ohlin model as that world factor endowments determine world price.
F10|COMESA-EAC-SADC trepertite free trade area: challenges and prospects|In Sharm ElShiekh, Egypt, 2015 the member states of three major African regional economic blocks: COMESA, SADC and EAC, agreed on establishing a common free trade area called COMESA-EAC-SADC TFTA. Establishing this FTA is considered as a major step towards Africa’s Continental trade integration which is one of the main objectives of Africa 2063 Agenda. This paper aims to identify the potential impacts of the integration among those three RECs on various aspects of economic growth including welfare, trade, price effects, and government’s revenues and to identify the main obstacles and challenges that may hinder achieving these potentials.
F10|Sabah-Kalimantan Road Connectivity: The Effect of Common Border on Export|In an effort to explore new economic window, there was a suggestion to further integrate the economies in Borneo island by improving connectivity. Road connectivity with Kalimantan has been proposed as having the potential to further stimulate Sabah’s economic growth. One of the suggestions was to have road from Serudong to Simanggaris from Malaysia’s side of Sabah. In the context of Sabah, several questions arise: how does this benefit the state? Should there be additional efforts to connect Sabah and Kalimantan via road? Should Sabah spend money to improve logistical connectivity with Kalimantan? This chapter discusses briefly the latest proposal in recent years to establish a road connectivity with North Kalimantan, by estimating the effect of common border when having good road on export. Generally, there are limited studies assesses the impact of Sabah-Kalimantan Road Connectivity from Sabah’s perspective. The study uses gravity model. The regression results indicate that common border is positively linked to trade of Malaysia for the period under investigation. Similarly, it is expected that the road connectivity with Kalimantan is projected to increase Malaysia's and Sabah's export. This study shall give an overview and fill in the literature gap by providing an estimation of the common border effect through road connectivity in the context of Sabah-Kalimantan further economic integration.
F10|Capital, technical progress and international trade|(Abstract) CAPITAL, TECHNICAL PROGRESS AND INTERNATIONAL TRADE Much has been written about the objection originally formulated by Piero Sraffa to the use of production functions and aggregate capital and of the disputes that ensued, but there seems to be no systematic explanation in one place of why this objection is crucial to the foundations of economic theory and why the various attempts to escape it fail. This paper is an attempt provide one. First, it presents the reasoning of the objection and shows how the arguments against it are either fallacious or too restricted to be useful. Second, it shows how technical progress and international trade give two more reasons for the same objection, which, though logically independent, only became apparent because of the first. From these it follows that neither technical progress nor international trade can be plausibly described or explained if capital goods are not treated as heterogeneous goods manufactured with the use of capital goods. This leads to a more realistic depiction of technical progress as the outcome of the R&D of competing firms. (For brevity, government activities are left out.) The implications for international trade are described briefly. This paper is not a survey; it is confined to the minimum needed to establish its contentions. Its discussion of the disputes has mostly been said before, but it covers some gaps that seem to have been overlooked. It adds to the discussion in that the disputes did not take up the implications of technical progress and international trade.
F10|Do Import Tariffs Generate Stagflationary Tendencies?|The recent U.S. trade policy shift has reignited interest about the macroeconomic effects of import tariffs. This paper examines the impacts of import tariff shocks on U.S. macroeconomic performance using quarterly data from 1989-2017. Relying upon the estimation of structural VAR model with sign restrictions, the results suggest that tariff shocks on net-imported vital intermediate input, such as steel, trigger stagflationary tendencies as characterized by short-run increase in inflation and unemployment and decline in real output.
F10|The Value of Online Banking to Small and Meduim-Sized Enterprises: Evidence From Firms Operating in The UAE From Trade Zones|This study estimates the willingness to pay of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) for a business online banking services. The estimation utilizes a contingent valuation method employing data from 400 SMEs in the United Arab Emirates free zones. An interval regression model is used to identify company characteristics affecting WTP. The results indicate an average WTP for online banking of $518.50 per month. Firms engaging in international trade value these services at least 10% more than those with only domestic operations. Other variables that significantly affect WTP include number of employees and the transportation cost of using traditional branch banking.
F10|Valuation of the Quality Attributes of Online Banking Services by Small and Medium Enterprises Engaged in International Trade|This study investigates the important attributes of online banking system for Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and their willingness to pay for each attribute. Zero travel and waiting time, high security, and 24/7 accessibility are the key attributes for this service. The results show that SMEs engaged in international trade value online banking services significantly more than the others. Domestically focused firms value high‐quality service at about $163 a month, while import‐focused businesses value such a service at approximately US$646 per month. Export‐intensive SMEs value high‐quality online services 14% further, for an average of $736 per month.
F10|Commodity Trade Matters|Primary commodities are used as inputs into all production processes, yet they account for approximately 16 percent of world trade. Despite their share in trade, we show that the aggregate gains from trade are largely understated if we ignore key features of commodities: low price elasticities of demand (difficulty in finding substitutes), low price elasticities of supply, and high dispersion of natural resources across countries. We develop a general-equilibrium model of consumption, production, and input-output linkages that explicitly accounts for these features. Our simulations confirm that the gains from trade are significantly larger, especially when considering large trade cost changes.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F10|Finland’s Growth Performance – The Lost Decade and the Prospects in the Near Term|Abstract In the report we analyse the reasons for the weakness of Finland’s economic performance over the past decade and assess the growth prospects in the coming 5 years. The weakness of Finland’s performance relative to comparative EU-countries since 2009 can largely be explained by the collapse of Nokia’s production and the deterioration of cost competitiveness. The recovery in turn stems from a stronger export market growth, the fading away of the negative Nokia shock, and the improvement of cost competitiveness. Of the rise of employment by some 100 000 jobs since 2015 about half can be explained by a number of policy measures to increase labour supply and the so-called competitiveness pact. Based on a realistic assumption on productivity growth, we estimate that Finland could achieve an annual growth rate of about 2 per cent in the coming 5 years. This requires, nevertheless, that the employment rate increases by 2023 to the level reached by comparative countries. Although such a change would not be greater than what is taking place during the current government period, ambitious reforms are needed to achieve this.
F10|Institutions, Trade and Development: A Quantitative Analysis|We propose and apply methods to quantify the impact of national institutions on international trade and development. We are able to identify the direct impact of country-specific institutions on international trade within the structural gravity framework. Our approach naturally addresses the prominent issue of endogenous institutions. The empirical analysis offers robust evidence that stronger institutions promote trade. A counterfactual analysis reveals that the changes in institutional quality in the poor countries in our sample between 1996 and 2006 have had, via their impact on imports from rich countries, significant and heterogeneous real GDP effects, varying between -5 and 5 percent. Our methods are readily applicable to identifying the impact of a wide range of country-specific variables on international trade.
F10|On the Bi- and Uni-lateral Trade Effects of EMU Membership|We propose a simple theoretically consistent adjustment for structural gravity estimations of the EMU impact on international trade. Our methods result in two contributions to the related literature. First, we show that proper control for intra-national trade flows leads to larger, positive, and statistically significant bilateral EMU effects. Second, the introduction of intra-national trade flows enables us to identify unilateral EMU effects on trade between members and non-member countries. The unilateral effects are also positive, sizable and statistically significant.
F10|Does host market regulation induce cross‐border environmental innovation?|This paper evaluates the effect of host‐country environmental policy stringency on the offshoring of green patents for 2000 top world R&D performers. It is shown that a more stringent environmental regulation triggers patent offshoring in the field of green technologies. Results are robust to various different specifications, to alternative definitions of innovation offshoring and of regulatory restrictions, to controls for firm and country‐level characteristics and to the consideration of possible endogeneity of regulation. We interpret these findings as evidence that MNEs can take advantage from their exposure to multiple institutional settings, reducing the costs of, and increasing the payoff from, green innovation offshoring. It is also suggested that R&D subsidies and non‐market‐based regulatory measures are more important than market‐based instruments as drivers of cross‐border environmental innovation.
F10|Openness and productivity of the Swiss economy|Abstract This paper analyzes the connection between openness and economic performance in Switzerland. Considering different dimensions of openness, we show that the Swiss economy is classified as relatively open. Nevertheless, there still is potential to further increase international integration, particularly through deregulation in the services sector. We also show that for some branches in the Swiss manufacturing sector, increases in international trade are associated with higher productivity in the long run. With regard to financial openness, we show that in the aftermath of the financial crisis, Switzerland mainly suffered from capital retrenchment. Foreign capital inflows were of minor importance. Short-run costs due to high volatility of capital flows might therefore be lower than widely perceived.
F10|Organizing Global Supply Chains: Input Cost Shares and Vertical Integration|We study how the technological importance of inputs – measured by cost shares – is related to the decision to “make” or “buy” that input. Using detailed French international trade data and an instrumental variable approach based on self-constructed input-output tables, we show that multinationals vertically integrate high cost share inputs. A stylized incomplete contracting model with both ex-ante and ex-post inefficiencies explains why: technologically more important inputs are “made” when transaction cost economics type forces overpower property rights type forces. However, additional results show that both types forces are needed to explain the full patterns in the data.
F10|An Empirical Examination of the J-Curve: New Zealand's Bilateral Trade with Selected Countries|The J-curve hypothesis holds that the devaluation or depreciation of a country’s currency worsens the trade balance in the short run before improving the balance in the long run. This study investigates the short-run and long-run effects of nominal exchange rate changes on the bilateral trade balance between New Zealand, Australia, USA, UK, China, India, Japan and Singapore using quarterly data from 1990 to 2014. The results show some evidence of J-curve effects in the case of New Zealand and China and New Zealand and Japan but with no evidence to support J-curve effects in the case of New Zealand and Australia, USA, UK, India and Singapore. Diagnostic tests, however, suggest that there are some omitted variables in the models.
F10|Are Banks Engines of Export? Financial Structures and Export Dynamics|We study the impact of financial structures on the dynamics of the export sector using rich data from over 60 countries. The results reveal that bank-oriented financial systems boost the size of the export sector more than market-oriented financial systems. However, especially in middle- and low-income countries, this effect mostly stems from banks slowing down exporters’ exit rather than promoting firms’ entry into export. The reduced exit from the export sector appears to reflect domestic banks’ tendency to evergreen loans to exporters (“soft budget constraint”) more than banks’ buffering role in difficult times. Foreign banks mitigate this effect and enhance the dynamism of the export sector.
F10|Estimating the Trade and Welfare Effects of Brexit: A Panel Data Structural Gravity Model|This paper proposes a new panel data structural gravity approach for estimating the trade and welfare effects of Brexit. The suggested Constrained Poisson Pseudo Maximum Likelihood Estimator exhibits some useful properties for trade policy analysis and allows to obtain estimates and confidence intervals which are consistent with structural trade theory. Assuming different counterfactual post-Brexit scenarios, our main findings suggest that UKs (EUs) exports of goods to the EU (UK) are likely to decline within a range between 7.2% and 45.7% (5.9% and 38.2%) six years after the Brexit has taken place. For the UK, the negative trade effects are only partially offset by an increase in domestic goods trade and trade with third countries, inducing a decline in UKs real income between 1.4% and 5.7% under the hard Brexit scenario. The estimated welfare effects for the EU are negligible in magnitude and statistically not different from zero.
F10|The extensive and intensive margins of exports of firms in developing and emerging countries|Using a dataset of over 86,000 firms from 179 surveys in developing and emerging countries, this paper presents evidence of the relationship between the margins of trade and productivity. Consistent with heterogeneous firm theoretical models, firms with high productivity have both greater likelihood of exporting (extensive margin) and higher export volume (intensive margin). Access to credit increases likelihood of entry to international markets; however, credit does not increase export volume. Size is a robust indicator of exporting status and the volume of exports. Firms with foreign ownership participation tend to be exporters, while those with state participation tend not to be.
F10|Draft Legislation of the German Government to Combat VAT Evasion in Ecommerce|The German federal government presented a legislative proposal on tax- and especially VAT law with the focus to combat VAT fraud in (international) ecommerce on July 31st 2018. This draft legislation is explained and discussed.
F10|Does persistence in internationalization and innovation influence firms’ performance?|In this paper, we analyze the joint effect of persistency in innovation and export on firms’ total factor productivity (measured in accordance with Levinsohn and Petrin, 2003). For this purpose, we use data on Italian manufacturing firms covering an eight-year time span (1998-2006) which allow us to measure the effect of different time activities, both in innovation and in export and the existence of different pathways linking them. We distinguish between persistent and temporary exporting firms as well as frequent and temporary innovators, to test (through OLS and a two-step system GMM) the existence of any combined learning-by-exporting and learning-by-doing effects. We find that persistent innovation efforts seem to be associated with a permanent presence in foreign markets since persistently innovative and exporting firms have better productivity results than persistently exporting (innovating) firms with no persistent innovation (export). Combining both strategies can be an opportunity to internalize knowledge flows coming from long-lasting exposure to foreign markets.
F10|Do Import Tariffs Generate Stagflationary Tendencies?|The recent U.S. trade policy shift has reignited interest about the macroeconomic effects of import tariffs. This paper examines the impacts of import tariff shocks on U.S. macroeconomic performance using quarterly data from 1989-2017. Relying upon the estimation of structural VAR model with sign restrictions, the results suggest that tariff shocks on net-imported vital intermediate input, such as steel, trigger stagflationary tendencies as characterized by short-run increase in inflation and unemployment and decline in real output.
F10|Trade and Credit Reallocation: How Banks Help Shape Comparative Advantage|Trade and innovation cause structural change. Productive factors must flow from declining to growing industries. Banks play a major role in cutting credit to non-viable firms in downsizing sectors and in providing new credit to finance investment in expanding, innovative sectors. Structural parameters of a country's banking system thus influence comparative advantage and trade, and can magnify the gains from trade liberalization. The analysis shows how insolvency laws, minimum capital standards, and cost of bank equity determine credit reallocation, sectoral expansion and trade patterns.
F10|Beyond Tariff Reductions: What Extra Boost From Trade Agreement Provisions?|There is a growing recognition that for developed economies, like the UK, tariff-free market access is just one of a number of measures that ease cross-border trade flows. Modern trade agreements go beyond tariff reductions by setting rules, such as market access and regulation of foreign service providers. We examine the contribution of deep non-tariff provisions on international trade in goods and services. Using a gravity model, we find that provisions related to services, investment, and competition make up half of the overall impact of economic integration agreements on trade flows. These deep provisions have larger effects for trade in services than for trade in goods, and their relative contribution is highest in sectors that facilitate supply chain activity, such as transportation and storage. We apply our sectoral estimates of deep provisions to examine two counterfactuals of the UK signing bilateral deals with the US and with China and India. We find that negotiating services, investment, and competition provisions in these future deals would boost trade relatively more in professional, scientific, and technical activities in the UK.
F10|Networks and Trade|Trade occurs between firms both across borders and within countries, and most trade transactions include at least one large firm with many trading partners. This article reviews the literature on firm-to-firm connections in trade. A growing body of evidence coming from domestic and international transaction data has established empirical regularities that have inspired the development of new theories emphasizing firm heterogeneity among both buyers and suppliers in production networks. Theoretical work has considered both static and dynamic matching environments in a framework of many-to-many matching. The literature on trade and production networks is at an early stage, and there are many unanswered empirical and theoretical questions.
F10|Managing Trade: Evidence from China and the US|We present a heterogeneous-firm model in which management ability increases both production efficiency and product quality. Combining six micro-datasets on management practices, production and trade in Chinese and American firms, we find broad support for the model's predictions. First, better managed firms are more likely to export, sell more products to more destination countries, and earn higher export revenues and profits. Second, better managed exporters have higher prices, higher quality, and lower quality-adjusted prices. Finally, they also use a wider range of inputs, higher quality and more expensive inputs, and imported inputs from more advanced countries. The structural estimates indicate that management is important for improving production efficiency and product quality in both countries, but it matters more in China than in the US, especially for product quality. Panel analysis for the US and a randomized control trial in India suggest that management exerts causal effects on product quality, production efficiency, and exports. Poor management practices may thus hinder trade and growth, especially in developing countries.
F10|Global trade finance, trade collapse and trade slowdown: a Granger causality analysis|This research paper provides a causality assessment on the linkage between declines in world trade finance and the world trade collapse in the period following the Financial Crisis of 2008 and 2009 as well as the ensuing global trade slowdown. The paper performs Granger Causality tests on two time series: World trade (volume data acquired from the CPB World Trade Monitor) and World trade finance (transaction data acquired from SWIFT), using global monthly data from January 2007 to May 2017. In the short run, Granger causality always runs one-way from world trade finance to world trade. We always find two-way Granger causality for lags longer than two years. Importantly Granger causality never runs one-way from world trade to world trade finance. Given the short-term nature of trade finance, we conclude that world trade finance Granger-causes world trade.
F10|Old Firms and New Products: Does Experience Increase Survival?|We examine the relationship between exporting experience and the duration of firm export product flows. We find that more experienced firms (in years of exporting) show a higher probability of failure associated with the introduction of new products. On the other hand, firms with broader export scope are more likely to have better survival times for newly launched products. Although apparently counter-intuitive, we show that this finding is consistent with models of multi-product firms in which firms begin exporting by launching the products closest to their core competency and gradually expand their range of products by exporting those that are further away from their core, resulting in lower survival probability for later products. Validating this interpretation, we show that the distance of the new products to the core competency of the firm plays an important role in determining the survival of new products.
F10|About Ethics in Thinking of Great Philosophers|Ethics, an integral part of philosophy, has evolved closely with philosophical doctrines, with the obvious general-specific relationship between philosophy and ethics. At all stages of the evolution of philosophy, beginning with antiquity, many philosophers were animated by the desire to build and consolidate their thinking in the form of doctrines, currents, concepts and philosophical guidelines, materialized, usually in works, many of them of recognized value over the centuries. The use of several concepts for defining and analyzing different philosophical thoughts (doctrine, conception, current, theory, philosophical orientation), is imposed by several factors associated with a philosophical thinking, such as: theoretical importance and Practice, degree of substantiation, resistance to critical positions of analysts, scientific authority of the exponent of a doctrine, concepts, currents, philosophical guidelines etc.
F10|Has CEFTA Increased Members’ Mutual Trade? Evidence with an Enlarged Set of Plausibly Exogenous Instruments|The objective of the paper is to measure the effect of the Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA) in its today’s composition on members’ mutual trade. Special consideration is given to CEFTA endogeneity stemming from members’ will to form a trade bloc as a vehicle to approximate EU sooner and prevent further misunderstandings in the Balkan. We use a Conditional Mixed Process estimator whereby CEFTA is instrumented by a set of variables measuring democracy and governments’ negotiation will. The recent Conley et al. (2012) method is used to deal with only plausibly exogenous instruments. The 1996-2015 period is covered. Results suggest that CEFTA played quantitatively large and statistically significant role for its members. When endogeneity is considered, the effect of CEFTA on its members’ mutual trade is found even higher by 50% to 61%. This may indirectly suggest that CEFTA trading power has been drawn not only from countries’ GDPs and proximity, but also from their governments’ will to establish level playing field for cooperation and approach the EU quicker. However, if instruments’ strict exogeneity cannot be secured by the means of argument or statistical tools, then results suggest that CEFTA effect’s amplification may be rather driven, at least partially, by the correlation between the instrument and trade shocks.
F10|Gains from Trade: Does Sectoral Heterogeneity Matter?|This paper assesses the quantitative importance of including sectoral heterogeneity in computing the gains from trade. Our framework draws from Caliendo and Parro (2015) and Alvarez and Lucas (2007) and has sectoral heterogeneity along five dimensions, including the elasticity of trade to trade costs, the value-added share, and the input-output structure. The key parameter we estimate is the sectoral trade elasticity, and we use the Simonovska and Waugh (2014) simulated method of moments estimator with micro price data. Our estimates range from 2.97 to 8.94, considerably lower than those obtained with the Eaton and Kortum (2002) price-based method. Our benchmark model is calibrated to 21 OECD countries and 20 sectors. We compute the gains from trade in our benchmark model, and in several re-calibrated versions of the model in which we eliminate one or more sources of sectoral heterogeneity. Our main result is that sectoral heterogeneity does not always lead to an increase in the gains from trade. There are two reasons for this. First, the magnitudes of our estimated sectoral trade elasticities are relatively high, while the magnitude of our estimated aggregate trade elasticity is low. All else equal, this will lead to higher gains for the aggregate, one-sector model. Second, the sectors with low trade elasticities (hence, implying high gains from trade) are not the sectors with low value-added shares and with high initial trade shares (which would magnify the gains). Hence, the sectoral heterogeneity in our calibrated model does not exert complementary gains from trade effects.
F10|Russia’s Foreign trade in 2017|In 2016, the growth rates of world economy hit the all-time low since the global financial crisis and constituted 3.2 percent. However, the global economy is experiencing a broad-based cyclical upturn started in mid-2016 is gaining momentum. In this context, international financial organizations have adjusted their short-and medium-term forecasts to the upside.
F10|Russia’s participation in the WTO trade dispute settlement system|The Russian Federation acceded to the World Trade Organization (WTO) on August 22, 2012, and was therefore authorized to participate in the WTO trade dispute settlement system. The WTO dispute settlement system is in place pursuant to the Dispute Settlement Understanding (DSU)[1]. Hence the Russian Federation has been entitled since August 2012 to resort to the system to uphold its trade interests.
F10|The impact of real exchange rate shocks on manufacturing workers: An autopsy from the MORG|We study the impact of large real exchange rate shocks on workers in sectors initially more exposed to international trade using the Current Population Survey’s (CPS) Merged Outgoing Rotation Group (MORG) from 1979 to 2010 combined with new annual measures of imported inputs, a proxy for offshoring. We find that in periods when US relative prices are high, and imports surge relative to exports, workers in sectors with greater initial exposure to international trade were more likely to be unemployed or exit the labor force a year later, but did not experience significant declines in wages conditional on being employed. Contrary to the usual narrative, we find negative wage effects for higher-wage, but not lower-wage workers, particularly for those who are less-educated.
F10|Gelen Dogrudan Yabanci Sermaye Yatırimlari ile Geri Bag Arasindaki Iliski|Bu calismanin amaci 2000-2012 yillari arasinda Cekya, Estonya, Macaristan, Polonya ve Slovakya’ya gelen dogrudan yabanci yatirimlar ile geri bag arasindaki iliskinin analiz edilmesidir. Panel veri analiz yonteminin kullanildigi bu calismada analiz 14 ayri sektor icin yapilmistir. Analiz sonuclari gida urunleri-tutun urunleri; petrol urunleri-kimyasal urunleri; elektrik, gaz, su; motorlu tasitlar-diger ulasim araclari ve tasimacilik-telekomunikasyon-otelcilik-yemek hizmetleri sektorlerinde yapilan dogrudan yabanci sermaye yatirimlari ile geri bag arasinda istatistiksel olarak anlamli bir iliski oldugunu gostermektedir. Diger sektorlerde dogrudan yabanci sermaye yatirimlari ile geri bag arasinda istatistiksel olarak anlamli bir iliski tespit edilememistir.
F10|What Is Restraining Non-Energy Export Growth?|This note summarizes the key findings from Bank of Canada staff analytical work examining the reasons for the recent weakness in Canadian non-energy exports. Canada steadily lost market share in US non-energy imports between 2002 and 2017, mostly reflecting continued and broad-based competitiveness losses. In addition to this evidence from the demand side, industry analysis points to supply constraints that are limiting export growth, such as physical capacity and shortages of skilled labour. Transportation bottlenecks, environmental and regulatory changes, and the inability to source raw materials also appear to be limiting export growth in some industries. Evidence suggests supply-side capacity constraints at the industry level as well. These constraints mainly reflect a decline in the factors of production, such as labour input and capital stock, which are likely related to the ongoing competitiveness losses. Simulations using the Bank of Canada’s ToTEM model suggest that demand factors such as competitiveness issues explain most of the recent weakness in non-commodity exports. The simulations also indicate that a monetary policy reaction is required, independent of whether the weakness is driven by demand or supply factors. Staff expect broad-based competitiveness losses and structural supply factors to continue to restrain the growth of non-energy exports over the projection horizon, which extends until 2020.
F10|Decomposing Canada’s Market Shares: An Update|Building on the shift-share analysis of Barnett and Charbonneau (2015), this note decomposes Canada’s market shares in the United States, Europe and China for imports of non-energy goods into competitiveness, preference shifts and an interaction term. We find that, despite the depreciation of the dollar, Canada continued to lose market share over 2014–17 (around 0.4 percentage points lost per year on average over four years). Competitiveness losses are widespread among sectors and spread out over time. Losses from shifting preferences have stabilized since 2012 and are concentrated in motor vehicles and parts, forestry products, and building and packaging materials. Canada’s share of European and Chinese imports of non-energy goods has been stable at around 2 and 1 per cent, respectively. However, in each case, one key sector offsets competitiveness losses in a broad range of sectors. Canada’s exports in some markets have collapsed over recent years (e.g., small trucks, electrical apparatus for telephony), which suggests that some export capacity has been lost (or otherwise reallocated through a mandate change). In addition, we observe that Canada’s market share in US imports of services has been eroded by stiff competition from emerging markets, such as India. Finally, relative price movements appear to partly explain Canada’s lack of competitiveness in relation to Mexico and China for US imports of non-energy goods, more specifically in motor vehicles and parts and consumer goods.
F10|Weakness in Non-Commodity Exports: Demand versus Supply Factors|We use the Terms-of-Trade Economic Model (ToTEM) to conduct demand- and supply-driven simulations, both of which deliver weakness in Canadian non-commodity exports relative to foreign activity in line with recent data. We then compare the predictions of the simulations with observed outcomes to shed light on the source of weakness in non-commodity exports. Our results suggest that demand factors, such as competitiveness challenges, likely play a dominant role in explaining the recent weakness in non-commodity exports. The simulations also reveal that a monetary policy response is required, independent of the source of the weakness in non-commodity exports.
F10|The costs of trade protectionism: evidence from Spanish firms and non-tariff measures|The rise in non-tariff protectionist measures has been associated to the weakness in global trade over the last few years. We investigate the effect of non-tariff barriers (NTBs) on exports growth over the period 2009-2013 using administrative data at the firm-product-destination level in Spain. According to our findings, non-tariff protectionist measures significantly reduce exports growth at the product-destination level. Moreover, NTBs also hinder exports growth at the firm level and negatively affect other firm outcomes such as productivity growth. In contrast, the impact of liberalizing non-tariff measures is not statistically significant.
F10|Rethinking prices and markets underlying price-competitiveness indicators|A comprehensive analysis of price and cost competitiveness warrants an assessment of a range of alternately deflated nominal effective exchange rates. Here, we focus solely on the price-competitiveness indicator currently published by the Bank of Italy (Felettigh et al., 2015), which is based on the producer prices of domestically-sold manufactures, and we refine its measurement. First, we update the data sources for the producer price index. Revisions mainly refer to non-euro area countries, yet also affect relative prices and therefore the price-competitiveness trends of the four main euro-area economies. These countries have performed better according to the revised indicators, in particular since 2010. Second, we present a novel three-market view of price-competitiveness indicators by splitting destination markets. The overall indicator encompassing competitive pressures on both the import and the export side can indeed be broken down into three components: the domestic market, where local producers are rivalled by foreign competitors with their import penetration; euro-area markets, where all countries compete; and non-euro-area markets, where, similarly, all countries compete. Whereas France and Germany have displayed similar price-competitiveness developments in both the euro and non-euro area markets over the entire period since 1999, Italy and Spain have performed better in the non-euro area than in the euro-area markets. Competitiveness in the domestic market and that in non-euro area markets are the main, equally important, drivers of overall developments since 1999 in Italy and in Germany.
F10|Why exports adjust: missing imported inputs or lack of credit?|This paper examines the role of imported intermediate inputs and credit constraints on exports adjustment. For identification, we study an episode of capital controls on outflows that exogenously restricted firms’ ability to pay for imports and the large-scale credit crunch that followed the imposition of controls in Greece in June 2015. Exploiting within-firm variation across sectors, we find that lack of imported inputs explains the drop in exports at the intensive margin, while lack of long-term credit is associated with adjustments at the extensive margin. Multinationals overcome liquidity constraints because of access to parents’ internal funds, but not import constraints because of stronger linkages for specialized inputs abroad. Our findings point to a novel result: the importance of both channels – real and finance – in jointly determining trade adjustment, and the different implications for the margins of trade
F10|Central Bank Reputation and Inflation-Unemployment Performance: Empirical Evidence from an Executive Survey of 62 Countries|Although there is a well-established theoretical literature that links central bank (CB) reputation with inflation performance following Barro and Gordon, there is little empirical work testing the relationship rigorously. This paper empirically tests the impact of reputation on inflation-unemployment performance using a novel set of data on CB reputation--an annual local business manager survey on central bank policy covering 62 countries during 1995-2016. This paper finds that CB reputation is a significant determinant of inflation: the results of an FE panel and Arellano-Bond difference GMM model show that high-reputation CBs have achieved better inflation performances over the past 20 years with lower levels of inflation than others, holding the output gap and unemployment rate constant. This result remains robust to various control variables including money growth, past inflation levels, exchange rates, and financial crisis dummies. This paper also finds that high CB reputation is associated with a tight anchoring of inflation expectations to inflation targets in inflation-targeting countries. The effects of reputation on the volatility of inflation and unemployment rates are found to be not robust. This paper offers evidence of the opposite-direction causality as well that goes from high inflation to decreased CB reputation.
F10|The Effects of Export Diversification on Macroeconomic Stabilization : Evidence from Korea|This paper studies whether export diversification mitigated the negative effect of the global financial crisis on exports using the Korean case. Specifically, we use annual data on the exports of 24 Korean manufacturing industries from 2000 to 2016 and examine whether the negative effect of the crisis on exports was less prevalent in industries that were more diversified in terms of country and product. We also examine whether export competitiveness, measured by the revealed comparative advantage index by industry, had a mitigating effect on trade during the crisis. In order to study these issues, we use a panel regression with a fixed-effect model for 24 Korean manufacturing industries. From our empirical analysis, we find that country diversification weakened the negative impact of the global financial crisis on Korea¡¯s exports, but neither product diversification nor export competitiveness did so.
F10|Trade and Labor Demand of Firms (in Korean)|This paper analyzes the effects of trade on the labor demand of trading firms in Korea. We apply system GMM methodology to estimate the effects of import and export on employment of Korean manufacturing firms using firm-level data from Survey of Business Activities of Statistics Korea between 2006 and 2014. According to our estimated results, high-productivity firms show positive and statistically significant effects of exports on the labor demand while low-productivity firms have no statistically significant effects. Furthermore, our results show that offshoring activities mitigate the positive effects of exports on employment because tasks insid the firms should be relocated to the abroad. On the other hand, as imports increase, labor demand decreases since labor force is replaced by low-priced imported inputs. Also, firms participating in the global outsourcing mitigate the negative effect of imports since those firms achieved advanced-level of efficiency in the process of production through offshoring and expand their production. Therefore, it is important to consider heterogeneous firm productivity as well as offshoring activities in analyzing the effects of trade on labor demand at the firm level.
F10|New Marshall-Lerner Conditions for an Economy with Outward and Two-Way Foreign Direct Investment|The international debate about trade imbalances often puts the focus on the role of domestic GDP/foreign GDP and the role of real exchange rate changes – with respect to the latter adjustment channel, the standard question is whether or not the Marshall-Lerner condition is fulfilled. While recent trade literature has focused on exchange rate pass-through the role of FDI has not been much discussed. With outward foreign direct investment (FDI) and inward FDI becoming increasingly important, the question about the real exchange rate impact on the trade balance has to be restated as imports are proportionate to real gross national income and this indeed implies a new Marshall-Lerner condition. It is shown that with outward cumulated FDI, the modified condition is stricter than the traditional case and with both outward FDI and inward FDI, the elasticity requirement is ambiguous. “FDI globalization” might go along with unpleasant trade imbalance problems so that additional empirical research is needed as well as stronger international policy cooperation as high trade balance deficits/high trade balance surplus positions could be rather difficult to correct through exchange rate adjustments only. Looking at the import elasticities for all partner countries of the US – or country x – together is quite misleading for policymakers.
F10|Commodity Trade Matters|Primary commodities account for approximately 16 percent of world trade, yet they are used extensively as intermediate inputs into many production processes. We show that ignoring several key features of trade in commodities leads to a large understatement of aggregate gains from trade despite their relatively small share of world trade. We quantify the welfare gains from international trade when we account for specific characteristics of most primary commodities: i) a low price elasticity of demand as a result of difficulty in finding substitutes, ii) a low price elasticity of supply, and iii) a high concentration of natural resources and production among a few countries. For instance, copper is difficult to replace in the electronic equipment industry, the supply and demand for copper vary only slightly with changes in prices, a large share of its supply comes from Chile and copper accounts for half of Chilean total export revenues. We explicitly account for these features in a general-equilibrium model of consumption, production, and input-output linkages. In our simulations, we confirm that ignoring these specific features of commodities leads to a wide understatement of the aggregate gains from trade.
F10|Steuart, Smith, and the ‘system of commerce’: international trade and monetary theory in late-18th century british political economy|Though contemporaries, Adam Smith and Sir James Steuart are commonly portrayed as men belonging to different eras. Whereas Smith went down in history both as founder of Classical Political Economy and patron of economic liberalism, Steuart became known as the last, outdated advocate of mercantilist policies in Britain. Smith himself was responsible for popularizing the notion of the ‘system of commerce’ as an approach to political economy that dominated British thought during the early modern period. As it evolved into a historiographical concept, the mercantile system came to be seen as an international trade theory grounded upon the fallacious doctrine of the favorable balance of trade. In the Wealth of Nations, however, Smith puts limited emphasis on international trade as a theoretical concern. His analysis of the subject, moreover, was marred by lack of analytical clarity, which caused him to be chastised by some among his followers who adhered more enthusiastically to the free trade cause. Given Smith’s doubtful credentials as a free trade theorist, in this paper we try to analyze the reasons that led him and Steuart to be historically placed on opposite sides of the mercantilist divide. To do so, we analyze the works of both authors in depth, showing that their disagreements in matters of economic policy have chiefly to do with different views about the role of money in the economy. Additionally, we explore how early-19th century writers helped forge the intellectual profiles of both Steuart and Smith.
F10|The Great Recession and a Missing Generation of Exporters|The collapse of international trade surrounding the Great Recession has garnered significant attention. This paper studies firm entry and exit in foreign markets and their role in the post-recession recovery of U.S. exports using confidential microdata from the U.S. Census Bureau. We find that incumbent exporters account for the vast majority of the decline in export volumes during the crisis. The recession also induced a missing generation of exporters, with large increases in exits and a substantial decline in entries into foreign markets. New exporters during these years tended to have larger export volumes, however, compensating for the decline in the number of exporting firms. Thus, while entry and exit were important for determining the variety of U.S. goods that were exported, they were less important for the trajectory of aggregate foreign sales.
F10|Beyond tariff reductions: what extra boost from trade agreement provisions?|There is a growing recognition that for developed economies, like the UK, tariff-free market access is just one of a number of measures that ease cross-border trade flows. Modern trade agreements go beyond tariff reductions by setting rules, such as market access and regulation of foreign service providers. We examine the contribution of deep non-tariff provisions on international trade in goods and services. Using a gravity model, we find that provisions related to services, investment, and competition make up half of the overall impact of economic integration agreements on trade flows. These deep provisions have larger effects for trade in services than for trade in goods, and their relative contribution is highest in sectors that facilitate supply chain activity, such as transportation and storage. We apply our sectoral estimates of deep provisions to examine two counterfactuals of the UK signing bilateral deals with the US and with China and India. We find that negotiating services, investment, and competition provisions in these future deals would boost trade relatively more in professional, scientific, and technical activities in the UK.
F10|Parallel Imports and Repair Services|This study investigates the effect of parallel imports when the producer of a durable good may refuse to provide repair and maintenance services for parallel imported units, or charge higher prices for those services. By doing so, the producer is able to weaken intra-brand competition and reduce the degree of market integration, thereby mitigating the negative effect of parallel imports on profits. Although the lower degree of market integration increases the producer's profit, it does not always mean that the producer wants to improve the durability of the product. If the producer invests in improving the durability of the good, the service discrimination against the parallel imported units could lower the durability of the product. In this case, consumers in the importing country may suffer by permitting parallel imports, and the negative effect is amplified by trade liberalization.
F10|Ice(berg) transport costs|"Iceberg transport costs are one of the main ingredients of modern trade and economic geography models: transport costs are modelled by assuming that a fraction of the goods shipped ""melts in transit''. In this paper, we investigate whether the iceberg assumption applies to the costs of transporting the only good that literally melts in transit: ice. Using detailed information on Boston's nineteenth-century global ice trade, we show that ice(berg) transport costs in practice were a combination of a true ad-valorem iceberg cost: melt in transit, and freight, (off)loading and insurance costs. The physics of the melt process and the practice of insulating the ice in transit imply an immediate violation of the iceberg assumption: shipping ice is subject to economies scale."
F10|On the Profitability of Trade Deflection and the Need for Rules of Origin|When two countries conclude a free trade agreement (FTA), they define rules of origin (RoOs) to determine whether a product is eligible for preferential treatment. RoOs exist to avoid that exports from third countries enter the FTA through the member with the lowest tariff (trade deflection). However, RoOs distort exporters’ sourcing decisions and burden them with red tape. Using a global data set, we show that, for 86% of global trade and 78% of bilateral product-level comparisons, trade deflection is not profitable because external tariffs are rather similar and transportation costs are non-negligible; in the presence of a deep FTA, deflection is significantly less profitable still. We find evidence for both ex post adjustment of external tariffs and ex ante selection effects. The pervasive and unconditional use of RoOs is, therefore, hard to rationalize.
F10|Production Integration in the European Union|Measured by trade in intermediate inputs, economic integration has increased between 2000 and 2014 between members of the European Union and even more with non-members. Integration is negatively related to economic size and positively to the number of years as a member. Germany is the largest hub in the production network and the centre of gravity has moved eastward. Older member states are increasingly exporting service inputs and new member states primary and manufacturing inputs. Wages are increasing faster in countries with low initial wages, indicating wage convergence as a result of production integration.
F10|Somatic distance, cultural affinities, trust and trade|Somatic distance, or differences in physical appearance, proves to be extremely important in the gravity model of bilateral trade in conformity with results in other areas of economics and outside of it in the social sciences. This is also true quite independently of survey evidence about bilateral trust. These findings are obtained in a sample of the 15 members of the European Economic Association in 1996. Robustness tests also show that somatic distance has a more reliable influence on bilateral trade than the other cultural variables. The article finally discusses the interpretation and the breadth of application of these results.
F10|Market Potential and Global Growth over the Long Twentieth Century|We examine the evolution of market potential and its role in driving economic growth over the long twentieth century. Theoretically, we exploit a structural gravity model to derive a closed-form solution for a widely-used measure of market potential. We are thus able to express market potential as a function of directly observable and easily estimated variables. Empirically, we collect a large dataset on aggregate and bilateral trade flows as well as output for 51 countries. We find that market potential exhibits an upward trend across all regions of the world from the early 1930s and that this trend significantly deviates from the evolution of world GDP. Finally, using exogenous variation in trade-related distances to world markets, we demonstrate a significant causal role of market potential in driving global income growth over this period.
F10|Forensics, Elasticities and Benford's Law|By its very nature, tax evasion is difficult to detect as the parties involved have an incentive to conceal their activities. This paper offers a setting where doing so is possible because of an exogenous shock to the tax rate. It contributes to the literature by proposing two new methods of detecting evasion in the context of border taxes. The first method is based on Benford's law, while the second relies on comparing price and trade cost elasticities of import demand. Both methods produce evidence consistent with an increase in tax evasion after the shock. The paper further shows that evasion induces a bias in the estimation of trade cost elasticity of import demand, leading to miscalculation of gains from trade based on standard welfare formulations. Finally, welfare predictions are derived from a simple Armington trade model that accounts for tax evasion.
F10|Trade and Credit Reallocation: How Banks Help Shape Comparative Advantage|Trade and innovation cause structural change. Productive factors must flow from declining to growing industries. Banks play a major role in cutting credit to non-viable firms in downsizing sectors and provide new credit to finance investment in expanding, innovative sectors. Structural parameters of a country’s banking system thus influence comparative advantage and trade patterns. The analysis points to the importance of insolvency laws, minimum capital standards, and cost of bank equity to determine credit reallocation, sectoral expansion and trade patterns.
F10|Revisiting Time as a Trade Barrier: Evidence from a Panel Structural Gravity Model|In this paper we revisit the evidence on the effects of time spent on border-crossing procedures for international trade using a theory-consistent structural gravity model. We exploit a rich panel data set including domestic trade flows and employ a recent econometric estimator that exhibits favorable asymptotic properties. The results indicate a significant negative effect of the time required for border procedures that is driven by the time needed for document preparation. We find that an additional day spent on those procedures corresponds to an ad valorem tariff equivalent of 0.82 percentage points. The parameters of our structural model are used to simulate three counterfactual scenarios, quantifying the effect of past and potential future trade facilitation efforts for middle, low and high income countries. Full endowment general equilibrium effects suggest that lower and middle income countries benefit most in all scenarios in terms of trade and welfare. In times of stagnating multilateral and bilateral trade liberalization efforts, unilateral implementation of trade facilitation carries the potential to induce an alternative stimulus for trade and welfare, especially for low and middle income countries.
F10|The network origins of the gains from trade|This paper argues that the determinants of the welfare gains from trade have fundamentally changed with the emergence of a global production network. Towards this end, we study a Ricardian trade model featuring trade in intermediate inputs, and develop a novel comparative statics approach to decompose the total welfare effect of an arbitrary trade cost shock into several meaningful, easily quantifiable, channels. This decomposition uncovers a unique feature of supply chain trade: the gains from trade are not so much determined by a country's access to the technologies and markets of its direct trade partners, but rather by a country's network exposure to countries further up- or downstream in the global production network. We develop a set of simple statistics to measure each country's network exposure, show how it predicts the gains from trade, and identify each country's key trade intermediaries, i.e., countries that primarily determine its network exposure.
F10|Immigrant Entrepreneurs, Diasporas and Exports|In this paper we highlight a new complementary channel to the business and social network effect à la Rauch (2001) through which immigrants generate increased export flows from the regions in which they settle to their countries of origin: they can become entrepreneurs. Using very small-scale (NUTS-3) administrative data on immigrants' location in Italy, the local presence of immigrant entrepreneurs (i.e. firms owned by foreign-born entrepreneurs) in the manufacturing sector, and on trade flows in manufacturing between Italian provinces and more than 200 foreign countries, we assess the causal relationship going from diasporas and immigrant entrepreneurs towards export flows. Both the size of the diaspora and the number of immigrant entrepreneurs have a positive, significant and economically meaningful effect on exports. We find that increasing the stock of (non-entrepreneur) immigrants by 10% would lead to a 1.7% increase in exports in manufacturing towards immigrants' countries of origin, while increasing the number of immigrant entrepreneurs in manufacturing by 10% would raise exports by about 0.6%. We also show that, besides these bilateral effects, the population of immigrant entrepreneurs raises a province's overall competitiveness and export flows towards all potential destinations.
F10|Somatic distance, trust and trade|Somatic distance, or differences in physical appearance, proves to be extremely important in the gravity model of bilateral trade in conformity with results in other areas of economics and outside in the social sciences. This is also true independently of survey evidence about bilateral trust. These findings are obtained in a sample of the 15 members of the European Economic Area in 1996. Robustness tests also show that somatic distance, as well as co‐ancestry, has a more reliable influence on bilateral trade than the other customary cultural variables. The article finally discusses the interpretation and breadth of application of these results.
F10|On the Competitiveness Effects of Quality Labels: Evidence from the French Cheese Industry|The paper questions the impact of geographical indication labels on firm export competitiveness in the French cheese and cream industry. We use firm level data from the French custom and an original dataset of firms and products concerned by Protected Designations of Origin (PDO). Our estimations show that PDO labeling allows firms to increase their price by 11.5% on average. Moreover these products are perceived by consumers as products of better quality than non-PDO products. Regarding trade margins, while the effect on trade volume (the intensive margin of trade) is not significant, PDO labeling increases the probability of serving a foreign country (the extensive margin of trade). Our estimations show that exports of PDO products would increase by 11.4% if non-EU consumers value PDO label as much as EU consumers.
F10|The cost of non-TTIP: A Global Value Chain Approach|What is the cost of non-TTIP for the European Union and the United States? To address this question, this paper develops a network trade model with international sector-level input-output linkages. Our model is entirely general with closed-form solutions and can be used for any trade policy experiment. We use World Input Output Data (WIOD) to simulate the effects of TTIP in terms of value added and employment. We find that a deepTTIP raises European GDP by 1.3%, and US GDP by 0.7%. The largest share of these TTIP gains result from the reduction in Non-Tariff Barriers (NTBs) rather than from the removal of tariffs. The potential gains from TTIP are higher for the EU than for the US. These findings may offer an explanation for the current US stance on TTIP.
F10|The US Gains from Trade: Valuation Using the Demand for Foreign Factor Services|About eight cents out of every dollar spent in the United States is spent on imports. What if, because of a wall or some other extreme policy intervention, imports were to remain on the other side of the US border? How much would US consumers be willing to pay to prevent this hypothetical policy change from taking place? The answer to this question represents the welfare cost from autarky or, equivalently, the welfare gains from trade. In this article, we discuss how to evaluate these gains using estimates of the demand for foreign factor services.
F10|Forensics, Elasticities and Benford's Law|Estimates of the trade elasticity based on actual trade policy changes are scarce, and the few that exist are all over the place. This paper offers a setting where an exogenous increase in a border tax can be used to estimate the trade elasticity. It shows theoretically and empirically that if evasion of border taxes is not taken into account, the trade elasticity is estimated with a large downward bias, leading to miscalculation of gains from trade. The paper also contributes to the literature by proposing two new methods of detecting evasion of border taxes.
F10|Somatic Distance, Cultural Affinities, Trust and Trade|Somatic distance, or differences in physical appearance, proves to be extremely important in the gravity model of bilateral trade in conformity with results in other areas of economics and outside of it in the social sciences. This is also true quite independently of survey evidence about bilateral trust. These findings are obtained in a sample of the 15 members of the European Economic Association in 1996. Robustness tests also show that somatic distance has a more reliable influence on bilateral trade than the other cultural variables. The article finally discusses the interpretation and the breadth of application of these results.
F10|One way to the top : How services boost the demand for goods|In this paper, we take advantage of a uniquely detailed dataset on firm-level exports of both goods and services to show that demand complementarities between services and goods enable firms to boost their manufacturing exports by also providing services. The positive causal effect of services accounts for up to 25% of the manufacturing exports of bi-exporters (i.e. the firms that export both goods and services), and 12% of overall goods exports from Belgium. We find that by associating services with their goods, bi-exporters increase both the quantities and the prices of their goods. To rationalize these findings, we develop a new model of oligopolistic competition featuring one-way complementarity between goods and services, product differentiation, and love for variety. By supplying services with their goods, firms increase their market share, and hence their market power and markup. The model then shows that exporting services acts as a demand shifter for firms, increasing the perceived quality of their products. Going back to the data, we find strong confirmation for this mechanism.
F10|A Coasian model of international production chains|International supply chains require coordination of numerous activities across multiple countries and firms. We adapt a model of supply chains and apply it to an international trade setting. In each chain, the measure of tasks completed within a firm is determined by a tradeoff between transaction costs and diseconomies of scope linked to management of a larger measure of tasks within the firm. The structural parameters that determine firm scope explain variation in supply-chain length and gross-output-to-value-added ratios, and determine countries' comparative advantage along and across supply chains. We calibrate the model to match key observables in East Asia, and evaluate implications of changes in model parameters for trade, welfare, the length of supply chains and countries' relative position within them.
