F15|A Tale of Two Surplus Countries: China and Germany|We analyze current account imbalances through the lens of the two largest surplus countries; China and Germany. We observe two striking patterns visible since the 2007/8 Global Financial Crisis. First, while China has been gradually reducing its current account surplus, Germany’s surplus has continued to increase throughout and after the crisis. Second, for these two countries, there is a remarkable reversal in the patterns of exchange rate misalignment: China’s currency has turned from being undervalued to overvalued, Germany’s currency has erased its level of overvaluation and become undervalued. Our empirical analyses show that the current account balances of these two countries are quite well explained by currency misalignment, common economic factors, and country-specific factors. Furthermore, we highlight the global financial crisis effects and, for Germany, the importance of differentiating balances against euro and non-euro countries.
F15|Reaping gains from global production sharing: Domestic value addition and job creation by Indian exports|Is it in the interest of a country to promote strong local linkages for domestic industries or to participate in global production sharing (GPS) activities wherein linkages are globally dispersed? This paper informs this debate by empirically analyzing which one of these strategies would result in higher levels of domestic value added (DVA) and employment in a developing country, India. A higher level of participation in GPS entails that, for any given country, DVA per unit of exports is smaller than when most inputs are sourced locally. However, owing to the scale and productivity effects of producing for the world market, participation in GPS can lead to higher absolute levels of DVA and domestic job creation. We test this hypothesis using a unique panel data on DVA and jobs tied to Indian exports from 112 sectors for the period 1999-2013. Our regression analysis confirms that participation in GPS, as measured by the sectoral ratio of DVA to gross exports, leads to higher absolute levels of gross exports, DVA and employment. These results are robust to alternative model specifications and estimation techniques. We conclude that developing countries can reap rich dividends by adopting policies aimed at strengthening their participation in GPS.
F15|A trade hierarchy of cities based on transport cost thresholds|Empirical evidence is lagging behind in explaining trade agglomerations in short distances. Departing from a novel micro-database on road freight shipments within Spain for the period 2003-2007, we decompose cities (municipal) trade flows into the extensive and intensive margins to assess trade frictions and trade concentration by way of a unique generalized transport cost measure and three internal borders, NUTS-5 (municipal), NUTS-3 (provincial) and NUTS-2 (regional). We discover a stark accumulation of trade flows up to a transport cost value of â‚¬189 (170km approx.) and conclude that this high density is not explained by the existence of administrative borders effects but to significant changes in the trade-to-transport costs relationship. To support this hypothesis, we propose and adopt an endogenous Chow test to identify significant thresholds at which trade flows change structurally with distance. These breakpoints allow us to split the sample when controlling for internal borders, and define trade market areas corresponding to specific transport costs values that consistently portrait an urban hierarchical system of cities, thereby providing clear evidence of the predictions made by the central place theory.
F15|Trade and capital flows - substitutes or complements? An empirical investigation|This paper examines the linkages between the trade of goods and financial assets. Do both flows behave as complements (implying a positive correlation) or as substitutes (negative correlation)? Although a classic topic in international macroeconomics, the empirical evidence has remained relatively scarce so far, in particular for the Euro area where trade and financial imbalance played a prominent role in the build-up of the European sovereign debt crisis. Consequentially, we use a novel dataset, providing estimates for financial flows and its four main categories for 42 countries and covering the period from 2002-2012, to test the so-called trade-finance nexus. Since theoretical models stress that both flows might be influencing each other simultaneously, we introduce a novel time-varying instrumental variable based on capital control restrictions to estimate a causal effect. The results of the gravity regressions support theories that underline the complementarity between exports and capital flows. When testing the trade-finance nexus for different types of capital flows, the estimated coefficient is most pronounced for foreign direct investment, in line with theories stressing informational frictions. Robustness checks in the form of different estimation methods, alternative proxies for capital flows and sample splits confirm the positive relationship. Interestingly, the trade-finance nexus does not differ among countries belonging to the EMU, the European Union or among core and peripheral Euro area countries.
F15|Are global value chains truly global? a new perspective based on the measure of trade in value-added|Are global value chains (GVCs) truly global or are they more of a regional p henomenon? Opinions concerning this issue are widely divergent in the literature. This p aper provides new perspectives on GVCs using network analysis based on the concept of trade in value-added. By using a multiregional input-output model, we first show that GVC activities can be consistently identified at the country, sector, and bilateral levels according to the number of times that factor contents cross national borders in global p roduction sharing. This allows us to group trade-related, value-added creation activities into three networks, including traditional trade, simple GVC trade, and complex GVC trade networks. Further, we use network analysis tools based on the Asian Development Bank’s Multiregional Input-Output Tables covering 62 economies and 35 sectors between 2000 and 2017 to investigate changes in the topology and structure of different types of G VC networks. Our results show that the characteristics of GVCs largely depend on the viewpoint of the participating country (as a supplier or demander), the type of trade, and the aggregate level of trade in the corresponding networks.
F15|Multiple preference regimes and rules of origin|This study examines Japan’s preferential imports from three least developed countries (LDCs), i.e., Cambodia, Laos, and Myanmar, from 2013 to 2016. In these trade flows, two preference regimes are available in a ddition to a most favored nation regime: the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) for LDCs (GSP -LDC) and a plurilateral trade agreement among Japan and ASEAN countries (AJCEP). We empirically exam ine how relaxing the rules of origin in GSP-LDC for knitted apparel in 2015 changed the utilization of the GSP -LDC and AJCEP regimes. Our identification strategy relies on comparisons not only between GSP-LDC and AJCEP but also between knitted and woven apparel. As a result, we found that such relaxation significantly incre ases the share of imports under the GSP-LDC regime out of total imports and reduces the share of imports under the AJCEP regime. We further investigate the main drivers of these changes in the shares.
F15|Lerner meets metzler : tariff pass-through of worldwide trade|In this paper, we start with quantifying the worldwide tariff pass-through, i.e., the impact of tariff reductions on trade prices. We find that a 1% reduction of tariffs decreases trade prices by 0.1%, i.e., a negative tariff pass-through (Lerner paradox). To uncover the mechanism underlying this result, we decompose trade prices into product quality and quality-adjusted trade prices. As a result, we found that a 1% reduction of tariff rates decreases product quality by 1.2% and increases quality-adjusted trade prices by 1.1% (Metzler paradox). We construct a theoretical model that demonstrates the mechanism behind these empirical results. We suggest that both a firm-delocation mechanism under variable markups and a quality-sorting mechanism are the driving forces behind these empirical findings. Lastly, by employing this theoretical model, we also examine the welfare effect of tariff changes.
F15|Transportation costs in archipelagos : evidence from Indonesia|In this paper, we empirically examine the effects of domestic transportation costs on product prices in an archipelagic country, namely, Indonesia. Specifically, we investigate the province-level price of televisions. Our analysis reveals that maritime transportation is more costly than land transportation. For example, a 1% increase in distance in maritime and land transportation increases a product price by 0.08% and 0.02%, respectively. This result implies that the geographical concentration or agglomeration of industries is much costlier in archipelagic countries. In other words, enjoying agglomeration effects is more difficult for archipelagic countries compared with single-island countries; in this sense, archipelagic countries have a topographical disadvantage.
F15|Let There Be Light: Trade and the Development of Border Regions|Does international trade help or hinder the economic development of border regions relative to interior regions? Theory tends to suggest that trade helps, but it can also predict the reverse. The question is policy relevant as regions near land borders are generally poorer, and sometimes more prone to civil conflict, than interior regions. We therefore estimate how changes in bilateral trade volumes affect economic activity along roads running inland from international borders, using satellite night-light measurements for 2,186 border-crossing roads in 138 countries. We observe a significant ‘border shadow’: on average, lights are 37 percent dimmer at the border than 200 kilometers inland. We find this difference to be reduced by trade expansion as measured by exports and instrumented with tariffs on the opposite side of the border. At the mean, a doubling of exports to a particular neighbor country reduces the gradient of light from the border by some 23 percent. This qualitative finding applies to developed and developing countries, and to rural and urban border regions. Proximity to cities on either side of the border amplifies the effects of trade. We provide evidence that local export-oriented production is a significant mechanism behind the observed effects.
F15|Rules of Origin and Consumer-Hurting Free Trade Agreements|No abstract is available for this item.
F15|Consumption home bias and ethnocentrism: an international duopoly|We define a model with two countries and two vertically differentiated goods, a high and a low quality variant, and heterogenous consumers with respect to their willingness to pay for quality. Consumers in one country are ethnocentric in consumption. They thrive additional satisfaction when consuming a domestic good rather than a foreign one, since only the former can satisfy their sense of place. We investigate the role of trade costs and ethnocentric attitude in shaping the equilibrium configuration of the international duopoly.
F15|Hedonic house price indices for Malta: A mortgage-based approach|This paper makes use of a novel dataset derived from mortgage contracts granted by the major lending institutions in Malta. This contains information about house prices and a number of important property characteristics. Together with geographic and sociodemographic variables, this information allows the computation of a range of hedonic house price indices for Malta for the period 2010-2017. In general we find that growth in house prices remained relatively muted over the period 2011-2014, ranging between 1.0% and 2.0%. House prices picked-up markedly after 2015, averaging between 4.5% and 7.5%. In particular, house price growth peaked in 2017, at between 10.1% and 11.0%. Although the general evolution of the hedonic house price indices calculated in this study are broadly similar to the indices computed by the contract-based index produced by the National Statistics Office and the advertised-based index produced by the Central Bank of Malta, there are some divergences. These differences can be attributed to changes in property characteristics.
F15|EMU-Risk Synchronisation and Financial Fragility Through the Prism of Dynamic Connectedness|This study employs dynamic connectedness as a measure of financial risk synchronisation considering government bond yields in 11 EMU member states. In particular, large values of the relevant index can be an indication of comparable levels of risk further implying that the common currency area consists of a financially sensible set of countries. By contrast, small connectedness values can be an indication of fragmentation whereupon certain countries are considered to be safer than others. The latter would be detrimental for the EMU as it fuels financial fragility, which practically stipulates that crises occur as a result of self-fulfilling market fears. The results are based on a daily dataset which spans between 1st September 2003 and 31st August 2018. Findings show that fragmentation was present at the height of the European sovereign debt crisis and that the interconnectedness has not yet reverted to its pre-2009 levels. In addition, core countries appear to transmit shocks to periphery countries although, occasionally, there are noteworthy disparities. Further investigating these disparities on a pairwise connectedness level - which helps to identify sensible pairs of countries in terms of financial risk - shows that core countries dominate this exercise, with the exception of the bilateral relation between Italy and Spain. The fact that most periphery countries of our sample are not included in these pairs raises concerns and calls for a more substantial integration.
F15|Cutting Red Tape for Trade in Services|Trade in services is often hampered by domestic administrative barriers, even when countries are members of the same regional trade agreement. We exploit a large reform in the European Union (the EU Service Directive) targeted to reduce such administrative hurdles in cross border service provision to estimate its effects on service trade. We employ a difference-in-difference strategy and a Pseudo Poisson Maximum Likelihood (PPML) panel approach to estimate gravity equations with multiple high-dimensional fixed effects. On average, the reform increased intra-EU trade in targeted services by about 40%. This effect of the reform on trade volume is corroborated by several robustness and placebo checks. Finally, a disaggregated analysis reveals significant differences between countries and service sectors.
F15|Moving Into the Slow Lane|Growth in much of CESEE will remain healthy by post-crisis standards, but has passed its peak. We expect most economies to slow from here, reflecting weaker external demand and domestic capacity constraints. Global trade tensions, structural weakness in the eurozone and Brexit all pose downside risks to our forecasts.
F15|The Future of UK Services Trade Post-Brexit: Unlikely to Be Bright|Trade in services was overshadowed by trade in goods in the Brexit debate, undeservingly so as services account for almost half of the UK cross-border exports and the EU is a major market for UK services exporters. Leaving the EU Single Market in services will cause increased regulatory costs of trading services and could have significant effects on the volume and composition of UK services exports under any exit deal. The highest rise in trade costs is to be expected in professional services, such as legal services, architecture, engineering, and accounting. With a rise in cross-border trade barriers there would be a relative increase in the proportion of services provided via a more costly physical presence within the EU. Regulatory heterogeneity among the EU members towards third countries will be an additional factor behind significant shifts in the sectoral and geographic composition of the UK services exports.
F15|Die Handelseffekte der österreichischen EU-Mitgliedschaft 25 Jahre nach der Volksabstimmung|"Am 12. Juni 1994 sprachen sich 66,6% der österreichischen Bevölkerung im Rahmen einer Volksabstimmung für einen Beitritt des Landes zur Europäischen Union aus. Am 1. Jänner 1995 trat Österreich der EU bei. 25 Jahre nach dieser Volksabstimmung versucht die vorliegende Studie die Handelseffekte und die damit einhergehenden Effekte der österreichischen EU-Mitgliedschaft auf BIP, Beschäftigung und Preise empirisch zu quantifizieren. Auf Basis eines Gravitationsmodells werden in einem ersten Schritt die Handelseffekte der österreichischen EU-Mitgliedschaft berechnet. Demnach tauscht Österreich langfristig mit den anderen EU-Mitgliedsländern um etwa 46% mehr Waren aus als in einer hypothetischen Situation ohne den Beitritt. Dieser Handelsimpuls wird in einem zweiten Schritt in das Input-Output-Modell des WIFO ""Adagio"" übertragen. Wie die Modellberechnungen zeigen, induzierte die österreichische EU-Mitgliedschaft durch die Steigerung des Außenhandels einen zusätzlichen jährlichen Wachstumsbeitrag von 0,7% des realen BIP."
F15|Environmental Policy and Firm Selection in the Open Economy|In this paper, we analyse the effects of a unilateral change in an emissions tax in a model of international trade with heterogeneous firms. We find a positive effect of tighter environmental policy on average productivity in the reforming country through reallocation of labour towards exporting firms. Domestic aggregate emissions fall, due to both a scale and a technique effect, but we show that the reduction in emissions following the tax increase is smaller than in autarky. Moreover, general equilibrium effects through changes in the foreign wage rate lead to a reduction in foreign emissions and, hence, to negative emissions leakage in case of transboundary pollution.
F15|Fiscal Transfers in the Spatial Economy|Many countries operate pronounced fiscal equalization schemes that shift tax revenue across jurisdictions. We use a general equilibrium model with multiple asymmetric regions, costly trade and labor mobility to carve out the aggregate implications of this policy. Calibrating the model for Germany, we find that it indeed delivers smaller spatial economic disparities across regions. This comes at the cost of lower national output, however, because activity is diverted away from core cities and towards remote areas with low productivity. But despite this output loss, fiscal transfers may still raise national welfare, because they effectively countervail over-congestion in large cities.
F15|A Fresh Chance for Africa's Youth: Labour Market Effects of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA)|The African Continental Free Trade Area marks a historic decision on the road to regional economic integration on the continent. If implemented, the agreement has the potential to make a significant impact on improving the livelihoods of the African people, by increasing intra-African trade and generating new employment opportunities on an integrated African labour market.
F15|Revisiting the euro's trade cost and welfare effects|When, about twenty years ago, the Euro was created, one objective was to facilitate intra-European trade by reducing transaction costs. Has the Euro delivered? Using sectoral trade data from 1995 to 2014 and applying structural gravity modeling, we conduct an ex post evaluation of the European Monetary Union (EMU). In aggregate data, we find a significant average trade effect for goods of almost 8 percent, but a much smaller effect for services trade. Digging deeper, we detect substantial heterogeneity between sectors, as well as between and within country-pairs. Singling out Germany, and embedding the estimation results into a quantitative general equilibrium model of world trade, we find that EMU has increased real incomes in all EMU countries, albeit at different rates. E.g., incomes have increased by 0.3, 0.6, and 2.1 percent in Italy, Germany, and Luxembourg, respectively.
F15|Persistent zeros: The extensive margin of trade|The extensive margin of bilateral trade exhibits a high level of persistence that cannot be explained by geography or trade policy. We combine a heterogeneous firms model of international trade with bounded productivity with features from the firm dynamics literature to derive expressions for an exporting country's participation in a specific destination market in a given period. The model framework asks for a dynamic binary choice estimator with two or three sets of high-dimensional fixed effects. To mitigate the incidental parameter problem associated with nonlinear fixed effects models, we characterize and implement suitable bias corrections. Extensive simulation experiments confirm the desirable statistical properties of the bias-corrected estimators. Empirically, taking two sources of persistence - true state dependence and unobserved heterogeneity - into account using a dynamic specification, along with appropriate fixed effects and bias corrections, changes the estimated effects considerably: out of the most commonly studied potential determinants (joint WTO membership, common regional trade agreement, and shared currency), only sharing a common currency retains a significant effect on whether two countries trade with each other at all in our preferred estimation.
F15|The effect of the single currency on exports: comparative firm-level evidence|We investigate how adopting the euro affects exports using firm-level data from Slovakia and Estonia. In contrast to previous studies, we focus on countries that adopted the euro individually and had different exchange rate regimes prior to doing so. Following the New Trade Theory we consider three types of adjustment: firm selection, changes in product varieties and changes in the average value of the exports that compose the exports of individual firms. The euro effect is identified by a difference in differences analysis comparing exports by firms to the euro area countries with exports to the EU countries that are not members of the euro area. The results highlight the importance of the transaction costs channel related to exchange rate volatility. We find the euro has a strong pro-trade effect in Slovakia, which switched to the euro from a floating exchange rate, while it has almost no effect in Estonia, which had a fixed exchange rate to the euro prior to the euro changeover. Our findings indicate that the euro effect manifested itself mainly through the intensive margin and that the gains in trade were heterogeneous across firm characteristics.
F15|Brexit: Bremsspuren beim Handel zwischen Britannien und Deutschland|Noch immer ist unklar, wann die Briten die EU verlassen werden. Es deutet aber viel darauf hin, dass der Brexit schon heute die Handelsbeziehungen zwischen dem Vereinigten Königreich und Deutschland beeinflusst hat. Das ist zum einen der Unsicherheit darüber geschuldet, ob es zu einem geordneten Austritt mit Übergangsfrist oder einem ungeordneten Verlassen des Vereinigten Königreichs kommt. Die Unsicherheit hat zu einem Investitionsabsentismus in Britannien beigetragen. Zum anderen hat die deutliche Abwertung des britischen Pfunds britische Exporte begünstigt und britische Importe verteuert, was über einen Preisanstieg die Dynamik des privaten Konsums gebremst hat. Insgesamt zeigte sich durch den Brexit ein dämpfender Einfluss auf die britische Volkswirtschaft, der sich auch in den Handelsbeziehungen niedergeschlagen hat. Während die deutschen Exporte in die Europäische Union insgesamt im Zeitraum 2015 bis 2018 um 12,4 Prozent wuchsen, gingen die deutschen Ausfuhren in das Vereinigte Königreich um 7,8 Prozent zurück. Hieraus ergibt sich eine Differenz von gut 20 Prozentpunkten. Die deutschen Einfuhren aus der EU-27 stiegen um 14,7 Prozent an, die Einfuhren aus dem Vereinigten Königreich gingen um 3,5 Prozent zurück. Auch im längerfristigen Vergleich des deutsch-britischen Außenhandels zeigte sich eine nennenswerte Veränderung. Von 1991 bis 2015 wuchsen die deutschen Exporte in das Vereinigte Königreich im Jahresdurchschnitt um 5,3 Prozent, von 2015 bis 2018 ergab sich ein jahresdurchschnittlicher Rückgang um 2,7 Prozent. Bei den deutschen Einfuhren aus Britannien zeigte sich ein ähnliches Bild. Bei Kraftwagen und Kraftwagenteilen, die einen Anteil von knapp einem Viertel am deutsch-britischen Außenhandel haben, sanken die deutschen Exporte in das Vereinigte Königreich im Dreijahreszeitraum 2018 gegenüber 2015 um knapp 23 Prozent, die Importe von dort um 13,6 Prozent. Pharmazeutische Erzeugnisse hatten mit einem Minus von 41,5 Prozent den stärksten relativen Exportrückgang zu verzeichnen; auf der Importseite gab es dagegen kaum eine Veränderung. Kraftwagen- und Kraftwagenteile sowie pharmazeutische Erzeugnisse zählen zu den Branchen mit engen britisch-deutschen Vorleistungsverflechtungen. Das deutet darauf hin, dass der Umbau der britisch-deutschen Wertschöpfungsketten bereits im Gange ist. Blickt man näher auf den Güteraustausch der fünf außenhandelsstärksten Bundesländer, so weisen alle fünf einen Rückgang der Exporte in das Vereinigte Königreich auf. In drei Ländern sanken auch die Importe; in Bayern blieben sie praktisch unverändert, in Hessen nahmen sie gegen den Trend deutlich zu.
F15|Elevating services: Services trade policy, WTO commitments, and their role in economic development and trade integration|"Services have long been perceived as playing a secondary role in world trade. In particular, the role of services trade policies and multilateral services commitments often tends to be downplayed. However, in value added terms, services account for about 50% of world trade and are significant in exports of countries of all levels of development. In addition, cross-border trade is expanding as a result of technological advances, and the supply of services by foreign affiliates (mode 3) exceeds trade through other modes of supply. Services trade policies, which cover a wide range of ""inside-the-border"" measures, are an important determinant of foreign direct investment, economy-wide productivity, manufacturing competitiveness and exports, and flows of services value added. This paper underscores, on the basis of recent services data and a growing body of research on the impact of services policies, the role of services trade in economic development, trade integration, and inclusiveness. It argues that the limited attention given to services trade policies and to international commitments is increasingly out of step with the role of services in the global economy. Indeed, services trade policies are often restrictive and multinational commitments are generally modest. Taking steps to raise the profile of services trade within government policy-making would help close this gap and highlight the contribution of services trade policy to a wide range of broader national objectives that have an important services dimension, whether SME and gender policy, or the achievement of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)."
F15|The welfare effects of trade policy experiments in quantitative trade models: The role of solution methods and baseline calibration|This paper compares the solution methods and baseline calibration of three different quantitative trade models (QTMs): computable general equilibrium (CGE) models, structural gravity (SG) models and models employing exact hat algebra (EHA). The different solution methods generate identical results on counterfactual experiments if baseline trade shares or baseline trade costs are identical. SG models, calibrating the baseline to gravity-predicted shares, potentially suffer from bias in the predicted welfare effects as a result of misspecification of the gravity equation, whereas the other methods, calibrating to actual shares, potentially suffer from bias as a result of random variation and measurement error of trade flows. Simulations show that predicted shares calibration can generate large biases in predicted welfare effects if the gravity equation does not contain pairwise fixed effects or is estimated without domestic trade flows. Calibration to actual shares and to fitted shares based on gravity estimation including pairwise fixed effects display similar performance in terms of robustness to the different sources of bias.
F15|The growth effect of trade openness on African countries: evidence from using an Instrumental Variable Panel Smooth Transition Model|This paper assesses the relationship between trade openness and economic growth in Africa by accounting for the heterogeneity of African countries. In addition, the paper contributes to the literature of trade openness and economic growth nexus by applying the instrumental variable panel smooth transition regression (IVPSTR), a methodology that accounts for nonlinearity and endogeneity in the relationship between the two variables. The results of the empirical analysis reveal that the level of investment is a channel through which trade openness affects economic growth in the African continent. In addition, the relationship between trade openness and economic growth varies according to the degree of a country’s development in Africa. For low-income countries, the study finds no significant relationship between openness and growth. Conversely, for middle and upper-income countries, the coefficients of trade indicators are positive and statistically significant. The results indicate that African countries are not homogenous, especially with regard to trade openness and economic growth nexus.
F15|Changes in Canada’s Preferential Trade Network and the Welfare Effects in Agricultural Markets| There have been some important changes in Canada’s preferential trade network over the last few years. At the regional level, the renegotiations over the NAFTA produced the generally similar USMCA. At the inter-regional level, the CETA and the CPTPP marked significant steps toward promoting Canada’s trade with distant countries. This article overviews the corresponding regional and inter-regional trade preferences for agricultural products. It examines the welfare effects of the USMCA and more pronounced regional preferential schemes, and those of the CETA and the CPTPP for Canada in the agricultural markets. It assesses the welfare outcomes from different scenarios involving various combinations of presence and absence of regional and inter-regional trade preferences. The analysis underlines that the deepening of North American market integration would lead to increases in Canada’s welfare. It shows that inter-regional trade preferences could exceed the USMCA/NAFTA in promoting imports in some cases, resulting in increases in Canada’s welfare. However, inter-regional trade preferences may not entirely substitute for the welfare losses resulting from the absence/elimination of regional trade preferences in some other cases. This article suggests that Canada would generally benefit from higher welfare levels across agricultural markets through a simultaneous network of regional and inter-regional trade preferences.
F15|Are the Gulf States poised to become Uganda’s No. 1 trading partners? Emerging trends and imperatives|For centuries, Europe has been an important market for products from Sub-Saharan Africa. In the turn of the twenty-first century, however, the boundary of the trade geography dramatically changed, with African products increasingly going to the Gulf region. Using the World Bank WITS database, this paper examines the nature and evolution of the Uganda’s exports to the Gulf States over the last 15 years. Evidence shows high exports concentration within the top-5 products—precious stones and glass, raw materials, animal, vegetable, and consumer goods—with Uganda’s strongest revealed comparative advantage (RCA) being in vegetables. Uganda’s RCA profile has evolved over the years; its export sector strengths changed from hides and skins, and stone and glass, to vegetables and is trending towards animals and food products. This trend partly reflects the dynamic natures of the Gulf markets, suggesting continuous efforts at both government and industry level, to harness productivity and product quality, to stay ahead of completion.
F15|World Equivalent Factor Endowments Determine Local Factor Rewards When Countries Have Different Productivities|This study derived the solution of general trade equilibrium by the Trefler Hicks-Neutral HOV Model (Trefler model), which reflects productivities different across countries. The study found that the Trefler model is with a single diversification cone of commodity price , although it is with two diversification cones of factor endowments. This feature provides a chance to attain the general trade equilibrium and non-equalized factor price. The study uses a geometric approach on a generalized Integrated World Equilibrium (IWE) diagram, which presents the equivalent factor endowments defined by Trefler (1993). The non-equalized factor price at the equilibrium by the Trefler model is with two useful properties. The first one is that the equilibrium prices are the functions of world equivalent factor endowments so that it remains the same when the allocation of equivalent factor endowments changes. The second property is that the localized factor prices ensure gains from trade for countries participating in trade. A new logic explored is that the world equivalent factor endowments determine world commodity price and local factor rewards of all countries.
F15|The Impact of Trade Openness, Foreign Direct Investment and Domestic Investment on Economic Growth: New Evidence from Asian Developing Countries|The objective of this paper is to examine the impact of openness, foreign investment inflows, and domestic investment on economic growth for the case of 24 Asian economies over the time span 2002-2017 through the use of the fixed and random effect models. Our empirical results pointed out that domestic investment positively influences economic growth. However, we found that foreign direct investment and exports are negatively affecting the growth path. Also, the population, imports, and final consumption expenditure have no real impact on economic growth. Due to the importance of the positive externalities linked to the trade openness and foreign direct investments inflow, in terms of technology transfer bias, financial capacities, human expertise, large markets size, and spillover effect added to the domestic capacities and the national investment, the pace of the phenomenal economic performance of the Asian economies is very well justified.
F15|Temporary Trade Shocks, Spatial Reallocation, and Persistence in Developing Countries : Evidence from a Natural Experiment in West Africa|In response to rising inequality following decades of trade liberalization, many countries are adopting trade restrictions. Can temporary trade restrictions have long-lasting effects on the spatial distribution of employment and resource allocation? To analyze this, this paper exploits the civil war in Côte d'Ivoire (2002-07), which disrupted access to the world market for two neighboring landlocked countries: Mali and Burkina Faso. The Ivorian war forced rerouting of trade from the Abidjan route to non-Abidjan routes. This paper builds a general equilibrium model where a subsistence-based autarkic hinterland coexists with an integrated segment, and there are two alternative routes to international markets. A trade shock to one route affects resource allocation in both routes by shifting the spatial margins of market integration and sectoral specialization. The effects are heterogeneous, depending on the pre-war market access of a location. The empirical analysis takes advantage of panel data and estimates the effects on structural change in employment on the non-Abidjan route using a triple difference design with location fixed effects. The areas that remain in autarkic equilibrium before and after the trade shock provide plausible estimates of the changes arising from long-term factors unrelated to the trade shock. The estimates show that the temporary trade shock created divergence between the Abidjan and non-Abidjan routes, with accelerated structural change in favor of manufacturing and services employment in the non-Abidjan route. This paper finds evidence of persistence in the effects through higher sunk investment in built-up density, agglomeration through concentration of skilled labor and greater public investment in complementary inputs such as electricity infrastructure (measured by nightlights density).
F15|Time-Varying Exchange Rate Risk Premium|We characterize the exchange rate risk premium on the context of a small open economy with controlled floating exchange rate regime. The data set includes 100 observations on case of Vietnam over 01/2011-04/2019. The risk premium is varying over time. And it is determined by output growth rate, inflation rate, foreign capital inflows and liquidity supply. As one application, the existence of time varying risk premium reduces the effectiveness of foreign exchange market intervention by forward contract.
F15|Pre-Feasibility Study of Sarawak-West Kalimantan Cross-Border Value Chains|This pre-feasibility study on Sarawak-West Kalimantan cross-border value chains covers six topics: It analyzes existing trade patterns and competitive advantages of Sarawak and West Kalimantan, as well as government objectives in promoting cross-border commercial activities. It proposes a border economic area spread over a wide geographic area that covers a network of interrelated activities and provides a fully integrated approach to the border economic area design and implementation. It identifies potential cross-border value chains that can serve as high-profile projects for the border economic area. It determines the preference orderings of project features by key stakeholders such as government and development partners, commercial entities, and the local population. It estimates the net monetary returns for the project portfolio, a cost-effectiveness analysis of the stand-alone capacity-building projects, ranks stakeholders’ non-monetary preferences, and incorporates the the preference ranking order into the project portfolio’s net monetary returns. It provides an overall program appraisal for the set of projects. Based on pre-feasibility results, it lays out a plan for implementation of the border area development program.
F15|Anatomy of Non-Tariff Barriers in India-Lanka Free Trade Agreement|This paper attempts to answer one crucial research question, why the utilization of India Sri Lanka Free Trade Agreement (ISFTA) route for trade is very poor by the India exporters (13%) as compared to their Sri Lankan Counterpart (65%) even after one decade of its implementation? The available studies have blamed the non-tariff barriers (NTBs) which are hamstringing growth of trade between these partners development of international trade. However, these have considered NTBs as sub set of non-tariff measures (NTMs) which are quite narrow sense of finding the hidden barriers within the International trade process. Therefore, this paper has analyzed in detail the logistic process involved in international trade between India and Sri Lanka to understand various NTBs sheltered within this logistic process. Further, the paper has identified issues which are not directly beyond the logistic process which are affecting the international trade between these two countries.
F15|Brexit trade impacts' and Mercosur's negotiations with Europe|We estimate that a hard Brexit (HB) would reduce UK agro-industrial-imports from the EU by around 50%. Following the dismantling of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) the UK Government has proposed to shift towards market-oriented agricultural policies and negotiating free trade agreements (FTAs) with interested countries. Assuming that the UK restores the previous level of agro industrial products, the paper estimates the net export gains that Mercosur could achieve in the UK market for different agro-industrial products. In the event of a Hard Brexit, and assuming that the Mercosur-EU negotiations are not completed before, Mercosur would then face two negotiations in Europe: with the EU27 and with the UK. We argue that failing Mercosur to give priority to talks with the UK, other countries are more than likely sign trade agreements and fill its import gap thus creating additional trade diversion effects against the Mercosur. We offer back-of-the-envelope estimates indicating that under such an FTA, Mercosur could double its agro-industrial exports to the UK. These significant export gains are concentrated in a group of products that are now highly protected by the CAP.
F15|On a low-competitiveness country joining the Eurozone: Are there lessons from Greece?|Seven remaining states are presently on the Eurozone’s enlargement agenda: Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania and Sweden. Except Sweden, all these countries tend to have low competitiveness not only relative to Germany but also to most of the Eurozone countries (especially, Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg and the Netherlands). For countries adopting the euro, issues of political economy may have a decisive effect on the eventual outcome and largely determine their economic prospects within the Eurozone. The Greek experience shows that the intensity of partisan strife is certainly an important element to be taken into account in a far from easy assessment of how entry will likely affect the country's economic progress. The crucial issue that needs to be considered is whether entry will improve or worsen the prospects for a substantial gain in competitiveness. It is the assessment of how entry will affect the forces favoring reforms relative to those opposing them that should ultimately determine the decision to opt for early or delayed entry.
F15|The Simplest Factor Price Non-Equalization When Countries Have Different Productivities|This study derived the solution of general trade equilibrium for the 2×2×2 Trefler Hicks-Neutral HOV Model (Trefler, 1993), which incorporates productivities different across countries. This is the first theoretical result of price-trade equilibrium under factor price non-equalization. The non-equalized factor price at the equilibrium is with two useful properties. The first one is that the equilibrium price (world commodity price and two sets of localized factor price) are the functions of world effective factor endowments so that it remains the same when the allocation of equivalent factor endowments changes. The second property is that the equilibrium factor prices ensure gains from trade for countries participating in trade. A new logic explored from this study is that the world effective factor endowments determine world commodity price and local factor rewards of all countries.
F15|Business cycles,bilateral trade and international financial intergration : Evidence from Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS)|This paper identifies the determinants of synchronization of business cycles in ECOWAS because it allows decision-makers to better target their economic policies. It is relevant given the willingness of ECOWAS heads of state to create a single currency by 2020. Indeed, conducting actions in the direction of the synchronization of business cycles is important because the asymmetries of the cycles observed within a monetary union determine its sustainability. Unlike previous studies in this area, it is innovative as it takes into account international financial integration. In addition, it proposes new measures to increase the quality of results. Finally, it takes into account the structure of trade by analyzing inter-regional links. The results show that bilateral trade and financial openness are determinants of the synchronization of business cycles in the region. However, they show that, trade channel dominates financial openness channel. In addition, the results show that the weakness of intra-community trade doesn’t constitute a barrier to monetary union.
F15|The Mining Dynamics and Economic performance in South African Mineral Resources Using Quantile Regression|The paper analyses the performance of the South African mineral resources such as gold, coal, Platinum Group Metals (PGMs), iron ore, manganese and diamonds, by assessing the dynamics of commodity total production and sales over the period 1990-2018. The empirical evidence is based on Monge-Kantorovich Multivariate Quantile regression. The change in revenue, exchange rates, mining production oil prices, Producer Price Index (PPI) as well as the dummy variable which presents the shock of a global financial crisis, are proposed indicators of the study. The results are nevertheless ambiguous in some sectors. The findings provided that the depreciation of exchange rates is associated with positive and significant increases in total production and sales, particularly in the coal and diamond sectors. In particular, oil prices only contribute unfavorably to coal, PGMs and diamond production. The results might be interpreted to provide some useful implications for minerals and mining policy strategy.
F15|Synchronisation des chocs d'offre et de demande dans la Communauté Economique des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (CEDEAO)<BR>[Synchronization of supply and demand shocks in the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS)]|This paper focuses on the synchronization of supply and demand shocks in West Africa given the willingness of ECOWAS Heads of State to create a single currency by 2020. Based on the methodology of Blanchard and Quah (1989), the paper relies on structural autoregressive vector models (SVAR) to identify these shocks in the region. Unlike previous works in this area, it is innovative as it proposes a new way of analyzing the dynamic correlation of shocks in the region. In addition, the proposed study makes it possible to analyze the adjustment dynamics of macroeconomic variables to different shocks. The results show that the economies of the zone are marked by relatively high degrees of asymmetry in the sense that the responses to the same type of shock are different. However, the paper shows that the synchronization of shocks evolves over time between the countries in the region. Thus, the paper indicates the need to take into account the dynamic aspect of shocks, since a monetary union considered from the outset to be expensive may over time become beneficial.
F15|The ethics of African regional and continental integration|The decision of African leaders on the creation of an African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) in 2018 was not merely a political decision with economic implications. It has significant and complex ethical dimensions too. This, not only concerning a possible trade-off between economic growth and well-being, employment, remittances, corruption, the depletion of natural resources and related ecological and gender problems. AfCFTA will also impact harmfully on growing xenophobia, nationalism and populism, the likely outcome of growing capital and labour mobility.
F15|The impact of the EU-MERCOSUR deal on Africa in times of growing protectionism|ABSTRACT & RÉSUMÉ & ZUSAMMENFASSUNG : The EU-Mercosur deal of 2019 was heralded as a milestone of free trade agreements worldwide in times of growing protectionism and nationalism. Critics condemned deficient ecological and sanitary standards as well as persistent non-tariff barriers to trade. The EU farm lobby complained about a sell-out of European interests in advantage of dominating multinationals. However, the fatal repercussions of the deal on Africa have rarely been mentioned. They include increasing cut-throat competition and asymmetrical partnership to the detriment of the African poor. Given the additional destructive impact of the Brexit crisis, African governments should use their increased bargaining power vis à vis the EU27 and the UK, in times of stiffening competition concerning the EU’s Africa trade with new global players such as China and India, to enforce EPAs re-negotiations on a level playing field. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RÉSUMÉ : L'accord de 2019 entre l'UE et le Mercosur a été qualifié de jalon dans les accords de libre-échange dans le monde entier à une époque de protectionnisme et de nationalisme grandissants. Les critiques ont condamné les normes écologiques et sanitaires déficientes, ainsi que les obstacles non-tarifaires persistants au commerce. Le lobby agricole de l'UE s'est plaint de la vente d'intérêts européens au profit de multinationales dominantes. Cependant, les répercussions fatales de l'accord sur l'Afrique ont rarement été mentionnées. Ils incluent une concurrence acharnée et un partenariat asymétrique au détriment des pauvres en Afrique. Compte tenu de l'impact destructeur supplémentaire de la crise du Brexit, les gouvernements africains devraient utiliser leur pouvoir de négociation accru vis-à-vis de l'UE27 et du Royaume-Uni, en période de durcissement de la concurrence concernant le commerce africaine de l'UE avec des nouveaux acteurs mondiaux tels que la Chine et l'Inde, pour imposer des renégociations des APEs sur un pied d’égalité. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ZUSAMMENFASSUNG : Das Abkommen zwischen der EU und dem Mercosur von 2019 wurde als Meilenstein für weltweite Freihandelsabkommen in Zeiten wachsenden Protektionismus und Nationalismus eingeläutet. Kritiker bemängelten unzureichende Umwelt- und Hygienestandards sowie anhaltende nichttarifäre Handelshemmnisse. Die EU-Agrarlobby beschwerte sich außerdem über einen Ausverkauf europäischer Interessen zugunsten dominierender multinationaler Unternehmen. Die fatalen Auswirkungen des Abkommens auf Afrika wurden jedoch selten erwähnt. Dazu gehören ein zunehmender Verdrängungswettbewerb und eine asymmetrische Partnerschaft zum Nachteil der afrikanischen Armen. Angesichts der zusätzlichen destruktiven Auswirkungen der Brexit-Krise sollten die afrikanischen Regierungen, in Zeiten zunehmenden Wettbewerbs im Afrikahandel der EU mit neuen globalen Akteuren wie China und Indien, ihre verstärkte Verhandlungsmacht gegenüber der EU27 und Großbritannien einsetzen, um Neuverhandlungen der Wirtschaftlichen Partnerschaftsabkommen auf Augenhöhe durchzusetzen.
F15|L'impact de l'accord UE-MERCOSUR sur l'Afrique à l’heure de protectionnisme croissant<BR>[The impact of the EU-MERCOSUR deal on Africa in times of growing protectionism]|ABSTRACT & RÉSUMÉ & ZUSAMMENFASSUNG : The EU-Mercosur deal of 2019 was heralded as a milestone of free trade agreements worldwide in times of growing protectionism and nationalism. Critics condemned deficient ecological and sanitary standards as well as persistent non-tariff barriers to trade. The EU farm lobby complained about a sell-out of European interests in advantage of dominating multinationals. However, the fatal repercussions of the deal on Africa have rarely been mentioned. They include increasing cut-throat competition and asymmetrical partnership to the detriment of the African poor. Given the additional destructive impact of the Brexit crisis, African governments should use their increased bargaining power vis à vis the EU27 and the UK, in times of stiffening competition concerning the EU’s Africa trade with new global players such as China and India, to enforce EPAs re-negotiations on a level playing field. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RÉSUMÉ : L'accord de 2019 entre l'UE et le Mercosur a été qualifié de jalon dans les accords de libre-échange dans le monde entier à une époque de protectionnisme et de nationalisme grandissants. Les critiques ont condamné les normes écologiques et sanitaires déficientes, ainsi que les obstacles non-tarifaires persistants au commerce. Le lobby agricole de l'UE s'est plaint de la vente d'intérêts européens au profit de multinationales dominantes. Cependant, les répercussions fatales de l'accord sur l'Afrique ont rarement été mentionnées. Ils incluent une concurrence acharnée et un partenariat asymétrique au détriment des pauvres en Afrique. Compte tenu de l'impact destructeur supplémentaire de la crise du Brexit, les gouvernements africains devraient utiliser leur pouvoir de négociation accru vis-à-vis de l'UE27 et du Royaume-Uni, en période de durcissement de la concurrence concernant le commerce africaine de l'UE avec des nouveaux acteurs mondiaux tels que la Chine et l'Inde, pour imposer des renégociations des APEs sur un pied d’égalité. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ZUSAMMENFASSUNG : Das Abkommen zwischen der EU und dem Mercosur von 2019 wurde als Meilenstein für weltweite Freihandelsabkommen in Zeiten wachsenden Protektionismus und Nationalismus eingeläutet. Kritiker bemängelten unzureichende Umwelt- und Hygienestandards sowie anhaltende nichttarifäre Handelshemmnisse. Die EU-Agrarlobby beschwerte sich außerdem über einen Ausverkauf europäischer Interessen zugunsten dominierender multinationaler Unternehmen. Die fatalen Auswirkungen des Abkommens auf Afrika wurden jedoch selten erwähnt. Dazu gehören ein zunehmender Verdrängungswettbewerb und eine asymmetrische Partnerschaft zum Nachteil der afrikanischen Armen. Angesichts der zusätzlichen destruktiven Auswirkungen der Brexit-Krise sollten die afrikanischen Regierungen, in Zeiten zunehmenden Wettbewerbs im Afrikahandel der EU mit neuen globalen Akteuren wie China und Indien, ihre verstärkte Verhandlungsmacht gegenüber der EU27 und Großbritannien einsetzen, um Neuverhandlungen der Wirtschaftlichen Partnerschaftsabkommen auf Augenhöhe durchzusetzen.
F15|An ASEAN Digital Single Market: Boosting the Aspiration for a Single Market in the Digital Era|Advancements in information and communications technologies have changed the way individuals, firms, and nations create and exchange value across borders. Value comes in the form of goods, services, information, and data, but may also include talent, capital, ideas, and even culture. Southeast Asia is a thriving digital economy with the prospect of becoming a US$200B economy by 2025. However, new forms of protectionist measures arise, which may impede the free flow of value within the region. An aspirational digital single market concept and the changing dynamics of digital trade are explored. A digital economic integration framework that is interoperable, inclusive, and agile is proposed to address both barriers to the creation of an ASEAN digital single market. Requisite conditions for policy solutions are identified, and an empowered digital transformation board with the task of leading the change agenda is proposed as a critical governance enabler across the region.
F15|The Deepening of the Economic and Monetary Union|This article seeks to guide the reader through the developments in the process of EMU deepening, clarifying the economic arguments and identifying the choices made by the decision makers, which led to the current institutional design. In addition, a critical analysis of the different proposals under discussion is made, aiming at identifying the most efficient way, in a long-term perspective, to ensure the proper functioning of the monetary union.
F15|A tentative exploration of the effects of Brexit on foreign direct investment vis-à-vis the United Kingdom|European Union (EU) integration has boosted inward EU foreign direct investment (FDI) into the United Kingdom (UK). Within the EU, the UK has a relatively significant stock of inward FDI, having reached 61% of its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2017 and risen strongly since 2005. The exit of the UK from the EU and the Single Market will probably result in reduced FDI amongst both investment destinations. The aim of this study is to look at the “real-time” effects of the Brexit June 2016 referendum outcome and its aftermath on UK-related FDI activity. Although FDI flows are notably volatile and biased by periodic non-systematic outliers, and despite some caveats on data sources and availability of time series data, we find tentative evidence of a post-referendum slowdown in gross FDI flows between the UK and the EU, notably involving the big EU economies and Ireland. Regarding a very favoured form of FDI, greenfield FDI, we document a post-referendum fall in announced projects and capital expenditures into the UK by both other EU countries as well as one of the most important non-EU partners, the United States. A different approach is also used to analyse the Brexit effect on FDI activity, based on estimating the effect of two successive stages in the European integration process – EU membership and the Euro area launch – and considering Brexit effects as the reversal of the UK integration into the EU. By using a fixed-effect gravity model to estimate the effects of these integration processes on bilateral FDI activity with the UK, the empirical results suggest that, on the one hand, this country played a role as a gateway for a set of international investor countries outside the Euro area to enter European markets and, on the other, it acted as a hub that reallocated these inflows and those coming from Euro countries across the Euro area itself. Thus the disconnection of the UK from the EU may have further implications for FAI than just reverting the effect of EU membership. Larger trade barriers and lower integration between the UK and the Euro area countries’ markets will likely have a negative impact on FDI activity in the UK and might have, in the short run, a negative effect in the Euro area.
F15|The Impact of Regional Isolationism: Disentangling Real and Financial Factors|Recently, there is a pressure for isolation policies both within the United States and among the EU members. The pressure arises due not only to the difference between regions in the U.S. and/or countries in the EU, but also to the difference across their population which affect the gains and losses from economic integration, both real as from trade in a common market and financial as in a monetary financial union. To get a better understanding of this pressure, one would need a model of trade and capital flows that takes into account the difference between individuals in a region and differences across regions. There is also a need for detail data at the individual and aggregated level, which often are not available. In this paper, we use unique long-panel data of households in Thailand, and from these data, we construct the household financial accounts, the village economic accounts, and the village balance of payments account. We also provide stylized facts on factor prices, factor intensities, financial obstacles, and village openness document differences across regions. Finally at the national level it is clear there is co-mingled variation in trade via devaluations and in finance via policies toward off shore bank and within-country financial infrastructure. We develop a heterogeneous-agent/occupational-choices/trade model with financial frictions carefully built up and calibrated around micro and regional facts, that is, at both the individual level and the aggregate level. Then, we conduct two counterfactual policy experiments. In the first counterfactual experiment, we distinguish the effects of trade from the effects of capital flows. More specifically, we determine what would happen if we allow the prices of goods to change as in baseline scenario while keep borrowing limits and interest rates constant, and vice versa. In the second counterfactual experiment, we determine the effect of isolation policies that impede trade and/or capital flows across regions. We find through these counterfactual experiments that both real and financial factors are at play, that there are differences across regions in impact even when (policy) movements in variables such as interest rates and relative prices, which are exogenous to the regions, are common; impacts can be large, and vary with policy; and impacts are significant heterogeneous with both gains and losses and non-monotone movement across wealth classes and occupations, even allowing for occupation shifts which apriori might have mitigated impact.
F15|Consumer Uptake of Internet Banking, Endogenous Market Structure and Regional Integration in Europe|"This paper examines how market structure influences the early introduction and consumer uptake of a digital service that is a convenient alternative to traditional service delivery. Digital provision also has ""extended geographic reach"" and ""lower sunk costs"" as compared with bricks-and-mortar service provision. We further examine how these affect market structure. Internet banking provides an important example that also allows us to separate regional integration and national concentration dimensions of market structure. We develop an econometric model of the effects of market structure on the introduction and consumer uptake of internet banking. We estimate using panel data for all EU Member States and find that both concentration and regionalisation bring these forward. Next, we examine how consumer uptake of the digital product then begins to impact on banking market structure. We find a substantial de-concentrating effect in large non-regionalised markets and indirect evidence of integration in previously regionalised markets. This is consistent with internet banking having enhanced competition in both integrated markets and, despite little change in national concentration, also in previously regionalised markets."
F15|La estimación del equivalente arancelario de las barreras no arancelarias y de la protección total en Colombia|Este documento utiliza desarrollos metodológicos recientes para la estimación del equivalente arancelario de las barreras no arancelarias en Colombia a un nivel de desagregación de Nandina 10 dígitos. A este mismo nivel de desagregación se estima la protección total, el índice de protección al comercio (TRI) y el índice conjunto de protección al comercio (OTRI). Los resultados muestran un alto grado de sustituibilidad entre la barreras arancelarias y no arancelarias en Colombia, siendo estas últimas un instrumento de regulación ampliamente utilizado en los diferentes sectores económicos. Igualmente se evidencia un alto y creciente nivel de protección en Colombia, siendo el sector agropecuario el que presenta un mayor índice de restricción al comercio. Contrario a lo esperado, no parece existir una apertura económica a los mercados internacionales. **** ABSTRACT: This document uses recent methodological developments to estimate the ad-valorem equivalent of non-tariff barriers in Colombia at 10-digit Nandina disaggregation level. At this same level of disaggregation, total protection, the trade restrictiveness index (TRI) and the overall trade restrictiveness index (OTRI) are estimated. The results show a high degree of substitutability between tariff and non-tariff barriers in Colombia, the latter being a regulation instrument widely used in different economic sectors. There is also evidence of a high and growing level of protectionism in Colombia, being the agriculture the highest trade restrictive sector. Contrary to expectations, there does not seem to be an economic opening to international markets.
F15|Productivity and Trade Growth in Services: How Services Helped Power Factory Asia|This paper uses a theory-based measure of productivity-based comparative advantage to examine the trade performance of developing Asian economies in manufacturing and services over the 1995â€“2011 period. We find that the growth in service exports was nearly as rapid as that in manufacturing over this periodâ€”a little-appreciated fact. Services are therefore an integral part of â€œFactory Asia.â€ Moreover, the results from a quantitative model of trade show that revealed productivity measures are often comparable between manufacturing and services at a disaggregated level, although the results differ markedly across sectors and economies. It also finds evidence of rapid growth in revealed productivity in some service subsectors, comparable to that in manufacturing. Our findings suggest that oversimplifying the relationship between patterns of specialization and subsequent economic transformation and growth patterns misses important elements of reality.
F15|Multi- Product Firms, Tariff Liberalization and Product Churning in Vietnamese Manufacturing|This study documents the frequency and characteristics of multi-product firms in Vietnamese manufacturing. The major findings are as follows. First, multi-product firms are larger, more capital-intensive, more productive, and are more likely to export. Second, multi-product firms are active in the market. Approximately 60% of firms adjust their product scope within a 6-year period. Third, the contribution of firmsâ€™ product extensive margin to aggregate output growth is limited due to the prevalence of product dropping, which offsets the positive impact of product adding. Most output growth during the period is thus generated by the intensive margin. Turning to the link between tariff reduction and product shedding, it does not detect any significant impact. However, it finds that exporters play an important role in product adding, which suggests that they may contribute to aggregate growth through the channeling of product scope expansion. Contrary to the expectations, the analysis offers limited support for the heterogeneity of product turnover across ownership types. While it finds that state-owned enterprises are more likely to spread economic activities across products and industries, there is little difference in terms of product churning amongst foreign direct investment, state-owned enterprises, and the domestic private sector.
F15|A survey of the long-term impact of Brexit on the UK and the EU27 economies|This paper reviews a sample of studies on the long-term impact of Brexit on GDP and welfare for both the UK and EU economies. It considers only official and academic studies published before the end of November 2018. The paper highlights the very wide range of results, especially for the UK, reflecting great uncertainty. The negative economic impact is more limited for the EU27 and for most Member States. Small open economies closely related to the UK are more hit than others. This is the case for Ireland due to geographical proximity, for Luxembourg with its economy specialising in financial services and for Cyprus and Malta as they are Commonwealth countries. When only the trade channel of Brexit is estimated, GDP (or welfare) losses are around 1 percentage point of GDP in the Netherlands and in Belgium while these average 0.6 percentage point of GDP in the EU27. For a same Brexit scenario, the results depend on the model specifications, on the channels considered and on some key assumptions. For the UK higher GDP/welfare losses are found for reduced-form approaches, when a productivity shock is added and, also for the EU, for global value chain approaches. Higher GDP/welfare losses are also associated with higher non-tariff trade barriers. Results are sensitive to some parameters such as the reaction of trade volumes to changes in tariffs and non-tariff trade barriers (trade elasticities). Reaching a Free Trade Agreement could limit the GDP/welfare losses both for the UK and the EU Member States compared to an orderly no deal (WTO scenario). If the UK remains in the Single Market or the Customs Union, the GDP/welfare losses induced by Brexit could be even more contained. This justifies the economic interest for both the UK and the EU Member States to reach an agreement on their future relationship.
F15|Institutional determinants of export competitiveness among the EU countries: evidence from Bayesian model averaging|Although the impact of institutions has been broadly studied in the literature on economic growth, their impact on international trade is less well-established. We aim to fill this gap by creating an extended database that, apart from price and non-price factors traditionally analyzed as determinants of exports, also includes measures of institutional development. Next, we introduce the Bayesian Model Averaging to establish which factors play the most important role for the export performance. Our results show that institutions have two types of effects on exports: a direct positive effect on the overall export performance (e.g. regulation) as well as a transformational impact on the export structure (from less to more technologically advanced exports, e.g. freedom to trade internationally). Our results also confirm that technological factors (e.g. patents) have a much greater impact on export performance than price factors. Moreover, some technological factors only have a significant transformational impact on the export structure (e.g. R&D expenditure). Human capital also seems to have only a transformational, rather than direct, impact on exports.
F15|The Currency Composition of International Reserves, Demand for International Reserves, and Global Safe Assets|This paper examines determinants of the international reserves (IR) currency composition before and after the Global Financial Crisis (GFC). Applying the annual data of 58 countries, we confirm that countries that trade more with the US, euro zone, UK, and Japan, and issue more debt denominated in the big four currencies (US dollar, euro, pound, yen) hoard more IR in these currencies. We find scale effects in which countries tend to diversify from the big four currencies as they increase their IR/GDP and that a growing shortage of global safe assets (GSAs) induces countries to hold more big four currencies. Countries hold less big four currencies as IR after the 2008 GFC, while they hold more of such currencies since the tapering of the Fed’s quantitative easing. The 2008 GFC and QE tapering weakened and sometimes reversed the effect of several economic factors. We also find that TARGET2 balances matter for the currency composition in the euro zone; commodity-exporting countries tend to diversify their IR from the big four currencies when their terms of trade improve; and that the valuation effects induced by Euro/USD exchange rate changes diminish the significance of the GFC in explaining the currency composition of IR.
F15|Sharing a Government|This paper develops a simple theoretical framework to study a set of regions, each with its own regional government, who share a union or central government. These governments must decide whether to implement or discard a large number of projects that produce local benefits for the region that implements them, and externalities for the rest of the regions. Conflict or disagreement arises since different regions value projects differently. The classic assignment problem consists of deciding who decides these projects, either the union or the regional governments. It is well known that regional governments are insensitive to externalities. The key observation here is that the union government is insensitive to local benefits. Thus, each government maximizes only a piece of the value of projects, and disregards the other one. This observations leads to simple and clear rules for solving the assignment problem.
F15|Welfare State vs. Market Forces in a Globalization Era|Globalization radically changes income distribution and triggers intense international tax competition. Therefore, globalization entails an extensive restructuring of the welfare state. We analyze a parsimonious model of an open economy, in its trade and finance transactions with the rest of the world, governed by voter-majority-controlled welfare state. We analyze the interactions between taxation, provision of social benefits, and globalization. We demonstrate how these interactions are grounded on trade-related and macro-related fundamentals, familiar from a standard open-economy model: (i) Degree of trade border frictions, (ii) Degree of international finance frictions, (iii) Relative factor abundance that determines the capital intensity of the country’s exports; and, (iv) Domestic savings and productivity of domestic investment, which determines whether the country is a financial capital exporter or importer. We address the issues of whether the welfare state enhances (or inhibits) the trade and financial openness driven by diminished border effects; whether globalization chips away at the generosity of the welfare state; and, whether the welfare state efficiently spreads out the gains from globalization from winners to losers.
F15|Collusive Investments in Technological Compatibility: Lessons from U.S. Railroads in the Late 19th Century|Collusion is widely condemned for its negative effects on consumer welfare and market efficiency. In this paper, I show that collusion may also in some cases facilitate the creation of unexpected new sources of value. I bring this possibility into focus through the lens of a historical episode from the 19th century, when colluding railroads in the U.S. South converted 13,000 miles of railroad track to standard gauge over the course of two days in 1886, integrating the South into the national transportation network. Route-level freight traffic data reveal that the gauge change caused a large shift in market share from steamships to railroads, but did not affect total shipments or prices on these routes. Guided by these results, I develop a model of compatibility choice in a collusive market and argue that collusion may have enabled the gauge change to take place as it did, while also tempering the effects on prices and total shipments.
F15|The determinants of Foreign Direct Investment: Do statutory restrictions matter?|Over the past two decades, governments worldwide have continued to liberalise restrictions on international investment with only occasional relapses. Yet, FDI liberalisation remains an unfinished agenda in various parts of the world and across sectors. This paper sheds light on their potential costs in terms of foregone investments. Applying an augmented gravity model, covering 60 advanced and emerging countries over the period 1997–2016, it estimates the elasticity of bilateral FDI positions and cross-border M&A activity to FDI restrictions as measured by the OECD FDI Regulatory Restrictiveness Index. Results suggest that reforms liberalising FDI restrictions by about 10% as measured by the Index could increase bilateral FDI in stocks by 2.1% on average. Effects are greater for FDI in the services sector, but even manufacturing sectors – which are typically open to FDI – are negatively affected by countries’ overall restrictiveness. Foreign equity limitations and FDI screening policies are also scrutinised.
F15|Exploring changes in world production and trade: Insights from the 2018 update of OECD’s ICIO/TIVA database|Drawing on the 2018 update of OECD’s Inter-Country Input-Output (ICIO) database, this paper explores the evolution of trade in value added (TiVA) between 2005 and 2015. Changes in international production systems are examined with particular attention given to four key sectors heavily integrated into global value chains (GVCs): Textiles and Apparel; Chemicals; ICT and Electronics; and, Motor Vehicles. Some insights into the roles played by services sectors and non-residents’ expenditure and, the employment and environmental impacts of GVCs, are also provided.Considerable heterogeneity across countries and regions is revealed, particularly for East and Southeast Asian where China plays a key role. Services are increasingly important for manufactured exporting activities as well as for countries wishing to “upgrade” their activities to higher value added stages of production. Taking a consumption perspective suggests that national efforts to mitigate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions could be affected by international outsourcing of production.
F15|Regional Integration in Border Cities|This report, part of the “Cities” collection, highlights the contribution of border towns to the process of regional integration in West Africa. For 18 countries, six indicators are used to identify the specificities of border towns at the local, national and international levels: demography, urban morphology, formal enterprises, health infrastructure, road accessibility, border control posts. These indicators are analysed from the perspective of three geographical scales of regional integration (density, distance and division). The report details the economic and institutional obstacles facing border towns. It concludes with place-based political options to facilitate the economic and political development of West African border towns.Also in this Collection:“Population and Morphology of Border Cities”, No. 21“Businesses and Health in Border Cities”, No. 22“Accessibility and Infrastructure in Border Cities”, No. 23
F15|Population and Morphology of Border Cities|This report, part of the “Cities” collection, provides an analysis of the demographic and morphological changes in West African border cities since the mid-20th century. Using the Africapolis harmonised database makes it possible to show that since 1950 border cities have experienced higher rates of growth than other cities in the region. While the average size of cities increases with distance from a border, the opposite is true for urban density; it decreases as distance from a border increases. This suggests that border cities form urban centres that differ from other such centres due to the fact that they specialise in the commercial activities that stimulate growth and foster higher densities. The report identifies the 27 main cross-border agglomerations in the region and discusses their specificcharacteristics.Also in this Collection:“Regional Integration in Border Cities”, No. 20“Businesses and Health in Border Cities”, No. 22“Accessibility and Infrastructure in Border Cities”, No. 23
F15|Businesses and Health in Border Cities|This report, part of the “Cities” collection, analyses the spatial distribution of formal enter¬prises and health infrastructure in West Africa. The analysis shows that sectors crucial for regional integration are concentrated in economic capitals rather than in border areas. These results illustrate the difficulty that many West African countries have in distributing the potential for economic development throughout the country. The mapping of health infrastructure shows that border towns have a surplus of medical centres and a deficit of hospitals and maternity wards relative to their urban populations. The report identifies several regions in which closer co-operation could favour the establishment of cross-border health facilities.Also in this Collection: “Regional Integration in Border Cities”, No. 20 “Population and Morphology of Border Cities”, No. 21 “Accessibility and Infrastructure in Border Cities”, No. 23
F15|Intégration régionale des villes frontalières|Cette Note qui fait partie de la Collection « Villes », souligne la contribution des villes frontalières au processus d’intégration régionale en Afrique de l’Ouest. Six indicateurs permettent d’appréhender les dynamiques locales développées en milieu urbain, les effets de la distance sur la cohésion nationale, et l’impact des divisions territoriales au plan international dans 18 pays. Cette analyse met en évidence les obstacles qui limitent le potentiel d’intégration des villes frontalières du point de vue des échanges socio-économiques et des institutions. La Note conclut par une synthèse des politiques territorialisées pouvant être mises en place dans la région pour faciliter le développement économique et politique des villes frontalières ouest-africaines.Aussi dans cette Collection : « Population et morphologies des villes frontalières », No 21 « Entreprises et santé dans les villes frontalières », No 22 « Accessibilité et infrastructures des villes frontalières », No 23
F15|Population et morphologies des villes frontalières|Cette Note qui fait partie de la Collection « Villes », analyse l’évolution démographique et morphologique des villes frontalières d’Afrique de l’Ouest depuis le milieu du XXe siècle. L’utilisation d’une base de données harmonisée – ce qu’offre Africapolis – permet de montrer que les villes frontalières ont connu une croissance plus importante que les autres villes de la région depuis 1950. Alors que la taille moyenne des villes augmente avec la distance aux frontières, la densité urbaine diminue à mesure qu’on s’en éloigne. Ces résultats suggèrent que les villes frontalières forment des ensembles urbains différents des autres, notamment du fait de leur spécialisation dans les activités commerciales, qui stimulent la croissance et encourage les fortes densités. Le document identifie enfin 27 agglomérations transfrontalières principales dans la région et discute leurs particularités.Aussi dans cette Collection : « Intégration régionale des villes frontalières », No 20 « Entreprises et santé dans les villes frontalières », No 22 « Accessibilité et infrastructures des villes frontalières », No 23
F15|Entreprises et santé dans les villes frontalières|Cette Note qui fait partie de la Collection « Villes », analyse la répartition spatiale des entreprises formelles et des infrastructures de santé en Afrique de l’Ouest. L’analyse montre que les secteurs cruciaux pour l’intégration régionale sont concentrés dans les capitales économiques plutôt que dans les espaces frontaliers. Ces résultats illustrent la difficulté qu’ont de nombreux pays ouest-africains à distribuer le potentiel de développement économique sur l’ensemble du territoire national. La cartographie des infrastructures de santé montre que les villes frontalières présentent un excédent de centres médicaux et un déficit d’hôpitaux et de maternités relativement à leur population urbaine. La Note identifie plusieurs régions dans lesquelles une coopération plus étroite pourrait favoriser la mise en place d’établissements de santé transfrontaliers.Aussi dans cette Collection : « Intégration régionale des villes frontalières », No 20 « Population et morphologies des villes frontalières », No 21 « Accessibilité et infrastructures des villes frontalières », No 23
F15|International Technology Transfer Policies|Concerns are growing about policies and measures that restrict market access with the effect of “forcing” technology transfer. Efforts to target forced technology transfer are complicated by the sometimes blurred line between voluntary and mutually agreed upon technology transfers and that which is perceived to be, or is in fact, compelled. This study presents a discussion of the continuum of measures related to international technology transfer (ITT) and aims to identify those measures that pose the greatest concern over their potential to compel disclosure of commercially valuable and sensitive technology. It then briefly presents information on provisions in international trade and investment agreements that are relevant to ITT. The last section presents the perspective from the private sector in order to better understand how firms engage in technology transfers through research collaboration, licensing, joint ventures, and equity investments. The analysis in this report indicates that involuntary technology transfer is a complex issue, and it aims to provide a way for policy makers to think through the issues, to apply a systematic and analytical approach to assessing which policies are of the greatest concern.
F15|Intra-EEA STRI Database: Methodology and Results|This paper presents new data on regulatory barriers affecting services trade within the European Economic Area (EEA), covering 25 EEA countries, 22 sectors and five years (2014-2018). Following the methodology of the OECD Services Trade Restrictiveness Index (STRI), qualitative information is scored and weighted to produce binary composite indices. The resulting intra-EEA STRIs reveal that services trade restrictiveness within the Single Market is considerably lower than the applied MFN regime of those EEA members. Moreover, they show that EEA members have achieved significant regulatory harmonisation through their integration process.
F15|Trade and Economic Effects of IRC: Further Empirical Evidence from SPS and TBT Provisions|Cutting trade costs, especially those stemming from non-tariff measures, is a growing priority for policy makers. One way to achieve this is for countries to improve their co-operation on regulatory matters. An avenue open to governments is to include provisions related to international regulatory co-operation (IRC) into preferential trade agreements (PTAs). However, there exists little empirical evidence of the benefits of these co-operative mechanisms. This paper provides this evidence, in the context of Sanitary and Phytosanitary (SPS) and Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT) provisions. It measures the effect of IRC mechanisms on trade flows using the latest developments in the gravity literature and the most recent data sources. The work distinguishes between different forms of co-operation implemented between countries within PTAs while also accounting for the level of commitment between partners. The estimation results suggest that PTAs including SPS and TBT measures have a significant and positive effect on trade flows, with the legal enforceability of IRC mechanisms having the strongest and most robust impact on trade flows. This result holds even when WTO-related provisions and dispute settlement procedures are controlled for, implying that binding commitments are important in maximizing post-PTA trade flows. The work shows that transparency and co-operation are significant and robust factors in increasing trade. It also reinforces the view that the impact takes some time to materialise, which is important when evaluating the effectiveness of deep IRC mechanisms.
F15|Made in Singapore|In this paper, we characterize the position of Singapore in global value chains and identify Singapore's key upstream and downstream trade partners. We trace how the position of Singapore in global value chains has changed in the past two decades: whether it has moved upstream or downstream, how involved it is in global value chains, how its trend compares with other major Asian exporting countries (China, Japan, Korea and Taiwan), and which key sectors of Singapore play a major role in these global trade networks.
F15|Global value chains and the CPTPP|The CPTPP, or the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Paciﬁc Partnership, is an example of a “mega-regional” free trade agreement, whose provisions on the rules of origin and trade facilitation can have potentially large impacts on the CPTPP-wide supply chains. In this paper, we investigate whether the CPTPP members are key upstream and downstream trade partners to each other in the global value chains. We develop formulas of bilateral upstreamness and downstreamness, based on the gross-export decomposition framework of Koopman, Wang and Wei (2014) and Borin and Mancini (2017). We demonstrate how the decomposition of gross exports can be used to construct informative measures of the position of countries in global value chains.
F15|Trade and capital flows: Substitutes or complements? An empirical investigation|This paper examines the linkages between the trade of goods and financial assets. Do both flows behave as complements (implying a positive correlation) or as substitutes (negative correlation)? Although a classic topic in international macroeconomics, the empirical evidence has remained relatively scarce so far, in particular for the Euro area where trade and financial imbalance played a prominent role in the build-up of the European sovereign debt crisis. Consequentially, we use a novel dataset, providing estimates for financial flows and its four main categories for 42 countries and covering the period from 2002-2012, to test the so-called trade-finance nexus. Since theoretical models stress that both flows might be influencing each other simultaneously, we introduce a novel time-varying instrumental variable based on capital control restrictions to estimate a causal effect. The results of the gravity regressions support theories that underline the complementarity between exports and capital flows. When testing the trade-finance nexus for different types of capital flows, the estimated coefficient is most pronounced for foreign direct investment, in line with theories stressing informational frictions. Robustness checks in the form of different estimation methods, alternative proxies for capital flows and sample splits confirm the positive relationship. Interestingly, the trade-finance nexus does not differ among countries belonging to the EMU, the European Union or among core and peripheral Euro area countries.
F15|Preferential Trade Agreements and Multinational Production|This paper investigates the impact of deep integration in preferential trade agreements (PTAs) on multinational production (MP), i.e. the production carried out by firms outside of their country of origin. Using a structural gravity model, we find that tariff reductions have a positive impact on MP of goods. This effect is stronger for foreign affiliates trading intermediate inputs or serving the final demand. However, while deep provisions have no significant impact on foreign affiliates that produce goods, we find that deep integration provisions positively affects foreign affiliates operating in the service sector. These results suggest that the proliferation of PTAs with deep integration provisions has contributed to the growth of multinational production and facilitated the participation of foreign affiliates in global value chains.
F15|The determinants of global value chains participation: The case of developing economies|The expansion of the global value chains (GVCs) is the result of the economic globalization that has transformed the production process and made the economies more interdependent and integrated. Different studies were conducted to define a theoretical framework that explains the GVCs and to measure statistically the extent of this phenomenon. Today, researchers are investigating other appealing aspects of this phenomenon, in particular the way that countries could participate in GVCs, the gains and the risks related to their participation. The opportunities offered by the GVCs are underlined by researchers and international institutions since GVCs are conceived to be the new development strategies of economies. Therefore, GVCs has attracted the attention of policy makers in developing countries since these chains can procure new opportunities in terms of industrial, social and economic upgrading. The objective of this paper is to identify empirically the factors that affect the participation of upper-middle-income economies in the GVCs in order to increase their gains from international trade. Our paper is one of the first to use the latest version of UNCTAD-EORA-GVC database and to investigate the determinants that affect this group of countries. Our results suggest that factors related to logistics, education and innovation increase the participation of developing countries in GVCs. In addition, policy factors such as taxes, control of corruption and other business environment related-factors are also key determinants of the integration into GVCs. Hence, this paper contributes to the literature by offering guidance to the policy makers of developing countries in order to integrate and to enhance their participation in GVCs by increasing their trade in value-added.
F15|Institutional determinants of export competitiveness among the EU countries: evidence from Bayesian model averaging|Although the impact of institutions has been broadly studied in the literature on economic growth, their impact on international trade is less well-established. We aim to fill this gap by creating an extended database that, apart from price and non-price factors traditionally analyzed as determinants of exports, also includes measures of institutional development. Next, we introduce the Bayesian Model Averaging to establish which factors play the most important role for the export performance. Our results show that institutions have two types of effects on exports: a direct positive effect on the overall export performance (e.g. regulation) as well as a transformational impact on the export structure (from less to more technologically advanced exports, e.g. freedom to trade internationally). Our results also confirm that technological factors (e.g. patents) have a much greater impact on export performance than price factors. Moreover, some technological factors only have a significant transformational impact on the export structure (e.g. R&D expenditure). Human capital also seems to have only a transformational, rather than direct, impact on exports.
F15|Foreign currency loan conversions and currency mismatches|This paper examines the effect of currency conversion programs from Swiss franc-denominated loans to other currency loans on currency risk for banks in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE). Swiss franc mortgage loans proliferated in CEE countries prior to the financial crisis and contributed to the volume of non-performing loans as the Swiss franc strongly appreciated during the post-crisis period. Empirical findings suggest that Swiss franc loan conversion programs reduced currency mismatches in Swiss francs but increased bank exposure in other foreign currencies in individual countries. This asymmetric effect of conversion programs arises from the loan restructuring from Swiss francs to a non-local currency and the high level of euro mismatches in the CEE banking system.
F15|Technology-induced Trade Shocks? Evidence from Broadband Expansion in France|In this paper, we document the presence of ''technology-induced'' trade in France between 1997 and 2007 and assess its impact on consumer welfare. We use the staggered roll-out of broadband internet to estimate its causal effect on the importing behavior of affected firms. Using an event-study design, we find that broadband expansion increases firm-level imports by around 25%. We further find that the ''sub-extensive'' margin (number of products and sourcing countries per firm) is the main channel of adjustment and that the effect is larger for capital goods. Finally, we develop a model where firms optimize over their import strategy and which yields a sufficient statistics formula for the quantification of the effects of broadband on consumer welfare. Interpreted within this model, our reduced-form estimates imply that broadband internet reduced the consumer price index by 1.7% and that the import-channel, i.e. the enhanced access to foreign goods that is allowed by broadband, accounts for a quarter of that effect.
F15|The effect of the single currency on exports: comparative firm-level evidence|We investigate how adopting the euro affects exports using firmlevel data from Slovakia and Estonia. In contrast to previous studies, we focus on countries that adopted the euro individually and had different exchange rate regimes prior to doing so. Following the New Trade Theory we consider three types of adjustment: firm selection, changes in product varieties and changes in the average value of the exports that compose the exports of individual firms. The euro effect is identified by a difference in differences analysis comparing exports to the euro area countries with exports to the non-euro area EU countries. The results highlight the importance of the transaction costs channel related to exchange rate volatility. We find the euro has a strong pro-trade effect in Slovakia, which switched to the euro from a floating exchange rate, while it has almost no effect in Estonia, which had a fixed exchange rate to the euro prior to the euro changeover. Our findings indicate that the euro effect manifested itself mainly through the intensive margin and that the gains from trade were heterogeneous across firm characteristics.
F15|Universal intellectual property rights: Too much of a good thing?|Developing countries’ incentives to protect intellectual property rights (IPR) are studied in a model of vertical innovation. Enforcing IPR boosts export opportunities to advanced economies but slows down technological transfers and incentives to invest in R&D. Asymmetric protection of IPR, strict in the North and lax in the South, leads in many cases to a higher world level of innovation than universal enforcement. IPR enforcement is U-shaped in the relative size of the export market compared to the domestic one: rich countries and small/poor countries enforce IPR, the former to protect their innovations, the latter to access foreign markets, while large emerging countries free-ride on rich countries’ technology to serve their internal demand.
F15|Convergencia de precios en el largo plazo en Uruguay. Evidencia empírica para 4 bienes|En el presente documento se estudia si durante el período comprendido entre enero de 2008 y mayo de 2017 se produjo en Uruguay un proceso de convergencia de precios a nivel de establecimientos de venta. Se utiliza un panel de datos conformado por precios diarios de 4 bienes fijados por 386 supermercados, con cobertura nacional. Los bienes fueron seleccionados buscando representar categorías de productos para las cuales los hogares suelen realizar compras en un supermercado con alta frecuencia. El análisis de convergencia se realiza a partir del estudio de la evolución de la dispersión de precios en el tiempo. Se encuentra que esta se redujo en el período solamente 0,88 % a nivel de todo el país, por lo que no parece suciente como para concluir que los precios hayan convergido. Este resultado era esperable debido a que las posibles fuentes de diferenciales de precios no registraron cambios signicativos durante el período. Por lo tanto, la reducción en la dispersión de precios estimada no parece suficiente como para afirmar que la Ley de un Solo Precio en su versión absoluta se cumple en el largo plazo en el país. Como parte del análisis de robustez, se realizan estimaciones para diversas desagregaciones territoriales, así como para diferentes momentos de ingreso de los establecimientos a la muestra y para distintos niveles inflacionarios. El resultado encontrado es robusto para diferentes desagregaciones territoriales.
F15|The breadth of preferential trade agreements and the margins of exports|We use recently available data on the core economic provisions of PTAs to identify which (types of) provisions seem to promote bilateral exports and the intensive and extensive margins of exports. Our evidence suggests that measures applied at the border tend to be aimed at expanding existing trade, while measures applied behind the border are aimed at creating trade in new products. Preferential measures tended to increase bilateral total exports and bilateral exports at the intensive margin, but have no significant effect on bilateral exports at the extensive margin. Measures applied on an MFN basis are unlikely to provide improved market access for PTA partners. When includeds individually we find that no provision has a statistically significant effect of the same sign on both trade margins, confirming the view that existing and potential exporters have opposing interests in PTA formation. Finally, we provide estimated effects for selected PTAs.
F15|Sharing a government|This paper develops a simple theoretical framework to study a set of regions, each with its own regional government, who share a union or central government. These governments must decide whether to implement or discard a large number of projects that produce local beneÖts for the region that implements them, and externalities for the rest of the regions. Conáict or disagreement arises since di§erent regions value projects di§erently. The classic assignment problem consists of deciding who decides these projects, either the union or the regional governments. It is well known that regional governments are insensitive to externalities. The key observation here is that the union government is insensitive to local benefits. Thus, each government maximizes only a piece of the value of projects, and disregards the other one. This observations leads to simple and clear rules for solving the assignment problem.
F15|A theory of economic unions|After decades of successful growth, economic unions have recently become the focus of heightened political controversy. We argue that this is partly due to the growth of trade between countries that are increasingly dissimilar. We develop a theoretical framework to study the e§ects on trade, income distribution and welfare of economic unions that di§er in size ad scope. Our model shows that political support for international unions can grow with their breadth and depth as long as member countries are su¢ ciently similar. However, di§erences in economic size and factor endowments can trigger disagreement over the value of unions between and within countries. The model is consistent with same salient features of the process of European integration and statistical evidence from survey data.
F15|The Structural Dynamics of Income Distribution:Technology, Wages and Profits|In the last four decades, an increasingly skewed income distribution has favored capital at the expense of labour and has been coupled with ever growing inequalities. Merging a Neo-Schumpeterian approach to innovation with a Post-Keynesian theoretical framework, this work contributes to the analysis of the structural determinants of functional income distribution. Building on Pianta and Tancioni (2008), we propose a simultaneous model on wage and profit dynamics identifying technological change, offshoring strategies and role of trade unions as key factors which shape the power relations between capital and labour. On the empirical ground, we perform an industry-level analysis extending and improving the Sectoral Innovation Database (SID), which accounts for 38 manufacturing and service sectors for six major European countries (France, Germany, Italy,Netherlands, Spain and United Kindgom) from 1994 to 2014. We find that, despite the structural asymmetries between industries? patterns of evolution, labour productivity growth and product innovation have a positive impact on both distributive components, while a rather negative effect of process innovation on wages is detected. Offshoring processes generally emerge as profit-enhancing while represent a reliable firms? weapon to reduce labour costs, although a remarkable heterogeneity arises when the technological nature of offshoring strategies is accounted for; finally, union density tends to be positively associated with wage dynamics, suggesting the relevance of labour market institutions in conditioning the patterns of income distribution.
F15|Where Did Good Jobs Go? Acemoglu and Marx on Induced (Skill Replacing) Technical Change|The paper lays out a hypothesis about the effect global oversupply of labor had on induced technological change, clarifying how it might have contributed to the demand reversal for high skill workers and other recent observed trends in technological change in the US. The argument considers the effect of market friendly political/institutional transformations of the 1980s on technology as they created a potential for an integrated global labor market. The innovations induced by the promise of this potential eventually culminated in the creation of global value chains and production networks. These required large set up costs and skill enhancing innovations, but once in place they reduced the dependence of expanding low skill employment around the globe on skill intensive inputs from advanced countries, giving rise to the wellobserved high skill demand reversal and sputtering of IT investment.
F15|Temporary Trade Shocks, Spatial Reallocation, and Persistence in Developing Countries: Evidence from a Natural Experiment in West Africa|In response to rising inequality following decades of trade liberalization, many countries are adopting trade restrictions. Can temporary trade restrictions have long-lasting effects on spatial distribution of employment and resource allocation? To analyze this, we exploit the civil war in Cote d'Ivoire (2002-2007) that disrupted access to world market for two neighboring land-locked countries: Mali and Burkina Faso. The Ivorian war forced rerouting of trade from the Abidjan route to the non-Abidjan routes. We build a general equilibrium model where a subsistence-based autarkic hinterland coexists with an integrated segment, and there are two alternative routes to the international market. A trade shock to one route affects resource allocation in both routes by shifting spatial margins of market integration and sectoral specialization. The effects are heterogeneous depending on the pre-war market access of a location. The empirical analysis takes advantage of panel data and estimates the effects on structural change in employment in non-Abidjan route using a triple difference design with location fixed effect. The areas that remain in autarkic equilibrium both before and after the trade shock provide plausible estimates of the changes arising from long-term factors unrelated to the trade shock. The estimates show that the temporary trade shock created divergence between the Abidjan and non-Abidjan routes with accelerated structural change in favor of manufacturing and services employment in the non-Abidjan route. We find evidence of persistence in the effects through higher sunk investment in built-up density, agglomeration through concentration of skilled labor, and more public investment in complementary inputs such as electricity infrastructure (measured by night-lights density).
F15|Modelling the Long Term Potential Macroeconomic Impact of Brexit on Wales|This paper employs a computable general equilibrium (CGE) dynamic simulation model to analyse how Brexit is likely to impact the Welsh economy. The model simulates two potential future trade relationship scenarios between the United Kingdom (UK) and European Union (EU) for 29 March 2019: (a) No-deal Brexit, i.e. trading partners revert to World Trade Organization (WTO)rules; (b) Limited transition period and/or extension of Article 50. The model demonstrates how Welsh exports and imports, output, prices and employment are likely to be impacted from Brexit in the long-term. The scenarios modelled present a negative forecast for the Welsh (and UK) economy and industry, and show that the macroeconomic variables are sensitive to the policy disruption caused by Brexit. Projections show gross domestic product (GDP), GDP per capita, trade, investment and employment losses for the Welsh economy. A no-deal Brexit, which sees the UK reverting to trading with the EU on WTO terms, generates maximum losses for Wales (and the UK) in the long-term. In light of the results, it is important to avoid a no-deal Brexit that sees high losses and tariff barriers returning. A transition period arrangement or an extension to Article 50 also projects long-term losses for Wales. However, losses depend on the length of transition period and results show that a longer transition minimises losses for Wales (and the UK). From a policy perspective, a deal with an extended transition period should be agreed between the UK and EU as soon as possible to enable the continuation of existing EU-Wales trading arrangement.
F15|No double standards: quantifying the impact of standard harmonization on trade|Product standards are omnipresent in industrialized societies. Though standardization can be beneficial for domestic producers, divergent product standards have been categorized as a major obstacle to international trade. This paper quantifies the effect of standard harmonization on trade flows and characterizes the extent to which it changes the cost and demand structure of exporting. Creating a novel and comprehensive database on crosscountry standard equivalences, we identify standard harmonization events at the document level. Our results show that the introduction of harmonized standards increases trade through a larger sales volume of existing exporters (intensive margin) and more entry (extensive margin). These findings are consistent with a multi-country heterogeneous firm model featuring endogenous standard adoption. Because of additional demand, standard harmonization raises firms’ incentives to produce varieties in accordance with the standard despite high sunk investment costs. Firms’ export sales expand and entry into foreign markets is encouraged.
F15|The Impact of a Trade War: Assessment of the Current Tariffs and Alternative Scenarios|This note uses Charbonneau and Landry’s (2018) framework to assess the direct impact of the current trade tensions on the Canadian and global economies, as well as possible implications if the conflict escalates further. Overall, my findings show that the estimated impact of current tariffs on real gross domestic product (GDP) remains relatively small, which is in line with the literature on gains from trade, but the impact on trade is much larger. With a modest escalation of trade tensions, monetary policy in Canada could face a situation of rising prices and falling real GDP. This dilemma would be worse if Canada takes an active role in the trade conflict. If trade tensions rise more dramatically, the effect on Canada would depend on Canada’s access to the US market. A significant and more broad-based rise in tariffs could lead to large global impacts.
F15|Brexit: balance de situación y perspectivas|Tras casi tres años desde que se anunciara la celebración del referéndum sobre la permanencia del Reino Unido en la Unión Europea (UE) y dos de intensas negociaciones entre las partes, la no ratificación del Parlamento británico del acuerdo alcanzado por su Gobierno y por el resto de los socios europeos en noviembre del año pasado ha dado lugar a una situación extraordinariamente compleja, en la que, a escasos días de que se cumpla el plazo (el 29 de marzo de 2019) para la salida del Reino Unido establecido con la activación del artículo 50, no se vislumbra todavía un plan de consenso. A falta de una alternativa pactada, la salida sin acuerdo en la fecha prevista constituye —salvo prórroga— la actual opción por defecto. Este documento ocasional hace balance de la situación actual y de las perspectivas que se abren en relación con el proceso de salida del Reino Unido de la UE, y recopila y actualiza algunos trabajos que se han venido realizando, en relación con el seguimiento regular de dicho proceso y con la estimación de sus potenciales efectos en la economía española, en la Dirección General de Economía y Estadística del Banco de España. Tras tomar nota del momento actual del proceso negociador, el documento revisa la evolución de la economía británica desde que se anunciara el inesperado resultado del referéndum en junio de 2016, así como las perspectivas económicas a medio plazo del país, que dependerán ante todo del tipo de relación comercial que se establezca en un futuro entre ambas áreas, así como de la manera más o menos abrupta en que se produzca la salida. En relación con nuestro país, en este documento se analizan diversos aspectos relativos a la exposición comercial y financiera de la economía española al Reino Unido, y se estiman, mediante el modelo trimestral del Banco de España (MTBE), los posibles efectos que el brexit podría tener sobre nuestra economía en diversos escenarios hipotéticos. Finalmente, se recuerdan las medidas de contingencia que la Comisión Europa y el Gobierno de España han adoptado, en sus respectivos ámbitos, ante la eventualidad de que la salida del Reino Unido se produjera sin acuerdo y de forma brusca.
F15|Assessing the macroeconomic impact of Brexit through trade and migration channels|This joint work by the Bundesbank, the Banque de France and the Banco de España highlights some of the numerous channels through which Brexit will affect the UK economy and its economic partners. In particular, it focuses on trade and migration channels, adding a more general assessment of exiting the EU through the use of a gravity model. The trade cannel alone may cut UK GDP by 2% over the medium term if the UK reverts to WTO rules, while a more general gravity model would point to UK GDP falling by almost 6% compared to baseline. According to our analysis, the ‘cost of non-Europe’ (such as originally stated by Cecchini’s seminal work in 1988) lies therefore between 2% and 6% in terms of real GDP losses for the UK. With the shock being largely asymmetric, the EA remains relatively unscathed by the UK’s exit, with GDP less than 1% lower than baseline by 2023. The study also shows that results are sensitive to the envisaged policy response. In general, monetary and fiscal policies may act to cushion a Brexit-related shock; however, the potency of the policy response depends on the underlying source of the shock.
F15|A tentative exploration of the effects of Brexit on foreign direct investment vis-à-vis the United Kingdom|European Union (EU) integration has boosted inward foreign direct investment (FDI) into the United Kingdom (UK). Within the EU, the UK has a relatively significant stock of inward FDI, having reached 61\% of its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2017 and risen strongly since 2005. The exit of the UK from the EU and the Single Market will probably result in reduced FDI amongst both investment destinations. The aim of this study is to look at data developments to assess whether the Brexit June 2016 referendum outcome and its aftermath have had an impact on UK-related FDI activity. Although FDI flows are notably volatile and biased by periodic non-systematic outliers, and despite some caveats on data sources and availability of time series data, we find preliminary evidence of a post-referendum slowdown in gross FDI flows between the UK and the EU, notably involving the big EU economies and Ireland. Regarding a very favored form of FDI, greenfield FDI, we document a post-referendum fall in announced projects and capital expenditures into the UK by both other EU countries and one of its most important non-EU partners, the United States. A different approach is also used to analyze the Brexit effect on FDI activity based on estimating the effect of two successive stages in the European integration process - EU membership and the euro area launch - and considering Brexit effects as the reversal of the UK integration into the EU. By using a fixed-effect gravity model to estimate the effects of these integration processes on bilateral FDI activity with the UK, the empirical results suggest that, on the one hand, this country played a role as a gateway for a set of international investor countries outside the euro area to enter European markets and, on the other, it acted as a hub that reallocated these inflows and those coming from euro countries across the euro area itself. Thus the disconnection of the UK from the EU may have further implications for FDI than just reverting the effect of EU membership. Larger trade barriers and lower integration between the UK and the euro area countries’ markets will likely have a negative impact on FDI activity in the UK and might have, in the short run, a negative effect as well in the euro area.
F15|Propagation of sector-specific shocks within spain and other countries|We explore the propagation of sector-specific shocks through the Spanish input-output network. First, we outline a theoretical framework borrowed from the networks literature that allows us to distinguish between downstream (from suppliers to customers) and upstream (from customers to suppliers) propagation depending on the nature of the shocks considered, either supply- or demand-driven. Second, we compute industry-specific domestic multipliers and compare the propagation features of the Spanish production network with those of other countries using the National Input-Output Tables (NIOTs) for the year 2014. According to our findings, the electricity sector in Spain is the most systemic industry in terms of its economy-wide impact, which is significantly larger than in other European countries. We also find that the introduction of the Worldwide Harmonised Light Vehicle Test Procedure (WLTP) in the second half of 2018 and its propagation through input-output linkages might have a larger aggregate impact in Germany than in Spain.
F15|Global Value Chains in Mexico: A Historical Perspective|This paper performs a historical analysis of Mexico's insertion into Global Value Chains (GVCs) and links it to the notion of competition underlying traditional theoretical models of international trade. In contrast with existing studies, it uses both new analytical tools pertaining to the GVC literature and tools based on the traditional notion of comparative advantage. This combination allows identifying three periods: (i) since NAFTA's signature until 2001, Mexico deepened its insertion into GVCs and reallocated resources to the production of more skilled-intensive goods; (ii) this higher GVC participation vanished when China entered the WTO; and (iii) since the second half of the 2000s, Mexico recovered the ground lost due to higher integration in the automotive sector and a reallocation of resources to the production of more unskilled-intensive goods, likely generated by an efficient response to competition with China. Hence, Mexico used two different models of GVC insertion entailing production processes with different characteristics in terms of skill-usage.
F15|Colombian liberalization and integration to world trade markets: Much ado about nothing|The objective of this paper is to study the evolution of Colombian liberalization and integration to world trade from 1995 to 2016. We achieve our objective by measuring Colombia’s importance in the world trade network. We employ several types of network centrality metrics to measure importance (i.e. degree, strength, hub, authority), and examine their dynamics against a set of regional peers that serve as benchmark countries. Consistent with previous literature, more than two decades of dedicated trade policies and institutional changes resulted in increased exports and imports. However, when compared to regional peers such as Chile, Brazil, Mexico, and Peru, and China and the United States as trade leading countries, Colombia’s centrality in the world trade network did not improve accordingly. Absolute changes in the evolution of trade did not materialize in an enhanced integration to world markets. Colombia’s ranking in the world trade network did not improve materially, whereas that of some of her regional peers did manifestly (i.e. Peru and Chile). Results highlight the perils of analyzing a country’s trade dynamics in isolation, and emphasizes the usefulness of examining the world trade network. From the economic policy and institutional perspectives, results underscore the challenges ahead to better integrate to world markets and to achieve long-term economic growth from trade. **** RESUMEN: El objetivo del documento es estudiar la evolución de la apertura e integración de Colombia al comercio mundial entre 1995 y 2016 y evaluar su importancia en la red de comercio mundial. El documento emplea varios tipos de métricas de centralidad de red (es decir, grado, valor de los flujos de comercio, centro, autoridad), y examina su dinámica y las compara con las de pares regionales que sirven como países de referencia. De acuerdo con la literatura colombiana, más de dos décadas de políticas comerciales y cambios institucionales resultaron en un aumento de las exportaciones e importaciones. Sin embargo, en comparación con Chile, Brasil, México y Perú, y China y Estados Unidos como países líderes en el comercio mundial, la centralidad de Colombia en la red mundial no mejoró. Los cambios absolutos en los flujos de exportaciones e importaciones no se materializaron en una mayor integración a los mercados mundiales. La posición de Colombia en la red de comercio mundial no mejoró sustancialmente, mientras que la de algunos de sus pares regionales sí lo hizo (es decir, Perú y Chile). Desde una perspectiva de política económica e institucional, los resultados resaltan los desafíos futuros de Colombia para integrarse mejor en los mercados mundiales y lograr un mayor crecimiento económico de largo plazo derivado del comercio internacional.
F15|La estimación del equivalente arancelario de las barreras no arancelarias y de la protección total en Colombia|Este documento utiliza desarrollos metodológicos recientes para la estimación del equivalente arancelario de las barreras no arancelarias en Colombia a un nivel de desagregación de Nandina 10 dígitos. A este mismo nivel de desagregación se estima la protección total, el índice de protección al comercio (TRI) y el índice conjunto de protección al comercio (OTRI). Los resultados muestran un alto grado de sustituibilidad entre la barreras arancelarias y no arancelarias en Colombia, siendo estas últimas un instrumento de protección ampliamente utilizado en los diferentes sectores económicos. Igualmente se evidencia un alto y creciente nivel de protección en Colombia, siendo el sector agropecuario el que presenta un mayor índice de restricción al comercio. Contrario a lo esperado, no parece existir una apertura económica a los mercados internacionales.
F15|Are global value chains receding? The jury is still out. Key findings from the analysis of deflated world trade in parts and components|In this article, we examine the dynamics of Global Value Chains (GVCs) since the 2000s. Did it show a marked expansion up to the Great Recession and did GVCs begin a downturn in the 2010s? To better understand the evolution of GVCs at the world level, we use very detailed trade data for 2000 to 2016, which distinguishes different production stages along the GVC. In particular, among intermediate goods, we focus on Parts and Components (P&C) rather than semi-finished products since the manufacture of P&C corresponds to activities more embedded in GVCs. We control, also, for the global business cycle and price effects using an original production stages deflator based on detailed bilateral trade unit-values. This new GVC indicator shows moderate growth over the study period with no trend reversal. In the electronics sector, where GVCs are particularly well-developed, we observe contrasting effects: the share in P&C trade for office machinery and computers has decreased, while it has increased in the case of telecommunications equipment, the flagship IT revolution industry. Also, counts of clients or suppliers by stages of production indicate higher and growing geographical diversity for P&C.
F15|No Double Standards: Quantifying the Impact of Standard Harmonization on Trade|Product standards are omnipresent in industrialized societies. Though standardization can be beneficial for domestic producers, divergent product standards have been categorized as a major obstacle to international trade. This paper quantifies the effect of standard harmonization on trade flows and characterizes the extent to which it changes the cost and demand structure of exporting. Creating a novel and comprehensive database on cross-country standard equivalences, we identify standard harmonization events at the document level. Our results show that the introduction of harmonized standards increases trade through a larger sales volume of existing exporters (intensive margin) and more entry (extensive margin). These findings are consistent with a multi-country heterogeneous firm model featuring endogenous standard adoption. Because of additional demand, standard harmonization raises firms’ incentives to produce varieties in accordance with the standard despite high sunk investment costs. Firms’ export sales expand and entry into foreign markets is encouraged.
F15|A Theory of Economic Unions|After decades of successful growth, economic unions have recently become the focus of heightened political controversy. We argue that this is partly due to the growth of trade between countries that are increasingly dissimilar. We develop a theoretical framework to study the effects on trade, income distribution and welfare of economic unions that differ in size ad scope. Our model shows that political support for international unions can grow with their breadth and depth as long as member countries are sufficiently similar. However, differences in economic size and factor endowments can trigger disagreement over the value of unions between and within countries. The model is consistent with same salient features of the process of European integration and statistical evidence from survey data.
F15|Sharing Government|This paper develops a simple theoretical framework to study a set of regions, each with its own regional government, who share a union or central government. These governments must decide whether to implement or discard a large number of projects that produce local benefits for the region that implements them, and externalities for the rest of the regions. Conflict or disagreement arises since different regions value projects differently. The classic assignment problem consists of deciding who decides these projects, either the union or the regional governments. It is well known that regional governments are insensitive to externalities. The key observation here is that the union government is insensitive to local benefits. Thus, each government maximizes only a piece of the value of projects, and disregards the other one. This observations leads to simple and clear rules for solving the assignment problem.
F15|Elecxit: The Cost of Bilaterally Uncoupling British-EU Electricity Trade|The UK’s withdrawal from the European Union could mean that it leaves the EU Single Market for electricity (Elecxit). This paper develops methods to study the longer-term consequences of this electricity market disintegration, and in particular the end of market coupling. Before European electricity markets were coupled, different market closing times forced traders to commit to cross-border trading volumes based on anticipated market prices. Interconnector capacity was often under-used, and power sometimes flowed from high- to low-price areas. A model of these market frictions is developed, empirically verified on 2009 data (before market coupling) and applied to estimate the costs of market uncoupling in 2030. A less efficient market and the abandonment of some planned interconnectors would raise generation costs by €560m a year (1.5%) compared to remaining in the Single Electricity Market. Sixty percent (€300m) of these welfare losses occur in Great Britain.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F15|Measuring inefficiency in international electricity trading|We show that established metrics used to monitor electricity trading inefficiency become increasingly inaccurate in several trading conditions. We devise the Unweighted and Price-Weighted Inefficient Interconnector Utilisation indices to address these deficiencies. These metrics are substantially more accurate than existing ones and perform equally well whether or not markets are coupled. Our results show a substantial decrease in inefficient trading between Great Britain and both France and the Netherlands after the European Union’s market coupling regulations were introduced in 2014. In view of Great Britain’s likely withdrawal from the European Union, the paper also evaluates how market uncoupling would affect cross-border trade. We find that uncoupling would lead to inefficiencies in trade, the electricity price differential between GB and France (Netherlands) rising by 3% (2%), net imports into GB decreasing by 26% (13%), congestion income decreasing by 10% (5%), and infra-marginal surplus decreasing by 1.6% (1.6%) of coupled congestion income. We also show that, should the EU decide to implement an equivalent carbon tax to GB’s Carbon Price Floor, uncoupling impacts would be slightly magnified due to electricity prices converging (by about 1% of coupled congestion income).
F15|Ser ou não ser: Reflexões sobre a crise e o futuro da União Europeia|Neste artigo discutimos a crise e o futuro da União Europeia (UE). O método consiste num diagnóstico e análise críticos daquilo que tem sido a crise europeia e na subsequente discussão de duas propostas para o futuro, com vista a recuperar uma Europa com um rosto humano. Os resultados mostram que a visão económica que transparece da atuação das Instituições Europeias (IE) padece de fortes limitações. Ao fim de uma década, a UE ainda não conseguiu ultrapassar os problemas levantados pela crise financeira de 2008. A crise europeia é mais profunda e tem as suas origens na globalização financeira dos anos 1970’s, na unificação da Alemanha e no fim da guerra fria, em 1989 e 1991, no tratado de Maastricht e no aparecimento do Euro (no âmbito da União Económica e Monetária) nos anos 1990’s. A Área do Euro (AE) não é uma zona monetária ótima e completa. A crise financeira de 2008 atingiu fortemente a banca do centro e norte da Europa, sendo que as IE converteram o problema numa crise das dívidas soberanas e moral dos Estados Membros (EM) da coesão e da Itália (PIIGS/GIPSI) e do orçamento da UE. Entrando em linha de conta com as transferências por via do mercado único, a posição líquida que países como a Alemanha e Portugal têm, no que refere ao orçamento europeu, inverte-se, sendo a Alemanha beneficiária líquido da UE e Portugal um contribuinte líquido. Duas alterações ajudariam a UE a refundar-se com um rosto humano e a parar a afirmação dos nacionalismos populistas e xenófobos no continente: o orçamento da UE passar a ser pago exclusivamente com recursos próprios (impostos europeus); a UE adotar aproximações territoriais (“place-based”) em todas as suas políticas.
F15|America First? A US-centric view of global capital flows|Both academic researchers and policymakers posit a unique role for the US in the inter-national financial system. This paper investigates the characteristics and determinants of US cross-border financial flows and examines how these contrast with those of the rest of the world. We analyse the relative importance of US, country-specific, and global variables as determinants of aggregate and bilateral US financial flows and as determinants of country-level cross-border financial flows excluding those directly involving the US. Our results indicate that variation in US variables – notably the VIX and US dollar exchange rate – has a quantitatively important influence on global financial flows, but mostly via US cross-border flows. Global and national risk indicators perform better in explaining “rest of the world” flows. Moreover, we find that the correlation between US and rest of the world flows peaks in periods of elevated uncertainty. We interpret our findings as evidence for the existence of a global financial cycle, only some of which is driven by policies and events in the US. JEL Classification: F15, F21, F36, F42, G15
F15|Voting with their Money: Brexit and Outward Investment by UK Firms|We study the impact of the 2016 Brexit referendum on UK foreign direct investment. Using the synthetic control method to construct appropriate counterfactuals, we show that by March 2019 the Leave vote had led to a 17% increase in the number of UK outward investment transactions in the remaining EU27 member states, whereas transactions in non-EU OECD countries were unaffected. These results support the hypothesis that UK companies have been setting up European subsidiaries to retain access to the EU market after Brexit. At the same time, we find that the number of EU27 investment projects in the UK has declined by around 9%, illustrating that being a smaller economy than the EU leaves the UK more exposed to the costs of economic disintegration.
F15|A Tale of (Almost) 1001 Coefficients: Deep and Heterogeneous Effects of the EU-Turkey Customs Union|In view of the deferred start of negotiations for the modernization of the Customs Union between the EU and Turkey (CU-EUT), we look back and analyse the ex post trade consequences of the CU-EUT. Employing up-to-date econometric best practices for regional integration agreements, we quantify both total and heterogeneous trade effects of the CU-EUT. In contrast to most previous studies, our results indicate a significantly positive, large, and robust impact of the CU-EUT, implying an additional increase in EU-Turkey manufacturing trade by 55-65% compared to the previously active Ankara Agreement. We also provide evidence that the CU-EUT significantly increased Turkey’s trade with third countries. Additionally, a substantial heterogeneity in the CUEUT effect is found across different industries as well as for each of its member countries and the direction of trade. We link the heterogeneity of our up to 911 coefficient estimates to differences in initial trade costs and show that it cannot be ascribed to reductions in bilateral tariff rates.
F15|A Tale of Two Surplus Countries: China and Germany|We analyze current account imbalances through the lens of the two largest surplus countries; China and Germany. We observe two striking patterns visible since the 2007/8 Global Financial Crisis. First, while China has been gradually reducing its current account surplus, Germany’s surplus has continued to increase throughout and after the crisis. Second, for these two countries, there is a remarkable reversal in the patterns of exchange rate misalignment: China’s currency has turned from being undervalued to overvalued, Germany’s currency has erased its level of overvaluation and become undervalued. Our empirical analyses show that the current account balances of these two countries are quite well explained by currency misalignment, common economic factors, and country-specific factors. Furthermore, we highlight the global financial crisis effects and, for Germany, the importance of differentiating balances against euro and non-euro countries.
F15|Putting Canada in the penalty box: trade and welfare effects of eliminating NAFTA|Three years ago, very few economists would have imagined that one of the newest and fastest growing research areas in international trade is the use of quantitative trade models to estimate the economic welfare losses from dissolutions of major countries’ economic integration agreements (EIAs). In 2016, “Brexit” was passed in a United Kingdom referendum. Moreover, in 2019, the existence of the entire North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) is at risk if the United States withdraws - a threat President Trump has made if the proposed United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement is not passed by the U.S. Congress. We use state-of-the-art econometric methodology to estimate the partial (average treatment) effects on international trade flows of the six major types of EIAs. Armed with precise estimates of the average treatment effect for a free trade agreement, we examine the general equilibrium trade and welfare effects of the elimination of NAFTA (and for robustness U.S. withdrawal only). Although all the member countries’ standards of living fall, surprisingly the smallest economy, Mexico, is not the biggest loser; Canada is the biggest loser. Canada's welfare (per capita income) loss of 2.11 percent is nearly two times that of Mexico's loss of 1.15 percent and is nearly eight times the United States’ loss of 0.27 percent. The simulations will illustrate the important influence of trade costs - international and intranational - in contributing to the gains (or losses) from an economic integration agreement's formation (or elimination).
F15|Environmental policy and firm selection in the open economy|In this paper, we analyse the effects of a unilateral change in an emissions tax in a model of international trade with heterogeneous firms. We find a positive effect of tighter environmental policy on average productivity in the reforming country through reallocation of labour towards exporting firms. Domestic aggregate emissions following the tax increase is smaller than in autarky. Moreover, general equilibrium effects through changes in the foreign wage rate lead to a reduction in foreign emissions and, hence, to negative emissions leakage in case of transboundary pollution.
F15|Roman Transport Network Connectivity and Economic Integration|We show that the creation of the first integrated pan-European transport network during Roman times influences economic integration over two millennia. Drawing on spatially highly disaggregated data on excavated Roman ceramics, we document that interregional trade was strongly influenced by connectivity within the network. Today, these connectivity differentials continue to influence cross-regional firm investment behaviour. Continuity is largely explained by selective infrastructure routing and cultural integration due to bilateral convergence in preferences and values. Both plausibly arise from network-induced history of repeated socio-economic interaction. We show that our results are Roman-connectivity specific and do not reflect pre-existing patterns of exchange.
F15|The Brexit Conundrum Worsens the UK's Relationship with the European Union|This paper examines the shortcomings in the UK government’s Brexit negotiation strategy which reflected Prime Minister Theresa May’s weak political leadership. The Prime Minister focused on securing the short-term political survival of her government amidst turbulent and fractious domestic politics, over negotiations with the EU27. Brexit negotiations were poorly planned and the government was woefully unprepared. Brexit also threatens a serious re-opening of old wounds in Northern Ireland, as debate grows around the prospect of a united Ireland inside the EU. UK politics is in turmoil and in a chronic crisis. What route the Brexit saga takes next is uncertain. But the crossroads is approaching – either the UK leaves on 31 October 2019 with no deal or it finds a route towards an accommodation with the EU. The phenomenon of British exceptionalism towards the EU is set to take a new dramatic turn, while the UK’s chaotic political divisions will not disappear any time soon.
F15|Bilateral Trade Imbalances|In standard quantitative models, bilateral trade imbalances are determined by aggregate trade imbalances, expenditure and production patterns, and trade wedges. We calibrate such a model using recent data on incomes, factor endowments, and sector-level expenditures, outputs and bilateral trade flows for 40 economies and the rest of the world. Large pairwise asymmetries in trade wedges are needed for the model’s bilateral-trade predictions to match the data. They account for 21-35% of the standard deviation of bilateral trade imbalances. Aggregate imbalances play a minor role, while more than 50% of the variation is explained by international differences in production and expenditure patterns.
F15|Trade Tariff, Wage Gap and Public Spending|This paper studies the interplay between the wage gap and government spending in a small open economy facing a shock in trade policy. We consider a specific factor model with an export sector, which uses skilled labour, and an import-competing sector, which uses unskilled labour. We find the conditions under which there exists an inverse (direct) relation between trade lib-eralization (protection), which increases (decreases) the skilled-unskilled wage gap, and the level of government expenditure. We also show how either an unbalanced distribution of political bargaining power, or tariff revenue co-financing public spending may break this direct relation.
F15|Trade, Location and Multiproduct Firms|In this paper we study how trade liberalization affects the location and the product scope of firms. We find that the largest and most productive multiproduct firms concentrate to the larger market as a result of trade liberalization. Given some relocation costs, we also find that these firms will expand their product range in the larger market while firms in the smaller market will contract their product scope. These effects are magnified with firm-level productivity. The findings are consistent with Japanese manufacturing firm data.
F15|How Britain Unified Germany: Endogenous Trade Costs and the Formation of a Customs Union|We analyze the foundation of the German Zollverein as an example of how geography can shape institutional change. We show how the redrawing of the European map at the Congress of Vienna 1815, notably Prussia's control over the Rhineland and Westphalia, affected the incentives for policymakers to cooperate. Our argument comes in three steps. First, we show that the new borders were not endogenous to trade. They were at odds with the strategy of Prussia in 1815, but followed from Britain's intervention at Vienna regarding the Polish-Saxon question. Second, we develop a theoretical framework, where state planners set tariffs on imports and transits to maximize revenue. We show that in a world with transit tariffs a revenue-maximizing state planner faces a trade-off between benefits from cooperation and the cost of losing geographical advantage. In a third step we calibrate the model combining historical data on prices, freight rates, and market sizes with GIS data on lowest costs routes under endogenous tariffs. We then run counterfactuals to show how borders affected incentives: if Prussia would have succeeded with her strategy to gain the entire Kingdom of Saxony instead of the western provinces, the Zollverein would not have formed. We conclude that geography can shape institutional change. To put it differently, as a collateral damage to her intervention at Vienna, Britain unifed Germany.
F15|Hump-shaped cross-price effects and the extensive margin in cross-border shopping|This paper examines the effect of cross-border shopping on grocery demand in Norway using monthly store*category sales data from Norway's largest grocery chain 2011-2016. The sensitivity of demand to foreign price is hump-shaped and greatest 30-60 minutes' driving distance from the closest foreign store. Combining continuous demand, fixed costs of cross-border shopping and linear transport costs `a la Hotelling we show how this hump-shape can arise through a combination of intensive and extensive margins of cross-border shopping. Our conclusions are further supported by novel survey evidence and cross-border traffic data.
F15|Roman Transport Network Connectivity and Economic Integration|We show that the creation of the first integrated pan-European transport network during Roman times influences economic integration over two millennia. Drawing on spatially highly disaggregated data on excavated Roman ceramics, we document that interregional trade was strongly influenced by connectivity within the network. Today, these connectivity differentials continue to influence cross-regional firm investment behaviour. Continuity is largely explained by selective infrastructure routing and cultural integration due to bilateral convergence in preferences and values. Both plausibly arise from network-induced history of repeated socio-economic interaction. We show that our results are Roman-connectivity specific and do not reflect pre-existing patterns of exchange.
F15|Technology-Induced Trade Shocks? Evidence from Broadband Expansion in France|In this paper, we document the presence of “technology-induced” trade in France between 1997 and 2007 and assess its impact on consumer welfare. We use the staggered roll-out of broadband internet to estimate its causal effect on the importing behavior of affected firms. Using an event-study design, we find that broadband expansion increases firm-level imports by around 25%. We further find that the “sub-extensive” margin (number of products and sourcing countries per firm) is the main channel of adjustment and that the effect is larger for capital goods. Finally, we develop a model where firms optimize over their import strategy and which yields a sufficient statistics formula for the quantification of the effects of broadband on consumer welfare. Interpreted within this model, our reduced-form estimates imply that broadband internet reduced the consumer price index by 1.7% and that the import-channel, i.e. the enhanced access to foreign goods that is allowed by broadband, accounts for a quarter of that effect.
F15|Voting With Their Money: Brexit and Outward Investment by UK Firms|We study the impact of the 2016 Brexit referendum on UK foreign direct investment. Using the synthetic control method to construct appropriate counterfactuals, we show that by March 2019 the Leave vote had led to a 17% increase in the number of UK outward investment transactions in the remaining EU27 member states, whereas transactions in non-EU OECD countries were unaffected. These results support the hypothesis that UK companies have been setting up European subsidiaries to retain access to the EU market after Brexit. At the same time, we find that the number of EU27 investment projects in the UK has declined by around 9%, illustrating that being a smaller economy than the EU leaves the UK more exposed to the costs of economic disintegration.
F15|Sharing a Government|This paper develops a simple theoretical framework to study a set of regions, each with its own regional government, who share a union or central government. These governments must decide whether to implement or discard a large number of projects that produce local benefits for the region that implements them, and externalities for the rest of the regions. Conflict or disagreement arises since different regions value projects differently. The classic assignment problem consists of deciding who decides these projects, either the union or the regional governments. It is well known that regional governments are insensitive to externalities. The key observation here is that the union government is insensitive to local beneÃ?ts. Thus, each government maximizes only a piece of the value of projects, and disregards the other one. This observations leads to simple and clear rules for solving the assignment problem.
F15|"The ""New"" Economics of Trade Agreements: From Trade Liberalization to Regulatory Convergence?"|"What incentives do governments have to negotiate ""new trade agreements,"" i.e., agreements that constrain not only governments' choices of tariffs, but also their domestic regulatory policies? We focus on horizontal product standards, i.e., those that impose requirements along a horizontal dimension of product differentiation. We introduce differences in ideal products across countries and consider cases in which product choices do not and do confer externalities on other national consumers. In addition to characterizing the features of the optimal new trade agreement in each environment, we ask whether detailed negotiations about regulatory rules are needed for global efficiency or whether an ""old trade agreement"" augmented by some ""policed decentralization"" of regulatory procedures can achieve the same outcomes."
F15|Foreign currency loan conversions and currency mismatches|This paper examines the effect of currency conversion programs from Swiss franc-denominated loans to other currency loans on currency risk for banks in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE). Swiss franc mortgage loans proliferated in CEE countries prior to the financial crisis and contributed to the volume of non-performing loans as the Swiss franc strongly appreciated during the post-crisis period. Empirical findings suggest that Swiss franc loan conversion programs reduced currency mismatches in Swiss francs but increased currency mismatches in other foreign currencies in individual countries. This asymmetric effect of conversion programs arises from the loan restructuring from Swiss francs to a non-local currency and the high level of euro mismatches in the CEE banking system.
F15|"Les déterminants de la mobilisation des ""gilets jaunes"""|"Cet article présente les résultats d'une étude sur les territoires dont sont originaires les ""gilets jaunes"". Dès le premier samedi de mobilisation le 17 novembre 2018, ce mouvement se démarque par son caractère local et sa couverture nationale. A partir de données inédites de la mobilisation sur Facebook, nous montrons une forte corrélation entre mobilisation online (sur Facebook) et o ine (blocages des ronds-points). Nous réalisons alors une cartographie ne et contrastée de la contestation. L'étude économétrique met en évidence le rôle de la mobilité pour expliquer les origines du mouvement, au travers notamment du passage des routes à 80km/h et des distances domicile-travail."
F15|Price Discrimination in Bribe Payments: Evidence from Informal Cross-Border Trade in West Africa|What factors explain the persistence and pervasiveness of corruption in certain parts of the world? In West Africa, many day-to-day transactions require the payment of bribes. Quantitative evidence on these bribes and their determinants is scarce. This paper sheds light on the level and the frequency of bribe payments in informal cross-border trade. It examines how bribes depend on the trade regime and on market structure. We rely on data from a survey of traders in Benin to estimate the determinants of bribe payments. We exploit variations in the trade regime across Benin's borders, as well as changes in trade restrictions over time and variations in route availability across space and time. We nd that reductions in trade barriers help to lower bribes, but do not eliminate them, with bribes remaining frequent in liberalized trade regimes. These results suggest that collusive corruption - used to circumvent regulations and taxes - coexists with coercive corruption, where ocials use their monopoly power to extract transfers from traders.
F15|Are global value chains receding? The jury is still out. Key findings from the analysis of deflated world trade in parts and components|In this article, we examine the dynamics of Global Value Chains (GVCs) since the 2000s. Did it show a marked expansion up to the Great Recession and did GVCs begin a downturn in the 2010s? To better understand the evolution of GVCs at the world level, we use very detailed trade data for 2000 to 2016, which distinguishes different production stages along the GVC. In particular, among intermediate goods, we focus on Parts and Components (P&C) rather than semi-finished products since the manufacture of P&C corresponds to activities more embedded in GVCs. We control, also, for the global business cycle and price effects using an original production stages deflator based on detailed bilateral trade unit-values. This new GVC indicator shows moderate growth over the study period with no trend reversal.
F15|Strengthening Connectivity for Trade and Development: An Assessment of the Southern Asian Container Rail Corridor|Limitations of cross-border transport connectivity has been observed to have curtailed the full potential of trade led development in the Southern Asian subregion. Inefficiencies of international transport has hurt the trade prospects of not only Southern Asian countries but also trading partners from neighboring subregions, especially the landlocked countries of South and Central Asia which could use well-functioning Southern Asian transport corridors to the advantage of all. UNESCAP has proposed operationalization of a trunk Southern Asian transport route, namely the Istanbul–Tehran–Islamabad– Delhi–Kolkata–Dhaka-Yangon (ITI–DKD-Y) Container Rail Corridor, opening possibilities of new cost-effective transport options. This paper undertakes an assessment of the operational feasibility of this trunk corridor, and finds significant cost and time advantages. Comparing with existing alternative transport options, which often involve circuitous carriageways and transshipment delays, usage of even partial segments of the ITI-DKD-Y Corridor can lead to cost reduction to the tune of US$ 1122 per container (twenty-foot equivalent unit), potentially halving the current costs under modest assumptions. In certain segments, such as Delhi-Lahore, the rate of savings could be as high as 80 percent. Such high rates of cost reduction could translate into savings worth over 50 percent in transaction cost for regular cargo rail services between segments. Besides cost reduction, such services could also yield considerable time savings compared to available alternatives. In certain segments, the delivery time could be reduced by up to 14 days. Activation of end-to-end rail service along the ITI-DKD-Y route, along with multimodal transit linkages to landlocked countries at strategic terminals in the route, can maximize traffic volumes and revenues. Operationalization of the corridor requires concerted efforts to build institutional collaboration, facilitation of container train operators, introduction of container interchange protocols, usage of ICT tools, development of strategic dry ports for intermodal connectivity and adoption of a connectivity master plan.
F15|America First? A US-centric view of global capital flows|Both academic researchers and policymakers posit a unique role for the US in the international financial system. This paper investigates the characteristics and determinants of US cross-border financial flows and examines how these contrast with those of the rest of the world. We analyse the relative importance of US, country-specific, and global variables as determinants of aggregate and bilateral US financial flows and as determinants of country-level cross-border financial flows excluding those directly involving the US. Our results indicate that variation in US variables – notably the VIX and US dollar exchange rate – has a quantitatively important influence on global financial flows, but mostly via US cross-border flows. Global and national risk indicators perform better in explaining “rest of the world” flows. Moreover, we find that the correlation between US and rest of the world flows peaks in periods of elevated uncertainty. We interpret our findings as evidence for the existence of a global financial cycle, only some of which is driven by policies and events in the US.
F15|Real exchange rate misalignments in CEECs: have they hindered growth?|We study the impact of exchange rate misalignment on economic activity in nine Central and Eastern European (CEE) economies. Exchange rate misalignments are computed from country-specific long-run exchange rate relationships with determinants suggested by open macroeconomic models such as interest rate differentials or the Balassa-Samuelson effect. There was a clear reduction in misalignments, but this has been reversed to some extent after 2008. Exchange rate overvaluation has a negative impact on economic activity. The effect of misalignments on economic activity seems to be nonlinear, as overvaluation has a stronger effect than undervaluation. Other factors of economic activity, including institutions, also show nonlinear effects
F15|Changes in sovereign debt dynamics in Central and Eastern Europe|The aim of this paper is to shed some light on the degree of fiscal debt sustainability for a group of Central and Eastern European countries. We apply a battery of time series econometrics methods to show how the financial crisis has affected the debt-to-GDP ratio and how it has behaved recently. The results provide us with important insights into the way governments in Central and Eastern Europe have reacted to debt accumulation. We distinguish two groups of countries; one group where the sovereign debt stock stabilises after the crisis, and another group where debt has been accumulated more quickly in recent years. The results provide important policy lessons for the authorities responsible.
F15|The effect of the single currency on exports: Comparative firm-level evidence|We investigate how adopting the euro affects exports using firm-level data from Slovakia and Estonia. In contrast to previous studies, we focus on countries that adopted the euro individually and had different exchange rate regimes prior to doing so. Following the New Trade Theory we consider three types of adjustment: firm selection, changes in product varieties and changes in the average value of the exports that compose the exports of individual firms. The euro effect is identified by a difference in differences analysis comparing exports by firms to the euro area countries with exports to the EU countries that are not members of the euro area. The results highlight the importance of the transaction costs channel related to exchange rate volatility. We find the euro has a strong pro-trade effect in Slovakia, which switched to the euro from a floating exchange rate, while it has almost no effect in Estonia, which had a fixed exchange rate to the euro prior to the euro changeover. Our findings indicate that the euro effect manifested itself mainly through the intensive margin and that the gains from trade were heterogeneous across firm characteristics.
F15|The Fall in UK Potential Output due to the Financial Crisis: a Much Bigger Estimate|Conventional estimates suggest that the 2007-9 financial crisis reduced UK potential output by 3.8 to 7.5 per cent of GDP. This implied a need for fiscal tightening as the structural budget deficit had increased considerably. The austerity that followed led to the rise of UKIP, the EU referendum and the vote for Brexit. Brexit will reduce potential output by somewhere between 3.9 and 8.7 per cent of GDP. Thus, it can be argued that the total fall in UK potential output due to the banking crisis is approximately double the conventional estimate.
F15|The Fall in UK Potential Output due to the Financial Crisis: a Much Bigger Estimate|Conventional estimates suggest that the 2007-9 financial crisis reduced UK potential output by 3.8 to 7.5 per cent of GDP. This implied a need for fiscal tightening as the structural budget deficit had increased considerably. The austerity that followed led to the rise of UKIP, the EU referendum and the vote for Brexit. Brexit will reduce potential output by somewhere between 3.9 and 8.7 per cent of GDP. Thus, it can be argued that the total fall in UK potential output due to the banking crisis is approximately double the conventional estimate.
F15|Diagonal Cumulation and Sourcing Decisions|Products must fulfill predetermined rules of origin to be exported under the preferential access granted by a free trade area member. In turn, rules of cumulation establish which countries'inputs qualify when computing the extent of origin of a product. Recent literature shows that restrictive rules of origin affect sourcing decision by reducing imports of intermediate goods from third countries relative to free trade area partners. This paper uses the introduction of the Pan-European Cumulation System in 1997 to explore the effects of rules of cumulation on trade in intermediate goods. The system provided the European Union Free Trade Area's peripheral partners (''spokes'') the possibility of cumulating stages of production from more countries to qualify for preferential access to the European Union market. Therefore, the system might have altered the organization of production in European Union centric value chains. The paper estimates a triple difference-in-differences specification and exploits different control groups. The results show that the effects of rules of cumulation on trade in intermediates are larger, with the stricter rules of origin applied to the related final good. When switching from bilateral to diagonal cumulation, the analysis finds a reduction in spokes'imports of intermediates from the rest of the world relative to those from spoke, reinforcing value chain connections within the cumulation zone. The analysis also finds a reduction in spokes'imports from the European Union 15 relative to the rest of the world and the Spokes. The findings suggest that the Pan-European Cumulation System allowed a reassessment of sourcing decisions: thanks to the possibility to cumulate, peripheral countries re-organized global value chain links.
F15|Elecxit: The Cost of Bilaterally Uncoupling British-EU Electricity Trade|The UK’s withdrawal from the European Union could mean that it leaves the EU Single Market for electricity (Elecxit). This paper develops methods to study the longer-term consequences of this electricity market disintegration, and in particular the end of market coupling. Before European electricity markets were coupled, different market closing times forced traders to commit to cross-border trading volumes based on anticipated market prices. Interconnector capacity was often under-used, and power sometimes flowed from high- to low-price areas. A model of these market frictions is developed, empirically verified on 2009 data (before market coupling) and applied to estimate the costs of market uncoupling in 2030. A less efficient market and the abandonment of some planned interconnectors would raise generation costs by €560m a year (1.5%) compared to remaining in the Single Electricity Market. Sixty percent (€300m) of these welfare losses occur in Great Britain.
F15|Productivity and Trade Growth in Services: How Services Helped Power Factory Asia|This paper uses a theory-based measure of productivity-based comparative advantage to examine the trade performance of developing Asian economies in manufacturing and services over the 1995–2011 period. We find that the growth in service exports was nearly as rapid as that in manufacturing over this period—a little-appreciated fact. Services are therefore an integral part of “Factory Asia.” Moreover, the results from a quantitative model of trade show that revealed productivity measures are often comparable between manufacturing and services at a disaggregated level, although the results differ markedly across sectors and economies. We also find evidence of rapid growth in revealed productivity in some service subsectors, comparable to that in manufacturing. Our findings suggest that oversimplifying the relationship between patterns of specialization and subsequent economic transformation and growth patterns misses important elements of reality.
F15|Multi-product Firms, Tariff Liberalization, and Product Churning in Vietnamese Manufacturing|Utilizing firm-level data during 2010–2015, we examine the frequency and characteristics of multi-product firms in Vietnamese manufacturing. Our major findings are as follows. First, multi-product firms are larger, more capital-intensive, more productive, and are more likely to export. Second, multi-product firms are active in the market. Approximately 60% of firms adjust their product scope within a 6-year period. Third, the contribution of firms’ product extensive margin to aggregate output growth is limited due to the prevalence of product dropping, which offsets the positive impact of product adding. Much of output growth during the period is thus generated by the intensive margin. Turning to the link between tariff reduction and product shedding, we do not detect any significant impact. However, we find that exporters play an important role in product adding, which suggests that they may contribute to aggregate growth through the channeling of product scope expansion. Contrary to our expectations, our analysis offers limited support for the heterogeneity of product turnover across ownership types. While we find that state-owned enterprises are more likely to spread economic activities across products and industries, there is little difference in terms of product churning among foreign direct investment, state-owned enterprises, and the domestic private sector.
F15|Quantifying the Economic Effects of the Single Market in a Structural Macromodel|This paper examines the macro-economic benefits of the Single Market in goods and services by simulating a counterfactual scenario in which tariffs and non-tariff barriers are reintroduced. Model simulations show how the reintroduction of trade barriers in such a counterfactual would lead to significantly lower trade flows between the Member States. Lower trade openness also means reduced market size and less competition. Using empirical evidence on the effect of the Single Market on firms’ mark-ups over marginal costs, we add these effects to the direct trade effects to come to a total estimate of the economic benefits of the Single Market of between 8% and 9% higher GDP on average for the EU.
F15|Linking Permit Markets Multilaterally|We formally study the determinants, magnitude and distribution of efficiency gains generated in multilateral linkages between permit markets. We provide two novel decomposition results for these gains, characterize individual preferences over linking groups and show that our results are largely unaltered with strategic domestic emissions cap selection or when banking and borrowing are allowed. Using the Paris Agreement pledges and power sector emissions data of five countries which all use or considered using both emissions trading and linking, we quantify the efficiency gains. We find that the computed gains can be sizable and are split roughly equally between effort and risk sharing.
F15|Let There Be Light: Trade and the Development of Border Regions|Does international trade help or hinder the economic development of border regions relative to interior regions? Theory tends to suggest that trade helps, but it can also predict the reverse. The question is policy relevant as regions near land borders are generally poorer, and sometimes more prone to civil conflict, than interior regions. We therefore estimate how changes in bilateral trade volumes affect economic activity along roads running inland from international borders, using satellite night-light measurements for 2,186 border-crossing roads in 138 countries. We observe a significant ‘border shadow’: on average, lights are 37 percent dimmer at the border than 200 kilometers inland. We find this difference to be reduced by trade expansion as measured by exports and instrumented with tariffs on the opposite side of the border. At the mean, a doubling of exports to a particular neighbor country reduces the gradient of light from the border by some 23 percent. This qualitative finding applies to developed and developing countries, and to rural and urban border regions. Proximity to cities on either side of the border amplifies the effects of trade. We provide evidence that local export-oriented production is a significant mechanism behind the observed effects.
F15|Global Value Chain Trade along the Belt andRoad and Projects Allocation|We analyze the trade patterns among the countries involved in the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and investigate whether and to what extent they explain the allocation of investment projects regarding their number and value. Our findings indicate that investments tend to concentrate in countries already involved in global value chains (GVC) and especially favor suppliers of intermediate goods to China with similar sectoral specialization. At the same time, more developed countries closer to destination markets tend to attract fewer but larger investments. The BRI represents an opportunity for China to upgrade its exports and for the involved countries to join GVC productions.
F15|Decomposition of economic growth in the Russian Federation through 2024|In 2018, the growth rate of GDP in Russia (2.3 percent) represents a record high of per annum economic growth rate since 2012. This year-end result is notably above the estimates offered by a majority of international financial organizations (the IMF, World Bank, the OECD), as well as by Russian banking analysts and experts. The volume of GDP in nominal terms surged above RUB 100 trillion, to RUB 103,626.6 billion (or approximately USD 1,657 billion when recalculated at the annual average RUB-to-USD rate). Growth was also displayed by most of the basic indicators: thus, the industrial production index in 2018 gained 2.9 percent, freight turnover – 2.9 percent, retail trade turnover – 2.6 percent. Special note should be made of the movement pattern of fixed investment: according to preliminary estimates released by Rosstat, its annual growth index amounted to 4.3 percent. Considering the fact that, in 2017, the amount of fixed investment in constant prices increased by 4.8 percent, it can be said that over the period 2017–2018, the investment sphere indeed experienced intense growth; however, the main contribution to that growth was made either by budget-funded investments (the completion of building construction projects in preparation for the World Cup; the construction of the bridge to the Crimea; the Sabetta Airport and Seaport; and infrastructure in the city of Moscow), or investments by state-owned companies (Nord Stream 2 natural gas pipeline; Yamal LNG; etc.).
F15|A simple model of corporate bailouts in a globalized economy|This paper explores how globalization influences the decision of governments to rescue inefficient domestic firms when bailouts affect firms'markups. We develop a model of international trade where immobile domestic enterprises (DOEs) compete with foreign enterprises (FOEs) in an oligopolistic market. The decision to bail out DOEs leads to lower corporate tax revenues if FOEs are immobile whereas tax revenues might increase if FOEs are mobile. Interestingly, the mobility of FOEs makes governments more prone to rescue inefficient domestic firms because tax competition reduces the opportunity cost of a bailout policy in terms of public good provision.
F15|(Mis)Matches of Institutions: The EU and Varieties of Capitalism| We study the institutional crisis of the European Union by harnessing a supermodular game approach, which sees institutions as self-sustaining bundle of rules that are subject to many-fold complementarities. Institutional systems evolve over time and feature country-specific characteristics. Introducing supranational regulations may alter the effectiveness of a set of complementary national institutions and yield negative economic outcomes. These negative effects may be temporary if the national institutional system changes towards a new, superior equilibrium. The strength and direction of the effect of newly introduced supranational regulations is country-specific and depends on: (i) the fit of the institutional system to its environment, (ii) the strength of the complementarities among institutions within and between countries, and (iii) the distance of the EU regulation to optimal regulation in the particular country. We assess the five scenarios brought forward in the White Paper on the future of Europe (European Commission (2017)) following our theoretical framework and discuss the conditions under which each scenario works.
F15|The Average and Heterogeneous Effects of Transportation Investments: Evidence from sub-Saharan Africa 1960-2010|Previous work on transportation investments has focused on average impacts in high- and middle-income countries. We estimate average and heterogeneous effects in a poor continent, Africa, using roads and cities data spanning 50 years in 39 countries. Using changes in market access due to distant road construction as a source of exogenous variation, we estimate an 30-year elasticity of city population with respect to market access of 0.06--0.18. Our results suggest that this elasticity is stronger for small and remote cities, and weaker in politically favored and agriculturally suitable areas. Access to foreign cities matters little.
F15|Regional Integration and Informal Trade in Africa: Evidence from Benin’s Borders|Regional trade is low in sub-saharan Africa. But a large share of regional trade is informal, i.e., not recorded in official data. This paper studies the relationship between trade barriers and informality of trade. We use an original survey of informal transactions across Benin’s land borders, which provides the first direct and comprehensive account of trade volumes and product coverage for this type of trade. We combine this data with official trade records and exploit variation across products and countries to measure the impact of tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade on informality. Increasing tariffs on a given product by 10% makes it about 12% more likely that this product is imported informally rather than formally. Non-tariff measures also increase informality. Our results also suggest that compliance costs, aside from tariffs and regulations, contribute to explain informality.
F15|Finance and synchronization|In the workhorse model of international real business cycles, financial integration exacerbates the cycle asymmetry created by country-specific supply shocks. The prediction is identical in response to purely common shocks in the same model augmented with simple country heterogeneity (e.g., where depreciation rates or factor shares are different across countries). This happens because common shocks have heterogeneous consequences on the marginal products of capital across countries, which triggers international investment. In the data, filtering out common shocks requires therefore allowing for country-specific loadings. We show that finance and synchronization correlate negatively in response to such common shocks, consistent with previous findings. But finance and synchronization correlate non-negatively, almost always positively, in response to purely country-specific shocks.
F15|The Transmission of Business Cycles: Lessons From the 2004 Enlargement and the Euro Adoption|This paper evaluates macroeconomic interdependencies of seven Central and Eastern European Countries (CEECs) with the Euro Area (EA) through trade relationship. We estimate a near-VAR model and we simulate responses of activity in those CEECs to output shocks for twelve former members of the EA before and after the 2004 enlargement of the European Union (EU). During both periods, empirical results show that spillover effects come through the main economies of the EA: Germany, France and Italy. Furthermore, CEECs are more responsive to output shocks in the EA after 2004 than before (3.3 times larger on average). Increases in spillover effects are larger for the three CEECs that adopted the Euro early (Slovenia, Slovakia, and Estonia) than the other CEECs (4.9 versus 2.1) but without higher trade intensity with the EA (1.07 versus 1.12). Our results show that trade effects are positive inside the same currency area but negative for the CEECs without the euro. JEL Classifications: F13, F15, F45
F15|Baltic Integration and the Euro|Which have been the consequences of the euro for integration and economic performance in the Baltic Sea region? After the collapse of the Soviet Union, the three Baltic states and Poland have been rapidly catching-up with Western Europe. The Great Recession became a great setback for the former, while less so for Poland. A difference is the monetary policy: the Polish zloty depreciated in the critical moment of the crisis, while currency boards with the aim of joining the euro bestowed appreciation for the Baltics and Finland. Contrary to the purpose, monetary integration has not fostered integration in trade, and the share of the Eurozone in Baltic trade has stagnated. A comparison with other countries in the Baltic Sea region suggests that the euro provides “the golden fetters” of our time. Emigration, also a kind of integration, has become a safety valve with severe social and economic consequences for the Baltic states.
F15|Effect of Microfinance on Poverty and Welfare: New Evidence from 9 provinces in Cambodia|The most recent studies at national level give emphasis to the failure of microfinance services in Cambodia since the bad practice is subordinate to high interest rate, non-productive loan, over-indebtedness, landless and migration. This paper examines the effect of microfinance, also putting weight on access to formal and productive loans, by using cross-sectional data in 2015 of 411 households, who are beneficiaries of the Agriculture Cooperative (AC) community supported by the World Vision, in 9 provinces of Cambodia. The binary choice model as well as bivariate and censoring model along with addressing the endogenous treatment effect were applied. The findings show that access to microfinance services in every aspect reduces poverty and promotes household’s welfare, proxied by per capita income, except there is insignificant effect on per capita economic assets and expenditure on child’s well-being after the Wald test of exogeneity and the Newey’s minimum chi-squared estimator with the twostep option were computed. However, these results must be interpreted with caution because the data is subject to specific sample selection.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F15|GVCs and the Endogenous Geography of RTAs|Geography, economic size, or common history, help predicting signed regional trade agreements (RTAs). However, not all signed RTAs are “natural” according to economic determinants. En-dogeneity and general equilibrium effects of RTAS are the two mechanisms addressed in this paper. We estimate the time-varying probability for a country pair to sign a trade agreement and build upon structural gravity in general equilibrium to determine how the patterns of Global Value Chains shape the evolving geography of optimal RTAS. Our results confirm that the endogenous geography of RTAs is shaped by the development of GVCs.
F15|GVCs and the Endogenous Geography of RTAs<BR>[Mondialisation des chaînes de valeur et la géographie endogène des accords commerciaux régionaux]|"There has been considerable attention paid to the endogenous nature of regional trade agreements Geography, economic size, or common history help predicting signed agreements. However, not all signed RTAs are ""natural"" according to economic determinants, as trade negotiations can be used as a tool of external policy. Recent developments in terms of structural gravity help clarifying this debate by taking account of all theoretically relevant determinants of bilateral trade, as well as general equilibrium effects of signing an agreement. Indeed, the endogeneity of trade arrangements has a time dimension and is related to firm strategies. These are the two mechanisms addressed in this paper. We estimate the time-varying probability for a country pair to sign a trade agreement and build upon structural gravity in general equilibrium to determine how the patterns of Global Value Chains shape the evolving geography of optimal trade agreements. Our results confirm that the endogenous geography of RTAs is shaped by the development of GVCs."
F15|Carnet de bal des accords commerciaux régionaux|Les difficultés du multilatéralisme ont renouvelé l’intérêt pour le régionalisme en matière d’accord commercial. Avec quels partenaires un pays a-t-il un intérêt économique à signer un accord ? Quels seraient les gains à le faire quand un tel accord n’existe pas ? Au contraire, y a-t-il des gains à sortir d’accords signés pour lesquels il n’y a au départ pas d’intérêt économique ? Telles sont les questions que l’étude reprise dans cette Lettre permet d’aborder. Ses résultats montrent que la décision de sortir d’accords existants, quand bien même ils ne seraient pas justifiés par un intérêt économique, occasionne des pertes, et qu’il y a encore des gains à attendre de la signature de nouveaux accords pour lesquels il existe un intérêt économique. Néanmoins, les gains à attendre d’un accord régional, comme celui poussé par la Chine depuis novembre 2012 en réaction au partenariat Trans-Pacifique à 11, diminuent au fil du temps. Parce qu’elle est devenue un acteur d’importance globale, ce n’est plus tant avec ses voisins que la Chine a intérêt à signer des accords, mais avec d’autres puissances mondiales plus éloignées telles que l’Union européenne.
F15|Institutional integration and economic growth in Europe|The literature on the growth effects of European integration remains inconclusive. This is due to severe methodological difficulties mostly driven by country heterogeneity. This paper addresses these concerns using the synthetic control method. It constructs counterfactuals for countries that joined the European Union (EU) from 1973 to 2004. We find that growth effects from EU membership are large and positive, with Greece as the exception. Despite substantial variation across countries and over time, we estimate that without European integration, per capita incomes would have been, on average, approximately 10% lower in the first ten years after joining the EU.
F15|Convergence et divergence budgétaire en Afrique : le rôle des Communautés économiques régionales et des Unions économiques et monétaires|La théorie de l’endogénéité des Zones Monétaires Optimales (ZMO) a identifié deux canaux de justification ex-post du critère de synchronisation des cycles : l’intensité commerciale et la convergence budgétaire des pays membres. Dans ce papier, nous analysons dans une perspective empirique le rôle des Unions Économiques et Monétaires africaines dans la convergence budgétaire des pays membres sur la période de 1990 à 2015. Les résultats de nos estimations montrent que les Communautés Économiques Régionales (CER) africaines réduisent significativement la divergence budgétaire des pays membres. En usant d’une approche séquentielle d’estimation, l’étude démontre que les Zones Monétaires africaines sont plus efficaces que les autres Communautés Économiques Régionales (CER) en matière d’accélération de la convergence des indicateurs budgétaires. Ces résultats mettent en lumière la vraisemblance et la pertinence de l’hypothèse d’auto-validation dans le temps des Unions Monétaires africaines existantes et prospectives malgré les faibles niveaux de synchronisation des cycles et d’intensité commerciale.
F15|Fiscal Convergence in Africa: What Role for Regional Economic Communities?|The literature on Optimal Currency Areas (OCA) has identified several channels for the ex post justification of the synchronicity criterion of common monetary areas. These include trade, cross-border investments, mobility of factors, mobility of goods and services, and fiscal convergence of member countries. We focus on the later for the African continent. We analyze the role of African regional economic communities (RECs) in the convergence of fiscal policies from 1990 to 2015. Our estimates show that African RECs significantly reduce fiscal divergence between countries. Furthermore, we find that common monetary areas are more effective in fostering fiscal convergence. This result is in line with the argument of self-validation of monetary arrangements in Africa, despite low levels of cycle synchronization and trade intensity.
F15|How crucial are preferences for non-tradable goods and cross-country sectoral TFP gap for integration?|This paper deals with the effects of economic integration in a 2x 2x 2 model of overlapping generations. We distinguish between a non-tradable and a tradable sector which use human and physical capital. We show that the preference for non-tradable consumption in total consumption expenditure and sectoral productivities are crucial factors to determine which country does benefit from integration in terms of economic growth. Short-run and long-run effects of integration may differ, especially when countries are heterogeneous and when there exist high cross border externalities in education. Moreover, an impatient country may lose to integration when it has a comparative advantage in the tradable sector and/or when the preference for non-tradable goods is high.
F15|Electricity market integration and the impact of unilateral policy reforms|We investigate the impact that two German energy reforms—phase-out of nuclear power plants after the Fukushima incident and expansion of renewables due to fixed feed-in tariffs—had on neighbouring countries’ consumers. The unilateral German reforms generated substantial negative and positive impacts, respectively, in neighbouring countries with the highest overall effect of German policy found in France, not Germany; an annual negative impact on consumers of €3.15 billion. We also find significant differences in market integration between neighbouring countries by calculating ratios between the estimated policy decisions’ impacts before and after controlling for interconnector congestion.
F15|Effect of Microfinance on Poverty and Welfare: New Evidence from 9 provinces in Cambodia|The most recent studies at national level give emphasis to the failure of microfinance services in Cambodia since the bad practice is subordinate to high interest rate, non-productive loan, over-indebtedness, landless and migration. This paper examines the effect of microfinance, also putting weight on access to formal and productive loans, by using cross-sectional data in 2015 of 411 households, who are beneficiaries of the Agriculture Cooperative (AC) community supported by the World Vision, in 9 provinces of Cambodia. The binary choice model as well as bivariate and censoring model along with addressing the endogenous treatment effect were applied. The findings show that access to microfinance services in every aspect reduces poverty and promotes household’s welfare, proxied by per capita income, except there is insignificant effect on per capita economic assets and expenditure on child’s well-being after the Wald test of exogeneity and the Newey’s minimum chi-squared estimator with the twostep option were computed. However, these results must be interpreted with caution because the data is subject to specific sample selection.
F15|Étudier les chaînes globales de valeur comme une forme d’organisation industrielle|?This article discusses the origin and uses of the concepts of global value chains and global production networks. It traces the intensification of the circulation of these concepts in the 1990s and 2000s among researchers in sociology, management, geography, and economics. The article then discusses the reasons why, over the past decade, they have been appropriated by international institutions and governments in order to define development and growth policies focused on competitiveness. It also questions the theoretical fragility of these analytical frameworks and points to the need to take greater account of the role of supply chain integration as a particular means of organizing the division of labor. The last section briefly introduces the articles that make up this special issue of the ? ?Revue d??conomie industrielle? ?. ? JEL classification: F15, F23, F6, L16.
F15|Remittances and Business Cycles: Comparison of South Asian Countries| South Asia is one of the world's principal remittance-receiving regions. This study examines the home and host business cycles of migrant remittance flows to the region. Employing the Structural Vector Autoregression (SVAR) technique, the remittance behaviour of the region's four main countries is compared. Remittances to India and Pakistan show a mainly acyclical behaviour with respect to the output of the four host regions, and a countercyclical behaviour with respect to home output. In contrast, remittances to the two smaller economies of Bangladesh and Sri Lanka are found to be mainly procyclical. The study shows that the macroeconomic remittance behaviour varies with respect to the importance of remittance flows in the home economy. Moreover, remittance behaviour seems to respond more to home economy specificities than to those of the different regions that host the migrants from the developing countries.
F15|Economic Integration and Productive Specialization in the EU27: does FDI influence Countries’ Specialization?|The objective of this article is two folded. Firstly, we proceed to an analysis of the evolution of productive specialization in the enlarged EU, taking into account all its actual 27 member countries. Given their decomposability properties, we use the entropy-based indices to measure countries’ relative specialization and then, given our rather short period of analysis, we use the bootstrap method to analyze the evolution of the specialization index. We first analyze all economic sectors and then, our analysis is more detailed focusing on manufacturing industries. Globally, we find that specialization is decreasing across all economic sectors, while it is increasing across manufacturing industries. Secondly, we study specialization determinants, with a special interest for the impact of foreign direct investment (FDI). For homogeneity reasons, we analyze two separate samples, one including only developed countries of the European Union and the other, only developing member countries. In order to take into account endogeneity highly probable of most of our independent variables, we use the vector autoregression (VAR) technique and analyse the impulse response functions. Globally, FDIs seem to positively influence countries’ relative specialization, for our both samples and for both economic sectors and manufacturing industries. However, their impact appears weaker than most of the other independent variables, such as market potential or relative endowments.
F15|Non-linear pattern of international capital flows|Abstract In a two-country OLG model with interest rate wedges capturing financial frictions, international capital flows can follow a non-linear pattern, depicted as a U-shaped curve, by first decreasing and then increasing in growth. The turning point of the curve is determined by the world average growth rate and these interest rate wedges. The model developed in this paper can reconcile different theories (i.e, the implications of the neoclassical growth model, up-hill capital flows, and the allocation puzzle) on the pattern of international capital flows.
F15|Migration as an adjustment mechanism in the crisis? A comparison of Europe and the United States 2006–2016|Abstract We estimate whether migration can be an equilibrating force in the labour market by comparing pre- and post-crisis migration movements at the regional level in both Europe and the United States, and their association with asymmetric labour market shocks. Based on fixed-effects regressions using regional panel data, we find that Europe’s migratory response to unemployment shocks was almost identical to that recorded in the United States after the crisis. Our estimates suggest that, if all measured population changes in Europe were due to migration for employment purposes—i.e. an upper-bound estimate—up to about a quarter of the asymmetric labour market shock would be absorbed by migration within a year. However, in Europe and especially in the Eurozone, the reaction to a very large extent stems from migration of recent EU accession country citizens as well as of third-country nationals.
F15|Economic Integration and Democracy: An Empirical Investigation|We study whether economic integration fosters the process of democratization and the channels through which this might happen. Our analysis is based on a large panel dataset of countries between 1950 and 2014. We instrument actual trade with predicted trade constructed by estimating a time-varying gravity equation similar to Feyrer (2009). We find that economic integration has a positive effect on democracy, driven by trade with democratic partners and stronger for countries with lower initial levels of economic and institutional development. These results are consistent with a learning/cultural exchange process whereby economic integration promotes the spread of democracy from more to less democratic countries. We corroborate this interpretation by providing evidence against alternative mechanisms, such as income effects, human capital accumulation, and trade-induced changes in inequality.
F15|Transmission Network Investment across National Borders: The Liberalized Nordic Electricity Market|The world’s first multinational electricity market was formed with the creation of the Nordic power exchange, Nord Pool. We analyze the incentives to undertake transmission network investment in the context of the liberalized Nordic electricity market. Welfare improving investment in a multinational electricity market requires accounting for the cross-border effects of capacity expansion. We propose methods to increase voluntary cooperation on international infrastructure projects, with an aim to increase aggregate efficiency and achieve equitable distribution of the gains from market integration.​
F15|Hump-shaped cross-price effects and the extensive margin in cross-border shopping|This paper examines the effect of cross-border shopping on grocery demand in Norway using monthly store×category sales data from Norway’s largest grocery chain 2011-2016. The sensitivity of demand to foreign price is hump-shaped and greatest 30-60 minutes’ driving distance from the closest foreign store. Combining continuous demand, fixed costs of cross-border shopping and linear transport costs `a la Hotelling we show how this hump-shape can arise through a combination of intensive and extensive margins of cross-border shopping. Our conclusions are further supported by novel survey evidence and cross-border traffic data.
F15|Information Frictions, Internet and the Relationship between Distance and Trade|Recent work suggests the patterns of international trade may be distorted because of information frictions. Little is known, however, about how advancements in information communication technology (ICT) affect trade patterns. The goal of our paper is to analyze how and why the adoption of such technology affects bilateral trade flows. Our context is the adoption of broadband internet in Norwegian firms over the period 2000-2008. We use panel data with information on Norwegian firms with regards to their production, technology, and trade. A public program with limited funding rolled out broadband access points, and provides plausibly exogenous variation in the availability and adoption of broadband internet in firms. We find that adoption of broadband internet makes trade patterns more sensitive to distance and economic size. Going from no broadband availability to full coverage increases the magnitude of the elasticity of trade with respect to distance by 0.12, and the elasticity of trade with respect to destination size by 0.06. For distance, this means that an increase in internet availability of 10 percentage points increases trade for a country at the 25th distance percentile by 1.1% more than for a country at the 75th distance percentile. The same difference for the GDP of a destination is 2.1%. We interpret the empirical results through a gravity theory of trade patterns, augmented with information frictions. We provide comparative statics predictions with respect to a reduction in information frictions, and show that these predictions are consistent with our empirical findings. Taken together, our results point to the importance of incorporating information frictions in the frequently used gravity equation, and they may help explain the so-called “distance puzzle” in international trade.
F15|The European Social Pillar: A Threat to Welfare and Prosperity?|In November 2017, the European Union proclaimed its fourth pillar, The European Pillar of Social Rights., to promote a “truly pan-European” labour market. A large number of specific social rights are endorsed. This paper investigates the potential short- and long-term consequences of the social pillar on the welfare and prosperity of Europe. Moreover, we discuss its potential effects on the legitimacy of the European Union. Our conclusions indicate that rather than to “support and complement” the social and labour market policies of the Member States, the European Union is likely to replace these policies with the “better” goals of the Union in an effort to fully implement the principles established in the social pillar. The principle of subsidiarity in this case promotes centralisations. There are strong reasons to believe that increased centralisation to EU-level in these areas will reduce preference satisfaction, weaken accountability and decrease efficiency and innovation. In the long run the social pillar therefore is likely to be a threat to welfare and prosperity in Europe, and as a consequence, cause damage to the legitimacy of the European Union.
F15|"Reduced ""Border Effects"", FTAs and International Trade"|"This paper studies the role of reduced barriers to international trade from two dimensions: (i) the implementation of Free Trade Agreements and (ii) declining ""border effects"". Our empirical estimates suggest that diminished border effects accounts for the bulk of the increase in international trade in manufactured goods since 1970. The cost of a national border has fallen by around 10% per year for total exports, whereas it has declined by 13% for exports of final goods and 8% for intermediate inputs. The introduction of FTAs have an important role to play as well, raising international trade by 54% after 10 years according to our estimates. We also find evidence that more recent FTAs have a greater trade effect than those signed in earlier periods. Moreover, when estimating the effect of FTAs, we show that it is important to control for different border effects for final goods and intermediate inputs."
F15|Russia And The Eurasian Economic Union: Conflicting Incentives For An Institutional Compromise|The Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) is the first and relatively successful attempt to establish strong multilateral institutions of post-Soviet regional integration. The EAEU has greater scope of supranationalism compared to all previous post-Soviet integration projects and the Union’s multilateral institutions are based on the formal recognition of equal status of all the members. However, such a union is unlikely to promote the Russian economic and political dominance in the region, at least compared to what would be attainable through bilateral deals. On contrary, the post-soviet countries got opportunities to act more independently from Russia. We argue that it was the Ukrainian crisis in spring 2014 and the need to promote the domestic image of Russia as “great power” that created incentives for Russian leadership to accept institutional compromises necessary to initiate the Eurasian Economic Union.
F15|Product Dynamics and Trade Liberalization: Evidence from the Korea-US FTA|This study examines resource reallocation within firms by investigating how firms change their product portfolios in response to a fall in trade costs. Using Korean firm-product data, we show that firms experiencing large tariff reductions under the Korea-US free trade agreement are more likely to shrink their product scope. They not only decrease the number of products but also specialize their production in specific products. Furthermore, we show that those specific products are relatively more productive than others within firm by estimating a firm-product efficiency. Dropped and added products tend to be less efficient than incumbent products. However, given the sharp increase in added products’ efficiencies after they enter, the above result may not indicate the low efficiency of new products, but rather the time needed to become organized and profitable. After considering the production distributions of incumbent products within firms, this study finds that firms tend to increase the proportion of efficient products in response to tariff reductions. In other words, firms allocate resources from less efficient products to more efficient ones.
F15|Regional Market Integration and City Growth in East Africa: Local but no Regional Effects?|We investigate changes in the spatial concentration of economic activities after the establishment of a regional economic community between Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda in 2001. Measuring city growth using satellite imagery of lights emanated out to space at night, we demonstrate that cities close to the community’s internal borders expanded more than other cities further away. The growth effect is temporary and also highly localized: only cities less than 90 minutes of travel from the border experience an acceleration in growth rates; after four years growth rates revert to their pre-treatment level. We show that this is consistent with an asymmetric reduction in trade costs for two types of trade modalities that co-exist in many parts of sub-Saharan Africa, local small-scale trade and regional large-scale trade, with a larger reduction in costs of the former. Yet, while local e?ects are relatively large, equivalent to a 5.6% higher GDP for cities near the EAC’s internal borders, they do not imply a large reorganisation of economic activity across space nor a substantial alteration of countries’ urban systems.
F15|L’intégration de l’UEMOA est-elle pro-croissance ?|Les économistes sont divisés sur l’effet des régimes de taux de change sur la croissance économique. Dans cet article, nous étudions le cas particulier de l’Union monétaire ouest africaine, l’une des unions monétaires les plus anciennes au monde, résultant de la colonisation française en Afrique. L’objectif est d’étudier l’impact de cette intégration sur la croissance économique de la région. A cette fin, nous proposons un modèle empirique de croissance ` économique spécifique à la zone. Par ailleurs, nous traitons le problème de biais de simultanéité entre l’intégration et la croissance en utilisant la stratégie d’identification basée sur les modèles de gravité. Nos résultats économétriques montrent que, bien que l’intégration régionale ouest africaine ait été l’une des plus fortes en Afrique, elle n’a pas impulsé une croissance économique significative au sein de l’Union. Nous proposons un plan d’investissement massif dans les infrastructures communautaires de transport, indispensables pour renforcer l’intégration et son impact sur la croissance de la zone.
F15|Regional Integration: Do intra-African trade and migration improve income in Africa?|Regional integration in Africa is a subject of great interest, but its impact on income has not been studied sufficiently. Using cross-sectional and panel estimations, this paper examines the impact of African integration on real per capita income in Africa. To do this, we consider intra-African trade and migration flows as quantitative measures reflecting the intensity of regional integration. In order to address the endogeneity concerns, we use a gravity-based IV strategy. Our results show that, from a long-term perspective, African integration has not been strong enough to generate a positive, significant and robust impact on real per capita income in Africa. However it appears to be significantly income-enhancing in the short term but only through inter-country migration. These results are robust to a wide range of specifications. Further analysis shows that economic diversification, financial development and the quality of transport and telecommunication infrastructure significantly affect the impact of intra-African trade on per capita income. Their improvement would make intra-African trade income-improving. Our policy recommendations have been formulated in this direction.
F15|Services Liberalisation, Export Similarity and Trade in Services|Studies show that service activities are essential for promoting manufacturing productivity and economic development. This raises an important question of how to promote services trade and whether policy liberalisation contributes to its development. The study examines the impact of policies on trade in services across countries using export data from UN Comtrade, where restrictions on trade as a result of policy are measured by the Services Trade Restrictiveness Index (STRI). The estimations are in the form of a log-linear gravity model analyzing the effect of STRI on bilateral services trade and one-sided service exports. Our results show that a one per cent increase in the overall STRI brings about a 0.25%â€“0.29% decrease in bilateral services trade and a 0.04% decrease in service exports. In addition, goods trade networks and export similarity show significant and positive impacts on services trade.
F15|FDI, Service imports and Export development|The ability of an economy to export high-quality products is a function of its key fundamentals, such as capital, technologies and its institutions. This chapter examines the relationship between export quality, FDI activities and level of service imports across different countries. The study develops a panel framework to empirically examine the dynamic pattern of export upgrading and factors directly affecting countriesâ€™ export performance. We find that services importing, FDI activities and level of per capita income positively affect export upgrading.
F15|Was Federation Uniting or Dividing? The Impact of the Customs Union of 1901 on Australian Trade Relationships|The paper examines data on intra‐Australian trade and Australian international trade before and after the establishment of an Australian Customs union at Federation in 1901. The paper infers from these data that the Federation customs union cannot be simply summarised as ‘nationalising’ of Australian trade relationships. Internal trade ties did not unambiguously strengthen outside of Victoria. And while there is evidence that Victoria and New South Wales did redirect exports from the rest of the world to the rest of Australia, the data also indicate that the smaller states actually strengthened their exports to the rest of the world, perhaps as a resort in the face of a customs union that was a benefit to the larger states and not themselves.
F15|The Trade War in Numbers|We build upon new developments in the international trade literature to isolate and quantify the long-run economic impacts of tariff changes on the United States and the global economy. In particular, we apply the most recent data and trade elasticity estimates to the Ricardian model of Caliendo and Parro (2015) to quantify the long-run impacts of the recently applied and proposed tariff changes, including the U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum imports and the rounds of additional tariffs between the United States and China. To fit the reality of the current trade policy shift, our analysis also allows for quotas and endogenizes trade balances. Overall, our results suggest that the newly imposed and proposed tariff schemes imply considerable changes in trade flows and sectoral output reallocations, but modest impacts on long-run aggregate prices and output levels.
F15|Estimating the Impacts of Tariff Changes: Two Illustrative Scenarios|We build upon new developments in the international trade literature to construct a quantitative Ricardian framework similar to Caliendo and Parro (2015) to isolate and estimate the long-run economic impacts of tariff changes. Our framework incorporates the most recent data and shows that the trade elasticities have changed considerably since the 1990s—highlighting the need to use recent data to quantitatively evaluate newly imposed and proposed tariff schedules. We apply our model and use our estimated elasticities to measure the long-run economic impact of the recently announced US tariffs on steel and aluminum and the first round of additional tariffs between the United States and China. Our results suggest that modifying the current global tariff schedules would imply considerable changes in trade flows and sectoral reallocations, but modest impacts on longrun output levels.
F15|Italian Regions In Global Value Chains: an Input-Output Approach|This work uses input-output techniques to analyse the value added content of the interregional and international trade of Italian regions, which are characterized by marked differences in their level of development and production structure. Regions differ from one another in their degree of dependence on international and other regions’ demand: in those of the Centre and North, the contribution of foreign demand to regional production of value added is greater than in Southern Italy, where the role of national demand is much more important. Most regions show a significant participation in global value chains for given amounts of exports to other countries and regions which, however, are smaller overall in relation to total production in the South. The latter is also somewhat peripheral in the geography of international trade and depends to a greater extent on national suppliers; moreover, the supply ties between the different regions of the South are weak compared with the ties with some regions of the Centre and North.
F15|EU-UK global value chain trade and the indirect costs of Brexit|Production networks in the European Union (EU) and the United Kingdom (UK) are highly integrated and Brexit poses a threat to supply and demand linkages across the Channel. In a world of Global Value Chains (GVCs), tariffs might be more harmful than in a world where trade is purely direct. In this paper we highlight the features of GVC-trade between the EU and the UK, disentangling the complex network of bilateral EU-UK value-added flows. Assuming that following Brexit the UK adopts the same Most-Favoured-Nation tariff schedule as the EU, we compute the direct and indirect costs of these tariffs, taking into account the EU-UK GVC-trade patterns. Tariffs would add almost 1 percentage point to the cost of manufacturing inputs in the UK, while the corresponding input cost in the EU would be only marginally affected, despite some heterogeneity at the country-level.
F15|What will Brexit mean for the British and euro-area economies? A model-based assessment of trade regimes|This paper evaluates the macroeconomic effects on the UK and the euro area of an increase in trade tariffs associated with Brexit, by simulating a dynamic general equilibrium model of the UK, the euro area, and the rest of the world (RW). Our results are as follows: first, the imposition of tariffs reduces UK exports and economic activity by a non-negligible amount; second, the macroeconomic costs for the UK are reduced if it decides unilaterally not to increase tariffs on imports from the euro area and to reduce those on imports from the RW; third, the macroeconomic costs are particularly high if the lower UK trade openness resulting from the imposition of tariffs reduces the UK’s total factor productivity; and fourth, Brexit has negative, but quite limited, effects on euro-area economic activity.
F15|Religion and the European Union|We review a recent literature on cultural differences across euro member states. We point out that this literature fails to address cultural differences between Protestants and Catholics, which are likely a major underlying reason for cross-country differences. We argue that confessional culture explains why Catholic countries tend to have weaker institutions but are more open to economic and political integration. EU policies after the economic crisis looked clumsy and failed to address all concerns, but were viable, caused only a manageable amount of serious backlash and tied in well with Europe’s cultural diversity, also providing scope for learning and adaption.
F15|The cross-border credit channel and lending standards surveys|This paper argues that a measure of lending conditions - Senior Loan Officer (SLO) surveys - offers important insights into the monetary transmission mechanism. Using a Global VAR (GVAR) and SLO survey data from 16 countries, we document bank lending standards' significant role in explaining the dynamics of domestic credit conditions. Changes in lending attitudes lead to spillovers of financial conditions to other advanced and emerging market economies. We also examine the interaction of unconventional monetary policies (UMPs) and lending attitudes by using an external high frequency instrument. Looking through this lens of UMPs, we see that expansionary monetary policy led to a lowering of domestic credit standards which amplified the impact of the initial monetary stimulus. However, we also find evidence that the need to resort to UMPs also brought about a decline in lending demand, raising questions about whether the signaling channel of monetary policy unintentionally worked at cross purposes by sapping the full effectiveness of these policies. The varied experiences in the United States and euro area draw attention to the relative importance of bank intermediation in determining the strength of the bank lending channel of monetary policy.
F15|Financial stress in lender countries and capital outflows from emerging market economies|We investigate if financial stress in countries where international banks are headquartered is a major driver of banking outflows from emerging market economies (EMEs). We find that when financial stress measured by sovereign or bank CDS spread or corporate bond spread increases, international banks decrease their lending to EMEs, which acts as a major driver of capital outflows from EMEs. In particular, financial stress in lender countries is a more important driver than the local financial conditions and macroeconomic fundamentals of EMEs. Such results generally hold even after the Global Financial Crisis (GFC) period, but to a lesser extent. When we divide the total amount of international lending into subcomponents, cross-border lending to EMEs is more susceptible to financial stress in lender countries than is local lending, and that local lending in foreign currency is more stable than is cross-border lending. Our findings suggest that it is desirable for EME policymakers to promote diversification of lender countries and induce more borrowing from local subsidiaries than cross-border lenders.
F15|Mind the (current account) gap|There is substantial evidence that openness to trade raises economic growth and boosts living standards. But trade liberalisation has been asymmetric, focused on goods rather than services trade. The decline in goods trade barriers may have favoured countries specialising in goods, like China, Germany and Japan, allowing them to increase exports relative to imports, and contributing to their persistent current account surpluses. By contrast, countries like the United States and the United Kingdom, who specialise in the services sector where trade is more restricted, have been running persistent deficits. This pattern of persistent surpluses and deficits in these key countries has proven hard to explain in the International Monetary Fund’s External Balance Assessment methodology. This paper suggests that asymmetric trade liberalisation is one overlooked explanation. We demonstrate how realistic additions to textbook economic models allow trade policy to have persistent effects on current account imbalances. We also find empirical support for significant quantitative effects. These results suggest that liberalising services trade, levelling up to the liberalisation seen in goods trade, could reduce excess global imbalances by around 40%. Moreover it could contribute to higher and more inclusive global growth.
F15|Why exports adjust: missing imported inputs or lack of credit?|This paper examines the role of imported intermediate inputs and credit constraints on exports adjustment. For identification, we study an episode of capital controls on outflows that exogenously restricted firms’ ability to pay for imports and the large-scale credit crunch that followed the imposition of controls in Greece in June 2015. Exploiting within-firm variation across sectors, we find that lack of imported inputs explains the drop in exports at the intensive margin, while lack of long-term credit is associated with adjustments at the extensive margin. Multinationals overcome liquidity constraints because of access to parents’ internal funds, but not import constraints because of stronger linkages for specialized inputs abroad. Our findings point to a novel result: the importance of both channels – real and finance – in jointly determining trade adjustment, and the different implications for the margins of trade
F15|What Drives the Stock Market Comovements between Korea and China, Japan and the US?|This paper measures the extent of comovements in stock returns between Korea and three major countries (China, Japan and the US) using the industry-level data for Korea from 2003 to 2016, in the spirit of the international capital asset pricing model. It also examines what drives the comovements between Korea and the three countries. We find that the comovements of the Korean stock returns with those of the US and Japan became smaller after the global financial crisis. In contrast, the comovement in stock returns between Korea and China became larger after the crisis. After an additional analysis, we conclude that trade linkage is the main driver of the comovements between Korea and the three countries. Our finding suggests that the concentration of trade with some trading partners can be a destabilizing factor in the domestic financial market if there is a negative shock to trade with those partners. Thus, it is important for Korea to diversify trade with foreign countries to keep its financial market more stable.
F15|FDI and International Collusion|We develop a supergame model of collusion between price-setting oligopolists when the trade between countries involves per-unit trade cost and FDI requires a fixed cost of setting up a subsidiary in a foreign country. We demonstrate that cross hauling of FDI may facilitate collusion based on territorial allocation of markets. Whenever FDI is not helpful for sustaining collusion, the collusive arrangement involves no FDI at all. With asymmetric number of home firms or with different sizes of the markets, FDI may facilitate international collusion at lower levels of trade costs and thus our analysis also throws some light on the empirical puzzle regarding the trade liberalisation and FDI flows observed since the 1990s.
F15|Aplicação da técnica P/F de Brass em um contexto de rápida queda da fecundidade adolescente: o caso brasileiro na primeira década do século|"The age-specific fertility rate of women with 15-19 years old (f1) showed a decline between Brazilian's census of 2000 and 2010, for the first time since the inclusion of the information of children born alive in the last 12 months. The decline was meaningful: about 30%. This phenomenon has an important consequence to Brass P/F ratio: It generate an error in the fertility rate accumulated until de age group 20-24 years old (F2), and, by consequence, a P2/F2 overestimated, which we use to correct the Total Fertility Rate (fertility level) calculated from census. Therefore, our aim is to propose an alternative to the original Brass P/F ratio using the Brazilian census (2010). The results show that the alternative proposed here generated estimates close to the births enumerated in the ""Sistema de Informação de Nascidos Vivos"" (SINASC/DATASUS). That is an indication that the alternative proposed here is adherent in a fast fertility decline scenario."
F15|A crise do regime multilateral de comércio internacional e a proliferação de acordos preferenciais de comércio|The aim of this paper is to analyze, theoretical and empirically, the crisis of the multilateral regime of international trade, taking into consideration the great difficulties faced by the World Trade Organization (WTO) over the past two decades. This crisis contributes to the proliferation of Preferential Trade Agreements (PTA)s, a 1990s process that has been intensified in the early part of this century and tends to remain.
F15|Linking Permit Markets Multilaterally|Linkages between emissions trading systems (ETSs) are crucial for the cost-effective implementation of the Paris Agreement. Yet we know little about the determinants of economic gains in a multilaterally linked system, how they are shared among participating jurisdictions and less still about their magnitude. We characterize these gains for an arbitrary linkage group, decompose them into gains in the group's internal bilateral linkages and prove linkage is superadditive. Relative to autarky linkage reduces permit price volatility on average but not necessarily for individual linkage group members. In a quantitative application calibrated to five hypothetical ETSs covering the power sectors in Canada, continental Europe, South Korea, the UK and the USA, linking generates gains of up to $370 million (constant 2005US$) per year relative to autarky. Focusing on linkage groups with two and three members which are themselves not linked, we find that maximum aggregate gains decline by $43-178 million.
F15|Beyond tariff reductions: what extra boost from trade agreement provisions?|There is a growing recognition that for developed economies, like the UK, tariff-free market access is just one of a number of measures that ease cross-border trade flows. Modern trade agreements go beyond tariff reductions by setting rules, such as market access and regulation of foreign service providers. We examine the contribution of deep non-tariff provisions on international trade in goods and services. Using a gravity model, we find that provisions related to services, investment, and competition make up half of the overall impact of economic integration agreements on trade flows. These deep provisions have larger effects for trade in services than for trade in goods, and their relative contribution is highest in sectors that facilitate supply chain activity, such as transportation and storage. We apply our sectoral estimates of deep provisions to examine two counterfactuals of the UK signing bilateral deals with the US and with China and India. We find that negotiating services, investment, and competition provisions in these future deals would boost trade relatively more in professional, scientific, and technical activities in the UK.
F15|Currency unions, trade and heterogeneity|How do trade costs affect international trade? This paper offers a new approach. We rely on a flexible gravity equation that predicts variable trade cost elasticities, both across and within country pairs. We apply this framework to the effect of currency unions on international trade. While we estimate that currency unions are associated with a trade increase of around 38 percent on average, we find substantial underlying heterogeneity. Consistent with the predictions of our framework, we find effects around three times as strong for country pairs associated with small import shares, and a zero effect for large import shares. Our results imply that conventional homogeneous currency union estimates do not provide helpful guidance for countries considering to join a currency union. Instead, countries need to take into account the distribution of their trade shares to assess the impact of trade costs.
F15|The Economic Effects of Brexit: Evidence from the Stock Market|We study stock market reactions to the Brexit referendum on 23 June 2016 in order to assess investors’ expectations about the effects of leaving the European Union on the UK economy. Our results suggest that initial stock price movements were driven by fears of a cyclical downturn and by the sterling depreciation following the referendum. We also find tentative evidence that market reactions to two subsequent speeches by Theresa May (her Conservative party conference and Lancaster House speeches) were more closely correlated with potential changes to tariffs and non‐tariff barriers on UK–EU trade, indicating that investors may have updated their expectations in light of the possibility of a ‘hard Brexit’. We do not find a correlation between the share of EU immigrants in different industries and stock market returns.
F15|The not-so-generalized effects of the Generalized System of Preferences|We use an empirical gravity equation approach to study how nonreciprocal trade preferences (NRTPs), enacted mainly through the Generalized System of Preferences, affect the exports of the beneficiary nations. In line with existing studies, the average trade effect stemming from nonreciprocal preferences is highly unstable across specifications. However, once we allow for heterogeneous effects, results become robust and economically important. Specifically, NRTPs have a strong effect on the exports of beneficiaries when they are members of the World Trade Organization and are very poor. Not-so-poor beneficiaries also expand foreign sales, but only if they are not WTO members. For all others, the average export effects of NRTPs are mute.
F15|Preferential Trade Agreements and Global Sourcing|We study how a preferential trade agreement (PTA) affects international sourcing decisions, aggregate productivity and welfare under incomplete contracting and endogenous matching. Contract incompleteness implies underinvestment. That inefficiency is mitigated by a PTA, because the agreement allows the parties in a vertical chain to internalize a larger return from the investment. This raises aggregate productivity. On the other hand, the agreement yields sourcing diversion. More efficient suppliers tilt the tradeoff toward the (potentially) beneficial relationship-strengthening effect; a high external tariff tips it toward harmful sourcing diversion. A PTA also affects the structure of vertical chains in the economy. As tariff preferences attract too many matches to the bloc, the average productivity of the industry tends to fall. When the agreement incorporates “deep integration” provisions, it boosts trade flows, but not necessarily welfare. Rather, “deep integration” improves upon “shallow integration” if and only if the original investment inefficiencies are serious enough. On the whole, we offer a new framework to study the benefits and costs from preferential liberalization in the context of global sourcing.
F15|The Impact of Public Employment: Evidence from Bonn|This paper evaluates the impact of relocations of public employment across cities on private sector activity. To identify the effect of changes in public employment on the private sector, we exploit the relocation of the German Federal Government from Berlin to Bonn in the wake of the Second Word War as a source of exogenous variation. In line with the predictions of a standard economic geography model we find that an increase in public employment puts downward pressure on private sector employment. We provide evidence that this negative impact is driven by changes in wages and rents which are consistent with the mechanisms of the model.
