F17|Modelling the Long Term Potential Macroeconomic Impact of Brexit on Wales|This paper employs a computable general equilibrium (CGE) dynamic simulation model to analyse how Brexit is likely to impact the Welsh economy. The model simulates two potential future trade relationship scenarios between the United Kingdom (UK) and European Union (EU) for 29 March 2019: (a) No-deal Brexit, i.e. trading partners revert to World Trade Organization (WTO)rules; (b) Limited transition period and/or extension of Article 50. The model demonstrates how Welsh exports and imports, output, prices and employment are likely to be impacted from Brexit in the long-term. The scenarios modelled present a negative forecast for the Welsh (and UK) economy and industry, and show that the macroeconomic variables are sensitive to the policy disruption caused by Brexit. Projections show gross domestic product (GDP), GDP per capita, trade, investment and employment losses for the Welsh economy. A no-deal Brexit, which sees the UK reverting to trading with the EU on WTO terms, generates maximum losses for Wales (and the UK) in the long-term. In light of the results, it is important to avoid a no-deal Brexit that sees high losses and tariff barriers returning. A transition period arrangement or an extension to Article 50 also projects long-term losses for Wales. However, losses depend on the length of transition period and results show that a longer transition minimises losses for Wales (and the UK). From a policy perspective, a deal with an extended transition period should be agreed between the UK and EU as soon as possible to enable the continuation of existing EU-Wales trading arrangement.
F17|An estimation of the effects of Brexit on trade and migration|This paper uses a gravity model approach to estimate the effects of Brexit in two dimensions: trade in goods and migration. We simulate two scenarios: 1) no agreement with reversión to WTO rules and no special treatment for migrants; 2) signature of a bilateral free trade agreement (FTA). According to our results, Brexit may have large negative effects on trade and migration flows between the EU and the UK. In the WTO scenario, trade flows are predicted to drop by 30% and migration by close to 25%. If the UK and the EU sign an FTA-like agreement (which does not include free mobility of labour), the negative effects on trade are lessened although there is no significant difference in terms of migration with respect to the WTO scenario.
F17|International trade, non-trading firms and their impact on labour productivity|In this paper we examine the impact of non-trading firms on labour productivity and its persistence in response to macroeconomic shocks, through their entry and exit into the domestic market, in a model with monopolistic competition and heterogeneous firms. We quantify the effects of various macroeconomic shocks on labour productivity and we demonstrate that non-trading domestic firms’ entry and exit into the domestic market explains the persistence of labour productivity in response to transitory shocks. We also show that the model successfully replicates the sluggish recovery of labour productivity in the United Kingdom since the Great Recession.
F17|Global Value Chains, Trade Shocks and Jobs: An Application to Brexit|We develop a network trade model with country-sector level input-output linkages. It includes (1) domestic and global value chain linkages between all country-sectors, (2) direct as well as indirect shipments (via other sectors and countries) to a final destination, (3) value added rather than gross trade flows. The model is solved analytically and we use the sectoral World Input Output Database (WIOD) to predict the impact of Brexit for every individual EU country by aggregating up the country-sector effects. In contrast to other studies, we find EU-27 job losses to be substantially higher than hitherto believed as a result of the closely integrated EU network structure. Upstream country-sectors stand to lose more from Brexit due to their network centrality in Europe.
F17|Forecasting Exports across Europe: What Are the Superior Survey Indicators?|In this study, we systematically evaluate the potential of a bunch of survey-based indicators from different economic branches to forecasting export growth across a multitude of European countries. Our pseudo out-of-sample analyses reveal that the best-performing indicators beat a well-specified benchmark model in terms of forecast accuracy. It turns out that four indicators are superior: the Export Climate, the Production Expectations of domestic manufacturing firms, the Industrial Confidence Indicator, and the Economic Sentiment Indicator. Two robustness checks confirm these results. As exports are highly volatile and turn out to be a large demand-side component of gross domestic product, our results can be used by applied forecasters in order to choose the best-performing indicators and thus increasing the accuracy of export forecasts.
F17|Forecasting Imports with Information from Abroad|Globalization has led to huge increases in import volumes, but the literature on import forecasting is still in its infancy. We introduce the first leading indicator especially constructed for total import growth, the so-called Import Climate. It builds on the idea that the import demand of the domestic country should be reflected in the expected export developments of its main trading partners. A foreign country’s expected exports are, in turn, determined by business and consumer confidence in the countries it trades with and its price competitiveness. In a pseudo out-of-sample, real-time forecasting experiment, the Import Climate outperforms standard business cycle indicators at short horizons for France, Germany, Italy, and the United States for the first release of import data. For Spain and the United Kingdom, our leading indicator works particularly well with the latest vintage of import data.
F17|GTAP-MVH, A Model for Analysing the Worldwide Effects of Trade Policies in the Motor Vehicle Sector: Theory and Data|The Office of the Chief Economist in Global Affairs Canada (hereafter, the Office) is seeking to add to its tools for looking at the effects on Canada and other countries of higher U.S. protection. The Office is particularly interested in the motor vehicle sector. To meet the Office's requirements, we created a version of the GTAP model in which the motor vehicle sector is disaggregated. We call this version GTAP-MVH. This paper describes the process and data inputs though which we constructed a disaggregated motor vehicle sector for GTAP-MVH. The theory in standard GTAP assumes that capital is completely mobile between industries and that labor markets are characterized by either fixed real wages or completely flexible real wages that adjust to eliminate effects on aggregate employment from policy changes. These capital and labor assumptions limit the usefulness of standard GTAP as a tool for analyzing the short-run impacts of policy changes. We describe theoretical innovations to standard GTAP to enhance its depiction of both capital and labor markets. We also describe innovations in other areas, particularly in the treatments of: the accumulation by each region of foreign assets and liabilities; and the determination of savings, investment and rates of return.
F17|Creating a Disaggregated CGE Model for Trade Policy Analysis: GTAP-MVH|Thousands of economists spread across almost every country use the GTAP model to analyze trade policies including trade wars and trade agreements. GTAP has an impressive regional coverage (140 countries) but the standard commodity coverage (57 commodities/industries) can cause frustration when tariffs on narrowly defined products are being negotiated. This paper sets out a method for disaggregating commodities/industries in computable general equilibrium models such as GTAP and applies it to GTAP's motor vehicle sector. The method makes use of readily available highly disaggregated trade data supplemented by detailed input-output data where available and data from a variety of other sources such as commercial market reports.
F17|The Textbook Case for Industrial Policy: Theory Meets Data|The textbook case for industrial policy is well understood. If some sectors are subject to external economies of scale, whereas others are not, a government should subsidize the first group of sectors at the expense of the second. The empirical relevance of this argument, however, remains unclear. In this paper we develop a strategy to estimate sector-level economies of scale and evaluate the gains from such policy interventions in an open economy. Our benchmark results point towards significant and heterogeneous economies of scale across manufacturing sectors, but only modest gains from industrial policy, below 1% of GDP on average. Though these gains can be larger in some of the alternative environments that we consider, they are always smaller than the gains from optimal trade policy.
F17|The Brexit Vote, Productivity Growth and Macroeconomic Adjustments in the United Kingdom|"The UK economy has experienced significant macroeconomic adjustments following the 2016 referendum on its withdrawal from the European Union. This paper develops and estimates a small open economy model with tradable and non-tradable sectors to characterize these adjustments. We demonstrate that many of the effects of the referendum result can be conceptualized as news about a future slowdown in productivity growth in the tradable sector. Simulations show that the responses of the model economy to such news are consistent with key patterns in UK data. While overall economic growth slows, an immediate permanent fall in the relative price of non-tradable output (the real exchange rate) induces a temporary ""sweet spot"" for tradable producers before the slowdown in the tradable sector productivity associated with Brexit occurs. Resources are reallocated towards the tradable sector, tradable output growth rises and net exports increase. These developments reverse after the productivity decline in the tradable sector materializes. The negative news about tradable sector productivity also lead to a decline in domestic interest rates relative to world interest rates and to a reduction in investment growth, while employment remains relatively stable. As a by-product of our Brexit simulations, we provide a quantitative analysis of the UK business cycle."
F17|Global economic and environmental outcomes of the Paris Agreement|In this paper, we use a multi-region model of the world economy to analyze the economic and environmental outcomes that are likely to result from Paris Climate Agreement. To construct the modeling scenario, we convert the disparate emission targets for each country or region in their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) formulations into estimated reductions in CO2 emissions relative to a baseline scenario with no new climate policies. We then solve for the tax rate path on CO2 in each region that achieves the NDC-consistent emissions reductions in the target year, 2030 for most regions. We find that if all regions achieve their NDCs, the Paris Agreement significantly reduces CO2 emissions relative to baseline. However, the Paris policy scenario suggests that global CO2 emissions would not decline in absolute terms relative to 2015 levels, let alone follow a path consistent with a 2°C stabilization scenario. Comparing projected 2030 CO2 tax rates to the same year’s percent emissions abatement relative to baseline, we find that declines in CO2 emissions do not necessarily correlate with the CO2 tax rate. We find the climate policies result in significant macroeconomic spillovers across the global economy, meaning that macroeconomic outcomes across countries depend not only on their own commitments but also on those of the rest of the world. We also explore how outcomes could change if select countries (United States, China and Australia) unilaterally withdraw from the agreement and undertake no new climate policies. We find that non-participation leads to economic gains (in terms of GDP) for these countries relative to participating, illustrating the challenge of forging an international agreement with participation by all major emitters and fossil fuel producers. However, we also find that if we account for the monetized climate and domestic cobenefits of emissions reductions, those countries, including Australia, are worse off if they unilaterally withdraw from the Paris Agreement than if they participate. Thus, although we find there are gross costs to participating, doing so generates net benefits for the individual country participants.
F17|Quantifying the Economic Effects of the Single Market in a Structural Macromodel|This paper examines the macro-economic benefits of the Single Market in goods and services by simulating a counterfactual scenario in which tariffs and non-tariff barriers are reintroduced. Model simulations show how the reintroduction of trade barriers in such a counterfactual would lead to significantly lower trade flows between the Member States. Lower trade openness also means reduced market size and less competition. Using empirical evidence on the effect of the Single Market on firms’ mark-ups over marginal costs, we add these effects to the direct trade effects to come to a total estimate of the economic benefits of the Single Market of between 8% and 9% higher GDP on average for the EU.
F17|Is China Fudging Its GDP Figures? Evidence from Trading Partner Data|We propose using imports, measured as reported exports of trading partners, as an alternative benchmark to gauge the accuracy of alternative Chinese indicators (including GDP) of fluctuations in economic activity. Externally-reported imports are likely to be relatively well measured, as well as free from domestic manipulation. Using principal components, we derive activity indices from a wide range of indicators and examine their fit to (trading-partner reported) imports. We choose a preferred index of eight non-GDP indicators (which we call the China Cyclical Activity Tracker, or C-CAT). Comparison with that index and others indicate that Chinese statistics have broadly become more reliable in measuring cyclical fluctuations over time. However, GDP adds little information relative to combinations of other indicators. Moreover, since 2013, Chinese GDP growth has shown little volatility around a gradually slowing trend. Other measures, including the C-CAT and imports, do not show this reduction in volatility. Since 2017, the C-CAT slowed from well above trend to close to trend. As of mid- 2019, it was giving the same cyclical signal as GDP.
F17|Forecasting Foreign Economic Growth Using Cross-Country Data|We construct a monthly measure of foreign economic growth based on a wide range of cross-county indicators. Unlike GDP data, which are normally released with a delay of one to two quarters in most countries, our monthly measure incorporates monthly information up to the current month. As new information arrives, this measure of foreign growth can be updated as frequently as daily. This monthly measure of foreign growth not only helps gauge the economic conditions in other countries but also provides a timely measure of foreign demand to help forecast U.S. export growth.
F17|TINFORGE – Trade in INFORGE. Methoden-Update 2019|Das Welthandelsmodell TINFORGE wurde 2014 (Wolter et al. 2014) mit dem Ziel entwickelt, eine möglichst detaillierte Abbildung des Außenhandels in das nationale makroökonometrische Input-Output-Modell INFORGE (Ahlert et al. 2009) zu integrieren. Aufgabe des TINFORGE-Modells ist es, sowohl eine breite Abdeckung an Ländern weltweit zu erreichen als auch eine jährliche Aktualisierbarkeit zu gewährleisten. Die breite Abdeckung von Ländern ist notwendig, weil neue Partnerländer in Afrika oder Asien mit großer Dynamik im Welthandel sichtbar werden (Nigeria, Vietnam) und deren Wirkungen auf den deutschen Export abschätzbar sein sollen. Die jährliche Aktualisierung wird angestrebt, da konjunkturelle Schwankungen und Handelsbarrieren vor allem in den letzten Jahren deutlich zugenommen haben. Deren Wirkungen auch beobachten und nicht nur beschreiben zu können, ist aber Voraussetzung für eine empirisch basierte Projektion des Welthandels. Um also eine schnelle und zeitnahe Aktualisierung zu gewährleisten, wurde TINFORGE entwickelt und seit der Version INFORGE14_1 als integraler Bestandteil für die Abschätzung der Folgen des Welthandels für deutsche Exporte in INFORGE verwendet. Seit der Erstauflage von TINFORGE, welches in Wolter et al. (2014) beschrieben ist, wurde das Modell methodisch fortentwickelt. Dieses Discussion Paper ist ein Update des Papers aus dem Jahr 2014 und beschreibt den aktuellen Modellstand von INFORGE.
F17|The US trade dispute: blunt offense or rational strategy?|This article evaluates the recent protectionist US trade policy and the retaliation of the EU and China. The article employs a New Quantitative Trade Theory model and an Armington model for comparison. The simulation results show that US car tariffs are a credible threat to the EU, but the steel and aluminum tariffs are not. China suffers considerably from the US tariffs, especially the extended, tightened tariffs that have been announced. The retaliation measures of the EU and China, however, do not cause US welfare losses compared to the situation without such a trade policy.
F17|Brexit: Everyone Loses, but Britain Loses the Most|This paper examines 12 economic simulation models that estimate the impact of Brexit. We provide their range of results and explain their associated assumptions and methodologies (macroeconometric models, computable general equilibrium [CGE] models, or mixed approaches). CGE models simulate the operation of market economies, solving for changes in equilibrium prices and quantities (production, employment, demand, and international trade) for all sectors in the economy. Macroeconometric models focus on economic aggregates and macro shocks, such as interest rates, the exchange rate, inflation, risk, uncertainty, and government expenditure/revenue. Most of the studies find adverse effects for the UK and the EU-27. The UK's GDP losses from a hard Brexit (reversion to World Trade Organization rules due to a lack of UK-EU agreement) range from –1.2 to –4.5 percent in most of the models analyzed. A soft Brexit (e.g., Norway arrangement, which seems in line with the nonbinding text of the political declaration of November 14, 2018 on the future EU-UK relationship) has about half the negative impact of a hard Brexit. Only two of the models derive gains for the UK after Brexit because they are based on unrealistic assumptions. We analyze more deeply a CGE model that includes productivity and firms' selection effects within manufacturing sectors à la Melitz (2003) and the operations of foreign multinationals in services. Based on this latest model, we provide a complete overview and explanation of the likely economic impact of Brexit on a wide range of macroeconomic variables, namely GDP, wages, private consumption, capital remuneration, aggregate exports, aggregate imports, and the consumer price index. The data underlying this analysis are available at https://piie.com/system/files/documents/wp19-5.zip.
F17|Offshoring and Skill-Biased Technical Change in the Context of US Protectionism|We discuss the effects of offshoring on the labor market in a matching model with endogenous adjustment of educational skills. We carry out a comparative statics analysis and show that offshoring leads to a restructuring of the economy through skill-biased technical change (SBTC) where overall welfare is improved. In a policy exercise we show that, if offshoring were to be opposed by a protectionist agenda, labor market flexibility can bring about the same welfare gain. In addition, we offer an empirical analysis aimed at verifying the correlation be- tween offshoring and SBTC in US manufacturing industries in recent years. Our results show that different offshoring strategies affect SBTC differently. In particular, the evidence suggests that while high-skill offshoring strategies open the skill gap, low-skill offshoring strategies tend to work in the opposite direction.
F17|Welfare Gains from the Variety Growth|We estimate the variety gains of trade in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania following the fall of the iron curtain more than a quarter of a century ago. We apply the methodology of Feenstra (1994); Broda and Weinstein (2006); Ardelean and Lugovskyy (2010) and Soderbery (2015) to domestic and international trade data for the period 1988-1997. Although, there was a decline in the number of local varieties during this period, an increase in the number of import varieties from the EU more than outweighed this decline. The increasing variety of imported goods from EU countries substantially lowered the cost of living, resulting in welfare gains to consumers that range from 0.73% in Latvia to 1.28% of GDP per year in Estonia.
F17|The Brexit Vote, Productivity Growth and Macroeconomic Adjustments in the United Kingdom|The UK economy has experienced significant macroeconomic adjustments following the 2016 referendum on its withdrawal from the European Union. This paper develops and estimates a small open economy model with tradable and non-tradable sectors to characterise these adjustments. We demonstrate that many of the effects of the referendum result can be conceptualised as news about a future slowdown in productivity growth in the tradable sector. Simulations show that the responses of the model economy to such news are consistent with key patterns in UK data. While overall economic growth slows, an immediate permanent fall in the relative price of non-tradable output (the real exchange rate) induces a temporary ‘sweet spot’ for tradable producers before the slowdown in tradable sector productivity associated with Brexit occurs. Resources are reallocated towards the tradable sector, tradable output growth rises and net exports increase. These developments reverse after the productivity decline in the tradable sector materialises. The negative news about tradable sector productivity also leads to a decline in domestic interest rates relative to world interest rates and to a reduction in investment growth, while employment remains relatively stable. As a by-product of our analysis, we provide a quantitative analysis of the UK business cycle.
F17|Evaluating the transport-mode-specific trade effects of different transport infrastructure types|Both qualitative and quantitative improvements for five different transport infrastructure types are evaluated with respect to their transport-mode-specific trade effects. Strong trade increases are found for survey-based quality indicators of airport and railroad infrastructure. For road trade, the road density is more important than the quality of road infrastructure. Additionally, the infrastructure quality of transit countries is an important trade flow driver of the land transport modes road and railroad. For the analysis of these effects, I use a gravity equation model with European trade flows that are disaggregated over five different transport modes. In combination with the quality and quantity indicators for each corresponding type of transport infrastructure, it is possible to directly estimate the unique trade effects for each infrastructure type. Moreover, a novel cross-mode analysis is conducted to estimate interdependencies and cross-effects that exist between different transport infrastructure types and different transport modes.
F17|A survey of the long-term impact of Brexit on the UK and the EU27 economies|This paper reviews a sample of studies on the long-term impact of Brexit on GDP and welfare for both the UK and EU economies. It considers only official and academic studies published before the end of November 2018. The paper highlights the very wide range of results, especially for the UK, reflecting great uncertainty. The negative economic impact is more limited for the EU27 and for most Member States. Small open economies closely related to the UK are more hit than others. This is the case for Ireland due to geographical proximity, for Luxembourg with its economy specialising in financial services and for Cyprus and Malta as they are Commonwealth countries. When only the trade channel of Brexit is estimated, GDP (or welfare) losses are around 1 percentage point of GDP in the Netherlands and in Belgium while these average 0.6 percentage point of GDP in the EU27. For a same Brexit scenario, the results depend on the model specifications, on the channels considered and on some key assumptions. For the UK higher GDP/welfare losses are found for reduced-form approaches, when a productivity shock is added and, also for the EU, for global value chain approaches. Higher GDP/welfare losses are also associated with higher non-tariff trade barriers. Results are sensitive to some parameters such as the reaction of trade volumes to changes in tariffs and non-tariff trade barriers (trade elasticities). Reaching a Free Trade Agreement could limit the GDP/welfare losses both for the UK and the EU Member States compared to an orderly no deal (WTO scenario). If the UK remains in the Single Market or the Customs Union, the GDP/welfare losses induced by Brexit could be even more contained. This justifies the economic interest for both the UK and the EU Member States to reach an agreement on their future relationship.
F17|The Textbook Case for Industrial Policy: Theory Meets Data|The textbook case for industrial policy is well understood. If some sectors are subject to external economies of scale, whereas others are not, a government should subsidize the first group of sectors at the expense of the second. The empirical relevance of this argument, however, remains unclear. In this paper we develop a strategy to estimate sector-level economies of scale and evaluate the gains from such policy interventions in an open economy. Our benchmark results point towards significant and heterogeneous economies of scale across manufacturing sectors, but only modest gains from industrial policy, below 1% of GDP on average. Though these gains can be larger in some of the alternative environments that we consider, they are always smaller than the gains from optimal trade policy.
F17|CPTPP: Implications for Malaysia’s Merchandise Trade Balance|A mega regional Free Trade Agreement like the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) has the potential to impact countries which are inside as well as those which are outside the agreement. This paper provides empirical estimates of potential changes in Malaysia’s merchandise balance of trade if it joins the CPTPP and compares it to its trade balance if it does not join this free trade agreement (FTA). A positive balance of merchandise trade is important for Malaysia as it is a net importer of services. However, since 2010, Malaysia’s merchandise imports have been growing much faster than its exports. Using SMART simulations, the estimates show that if Malaysia joins the CPTPP its imports will rise much more than its exports leading to a worsening of its trade balance by around US$2.4 billion per annum. Imports of vehicles from the CPTPP countries will increase including that of plastics and its articles. Exports to the CPTPP partner countries will rise only marginally as Malaysia already has free trade agreements with its top three export markets, i.e., Japan, Singapore and Australia, which together account for 84% of its exports to the CPTPP countries. Remaining out of the CPTPP will also adversely impact Malaysia’s exports to the CPTPP countries but this decline in exports is much smaller compared to the rise in its imports if it joins the CPTPP. The estimated tariff revenue loss to Malaysia of joining the CPTPP is estimated at US$1.6 billion per annum. The paper argues that along with the traditional indicators of trade competitiveness like trade balance developing countries now need to give importance to preserving their policy space in free trade agreements since the fourth digital industrial revolution is changing the ways products are manufactured and exported.
F17|Counter sanctions and well-being population of Russia: econometric analyses|This article examines the impact of counter-sanctions on the welfare of Russia’s population. We build a multiple-choice model and calculate the probability of being in a particular group of well-being based on the price (cost) of consumed counter-sanctions goods. The next step is the construction of a structural demand-supply system for estimating similar domestic good’s production elasticities. By knowing elasticity estimates we determine the price response to particular import closure. According to our estimates Russia's counter-sanctions led to an increase in poverty by 2.64 %.
F17|Pre-Feasibility Study of Sarawak-West Kalimantan Cross-Border Value Chains|This pre-feasibility study on Sarawak-West Kalimantan cross-border value chains covers six topics: It analyzes existing trade patterns and competitive advantages of Sarawak and West Kalimantan, as well as government objectives in promoting cross-border commercial activities. It proposes a border economic area spread over a wide geographic area that covers a network of interrelated activities and provides a fully integrated approach to the border economic area design and implementation. It identifies potential cross-border value chains that can serve as high-profile projects for the border economic area. It determines the preference orderings of project features by key stakeholders such as government and development partners, commercial entities, and the local population. It estimates the net monetary returns for the project portfolio, a cost-effectiveness analysis of the stand-alone capacity-building projects, ranks stakeholders’ non-monetary preferences, and incorporates the the preference ranking order into the project portfolio’s net monetary returns. It provides an overall program appraisal for the set of projects. Based on pre-feasibility results, it lays out a plan for implementation of the border area development program.
F17|Brexit trade impacts' and Mercosur's negotiations with Europe|We estimate that a hard Brexit (HB) would reduce UK agro-industrial-imports from the EU by around 50%. Following the dismantling of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) the UK Government has proposed to shift towards market-oriented agricultural policies and negotiating free trade agreements (FTAs) with interested countries. Assuming that the UK restores the previous level of agro industrial products, the paper estimates the net export gains that Mercosur could achieve in the UK market for different agro-industrial products. In the event of a Hard Brexit, and assuming that the Mercosur-EU negotiations are not completed before, Mercosur would then face two negotiations in Europe: with the EU27 and with the UK. We argue that failing Mercosur to give priority to talks with the UK, other countries are more than likely sign trade agreements and fill its import gap thus creating additional trade diversion effects against the Mercosur. We offer back-of-the-envelope estimates indicating that under such an FTA, Mercosur could double its agro-industrial exports to the UK. These significant export gains are concentrated in a group of products that are now highly protected by the CAP.
F17|Modelling Impact of Moratorium on Electronic Transmissions using CGE: A Critique|The paper presents a detailed critique of estimating economic impact of moratorium on custom duties on electronic transmissions using CGE modelling, which has been undertaken by the European Centre for International Political Economy (ECIPE). Electronic transmissions are ‘on-line’ deliveries of digitizable products like music CDs, films, e-books, software and printed material. Since 1998, moratorium on custom duties on electronic transmissions has been renewed every two years in the WTO. ECIPE paper estimates the economic impact of removal of the moratorium. Using GTAP model, the analysis applies arbitrary tariffs on four broad services sectors and presents the results as economic impact of removal of the moratorium. This is misleading for the policymakers. The model does not have product-level data or dis-aggregated services data in order to identify electronic transmissions. Applying tariffs on broad services sectors also challenges the commitments taken by the developing countries in the GATS.
F17|Revisiting the euro's trade cost and welfare effects|When, about twenty years ago, the Euro was created, one objective was to facilitate intra-European trade by reducing transaction costs. Has the Euro delivered? Using sectoral trade data from 1995 to 2014 and applying structural gravity modeling, we conduct an ex post evaluation of the European Monetary Union (EMU). In aggregate data, we find a significant average trade effect for goods of almost 8 percent, but a much smaller effect for services trade. Digging deeper, we detect substantial heterogeneity between sectors, as well as between and within country-pairs. Singling out Germany, and embedding the estimation results into a quantitative general equilibrium model of world trade, we find that EMU has increased real incomes in all EMU countries, albeit at different rates. E.g., incomes have increased by 0.3, 0.6, and 2.1 percent in Italy, Germany, and Luxembourg, respectively.
F17|Die Handelseffekte der österreichischen EU-Mitgliedschaft 25 Jahre nach der Volksabstimmung|"Am 12. Juni 1994 sprachen sich 66,6% der österreichischen Bevölkerung im Rahmen einer Volksabstimmung für einen Beitritt des Landes zur Europäischen Union aus. Am 1. Jänner 1995 trat Österreich der EU bei. 25 Jahre nach dieser Volksabstimmung versucht die vorliegende Studie die Handelseffekte und die damit einhergehenden Effekte der österreichischen EU-Mitgliedschaft auf BIP, Beschäftigung und Preise empirisch zu quantifizieren. Auf Basis eines Gravitationsmodells werden in einem ersten Schritt die Handelseffekte der österreichischen EU-Mitgliedschaft berechnet. Demnach tauscht Österreich langfristig mit den anderen EU-Mitgliedsländern um etwa 46% mehr Waren aus als in einer hypothetischen Situation ohne den Beitritt. Dieser Handelsimpuls wird in einem zweiten Schritt in das Input-Output-Modell des WIFO ""Adagio"" übertragen. Wie die Modellberechnungen zeigen, induzierte die österreichische EU-Mitgliedschaft durch die Steigerung des Außenhandels einen zusätzlichen jährlichen Wachstumsbeitrag von 0,7% des realen BIP."
F17|A structural quantitative analysis of services trade de-liberalization|This paper suggests a quantifiable multi-sector-multi-country economic model of goods and services production and consumption. It calibrates overall (variable and fixed) costs to market-specific sales by sector and decomposes these costs into observable and unobservable components. In an empirical analysis based on census-type data on firm-sector-country sales of German services sellers as well as sector-country-by-sector-country input-output matrices for various economies and sectors, the paper provides the following insights. The overall (variable and fixed) costs on seller-to-customer-market transactions in services have quite a high distance equivalent and are reduced substantially by preferential market access for services through trade agreements. If all countries considered abandoning existing preferential market access to services, this would reduce their real consumption by up to 7.7 percent with a similar decline in real wages and real dividends (depending on the country). If one country alone abandoned its preferential services market access reciprocally with its partners, the effect would be smaller. However, it would still involve a decline of real consumption of 0.3 percent for a country as large (and as remote relative to continental Europe) as the United Kingdom. For most economies, depending on their input-output structure, de-liberalizing preferential services-market access would have adverse spillover effects on manufacturing (in terms of real wages as well as dividends).
F17|Trade and welfare effects of a potential free trade agreement between Japan and the United States|This paper deals with the trade and welfare effects of a potential bilateral trade agreement between the US and Japan. A possible agreement is currently being discussed between Washington and Tokyo, although, there is also the alternative for the US government joining Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). Based on the theoretical model of Caliendo and Parro (2015) I analyse the welfare gains of such a bilateral free trade agreement (FTA) in the style of Aichele et al. (2014). In particular, I simulate three scenarios with different levels of integration: The reduction of tariffs only, the scenario of a shallow FTA, and a deep FTA. In addition, the paper compares the trade and welfare changes of a deep FTA to the welfare effects of TPP. The findings are that Japan has the highest welfare gains with a FTA (0.085%), whilst the United States benefits the most from TPP with a welfare gain of 0.05%.
F17|Living with Lower Productivity Growth: Impact on Exports|Productivity growth has slowed in most Western countries, and the slowdown is likely to persist for some time. This paper investigates the impact of this phenomenon on export performance, with a particular focus on its heterogeneity across countries. To explain such heterogeneity, the authors pay particular attention to the role of productivity distribution and allocative efficiency. They rely on data from the Competitiveness Research Network (CompNet), a unique micro-aggregated database that provides a rich set of information on the variables’ distribution at the granular level, together with micro-founded indicators such as the level of allocative efficiency. They argue that increases in both productivity dispersion and allocative efficiency, measured with the methodology of G. Steven Olley and Ariel Pakes, are associated with higher export competitiveness for the set of countries in this analysis. They evaluate four separate scenarios according to different levels of productivity growth and different degrees of allocative efficiency and conclude that, while a reduction in productivity growth is always associated with a decrease in export competitiveness, for those countries placed in the top 10 percent of the distribution of the Olley and Pakes gap, this negative effect can be offset for as long as eight years.
F17|Mögliche Auswirkungen eines harten oder weichen Brexit auf die deutsche Landwirtschaft - Update| The United Kingdom (UK) is an important destination for German agri-food products. This becomes especially apparent when looking at the German-UK trade balance of agricultural products, where Germany had a surplus of 3.1 Billion € in 2016. Furthermore, the UK is the trade partner where Germany exhibits the largest trade surplus. Those facts already suggest that Germany is likely to be affected by a changing trade environment following Brexit. In this working paper we are considering a soft Brexit scenario where we assume a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement and a more protective hard Brexit scenario with reciprocal imposition of MFN tariffs between EU and UK. The model results suggest that the decline in production value of German agri-food products amounts 400 Million € in the soft Brexit scenario and is three times larger in the hard Brexit scenario.
F17|Russian food embargo and the lost trade|We analyse the impact of the Russian food embargo on European and Russian trade patterns using a triple-difference estimation strategy. We quantify the effects on the value of trade, the trade price of products covered by the ban, and the new trade flows generated by the ban. Our results point to an average e 125 million loss in monthly EU28 exports to Russia due to the ban (with Lithuania, Poland, and Germany bearing the largest losses). However, only 45% of the drop in EU28 exports of banned products to Russia would be due to the ban. In addition, EU products banned from the Russian market were sold elsewhere at lower prices. The reorientation of EU exports to other markets translated into selling larger amounts to old trade partners, as well as in accessing new markets. EU member states were unevenly affected by the ban. Germany and Poland compensated their large losses on the Russian market by a strong increase in exports to other trade partners (mostly intra-EU), at the expense of other EU countries, such as France and Denmark.
F17|Mögliche Auswirkungen eines harten oder weichen Brexit auf die deutsche Landwirtschaft - Update|Das Vereinigte Königreich (VK) stellt einen bedeutsamen Abnehmer für deutsche Agrarprodukte dar. Dies wird auch durch die hohen deutschen Nettoagrarexporte von 3,1 Mrd. € in 2016 deutlich. Damit ist das VK der Handelspartner, mit welchem Deutschland den mit Abstand größten Agrarhandelsüberschuss aufweist. Allein diese Fakten verdeutlichen bereits, dass die mit einem Brexit verbundene Einführung von wie auch immer gearteten Handelsbarrieren einen potenziell starken Einfluss auf die deutschen Agrarmärkte haben kann. In der folgenden Analyse werden mit einem 'weichen' und einem 'harten' Brexit zwei Szenarien mit unterschiedlich stark ausgeprägten Handelshemmnissen untersucht. Das 'weiche' Brexit Szenario beinhaltet ein tiefgreifendes Freihandelsabkommen zwischen der EU und dem VK, während das 'harte' Brexit Szenario mit der Einführung von MFN Zöllen eine stärker protektionistische Politik unterstellt. Die Modellergebnisse zeigen, dass bei einem 'weichen' Brexit mit einem Rückgang der deutschen Agrarproduktion in Höhe von 400 Mio. € zu rechnen ist. Dieser wertmäßige Rückgang würde bei einem 'harten' Brexit dreimal höher ausfallen.
F17|RIOTs in Germany – Constructing an interregional input-output table for Germany|Despite their importance, little is known about the spatial structure of trade and production networks within Germany and their connection to the international markets. The lack of data is problematic for regional analysis of aggregate shocks such as trade agreements and to analyze network effects of regional policies. This paper takes an in-depth look at this German production structure and trade network at the county level based on a unique data set of county level trade. I find a surprisingly vast heterogeneity with respect to specialization, agglomeration and trade partners. The paper subsequently shows how to adapt recent advances in regionalization of input-output tables to derive an interregional input output table for 402 German counties and 26 foreign partners for 17 sectors that is cell-by-cell compatible with the WIOD tables for national aggregates and can be used for impact analysis and CGE model calibration.
F17|Shocking Germany – A spatial analysis of German regional labor markets|This paper quantifies the surprisingly large heterogeneity of real income and employment effects across German counties in response to local productivity shocks. Using a quantitative model with imperfect mobility and sector-specific labor market frictions together with an outstanding data set of county level goods shipments, I identify the sources of the heterogeneity in Germany’s complex interregional linkages. I find that population mobility reduces the magnitude of local employment rate responses by a striking 70 percent on average. In all but a few counties, changes in the sectoral composition of production have a much milder effect on employment elasticities. National employment rates are less dependent on mobility with worker in- and outflows in individual counties partially cancelling out effects. For productivity shocks affecting individual sectors across all regions the composition effect is substantially magnified, the mobility effect reduced. In line with recent real world observations I find that real income and employment effects, while correlated, do not need to be of the same sign. Finally, the spatial propagation of real income effects closely follows trade linkages whereas employment effects are more complex to predict.
F17|What Is Restraining Non-Energy Export Growth?|This note summarizes the key findings from Bank of Canada staff analytical work examining the reasons for the recent weakness in Canadian non-energy exports. Canada steadily lost market share in US non-energy imports between 2002 and 2017, mostly reflecting continued and broad-based competitiveness losses. In addition to this evidence from the demand side, industry analysis points to supply constraints that are limiting export growth, such as physical capacity and shortages of skilled labour. Transportation bottlenecks, environmental and regulatory changes, and the inability to source raw materials also appear to be limiting export growth in some industries. Evidence suggests supply-side capacity constraints at the industry level as well. These constraints mainly reflect a decline in the factors of production, such as labour input and capital stock, which are likely related to the ongoing competitiveness losses. Simulations using the Bank of Canada’s ToTEM model suggest that demand factors such as competitiveness issues explain most of the recent weakness in non-commodity exports. The simulations also indicate that a monetary policy reaction is required, independent of whether the weakness is driven by demand or supply factors. Staff expect broad-based competitiveness losses and structural supply factors to continue to restrain the growth of non-energy exports over the projection horizon, which extends until 2020.
F17|Weakness in Non-Commodity Exports: Demand versus Supply Factors|We use the Terms-of-Trade Economic Model (ToTEM) to conduct demand- and supply-driven simulations, both of which deliver weakness in Canadian non-commodity exports relative to foreign activity in line with recent data. We then compare the predictions of the simulations with observed outcomes to shed light on the source of weakness in non-commodity exports. Our results suggest that demand factors, such as competitiveness challenges, likely play a dominant role in explaining the recent weakness in non-commodity exports. The simulations also reveal that a monetary policy response is required, independent of the source of the weakness in non-commodity exports.
F17|The Falling Elasticity of Global Trade to Economic Activity: Testing the Demand Channel|Since the recovery from the great financial crisis in 2010, global real trade flows grew much slower than pre-crisis, in both absolute terms (growth rates) and relative terms (relative to GDP, from 2:1 in the great 1990’s to 1:1 since 2012) A debate has arisen as to whether this global trade slowdown, and related falling trade-to-income elasticity, was structural or cyclical. Some papers emphasized the slowing pace of international vertical specialization. Other works emphasized the prominent role of aggregate demand, notably when weighted by its trade component. Our paper goes in this latter direction. We estimated the standard import equation for 38 advanced and developing countries over the period 1995-2015, using an import intensity-adjusted measure of aggregate demand (IAD), calculated from input-output tables at country level, and compared results with regressions using GDP. The integration of IAD allows us to predict 76% to 86% of the changes in global imports, a better performance than if using GDP. The use of IAD also enabled us to measure the relative importance of each component of demand, according to their trade intensity. The model is able to account for over 90% of the recent trade slowdown (2012-2015), with IAD alone explaining 80% of it. The slowdown in global value chains explains more than half of the remaining share of the global trade slowdown, not explained by demand factors. Protectionism does not come up as statistically significant.
F17|Quantifying the EU-Japan Economic Partnership Agreement|This paper provides a quantitative analysis of the new EU-Japan Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA), the biggest bilateral deal that both the EU and Japan have concluded so far. It employs a generalized variant of the Eaton–Kortum (2002) model, featuring multiple sectors, input-output linkages, services trade, and non-tariff barriers (NTBs). It uses the results of an econometric ex post analysis of a related existing FTA, the one between the EU and Korea, to approximate the expected reductions in the costs of NTBs. This approach yields long-run welfare effects for Japan of about 18 bn USD per year (0.31% of GDP) and of about 15 bn USD (0.10%) for the EU. On average, the agreement does not appear to harm third countries. 14% of the welfare gains inside the EPA stem from tariffs, the remaining 86% from NTB reform, and the services sector account for more than half. In the EU, value added in the agri-food sector goes up most, while in Japan the manufacturing and services sectors gain.
F17|Quantifying the EU-Japan Economic Partnership Agreement|This paper provides a quantitative analysis of the new EU-Japan Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA), the biggest bilateral deal that both the EU and Japan have concluded so far. It employs a generalized variant of the Eaton–Kortum (2002) model, featuring multiple sectors, input-output linkages, services trade, and non-tariff barriers (NTBs). It uses the results of an econometric ex post analysis of a related existing FTA, the one between the EU and Korea, to approximate the expected reductions in the costs of NTBs. This approach yields long-run welfare effects for Japan of about 18 bn USD per year (0.31% of GDP) and of about 15 bn USD (0.10%) for the EU. On average, the agreement does not appear to harm third countries. 14% of the welfare gains inside the EPA stem from tariffs, the remaining 86% from NTB reform, and the services sector account for more than half. In the EU, value added in the agri-food sector goes up most, while in Japan the manufacturing and services sectors gain.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F17|Quantifying Brexit: From Ex Post to Ex Ante Using Structural Gravity|Exploiting changes in the geography of economic integration in Europe, this paper uses detailed bilateral trade data for 50 sectors to carry out an econometric ex post evaluation of the trade cost effects of the United Kingdom’s various arrangements with the European Union. The analysis reveals important heterogeneity across agreements, sectors, and within pairs. In particular, the EU’s eastward enlargement or the EU-Korea trade agreement have lowered the UK’s outward trade costs only relatively modestly. These asymmetries matter for the size and distribution of the welfare effects of Brexit – the withdrawal of the UK from EU agreements resulting into a return of trade costs to the situation quo ante. We make this point with the help of a modern multi-sector trade model that is able to capture inter- and intranational production networks. In line with other papers, the welfare costs of Brexit are higher in the UK than in most other EU countries. However, the considered asymmetries tend to attenuate overall costs while giving rise to substantial heterogeneity between EU27 members and sectors.
F17|Quantifying Disruptive Trade Policies|Mainstream economic wisdom favoring cooperative free trade is challenged by a wave of disruptive trade policies. In this paper, we provide quantitative evidence concerning the economic impacts of tariffs implemented by the United States in 2018 and the subsequent retaliations by partner countries. Our analysis builds on a multi-region multi-sector general-equilibrium simulation model of the global economy that includes an innovative monopolistic-competition structure of bilateral representative firms.
F17|Undoing Europe in a New Quantitative Trade Model|We employ theory-grounded sectoral gravity models to estimate the effects of various steps of European product market integration on trade flows. We embed these estimates into a static Ricardian quantitative trade model featuring 43 countries and 50 goods and services sectors. Paying attention to the role of non-tariff trade barriers and of intra- and international value added networks, we simulate lower bounds to the trade, output, and welfare effects of different disintegration scenarios. Bootstrapping standard errors, we find statistically significant welfare losses of up to 23% of the 2014 baseline, but we also document a strong degree of heterogeneity across EU insiders. Effects on EU outsiders are often insignificant. The welfare effects from the Single Market dominate quantitatively, but the gains from Schengen and Eurozone membership are substantial for many countries as well. Percentage losses are more pronounced for more central EU members, while larger and richer countries tend to lose less. The effects of income transfers reveal some surprising patterns driven by terms-of-trade adjustments.
F17|The US Gains from Trade: Valuation Using the Demand for Foreign Factor Services|About eight cents out of every dollar spent in the United States is spent on imports. What if, because of a wall or some other extreme policy intervention, imports were to remain on the other side of the US border? How much would US consumers be willing to pay to prevent this hypothetical policy change from taking place? The answer to this question represents the welfare cost from autarky or, equivalently, the welfare gains from trade. In this article, we discuss how to evaluate these gains using estimates of the demand for foreign factor services.
F17|Gains from Trade: Does Sectoral Heterogeneity Matter?|This paper assesses the quantitative importance of including sectoral heterogeneity in computing the gains from trade. Our framework draws from Caliendo and Parro (2015) and Alvarez and Lucas (2007) and has sectoral heterogeneity along five dimensions, including the elasticity of trade to trade costs, the value-added share, and the input-output structure. The key parameter we estimate is the sectoral trade elasticity, and we use the Simonovska and Waugh (2014) simulated method of moments estimator with micro price data. Our estimates range from 2.97 to 8.94, considerably lower than those obtained with the Eaton and Kortum (2002) price-based method. Our benchmark model is calibrated to 21 OECD countries and 20 sectors. We compute the gains from trade in our benchmark model, and in several re-calibrated versions of the model in which we eliminate one or more sources of sectoral heterogeneity. Our main result is that sectoral heterogeneity does not always lead to an increase in the gains from trade. There are two reasons for this. First, the magnitudes of our estimated sectoral trade elasticities are relatively high, while the magnitude of our estimated aggregate trade elasticity is low. All else equal, this will lead to higher gains for the aggregate, one-sector model. Second, the sectors with low trade elasticities (hence, implying high gains from trade) are not the sectors with low value-added shares and with high initial trade shares (which would magnify the gains). Hence, the sectoral heterogeneity in our calibrated model does not exert complementary gains from trade effects.
F17|A Forward Calibration Method for New Quantitative Trade Models|This article introduces an innovative and exible dynamic forward calibration method for disaggregated new quantitative trade models, particularly the Eaton and Kortum model, within a computable general equilibrium framework. The model is parameterized based on distinct, consistent future development scenario assumptions about EU climate policy, economic growth, energy efficiency, the electricity mix and structural change (sectoral shifts) derived through a complex scenario-creation process. The model equations and the scenario assumptions are implemented as side constraints of an optimization problem minimizing the difference between historical and targeted technology levels (sectoral productivities). This method is combined with input-output data disaggregation methods to separate Northwest Germany from the rest of Germany and to represent different power generation technologies. This setup enables the comparison of alternative regional sustainability-oriented long-term policy pathways. Despite the importance of the policy pathways envisaged by Northwest Germany's governments to society, they have limited macroeconomic effects in the simulations. In contrast, the future development scenario assumptions significantly affect European economies, particularly via the EU climate policy costs that drastically increase towards 2050. If Northwest Germany's energy transition fails, then its climate policy costs will increase extraordinarily.
F17|「米中関税引上げ」の経済的帰結：シミュレーションモデルを用いた影響試算|2018年に公表・実施される米国及び中国の関税引上げ措置を取り上げ、その中期的な経済的帰結について影響を試算した。試算から得られた含意は以下の通りである。第一に、関税引上げだけの場合は、米国のGDPを0.1％、中国のGDPを0.2％程度押し下げる影響があり、等価変分で評価すると、米国で98億ドル、中国で352億ドルの損失になる。世界経済への影響は軽微ではあるが、貿易転換効果によって第三国に生じる便益の合計は損失を上回らず、世界全体でもマイナスになる。第二に、資本蓄積や技術進歩の影響を勘案した場合は、米国のGDPを1.6％、中国のGDPを2.5％程度押し下げる影響があり、等価変分で評価すると、米国で1,995億ドル、中国で1,871億ドルの損失になる。貿易転換効果とそれに伴う成長効果は第三国にプラスとなるが、世界全体ではやはりマイナスとなる。第三に、産業別生産は、関税引上げによる財間の価格変化差によって生じる比較優位構造の変化に影響される。具体的には、米国でも中国でも、輸送機械や電気機械・一般機械といった技術集約的、資本集約的な業種の縮小が発生し、第三国では、この逆が生じることになる。最後に、中国の対抗措置がもたらす効果について検証したところ、米国経済への悪影響を生じさせるという意味では報復にはなるが、時間経過と共に自国の損失も大きいことが明らかになった。対抗措置は妥当な対応策ではないと示唆される。, This paper aims at evaluating the economic consequences of U.S.-China trade conflict in 2018. The potential impact of proposed tariff increases is calculated by a global CGE model. Capital deepening and technological spillover induced by trade are also considered to explore long-run influence. Following implications are delivered. First, imposed tariffs on goods alone will decline U.S. and China’s GDP by 0.1% and 0.2% respectively. They will also worsen U.S. and China’s equivalent variation by 9.8 billion US dollars and 35.2 billion US dollars respectively. Although the other countries enjoy gains from trade diversion, losses exceeds globally. Second, taking into account the effect from capital deepening and technological spillover induced by trade makes a situation worse. U.S. and China’s GDP will decline by 1.6% and 2.5% respectively. U.S. and China’s equivalent variation will decrease by 199.5 billion US dollars and 187.1 billion US dollars respectively. Trade diversion is not large enough to recover losses in two countries. Third, imposed tariffs will distort relative prices and change the production structure. Concretely, the United States and China will lose their comparative advantage in transport, electronic, and machinery equipment production, while other countries expand them. Finally, China’s retaliatory tariff increases should worsen the U.S. economy to some extent, however, it is indeed achieved at the cost of the Chinese economy. It is not an appropriate policy response in the long run.
F17|The Economic Consequences of the 2018 US-China Trade Conflict: A CGE Simulation Analysis|This paper aims at evaluating the economic consequences of the 2018 US-China trade conflict. The potential impact of the proposed tariff increases is calculated using a global CGE model. Capital deepening and technological spillover induced by trade are also taken into account to explore the long-run influence. We can derive the following implications.First, the additionally imposed tariffs on goods alone declines the GDP in the US and China by 0.1% and 0.2%, respectively. The equivalent variation in the US and China is reduced by 9.8 billion and 35.2 billion USD, respectively. Although other countries gain from trade diversion, losses exceed gains globally.Second, considering the effect from capital deepening and technological spillover induced by trade makes the situation worse. The GDP in the US and China declines by 1.6% and 2.5%, respectively. The equivalent variation in the US and China is reduced by 199.5 billion USD and 187.1 billion USD, respectively. Again, the trade diversion is not large enough to recover losses in these countries.Third, the imposed tariffs distort relative prices, resulting in changes to the global production structure. Both the US and China lose their comparative advantage in transport, electronic, and machinery equipment production, while other countries expand their production in these sectors.Finally, China’s retaliatory tariff increases worsens the US economy to some extent, but it comes at a cost to the Chinese economy. In the long run, retaliation is not an appropriate policy response
F17|Fragmentation and Gains from Trade|In this paper, we estimate the competitiveness of countries in intermediate goods and in final goods. We find that China’s competitiveness in both intermediate goods and final goods increased exceptionally rapidly during 1995-2011. We also find that the gains from trade of countries with strong comparative advantage in final goods can be substantially under-estimated if we do not separately take into account trade flows in intermediate goods and final goods. We also find that, during 1995-2011, the average increase in gains from intermediate goods trade across all countries in our sample is distinctly higher than the average increase in gains from final goods trade. This suggests that gains from trade due to international fragmentation of production is becoming more important over time relative to gains from trade in final goods.
F17|The 2018 Trade War: Data and Nascent General Equilibrium Analysis|This study introduces a database of 2018 tariff increases resulting from the recent trade war and quantifies the impacts using the canonical GTAPinGAMS model calibrated to GTAP version 9 accounts. We report relatively modest economy-wide welfare impacts in this perfect-competition Armington model, with substantial impacts on the pattern of trade and output in important sectors. JEL codes: F11, F12, F17
F17|Living with lower productivity growth: Impact on exports|This paper investigates the impact of sustained lower productivity growth on exports, by looking at the role of the productivity distribution and allocative efficiency as drivers of export performance. It follows and goes beyond the work of Barba Navaretti et al. (2017), analysing the effects of productivity on exports depending on the dynamics of allocative efficiency. Low productivity growth is a well-documented stylised fact in Western countries - and possibly a reality likely to persist for some time. What could be the impact of persistent sluggish growth of productivity on exports? To shed light on this question, this paper examines the relationship between the productivity distribution of firms and sectoral export performance. The structure of firms within countries or even sectors matters tremendously for the nexus between productivity and exports at the macroeconomic level, as the theoretical and empirical literature documents. For instance, whether too few firms at the top (lack of innovation) or too many firms at the bottom (weak market selection) drives slow average productivity at the macro level has very different implications and therefore demands different policy responses.
F17|The Suspense of Trade Agreements|Preferential trade agreements (PTAs) are signed between two or more countries following the conclusion of the negotiation process. The duration of this process varies considerably across existing trade agreements and ranges between 316 and 5125 days. This paper presents the consequences of the length of the negotiation process on trade growth. The contribution of this paper to the literature is threefold. Firstly, it includes as a determinant of trade a new variable that captures negotiations duration for the largest number of PTAs possible, covering all such events from January 1988 until October 2014. This unveils yet another previously ignored feature of PTAs (as trade driver) that leaves results based on a dichotomous PTA status in question. Secondly, this paper evaluates for the first time the anticipation effects of a PTA, concentrating solely on the negotiation period. Lastly, methodologically, this paper introduces for the first time in the international economics literature a dose response-function approach permitting continuous treatment and many non-treated units. The paper concludes that â€”ceteris paribus â€”lengthy PTA negotiations undermine trade growth.
F17|Where is the value added? Trade liberalization and production networks|To what extent has trade liberalization contributed to global and regional production fragmentation and the formation of production networks? We derive structural equations for value added trade flows, the domestic value added content of exports (DVA) and the value added to exports (VAX) ratio, as well as model-based measures for production networks from a multi-sector gravity model with inter-sectoral linkages. We calibrate the model and perform a counterfactual analysis of China's WTO accession in 2001. We find that the associated trade cost changes spurred global production fragmentation, explaining about 6–12% of the decrease in the world DVA ratio as observed between 2000 and 2007. For China, the counterfactual experiment robustly replicates the increase in its DVA ratio, driven by the export-processing zones. Furthermore, our results imply that China's WTO accession was a driving force behind the strengthening of production networks with its neighbors.
F17|Forecasting Exchange Rates with Commodity Prices - A Global Country Analysis|This paper investigates the predictive properties of import and export prices of commodities on the exchange rates. A period from 1993 to 2016 is considered. We find that forecasts of the exchange rate adding commodity export and import prices are superior to those neglecting these variables. This holds irrespective of whether the countries are net exporters or importers of commodities. However, the forecasting power was even better in the 1990s and seems to have decreased since that that time. Nevertheless forecasts can even today be improved considerably by adding commodity prices.
F17|Forecasting external demand using BVAR models|As the impact of monetary policy decisions manifests itself with a lag, decision-makers also need economic forecasts when they make decisions. In this paper, we present a method that may facilitate the integration of incoming data in the external demand forecast faster than is currently possible. The external demand forecast helps to forecast exports and, through that, developments in GDP. In the current practice, for the imports of Hungary’s key trading partners we use the forecasts of international institutions as a starting point. Data received in the meantime can be included in the forecast using expert judgements. With the method described in this paper, we forecast the imports of Hungary’s key trading partners – and with the help thereof – their external demand, relying on BVAR models and using monthly time series (confidence indices, industrial production, orders). Based on the literature, we use the Kalman filter to eliminate the differences in the publication lags of the individual time series. The missing variable is then forecast using the other variables. The forecasts thus obtained perform better than the best ARMA models, and the model containing global imports and the oil price. With one exception, the forecast of the imports of the individual countries is more accurate when prepared on the whole sample, rather than on the rolling sample. The forecast of external demand is also more accurate if we use the whole sample. The most accurate BVAR model used to forecast external demand provides an unbiased forecast and also yields a better forecast of turning points than the models used for comparison. Compared to the forecasts of international institutions, the BVAR forecast performs better when actual import data from the respective year are already available. Thus, compared to previous practice, the novelty is represented by the BVAR methodology and the monthly time series, which can be integrated into the forecast in a formalised manner. Looking ahead, it may also be worthwhile to forecast GDP components using this method.
F17|Reconciled Trade Flow Estimates Using an FGLS Estimator|This paper proposes a new method to reconcile countries' reports of their bilateral trade, extracting the optimal amount of information from noisy reports. Reconciled estimates are a weighted average of exporter and importer reports, with weights chosen to minimise the variance of the error in the reconciliation estimate. Reports of countries that appear to report their trade more precisely are given more weight, but non-zero weight is (optimally) given even to relatively noisy reporters.
F17|Miracle or Mirage: What role can trade policies play in tackling global trade imbalances?|Global trade imbalances narrowed in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. They have remained at a lower level but are still of concern to policy makers because of the risks they pose to individual economies, as well as globally. However, the ultimate causes of these imbalances are not fully clear. Current account positions reflect the gap between national saving and investment, which are in turn affected by policy distortions, including in trade policy. Simulations of the OECD’s METRO model show liberalisation of existing trade distortions would modestly narrow aggregate trade imbalances in the medium term for some countries. Reducing tariffs, non-tariff measures and the combined market access and productivity-enhancing effects of pro-competitive measures in services all have some rebalancing potential. Liberalisation would also offer economically significant income gains for all countries. By contrast, narrowing trade imbalances using trade restrictions would come at disproportionately high economic costs for all countries.
F17|Quantifying Disruptive Trade Policies|Mainstream economic wisdom favoring cooperative free trade is challenged by a wave of disruptive trade policies. In this paper, we provide quantitative evidence concerning the economic impacts of tariffs implemented by the United States in 2018 and the subsequent retaliations by partner countries. Our analysis builds on a multi-region multi-sector general-equilibrium simulation model of the global economy that includes an innovative monopolistic-competition structure of bilateral representative firms.
F17|India in the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) – Need for Caution|Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) is a large trade negotiation among 16 countries of Asia Pacific which aims to cover goods, services, investments, economic and technical cooperation, competition and intellectual property rights among these nations. The 16 RCEP countries include China, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand, and the 10-member ASEAN which represent more than 3.5 billion people and about 40 percent of global GDP. India already implemented a free trade agreement with ASEAN, Japan and South Korea and negotiating similar pacts with Australia and New Zealand. There are apprehensions that RCEP agreement will lead to large-scale import of manufactured goods from developed members of RCEP particularly China which enjoys a trade surplus of more than 50 billion US$ with India. Also, large coverage of items in the tariff reduction programme will lead to an influx of cheaper commodities into India affecting the manufacturing sector. Easy access to burgeoning Indian consumer market may affect a large number of informal players affecting their livelihoods. India’s gain primarily comes from the services sector which needs greater access to the members’ markets. Also, the previous experiences of India’s RTAs did not yield desirable results as India’s import increased rapidly compared to exports. In this context, the paper argues for India’s caution and push for a comprehensive agreement by including services sector where India’s advantage lies.
F17|Do RTAs Increase Bilateral Trade in the MENA Region?|Middle East and North Africa (MENA) is an area with some special character, i.e. not easy to realize the process of integration and the country with abundant natural resources have better trade performance. This study aims to analyze the effects of RTAs to the trade of countries in MENA regions. The Gravity Model used to test the effects of democracy on trade. Estimation is done with several models, i.e. FE, RE, MLE, and PPML. The effects of RTAs on trade in MENA regions are varies. AA (Agadir Agreement) affects without trade creation, but trade diversion (1.41 percent) in the block and creates exports and imports with countries outside the block. The AMU (Arab Maghreb Union) affects through trade creation (4.07 percent) in blocks and imports diversion from outside into blocks. COMESA (Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa) affects through trade creation (7.09 percent) in the blocks and export and import diversion from outside into blocks. The GAFTA (Greater Arab Free Trade Region) affects through trade creation (2.57 percent) in the blocks and export and imports creation outside the block. While the GCC (Gulf Cooperation Council) affects through export and import creation (2.59 percent). From this results can be concluded that RTAs increase bilateral trade in MENA region through several ways and various effect.
F17|The Role of Governance Quality in Increasing Intra-ASEAN Trade|ASEAN countries have liberalized intra-ASEAN trade over the last 20 years by establishing the ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA). Recently, they committed achieving the ASEAN Economic Community (AEC) with the timeline set at 2015. Policy measures are being implemented based on the AEC Blueprint agreed upon 2007. One of the several motives behind this implementation is that they thought that an expansion of intra-ASEAN trade would promote economic development of the ASEAN countries as the expansion of exports would result in output growth and the expansion imports would improve productive efficiency. In the other hand, countries have to strengthen institutions in order to promote economic and trade cooperation. This article focus on exploring the role of institutions (governance quality) in increasing exports between ASEAN countries during the period 2000-2015 using the augmented gravity model. We use data from DOTS (IMF), World Development Indicators (World Bank) and World Governance Indicators (World Bank). The result suggest that institutions of ASEAN countries, as well as the governance quality of the ASEAN countries have positive and significant effect in increasing exports between ASEAN Countries.
F17|East Asia’s Pattern of Export Specialization: Does Indonesia Compete with Japan, China, Hong Kong, Korea and Singapore?|The purpose of this paper is to analyze the comparative advantage of East Asian countries (China, Japan, Hong Kong, South Korea, Singapore and Indonesia) and to investigate whether Indonesia is competing in the similar groups of products - based on the 3-digit SITC Revision 2 for 237 groups of products published by the UN-COMTRADE. First, we calculate the Revealed Symmetric Comparative Advantage (RSCA) index to know the pattern of comparative advantage for each the East Asian countries. Second, we calculate the distribution of RSCA (value of mean, median, standard deviation and skewness of comparative advantage) from each the East Asian countries to analyze the dynamics of comparative advantage. Third, we examine the correlation of Indonesia’s RSCA with the RSCA of each the East Asian countries for the period 1995-2015 to determine whether Indonesia has a similar pattern of specialization and whether competing in the same product market with the East Asian countries. The result of the analysis shows that China is the biggest competitor for Indonesia, and Japan has very different patterns of specialization.
F17|Does Democracy Increase Bilateral Trade in MENA Region?|This paper aims to analyze the effects of democracy to the trade of countries in MENA Regions. The Gravity Model used to test the effects of democracy on trade. Estimation is done with several models, that is FE, RE, MLE, and PPML. From this estimation can be detected endogenity problem that is caused by simultaneity between export and democracy. The FE model with the infant mortality rate as instrumental variable was chosen to address the problem. After controlling endogenity, it can be concluded that democracy positively affects (3-4 per cent) of trade in MENA Regions, especially democracy in partner countries.
F17|Pre-Feasibility Study of Sabah-North Kalimantan Cross-Border Value Chains|This study maps the optimal configuration of North Kalimantan–Sabah cross-border trade and investment in goods and services; and, concurrently, it provides a preliminary (pre-feasibility) design of a border area development plan for the two territories. The options for moving project proposals forward are elaborated in sufficient detail and contain the needed concrete measures that will permit the overall collaboration program to move through subsequent stages of development into the final implementation and operational phases.
F17|The Dynamics of Comparative Advantage in the ASEAN Region|The performance of a country’s in international trade changes depending on its dynamic comparative advantage. The country with a rapid catching-up process has generally also shown a rapid structural transformation. This article addressed to answer two questions. How does the shift in comparative advantage or specialization in the ASEAN region? What is the exact position of countries in the Flying Geese model? We use data on exports and imports by commodities and by exporting countries taken from UN-COMTRADE. The classification of commodities follows 3-digit SITC Revision 2, consisting of 239 groups of products (SITC). The products mapping is constructed by using the RSCA (Revealed Symmetric Comparative Advantage) as the indicator of comparative advantage and TBI (Trade Balance Index) as the indicator of export import activities. The analytical tool, “products mapping” is used to examine the flying gees pattern. The results show that ASEAN featured product in 1990 was dominated by SITC 0 product (food and live animals), after twenty five years by 2015 SITC 7 (machinery and transportation) products are relatively more dominant in ASEAN export products. In 1990-2015 period, it is shown that the average magnitude of RSCA in ASEAN countries has decreased followed by an increase in the standard deviation value. It indicates that the occurance of product specialization that has a high comparative advantage and a decline in products that have low comparative advantages. Using a significance level 5%, it appears that ASEAN countries as a whole are experiencing significant dynamic changes in comparative advantage. From the pattern of Flying Gees, it can be said that the process of “catch up” in ASEAN member countries is not running as expected because the country that leads in the composition of flying gees only consists of certain countries only, namely Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and Philippines.
F17|The Impact of ASEAN’S FTAs with China, Japan, Korea and Australia-New Zealand: An Analysis in GTAP Framework|ASEAN is one of dynamic and fast growing economic regionalism. ASEAN has shown rapid growth in trade liberalization with the free trade agreement (FTA), established with China Korea, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. The aim of this research is to investigate the effects of the free trade agreement between ASEAN-China (ACFTA), ASEAN-Korea (AKFTA), ASEAN-Japan (AJCEP), ASEAN-Australia-New Zealand (AANZFTA). The Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model and the Global Trade Analysis Project (GTAP) database version 9 are applied with the partial and full liberalization scenarios. The GTAP simulations results shows that ACFTA provides a greater positive impact than the other FTAs for each region. In the long run, the welfare of each region has increased, the trade balance has decreased, the volume of exports and imports has increased.
F17|ASEAN Economic Community: Theoretical versus Practical Economic Integration|ASEAN countries have committed achieving the ASEAN Economic Community (AEC) with the timeline set at 2015. Policy measures are being implemented based on the AEC Blueprint agreed upon 2007. However, concerns have been expressed that the regional integration project’s 2015 deadline will be missed due to an overly ambitious timeline and there are wide development gap in this region. This article critically reviews the progress that has been made, some of the potential problems, and suggests the next step for the AEC.
F17|“Flying Geese” Paradigm: Review, Analytical Tool and Application|The “flying geese” (FG) pattern is one of the well-recognized models to be strongly considered in explaining economic development in the East Asian region. This paper scrutinizes the flying geese (FG) pattern in East Asia. Firstly, the evolution of FG concept starting from the original Akamatsu’s concept to the modern one is briefly discussed. Secondly, this paper develops an analytical tool namely “products mapping” which is constructed by combining two fundamental variables derived from the FG concept i.e. comparative advantage and trade balance. Thirdly, this paper applies the analytical tool in the case of Japan and Indonesia
F17|Brexit trade impacts and Mercosur's negotiations with Europe|We estimate that a hard Brexit would reduce UK imports of agro industrial products from the EU by 50% i.e.by more than double the contraction in imports of other goods (22%). The UK Government has announced that it will substitute the CAP (Common Agricultural Policy) protectionist policies with market-oriented measures and policies that seek to protect the environment. Given Brexit, and given scarce negotiating resources, should Mercosur continue to give the same priority to negotiations with the EU as in recent years? The answer is most likely negative. For a number of reasons discussed in the text we argue that: i) negotiations with the EU are unlikely to deliver market access much in excess of what it has offered so far; ii) unlike these negotiations that have been dragging for around twenty years, there are clear circumstances indicating that an FTA with the UK could be completed in a relatively short period; iii) failing Mercosur to give these talks priority, other countries are more than likely to fill the UK trade gap triggered by Brexit; iv) if other countries do so, it is unlikely that in the future the UK would be willing to offer market access concessions as important as it is likely to do today and, v) the UK is one fifth of the EU GDP so balanced reciprocal concessions should be easier to achieve. What are the stakes at play? We offer back of the envelope estimates indicating that in value terms Mercosur could more than triple its meat exports and close to double its agro industrial exports to the UK within a time horizon that currently appears to be quite concrete and near.
F17|Cointegration of Economic growth and External balance in Colombia: 1963-2016|In this paper is analyzed the relation between GDP growth and External balance in Colombia for the study period (1963-2016) by using a VECM. Supposing everything else unchanged, we conclude that Colombian external balance granger caused GDP growth and there was indeed a long run relation between both variables. This outcome helps to explain the Colombian GDP growth dynamics over the last fifty years and the impact of trade policy on economic growth.
F17|Changes in the geographical structure of trade in Central Asia: Real flows in the 1989-2016 period versus gravity model predictions|In the 1980s, six former southern republics of the USSR (Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan), like other former Soviet republics, traded very intensively both between themselves and with the other Soviet republics, but had a meagre volume of trade with the rest of the world. After the transition to the market, the deregulation of foreign trade, and the collapse of the USSR in the 1990s, trade between the former Soviet republics shrank dramatically and was only partially replaced by trade with other countries, mostly from Western Europe. In the 2000s and 2010s, the relative importance of trade with Western Europe has declined and the share of trade with China and other Asian countries has grown. This paper compares changes in the geographical structure of trade of both former Soviet republics (Central Asian countries and Azerbaijan) and Turkey, with the predictions of the gravity model. The gravity model suggests that trade between two countries is proportionate to their respective GDPs and is inversely related to the geographical distance between them.2 Turkey serves as a yardstick for comparison. For Turkey, changes in its geographical trade structure resulted from a rise in the proportion of trade with Asian countries and a decline in the proportion of trade with other regions in the world economy. In contrast, for the former Soviet republics there was an additional reason for changes in their geographical trade structure: the collapse of trade within the former USSR.
F17|Effects of Geopolitical Risks on Trade Flows: Evidence from the Gravity Model|Using a classical gravity model, this paper examines the effects of geopolitical risks on trade flows, from 18 exporter emerging economies into 164 importer countries, for the period of 1985 to 2013. We use the new index of geopolitical risks (GPR index) and to the best of our knowledge, it is the first paper in the literature that considers the new GPR index in a gravity model. The paper implements the fixed-effects (FE), the random-effects (RE), the Hausman-Taylor (HT), and the Poisson Pseudo-maximum Likelihood (PPML) estimations. The findings indicate that geopolitical risks negatively affect the trade flows. The paper also discusses the potential policy implications.
F17|Russian food embargo and the lost trade| We analyse the impact of the Russian food embargo on European and Russian trade patterns using a triple-difference estimation strategy. We quantify the effects on the value of trade, the trade price of products covered by the ban, and the new trade flows generated by the ban. Our results point to an average e 125 million loss in monthly EU28 exports to Russia due to the ban (with Lithuania, Poland, and Germany bearing the largest losses). However, only 45% of the drop in EU28 exports of banned products to Russia would be due to the ban. In addition, EU products banned from the Russian market were sold elsewhere at lower prices. The reorientation of EU exports to other markets translated into selling larger amounts to old trade partners, as well as in accessing new markets. EU member states were unevenly affected by the ban. Germany and Poland compensated their large losses on the Russian market by a strong increase in exports to other trade partners (mostly intra-EU), at the expense of other EU acountries, such as France and Denmark.
F17|Determination of Different Types of Fixed Effects in Three-Dimensional Panels|In this paper we propose a jackknife method to determine the type of fixed effects in three-dimensional panel data models. We show that with probability approaching 1, the method can select the correct type of fixed effects in the presence of only weak serial or cross-sectional dependence among the error terms. In the presence of strong serial correlation, we propose a modified jackknife method and justify its selection consistency. Monte Carlo simulations demonstrate the excellent finite sample performance of our method. Applications to two datasets in macroeconomics and international trade reveal the usefulness of our method.
F17|Import demand function for Turkey|This study revisits the import demand function for Turkey using the newly defined national income data and examines the evolution of the income and price elasticities over time. In this respect, demand functions are estimated for the total imports and its subcomponents separately, and the corresponding time varying elasticities are obtained by applying the method of Kalman filter between 2003 and 2018. The findings suggest that the growth of total imports is mainly explained by income and relative price changes. The income and expenditure elasticities decrease over time in total imports and in sub-components except for intermediate goods. The relative price elasticity remains almost unchanged for investment and consumption goods imports but increases considerably for the intermediate goods imports and total imports.
F17|Irexit: Making the Worst of a Bad Situation|Relative to the rest of the EU, Ireland is especially vulnerable to the fallout from Brexit, both economically and politically. With increasing frustration over the reaction from Brussels, some are suggesting that an Irish exit from the EU would benefit the nation. A key argument for this is that it would allow for reintegration with the UK, thus preserving one of its largest trading partners. Using a structural general equilibrium model, we estimate that such a move would worsen the impacts of Brexit by as much as 250%, with low-skill workers disproportionately affected. This is due to the fact that while the UK is one of Ireland's single-nation trading partners, when compared to the EU27 as a group, it is much smaller.
F17|Trade Policies and Integration of the Western Balkans|Based on a newly constructed multi-country input-output table including all European countries, we estimate the economic effects of the EU accession countries entering the ‘Stabilisation and Association Agreement’ (SAA) with the EU and the potential effects of joining the European Single Market applying a structural gravity framework. The results point towards strong positive effects on trade for the SAA countries, but only small effects for the EU Member States. Conducting a counterfactual analysis, the paper gives an indication of the magnitude of the positive impacts on GDP for these countries. In addition, a detailed industry breakdown of these effects is provided.
F17|Going It Alone in the Asia-Pacific: Regional Trade Agreements Without the United States|The withdrawal of the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) in early 2017 led the remaining 11 countries in that trade and investment agreement to explore alternative ways to sustain economic integration in the Asia-Pacific region. This Working Paper shows that, without the United States, these 11 countries can achieve significant gains from high-quality, TPP-like agreements among themselves and from what might have to be a less rigorous but wider agreement in a separate, 16-member Asian trade negotiation, the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). Either of these multilateral options would yield benefits greater than those that would flow from bilateral agreements between individual countries and the United States alone, and gains from such accords could grow over time. For example, expanding the TPP without the United States to five other Asia- Pacific economies, all of which have expressed interest in the TPP in the past, would yield global income gains that rival those expected from the original TPP that included the United States, and the gains are even larger for some members. The United States, meanwhile, would suffer losses from such arrangements in two ways: first, because it would forego the benefits that would otherwise accrue from the relatively large TPP agreement, and second, because the new Asia-Pacific agreements would reduce US exports to the region as countries shift their trade to competitors of the United States. In the longer run, a new Asia-Pacific agreement or agreements would keep trade liberalization on the global agenda and likely attract further interest from large partners, including Europe. Eventually, the United States might observe that it is losing out and change its mind about joining these larger trade blocs.
F17|The Slowdown in Global Trade: A Symptom of a Weak Recovery?|Abstract Global trade growth has slowed since 2012 relative both to its strong historical performance and to overall economic growth. This paper aims to quantify the role of weak economic growth and changes in its decomposition in accounting for the slowdown in trade using a reduced form and a structural approach. Both analytical investigations suggest that the overall weakness in economic activity, particularly investment, has been the primary restraint on trade growth, accounting for about 80% of the decline in the growth of the volume of goods trade between 2012–2016 and 2003–2007. However, other factors are also weighing on trade in recent years, especially in emerging market and developing economies, as evidenced by the non-negligible role attributed to trade costs by the structural approach.
F17|Impact of border barriers, returning migrants, and trade diversion in Brexit: Firm exit and loss of variety|We investigate the impact of Brexit (the UK's planned withdrawal from the European Union) using computable general equilibrium models featuring conventional constant returns-to-scale (CRS) and increasing returns-to-scale (IRS) technology and firm heterogeneity, à la Melitz. We show that the imposition of the tariff and nontariff barriers associated with Brexit triggers the significant contraction of bilateral trade between the UK and the remaining 27 members of the European Union (EU27), exacerbated by firm exit from export markets. Given the imposition of these trade barriers, budget savings, migrants returning to the EU27 from the UK, and intra-EU27 integration and free trade agreements with the US and Japan, the IRS model predicts a total export loss of 5.1–5.8% of UK GDP and a total welfare loss of 1.1–1.5%. This is 60% greater than the CRS model predictions. However, the impact on output would vary between industries, whereby the UK chemical and automobile industries would contract, but its food and beverage sector and the business and information and communication technology service sectors would expand. In contrast, the EU27 would gain substantially from other integration programs, but lose very little from the stronger UK–EU27 border barriers. This suggests that the EU27 should have little interest in negotiations aimed at avoiding a “hard Brexit” (the surrendering by the UK of full access to the single market) and that it would be more productive for it to focus on integration programs with trade partners other than the UK.
F17|International trade consequences of climate change|"This report provides an analysis of how climate change damages may affect international trade in the coming decades and how international trade can help limit the costs of climate change. It analyses the impacts of climate change on trade considering both direct effects on infrastructure and transport routes and the indirect economic impacts resulting from changes in endowments and production. A qualitative analysis with a literature review is used to present the direct effects of climate change. The indirect impacts of climate change damages on trade are analysed with the OECD’s ENV-Linkages model, a dynamic computable general equilibrium model with global coverage and sector-specific international trade flows. By building on the analysis in the OECD (2015) report ""The Economic Consequences of Climate Change"", the modelling analysis presents a plausible scenario of future socioeconomic developments and climate damages, to shed light on the mechanisms at work in explaining how climate change will affect trade."
F17|Assessing the impacts of deeper trade reform in Vietnam in a general equilibrium framework|Vietnam is currently undertaking deeper trade liberalization, both by reducing tariffs and introducing reforms in other trade-related areas. In this paper, the impact of Vietnam’s trade reforms on its economic welfare and sectoral adjustments are assessed using a dynamic computable general equilibrium (CGE) model. We consider the effects of goods and services trade liberalization, an increase in foreign direct investment inflows, a reduction in administrative and technical barriers to trade, and a reduction in trade and transport margins. When all effects are combined, Vietnam’s economic welfare is projected to increase by 8.4 per cent in 2020 compared to the baseline. Many manufacturing sectors would expand, whereas agricultural, minerals and fuel sectors would contract. The output expansion is most significant in the textiles and wearing apparel sector.
F17|The welfare and sectoral adjustment effects of mega-regional trade agreements on ASEAN countries|The U.S. withdrawal from the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) has had an influence on the prospects of mega-regional trade agreements (MRTAs). In the Asian Pacific, negotiations for the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) might accelerate. In addition, ministers from the 11 other TPP signatories have confirmed their intention to proceed with the TPP without U.S. participation. Using a dynamic computable general equilibrium (CGE) model, we estimate welfare and sectoral output adjustment effects of alternative sequencings of MRTAs on ASEAN countries. Welfare gains for ASEAN countries under the scenario led by the RCEP, followed by RCEP+Taiwan and a Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific (FTAAP), are greater than or equal to those under the scenario led by TPP sans US, followed by an enlarged TPP and an FTAAP. When the two scenarios are assumed to develop at the same time, welfare gains of the RCEP and TPP-11 countries are found to be less than the sum of the gains under the first two scenarios. For a number of ASEAN countries, output expansion of textiles and apparel and/or electronic equipment is significant.
F17|Stopped TTIP? Its potential impact on the world and the role of neglected FDI|The Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) has been one of the most heavily debated issues in international economics over the last few years. We analyze its potential impact on the world, including both insiders and outsiders of the agreement, using a Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model with Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) under imperfect competition. In our simulation, TTIP consists of reductions of tariffs, non-tariff barriers and barriers to FDI. Our results show that the FDI component, which has often been neglected in previous studies, would contribute to nearly half of the overall impact of TTIP for the US and nearly one third for the EU. Insiders would heavily benefit from TTIP, whereas, it would be slightly negative for outsiders (Middle East, Sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America, Southeast Asia and Other Advanced Countries), except for the big Asian economies (China, Japan and India), which would remain unaffected. The slightly negative effects would turn into positive with an “inclusive TTIP” (i.e., one avoiding third country discriminating rules and standards). An inclusive TTIP would benefit both insiders, who would gain more than with the standard TTIP, and outsiders, who would be better off than without the TTIP. Welfare, GDP, wages, as well as aggregate imports and exports of the world economy would clearly increase following either a modest or ambitious TTIP agreement. Our results suggest that policy makers should resume TTIP negotiations and try to strike an inclusive and ambitious deal.
F17|Pattern of Comparative Advantage in Middle East and North Africa (MENA)|This paper investigates the comparative advantage pattern of the countries in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region for the period 2000 and 2010. Revealed Symmetric Comparative Advantage (RSCA) Index, paired sample F-test, t-test, and Spearman’s Rank Correlation are applied, This paper concludes thatthere are significant differences in comparative advantages among countries in the MENA region for 2000 and 2010 period. In addition, the stronger competition occured in resource-poor and labor abundant, resource-rich and labor abundant, and resource-rich and labor importing countries.
F17|A CGE Analysis of Pakistan-Turkey Free Trade Agreement|This paper investigates the possible impacts of Pakistan-Turkey free trade agreement (Pak-Turk FTA) on various sectors of the economy in the two countries under four different possible FTA scenarios by using computable general equilibrium model GTAP. Global Trade Analysis Project (GTAP) model has been extensively used in FTAs and other Trade related studies to evaluate the economy-wide potential impact of economic policy reforms. Current study uses the GTAP database7 which includes; 57 tradable commodities and 113 regions across the world. Our findings suggest that; Turkey is more beneficial from Free Trade Agreement as compared to Pakistan .Overall impact of trade liberalization is favorable for both economies, but liberalization of protected sectors may prove to be unfavorable for the economy in case of Pakistan. And there is a huge potential for bilateral trade in textile and chemical sector.
F17|Implications of Brexit to the Asia-Pacific region: with a focus on least developed countries|Brexit might affect exports of some countries in the Asia-Pacific region disproportionately more than others. Simulation results, under different Brexit scenarios, show that the potential reduction in trade faced by least developed countries (LDCs) of the region can range from 16% to 50% of their current export value to the UK in key sectors such as fish, clothes, textiles and footwear. Simulations also show that it is the larger developing countries from the region that would benefit from any trade diversion that ensues in these sectors. Countries with higher exposure to Brexit induced risks need to engage in deeper analyses of the extent of such impacts and brace themselves for proactive discussions with the UK in order to limit negative impacts.
F17|Impacts of Donald Trump’s Tariff Increase against China on Global Economy: Global Trade Analysis Project (GTAP) Model|This paper aims to analyze the possible impacts of the US import tariff against China on global economy. The GTAP model is implemented. The simulation scenarios depicted short-run effects of full-protection and manufacturing protection with appropriate retaliation response from China. On global level, the policy was projected to lead to decline in GDP, terms-of-trade, and welfare; and increase in trade balance for United States and China. Trade diversion phenomena would occur, predicting steep decline in bilateral trade between the two countries and increasing export towards their third trading partners.
F17|Indonesia towards 2030 and beyond: A Long-Run International Trade Foresight|One of the most important variables in the emerging economies like Indonesia is the stability of the exchange rate. Unstable exchange rates make it almost impossible for all business ventures to plan the business. The higher the depreciation of the Rupiah the higher the inflation rate and this will decrease people's purchasing power. In the balance of payments, the stability of the exchange rate and capital account are strongly influenced by the current account balance. A study found that in Indonesia, in the long run (Johansen Procedure) Indonesia current account balance affects the real exchange rate while in the short run (VECM) it affects the nominal exchange rate. The study also found that in the current account balance the one that affecting the exchange rate is the trade balance. Indonesia's trade balance relies on a surplus of trade in goods, especially agricultural products, petroleum and gas. The price of products in the primary sector is very vulnerable because of the volatility of primary products due to that of world’s oil and gas price. Indonesia's current account balance is highly dependent on manufacturing product trade. Another study found that in real-world, manufacturing trade influences more the capital flows than vice versa. Therefore, in order to maintain a positive long-term economic growth and stable exchange rate, Indonesia must increase its trade competitiveness, especially in the manufacturing sector. This paper will explore the challenges and opportunities of international trade in Indonesia towards 2030 and afterwards.
F17|Threshold cointegration and spatial price transmission when expectations matter|We examine the performance of the threshold cointegration approach, specifically Bandâ€ TVECM, to price transmission analysis in an explicit context where trade decisions are made based on expectation of final prices, because trade takes time. We find that, following a standard inference strategy, a large portion of threeâ€ regime cases are not identified as such. Results show that transfer costs are systematically underestimated, particularly in threeâ€ regime models. The speed of price transmission is also biased in threeâ€ regime models. Furthermore, inferences about occurrence of trade are poor, with estimated models suggesting far lower market integration than is true in the dataâ€ generating process.
F17|Critique of impact assessment of regional trade agreements using non-tariff measures|Are cent study undertaken by Kawasaki (2017) uses a computable general equilibrium (CGE) model to estimate the impact of removal tariffs and non-tariff measures on trade flows and the overall gross domestic product (GDP) of the remaining 11 countries in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP11) partner countries. This note attempts to provide insights into such estimations so as to help in real impact assessments of the tariff and non-tariff provisions of agreements such as the TPP11. It warns that policy makers who seek to rely on such studies need to be aware of the large number of assumptions that underlie the quantification of the non-tariff measures, including that regulation is necessarily negative for trade, and other limitations of the methodology used. The paper also notes these are only one aspect of the broader economic impacts of an agreement that includes chapters on intellectual property, investor protections, government procurement, and state-owned enterprises, among others.
F17|The Programmable Economy: Envisaging an Entire Planned Economic System as a Single Computer through Blockchain Networks|Since the dawn of the concept of nation-states, many nations have been planning their economies to increase people’s prosperity and standard of living. All economies have a centralized feature where decisions are taken. But data collection and plan implementation has been cumbersome because of the manual nature of economic planning. Centralized systems, even when digitized, are prone to single point failures. Controlled Blockchains allow for an economic system to be decentralized, yet having central supervision i.e. quasi-decentralization. This paper deals with shifting a national economy to a network of Blockchains and creating a Programmable Economy (P.E) where the whole economic system behaves like a single computer, taking in certain inputs and providing the desired outputs. We discuss the various factors that are needed to bring about such a transformation. We also analyse the impact this will have on various aspects of the economy and people’s lives. Finally the paper concludes by summarizing the purpose, methodology and impact of a Programmable Economy (P.E).
F17|A partial equilibrium analysis of India's agricultural export to GCC: looking beyond the status quo(2009-2015)|GCC fulfills 60 to 90 percent of its food demand through imports. Currently GCC imports 12 percent of its Agriculture products from India. An effort has been made in this paper to understand the trend and pattern of India’s Agriculture export to GCC with the help of Descriptive Statistics and to find out the impact of tariff reduction on India’s agriculture export to GCC Partial Equilibrium Analysis (Smart Analysis) has been used and BRCA has been used to find out the agriculture products where India has comparative advantage in GCC import market and to make a comparative analysis of GCC countries as a destination of India’s agriculture export. In case of zero tariff in GCC, India’s agriculture export will see highest growth in Saudi Arabia ($106 Million) followed by UAE ($89 Million), Kuwait ($40 Million), Qatar ($23 Million), Oman ($22 Million) and Bahrain ($6 Million). Out of 231 agriculture products, India has highest average number of products with BRCA in Qatar (76), followed by Oman (74), Kuwait (67), Bahrain (59), UAE (52) and Saudi Arabia (28).
F17|An Analysis of Impact of Exchange Rate Volatility on the Indian Manufacturing Exports|This paper analyses the impact of real exchange rate volatility of Indian on bilateral exports of India’s manufactured commodities. Four major commodities viz Engineering goods, Cotton yarn, fabrics made ups, etc., Chemicals & allied products, and Leather & manufactures, for the period 1999 to 2013. Five major trading partners of India i.e., USA, UK, Germany, Italy, and Hong-Kong are chosen for the panel data analysis. Result shows the statistically insignificant impact of exchange rate volatility on the exports of all commodities except for Chemicals and Allied product. Real GDP found to be positive and significant for all commodities. The real exchange rate has no significance in explaining exports of these commodities. The results support forex market efficiency with regard to exports.
F17|Does financial structure matter for economic growth: evidence from South Africa|Policy makers have argued about the role of financial structure on economic growth. The bank-based, the market-based, and the financial services view are the three competing views of financial structure. Stock market development and the banking sector are regarded as avenues through which growth can be supported by providing liquidity for firm financing. Hence establishing the contribution of the financial structure on economic performance in South Africa is of crucial importance to policy makers and government officials. The study utilizes the autoregressive distributed lag model for econometric estimation. The data set covers the period 1975-2016. The results do not indicate a clear relationship between financial structure and economic growth in South Africa. The findings do not support the view that government should place an emphasis on improving one financial system (market-based system) as opposed to another (bank-based system). The contribution to the existing literature is that the results do not support the bank-based or the market-based system. A possible extension of the study will be to investigate the impact of the financial structure using household sectors (ratios of deposits, insurance, pensions, shares and other securities to GDP) on economic growth.
F17|Brexit and the macroeconomic impact of trade policy uncertainty|On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom voted to leave the European Union. The trade policies that will replace E.U. membership are uncertain, however, and speculation abounds that this uncertainty will cause immediate harm to the U.K. economy. In this paper, I use a dynamic general equilibrium model with heterogeneous firms, endogenous export participation, and stochastic trade costs to quantify the impact of uncertainty about post-Brexit trade policies. I find that the total consumption-equivalent welfare cost of Brexit for U.K. households is between 0.4 and 1.2%, but less than a quarter of a percent of this cost is due to uncertainty.
F17|Exporter heterogeneity and price discrimination: A quantitative view|We quantify a general equilibrium model of international trade and pricing-to-market that features firm-level heterogeneity and consumers with non-homothetic preferences—generalized CES (GCES). We demonstrate theoretically that, relative to existing frameworks, the GCES model exhibits features of the data that are essential to conduct quantitative analysis. The framework can reconcile the documented price dispersion across firms and markets, while maintaining consistency with cross-sectional observations on firm productivity, markups, and sales. We estimate the model's parameters to match bilateral trade flows across 66 countries as well as moments from the markup and sales distributions of Chilean firms. The model reconciles both micro and macro facts quantitatively, and yields trade elasticity estimates that are in line with the existing literature. Hence, we conclude that the GCES model constitutes a plausible and parsimonious quantitative workhorse framework that can be used to analyze gains from trade.
F17|Quantitative Trade Models: Developments and Challenges|Applied general equilibrium (AGE) models, which feature multiple countries, multiple industries, and input–output linkages across industries, have been the dominant tool for evaluating the impact of trade reforms since the 1980s. We review how these models are used to perform policy analysis and document their shortcomings in predicting the industry-level effects of past trade reforms. We argue that, to improve their performance, AGE models need to incorporate product-level data on bilateral trade relations by industry and better model how trade reforms lower bilateral trade costs. We use the least-traded-products methodology of Kehoe et al. (2015) to provide guidance on how improvements can be made. We provide further suggestions on how AGE models can incorporate recent advances in quantitative trade theory to improve their predictive ability and better quantify the gains from trade liberalization.
F17|The People’s Republic of China’s Import Competition and Skill Demand in Japanese Manufacturing|We examine the hypothesis that manufacturing industries in Japan that have been exposed to import competition from the People’s Republic of China (PRC) experience greater skill upgrading (increased demand for skilled workers). Using an industry panel dataset over the period 1980–2010, we exploit variations of worker skill categories by occupation, paired with detailed information and communication technology investment data in the employment share regression. We find that while the PRC’s comparative advantages in exports have shifted from labor-intensive to more capital-intensive products, this has not resulted in substituting skilled workers in Japanese manufacturing. Rather, it has had the profound positive effect of raising overall demand for skilled workers. Most of the competition effects were felt among production workers, leaving middle-skilled workers largely unaffected.
F17|Gravity, distance, and international trade|The authors review and interpret the main theoretical developments in the gravity literature from its very early, a-theoretical applications to the latest structural contributions. They also discuss challenges and implement methods to estimate empirical gravity equations. They finish with a presentation and examples of numerical simulations with the structural gravity model. Throughout the analysis they attempt to emphasize the links and importance of transportation costs for the trade literature, and outline avenues where they believe interdisciplinary contributions between the international trade and transportation economics fields will be most valuable.
F17|Empirical Assessment of Trade Engagements: Africa, China and the Maritime Belt and Road Initiative|Recent development economic literatures theorize that South-South trade and foreign investment may have a larger impact on economic growth in developing economies than North-South trade and investment, since investors from the South are more familiar with local developing markets and business practices, which increases their productivity spillovers (Aykut and Goldstein 2007). Amighini and Sanfilippo (2014) provided evidence that South-South trade and investments stimulate product diversification in light manufacturing industries such as agroprocessing, plastic, textile and leather production. The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) launched in 2013, aims to create economic opportunities as well as improve and establish new trading routes between China and connected regions. This paper attempts to evaluate the degree of trade relations between China and selected African countries along the Maritime Silk Route (MSR) and further appraise the trade potentials and gains inherent for African economies through the initiative. To achieve our objective, we apply quantitative techniques in trade evaluation to enable us explore and estimate the degree and intensity of trade engagements amongst selected Sino-African silk route countries, identify the trade opportunities and potentials, which are critical for increased trade engagements between both parties along the route and to explore some of the channels through which the maritime route can impact on investment, trade and economic growth in Africa. Findings from the analysis indicate that while the degree of trade integration is unbalanced and favourable to China relative to Africa, the trade pattern and structure are observed to be more complementary than competitive, and this provides Africa with ample opportunity to engage in product upgrading and diversification, critical for structural transformation.
F17|The GATT/WTO Welfare Effects: 1950-2015|This paper provides a comprehensive evaluation of the welfare impact of GATT/WTO in its entire history of 1950-2015 for 180 countries. The analysis embeds nonparametric matching methods in structural quantitative simulations. The results indicate substantial (but highly heterogeneous) welfare gains created by GATT/WTO at the global level and across more than six decades of its history. An extensive set of robustness checks with respect to model speci fications, parameter values, and matching estimations are provided. We also characterize the effects of GATT/WTO on global income disparity, its interaction with preferential trade agreements, and the effects of China's WTO entry.
F17|Design Flexibility In Product Forms|Flexibility in product Design has been defined as the ?Ability to change or adapt with economy of time, effort, cost or performance.? Hence Flexibility ensures the greater economy, adaptability and evolution of the product.The form and aesthetics of a product is its unquestionable determinant of success in the market. In today?s market, companies have to keep up with fast changing technologies, fashion trends, economy and user needs. This paper presents a review on the role of flexible design in finalising the form of a product, for achieving economy by design. The research work includes studying the form of few successful smartphones and cars and; from their understanding, deriving how forms played the role in success of the product in the market while the product and its iterations themselves follow flexible design.
F17|Approaching regional openness through measures of specialization and spatial market shares: experimentations with micro-data on enterprises|In this paper, I present the results of ongoing experimentations with micro-data data of firms in order to develop better insights into the economic specialization and openness to trade of regions. Using newly developed indicators, one based on Huff-like models and another on Marcon and Puech's M function, I explore the possibilities offered by building analyses on the basis of point data instead of the classic regional aggregations.
F17|The falling elasticity of global trade to economic activity: Testing the demand channel|Since the recovery from the great financial crisis in 2010, global real trade flows grew much slower than pre-crisis, in both absolute terms (growth rates) and relative terms (relative to GDP, from 2:1 in the great 1990's to 1:1 since 2012) A debate has arisen as to whether this global trade slowdown, and related falling trade-to-income elasticity, was structural or cyclical. Some papers emphasized the slowing pace of international vertical specialization. Other works emphasized the prominent role of aggregate demand, notably when weighted by its trade component. Our paper goes in this latter direction. We estimated the standard import equation for 38 advanced and developing countries over the period 1995-2015, using an import intensity-adjusted measure of aggregate demand (IAD), calculated from input-output tables at country level, and compared results with regressions using GDP. The integration of IAD allows us to predict 76% to 86% of the changes in global imports, a better performance than if using GDP. The use of IAD also enabled us to measure the relative importance of each component of demand, according to their trade intensity. The model is able to account for over 90% of the recent trade slowdown (2012-2015), with IAD alone explaining 80% of it. The slowdown in global value chains explains more than half of the remaining share of the global trade slowdown, not explained by demand factors. Protectionism does not come up as statistically significant.
F17|An Improved Equation for Predicting Canadian Non-Commodity Exports|We estimate two new equations for Canadian non-commodity exports (NCX) that incorporate three important changes relative to the current equation used at the Bank of Canada. First, we develop two new foreign activity measures (FAMs), which add new components to the FAM currently used at the Bank of Canada. The first measure adds US exports and US government expenditures, and the second adds US industrial production. These new FAMs calibrate the weights on the various components based on the 2014 World Input-Ouput Database to avoid the instability problem that arises when the equations are estimated. Second, we add a new variable to the equations, the trend of Canada’s manufacturing share of output, to control for structural or competitiveness factors that affect Canada’s global import market share. Third, the relative price of exports is determined by a new measure of the Canadian real effective exchange rate developed by Barnett, Charbonneau and Poulin-Bellisle (2016). We find that the new equations improve the in-sample fit and the out-of-sample forecast accuracy relative to the current equation specified in “LENS,” a forecasting model used at the Bank of Canada.
F17|Product Sophistication and the Slowdown in Chinese Export Growth|Chinese real export growth decelerated considerably during the last decade. This paper argues that the slowdown largely resulted from China moving to a more sophisticated mix of exports: China produced more sophisticated goods over which it had pricing power instead of producing greater volumes of less sophisticated products. Indeed, we show that the share of highly sophisticated products in Chinese exports increased steadily over time and that Chinese exports became less price sensitive, suggesting increased pricing power. Further, a decomposition of China’s market share gains shows that China continues to gain market share despite exporting products with higher-than-average world prices. China’s continuous gain in global export market share suggests that its export machine is far from broken.
F17|Classical or Gravity? Which Trade Model Best Matches the UK Facts?|Abstract We examine the empirical evidence bearing on whether UK trade is governed by a Classical model or by a Gravity model, using annual data from 1965 to 2015 and the method of Indirect Inference which has very large power in this application. The Gravity model here differs from the Classical model in assuming imperfect competition and a positive effect of total trade on productivity. We found that the Classical model passed the test comfortably, and that the Gravity model also passed it but at a rather lower level of probability, though as the test power was raised it was rejected. The two models’ policy implications are similar.
F17|The costs and benefits of leaving the EU: trade effects|SUMMARYSampson and John Van Reenen?>This paper estimates the welfare effects of Brexit in the medium to long run, focusing on trade and fiscal transfers. We use a standard quantitative general equilibrium trade model with many countries and sectors and trade in intermediates. We simulate a range of counterfactuals reflecting alternative options for European Union (EU)–United Kingdom (UK) relations following Brexit. Welfare losses for the average UK household are 1.3% if the UK remains in the EU’s Single Market like Norway (a ‘soft Brexit’). Losses rise to 2.7% if the UK trades with the EU under World Trade Organization rules (a ‘hard Brexit’). A reduced-form approach that captures the dynamic effects of Brexit on productivity more than triples these losses and implies a decline in average income per capita of between 6.3% and 9.4%, partly via falls in foreign investment. The negative effects of Brexit are widely shared across the entire income distribution and are unlikely to be offset from new trade deals.
F17|Economic integration, foreign investment and international trade: the effects of membership of the European Union|This paper investigates the importance of economic integration in simultaneously fostering foreign direct investment (FDI) and international trade. These have rarely been analyzed jointly using contemporary econometric methods. We estimate the effect of European Union (EU) membership on FDI inflows and trade using annual bilateral data from 34 OECD countries over 1985–2013. We find that EU membership increases FDI inflows by on average 28%. We jointly estimate the impact of EU membership on trade and FDI and find that they are substantial, with the one on trade larger than the one on FDI, in the order of double
F17|Friends without benefits? New EMU members and the “Euro Effect” on trade|We re-visit the evidence about the trade benefits of European Monetary Union (EMU), focusing on the experience of countries which adopted the common currency since 2002. Based on “state of the art” gravity estimations for the period 1992–2013, we reach three main conclusions. First, estimates from an appropriately specified and estimated gravity equation provide no evidence of a euro effect on trade flows among early euro adopters up to the year 2002. Second, this finding is robust to extending the sample period to incorporate data up to 2013, covering five additional euro accessions. Third, while there is no robust evidence of a euro effect, there is evidence that intra-EU trade flows have expanded faster than the global average during the 2002–2013 period. Using the functional form of a theory-consistent gravity equation, we perform pseudo out-of-sample forecasts of trade flows for recent euro joiners. In line with our estimation results, we show that pseudo forecasts of the change in trade flows after euro accession, assuming no euro effect, outperform forecasts based on the expectation of a significantly positive effect. This suggests that euro accession countries should not expect a significant boost to their trade from joining EMU.
F17|Five Essays on International Trade, Factor Flows and the Gains from Globalization|Diese Arbeit wurde von Inga Heiland während ihrer Tätigkeit am ifo Institut verfasst. Sie wurde 2016 abgeschlossen und von der volkswirtschaftlichen Fakultät der Universität München als Dissertation angenommen. Sie besteht aus fünf Kapiteln die sich mit einem oder mehreren Aspekten des internationalen Handels und der Bewegungen von Produktionsfaktoren beschäftigen, einschließlich des Handels mit Gütern und ihren Wertschöpfungsanteilen, internationaler Kapital- und Migrationsbewegungen und des Handels von Risiken. Alle Kapitel haben zum Ziel ein vertieftes Verständnis der ökonomischen Gewinne von unterschiedlichen Formen der Globalisierung zu schaffen. Dabei werden mehr oder weniger explizit die Determinanten internationaler Handelsströme, Faktorbewegungen und Produktionsstrukturen betrachtet, sowie die Rolle von Barrieren, die den internationalen Austausch von Gütern und Produktionsfaktoren hemmen. In methodischer Hinsicht haben alle Kapitel den Fokus auf allgemeine Gleichgewichtsanalyse gemeinsam. Empirische Analysen beruhen überwiegend auf dem Konzept struktureller Schätzung.
F17|Diffusion von Politikinnovationen im Mehrebenensystem der Energiewende – Erkenntnisse aus drei kommunalen Fallstudien|Im Rahmen der deutschen Energiewende gibt es auf lokaler und regionaler Ebene verschiedene Ansätze neue Formen der Energieversorgung zu etablieren und Energieeffizienz und Energieeinsparung zu fördern. Unklar ist, inwiefern diese Ansätze Ähnlichkeiten aufweisen und ggf. für die Erreichung energie- und klimapolitischer Ziele übergeordneter föderaler Ebenen nutzbar gemacht werden können. Zentral für diese Studie ist daher die Frage, inwiefern und (wenn ja) aus welchen Gründen und auf welche Weise sich innovative Politikmaßnahmen und –konzepte oder bestimmte Teile davon im Energiebereich unter den Kommunen und ihren Stadtwerken ausbreiten (Diffusion). In Form von Fallstudien werden dazu explizit München, Regensburg und Schönau im Schwarzwald untersucht. Die Fallstudien zeigen, dass die Energie- und Klimapolitik beträchtlich zwischen den Kommunen variiert und die Diffusion innovativer Politiken institutionell und faktisch relativ stark beschränkt ist. Dennoch geben alle drei Fallstudien verschiedene Anhaltspunkte, dass Politikinnovationen diffundieren. Dies erfolgt zum Teil über Städtenetzwerke und Verbände/ Bündnisse, vielfach aber auch ad-hoc, in einem informellen Rahmen und über persönliche Verbindungen auf administrativer oder politischer Ebene zwischen den Kommunen.
F17|Value Added in Motion: Modelling World Trade Patterns at the 2035 Horizon|We address in this paper the future geography of production, migration and energy at the world level, and the consequences for the largest European countries. We take scant account of the wide range of possible evolutions of the world economy in terms of technological progress and diffusion, education, demography including migrations and finally energy price and efficiency. Taking a 2035 horizon, we examine how world trade patterns will be shaped by the changing comparative advantages, demand, and capabilities of different regions, and what will be the implications in terms of location of value added at the sector and country level. We combine a convergence model fitting three production factors (capital, labour and energy) and two factor-specific productivities, alongside a dynamic CGE model of the world economy calibrated to reproduce observed elasticity of trade to income. Each scenario involves three steps. First, we project growth at country level based on factor accumulation, demography and migration, educational attainment and efficiency gains, and discuss uncertainties related to our main drivers. Second, we impose this framework on the CGE baseline. Third, we implement trade policy scenarios (tariffs as well as non-tariff measures in goods and services), in order to get factor allocation across sectors from the model as well as demand and trade patterns.
F17|Testing the dependency theory on small island economies: The case of Cyprus|This paper empirically tests the validity of dependency theory in the small island setting of Cyprus, to establish whether a periphery/patron relationship exists between each of the island's two economies and their respective mainland partners of Greece and Turkey. Using data for the 1978–2013 period, we first test for the necessary condition, i.e. whether there is a long-run cointegrating relationship in the economic development of the Republic of Cyprus (RC) and Greece, and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC) and Turkey. We then test for the sufficient condition, i.e. whether periphery-economy per capita income series to be weakly endogenous, while those of patron economies are weakly exogenous. Our results indicate strong dependency within the periphery/patron economy pairs of the RC/Greece and the TRNC/Turkey. Further, we show that economic growth in the periphery economies is largely driven by that of the patron economies. Using a Markov-switching vector autoregressive (MS-VAR) model of the short-run business cycle, we demonstrate that the RC/Greece and the TRNC/Turkey co-move in the short-run, and that business cycles with each pair are synchronized. The policy implications of these findings are then discussed.
F17|Trade-induced productivity gains reduce incentives to impose strategic tariffs|Strategic tariffs, which raise an economy's welfare by restricting trade and improving the terms of trade, can create an obstacle to free trade. We evaluate how far trade-induced productivity gains (technology spillovers) reduce or remove this obstacle, because more intensive trade enhances these potential gains. Based on theory and the World Input-Output Database (WIOD) we estimate stronger import-induced than export-induced productivity gains. We feed the theory and the estimates into a global Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model calibrated to WIOD. We find that the USA's, China's and the EU's optimal tariffs are reduced by less than 20%, Russia's and India's by around 25% and Brazil's by 40% when taking endogenous trade-induced productivity gains into account. Nonetheless, incentives for single economies to impose strategic tariffs persist. Particularly large, trade-intensive downstream sectors producing distinct goods incentivize high sectoral optimal tariffs. A global free trade agreement could overcome such incentives and maximize the trade-induced productivity gains.
F17|Forecasting GDP with global components: This time is different|We examine whether a knowledge of in-sample co-movement across countries can be used in a more systematic way to improve the forecast accuracy at the national level. In particular, we ask whether a model with common international business cycle factors adds marginal predictive power over a domestic alternative. We answer this question using a dynamic factor model (DFM), and run an out-of-sample forecasting experiment. Our results show that exploiting the informational content in a common global business cycle factor improves the forecast accuracy in terms of both point and density forecast evaluation across a large panel of countries. We also document evidence showing that the Great Recession has a huge impact on this result, causing a clear shift in preferences towards the model that includes a common global factor. However, this time is different in other respects too, as the performance of the DFM deteriorates substantially for longer forecasting horizons in the aftermath of the Great Recession.
F17|Impact of the China–Australia FTA on global coal production and trade|Using a computable partial equilibrium model, this study provides a comprehensive and prospective empirical analysis of the economic impacts of the China–Australian Free Trade Agreement (ChAFTA) on global coal output, trade, consumption and welfare. Based on data from 2014, the simulated results indicate that ChAFTA has a significant trade creation effect. ChAFTA will increase Australia’s coal exports to China by 35.7% and China’s exports to Australia by 19.9%. However, the impacts of ChAFTA on global coal production and price are relatively limited. Results also demonstrate that ChAFTA will cause an annual net welfare loss of US$ 200 million for China and a net welfare gain of US$ 569.3 million for Australia. Moreover, Chinese consumers and Australian coal producers are the biggest beneficiaries of ChAFTA. Based on the research conclusions, we put forward some policy recommendations.
F17|Financial integration in small Islands: The case of Cyprus|The following paper assesses the degree to which two small island economies, the Republic of Cyprus (RC) and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC), are financially integrated with their respective ‘motherlands’ of Greece and Turkey. Specifically, we investigate whether there is a long-run relationship between the RC and Greece and between the TRNC and Turkey, in terms of inflation, interest rates, money supply, and foreign direct investment (FDI). The paper contributes to the literature by examining financial integration in the unique case of Cyprus, where two separate, small economies each operate in a monetary union with their respective mainland partners. The results of our analysis indicate the strong integration of the financial markets of the TRNC and Turkey, and of the RC and Greece. We also demonstrate that financial-market indicators in the TRNC and the RC are largely driven by mainland-partner economies, further advancing the literature on financial integration.
F17|Do central banks respond timely to developments in the global economy?|Our analysis suggests; they do not! To arrive at this conclusion we construct a real-time data set of interest rate projections from central banks in three small open economies; New Zealand, Norway, and Sweden, and analyze if revisions to these projections (i.e., forward guidance) can be predicted by timely information. Doing so, we find a systematic role for forward looking international indicators in predicting the revisions to the interest rate projections in all countries. In contrast, using similar indexes for the domestic economy yields largely insignificant results. Furthermore, we find that revisions to forward guidance matter. Using a VAR identified with external instruments based on forecast errors from the predictive regressions, we show that the responses to output, inflation, the exchange rate and asset returns resemble those one typically associates with a conventional monetary policy shock.
F17|Economic Integration, Foreign Investment and International Trade: The Effects of Membership of the European Union|This paper investigates the importance of economic integration in simultaneously fostering foreign direct investment (FDI) and international trade. These have rarely been analyzed jointly using contemporary econometric methods. We estimate the effect of European Union (EU) membership on FDI inflows and trade using annual bilateral data from 34 OECD countries over 1985-2013. We find that EU membership increases FDI inflows by on average 28%. We jointly estimate the impact of EU membership on trade and FDI and find that they are substantial, with the one on trade larger than the one on FDI, in the order of double.
F17|El shock externo del Acuerdo Transatlántico para el Comercio y la Inversión para la manufactura mexicana. ¿Cómo afectaría a sus exportaciones hacia los Estados Unidos?|Background: The creation of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP), that the United States (US) and the European Union (EU) are currently negotiating, will have a major impact on world trade, especially in third-country economies with greater dependence on any of the signatoring countries, as it is the case of Mexico. Methods: This paper analyses the effects of this trade agreement on the exports of the Mexican manufacturing sectors through the application of a model of multiple gravity equations in two possible scenarios (ambitious and limited TTIP). Results: Findings show significant drops of Mexican manufacturing exports and a weakening of its role in the global value chains, especially in those sectors where the EU has significant competitive advantages in its trade with the US. Furthermore, the estimated impacts show that the trade diversion effects would be particularly relevant in those industries with high dependence on exports to the US market, such as machinery and transport equipments. Conclusions: The update of the trade agreements between Mexico and the US and the EU could mitigate the potential negative effects of TTIP, provided that this update leads to an approximation to the standards set for European exports in this new agreement.// Antecedentes: La creación de la Asociación Transatlántica para el Comercio y la Inversión (TTIP, por sus siglas en inglés) que actualmente negocian los Estados Unidos y la Unión Europea tendrá importantes repercusiones en el comercio mundial, especialmente para aquellas economías con una elevada dependencia comercial de alguno de los bloques firmantes, como es el caso de México. Métodos: Este trabajo analiza los efectos de este acuerdo comercial para las exportaciones de los sectores manufactureros mexicanos dirigidas a los Estados Unidos por medio de un modelo múltiple de ecuaciones gravitatorias en dos posibles escenarios, ambicioso y limitado. Resultados: Los resultados muestran una caída significativa de las exportaciones manufactureras de México y un debilitamiento de su posición en las cadenas globales de valor, especialmente en aquellos sectores donde la Unión Europea presenta ventajas competitivas en su comercio con los Estados Unidos. Asimismo, los resultados muestran que los efectos de desviación de comercio se vivirían especialmente en aquellas industrias con una elevada dependencia de sus exportaciones con el mercado estadunidense, de entre las que destacan la maquinaria y los equipos de transporte. Conclusiones: La actualización de los acuerdos que México tiene con los Estados Unidos y con la Unión Europea podría mitigar los potenciales efectos negativos del TTIP, siempre y cuando ésta suponga una aproximación a los estándares de las exportaciones europeas acordados en este nuevo acuerdo.
F17|Uganda's Intra-East African Community Customs Union Trade Performance in Comparison to other Trading Blocs: A Gravity Model Analysis|The paper estimates determinants of Uganda's trade flows and compares the performance of the different trade blocs on Uganda's trade. The empirical question is whether Uganda's trade is getting more integrated in the EAC region or is still dominated by other trading blocs. The augmented gravity model is applied. The panel data are extracted from COMTRADE for the period 2001 - 2009. Uganda's trade flows have conspicuously adjusted to the gravitational forces of the EAC during the progress of the integration. Whereas exports are being integrated more into the EAC and COMESA regions, imports are also integrated into these regions as well as in the Asian and EU trading blocs. To continue consolidating and deepening the trade gains within the EAC, Uganda should implement the frameworks, protocols and provisions of the treaty and seek industrialization as a priority.
F17|Detecting the Sources of Information Rigidity: Analyzing Forecast Bias and Smoothing in USDA’s Soybean Forecasts| USDA’s U.S. soybean ending stock forecasts are upwardly biased. To determine the source of this bias, we examine the revision characteristics of the ending stocks forecasts, and examine USDA’s forecasts of other U.S. soybean balance sheet variables and foreign soybean balance sheet variables. Bias in USDA’s soybean export forecasts is the most likely source of ending stock forecast bias. In turn, bias in the U.S. export forecasts has diverse sources, including bias in foreign trade estimates and late in the forecast cycle slow updating of the forecasts to reflect new information.
F17|Potential Scenarios for China’s Future Grain Sorghum Excess Demand| China’s sorghum imports have shown an unexpected increase since 2013 mainly due to the Chinese government “temporary reserve program” implemented on corn. The objective of this study is an attempt to provide a reference for sorghum exporters to prepare for China’s future sorghum import trends when the Chinese government policy changes. This study developed a sorghum supply and demand structure model to estimate and forecast China’s future sorghum excess demand. The results of this study suggested that China imports will decrease when government eliminates the subsidy policy for corn, but will not decrease to the levels that occurred before the year 2013.
F17|Decomposing Irrigation Water Use Changes in Equilibrium Models| This paper measures the importance of different drivers of change in irrigation water use regionally and globally. We followed Heckscher–Ohlin theory, Ricardian specific-factor model, and Melitz-type theories of trade to introduce a method for decomposing irrigated water use. We apply the decomposition method on the results of Liu et al. (2014) on the impacts of future irrigation shortfalls. We find that rain fed substitution (specific-factor impact) contributes to 62% of change in water use; substitution to non-crops (Heckscher–Ohlin impact) accounts for 16% of the change; and moving to farms with higher water productivity (Melitz impact) contributes to 7% of it, globally. The importance of drivers varies by region but usually these three drivers are the most important factors in adaptation to water shocks.
F17|The Effects of Panama Canal Expansion on US Dairy Trade Flows: West, East, and Gulf District Regions| In the last two decades, many trends and policy developments impacted the course of the US dairy industry. Since the mid-1990s two important trade agreements, NAFTA and Uruguayn Round have increased international trade for the dairy industry. As of 2015, a major transportation improvement is expected to be achieved by to the expansion of the Panama Canal. The canal is expected to lower transportation costs for many exporters. In this study, we develop a world dairy trade model to analyze dairy product export quantity from the three dairy producing US regions: west coast, gulf coast, and east coast and great lakes combined. We assess the effect of the Panama Canal expansion on the trade of the US regions. We find that the west coast, which includes California, Oregon, Washington, and Idaho states, is one of the biggest beneficiaries of the expansion. The competitive advantages of this region aid in harnessing the most benefits from the transportation improvements and international demand growth for dairy products.
F17|Implications of Trans-Pacific Partnership for the US Dairy Industry| The Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) agreement would reduce or eliminates tariff and nontariff barriers to trade and increase investment among the parties. Dairy exporting countries in the TPP, including the United States, will compete for market share. This study aims to investigate the possible change in dairy trade flows if the TPP agreement is enacted and the implications for the US dairy industry. An empirical trade simulation model is developed focusing on US dairy trade to analyze the potential impacts.
F17|United States and European Union Dairy Farms: Where Is the Competitive Edge?| The United States (US) and European Union (EU) dairy industries are undergoing rapid structural change as farms become fewer and larger, milk productivity per cow increases, and agricultural policies evolve. This paper examines productivity measures of dairy farms in all dairy production regions of the US and seven member states of the EU. We generally find that larger, more intensively-managed dairy farms experience greater net return on assets and are more scale efficient than smaller, more extensive dairy farms. Efficient farms are found in all farm size and system categories, with many of the smaller farms experiencing relatively high technical efficiency. Overall, we find significant economic forces at work towards more efficient and productive dairy production in both the EU and the United States. With potential efficiency gains that can be made, various EU dairy production regions may significantly strengthen their export positions following the milk quota seizure of 2015.
F17|What would be the Corn and Sorghum Price Gap Allowing China to Continue Importing Sorghum?| The large volume of sorghum imports for feed use since 2013 has rapidly made China the largest export destination for sorghum, especially sorghum from the U.S., which has sent about 90% of its sorghum exports to China by MY 2014/2015. The main reason for China’s increasing imports of sorghum may be related to its corn domestic and trade policies, which pushed up domestic corn prices. Because sorghum is a cheap close substitute for corn, the large price gap between these two grains attracted livestock industries to shift part of their feed grain use from corn to sorghum as the price of corn continued to rise. In order to estimate and forecast the prices of sorghum and corn in China, this study developed a price determination model by using a stocks-to-use ratio formulation to capture market supply and demand factors. The government policy effect has also been included in the model. A baseline projection and three simulation scenarios were performed to forecast the Chinese corn and sorghum prices from 2015 to 2019. Results of the study indicated that prices for Chinese corn and sorghum may be declining in the next five years and the price of sorghum would be lower than the price of corn. In addition, the three simulation scenarios suggested that price differences between these two grains would be smaller if the Chinese government would eliminate its temporary corn reserve program.
F17|International Rice Outlook-International Rice Baseline Projections, 2015-2025| This outlook contains updated baseline rice projections from the Arkansas Global Rice Economics Program (AGREP) for U.S. and international rice economies as of January 2016. The purpose of this document is to present the current state and the expected directions of the rice economies in the world by assessing their potential supply and demand paths over the next decade. This set of projections serves as a baseline for evaluating and comparing alternative macroeconomic, policy, weather, and technological scenarios. The estimates are intended for use by government agencies and officials, farmers, consumers, agribusinesses and other stakeholders who conduct medium-and long-term planning.
F17|Impacts of Emerging Asia on African and Latin American Trade: Projections to 2030|Rapid growth in Asia’s emerging economies has boosted export earnings of resource-rich economies over the past decade. Whether or not those high growth rates continue, how will structural changes in Asia alter the relative importance of their imports of primary products? This paper projects production and trade patterns of Africa and Latin America to 2030 under various growth and policy scenarios in Asia, using the GTAP model of the global economy. We compare a projection assuming relatively conservative economic growth in China and India with a projection in which those economies continue to grow rapidly (albeit slower than in the previous decade). We then compare our conservative growth baseline with two alternative scenarios: one assuming Africa and Latin America choose to invest more in public agricultural R&D to take advantage of Asian import growth; the other assuming China and India dampen that import growth by restricting their imports of key foodgrains (following the historical pattern of economies such as Japan and Korea). The final section summarizes the results and draws out policy implications for Latin America and Africa.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F17|Do central banks respond timely to developments in the global economy?|Our analysis suggests; they do not! To arrive at this conclusion we construct a real-time data set of interest rate projections from central banks in three small open economies; New Zealand, Norway, and Sweden, and analyze if revisions to these projections (i.e., forward guidance) can be predicted by timely information. Doing so, we find a systematic role for forward looking international indicators in predicting the revisions to the interest rate projections in all countries. In contrast, using similar indexes for the domestic economy yields largely insignificant results. Furthermore, we find that revisions to forward guidance matter. Using a VAR identified with external instruments based on forecast errors from the predictive regressions, we show that the responses to output, in flation, the exchange rate and asset returns resemble those one typically associates with a conventional monetary policy shock.
F17|The Macro-Economic Impact of Brexit: Using the CBR Macro-Economic Model of the UK Economy (UKMOD)|This working paper uses the new CBR macro-economic model of the UK economy to investigate possible futures following the referendum decision to leave the EU. The paper briefly explains why we felt the necessity to build a new model and describes some of its key features. Since Brexit is a unique event with no precedent it is not possible to do a normal forecast in which a few assumptions are made about a limited range of exogenous variables. The best that can be done is to construct scenarios and two are presented here. The difficult part is to decide what scale of adjustment is needed to reflect the likely realities of Brexit. Analysis by HM Treasury of the potential impact of various outcomes for trade outside the EU is examined and found wanting. Instead the actual experience of UK export performance is examined for a long period including both pre- and post- accession years. This suggests a more limited impact of EU membership. While we include a scenario based on Treasury assumptions, a more realistic, although in our view still pessimistic, scenario assumes half of the trade loss of the Treasury. The results are presented through comparing these scenarios with a pre-referendum forecast. In the milder Brexit scenario there is a two per cent loss of GDP by 2025 but little loss of per capita GDP, less unemployment but more inflation. In the more severe, Treasury-based scenario the loss of GDP is nearer five per cent (two per cent for per capita GDP), inflation is higher and the advantage in unemployment less.
F17|Wirtschaftswachstum und Konjunkturprognosen auf regionaler Ebene|Ein wesentliches Ziel politischer Akteure ist die Sicherung eines nachhaltigen Wachstumspfades. Konjunkturprognosen stellen ein wichtiges Instrument zur Reduktion der Unsicherheit über das weitere Wirtschaftswachstum dar. Der Großteil der existierenden Forschung konzentriert sich auf Nationalstaaten, während subnationale Einheiten eher eine untergeordnete Rolle spielen. Diese Dissertation fokussiert daher auf regionales Wirtschaftswachstum und regionale Konjunkturprognosen. Nach einer thematischen Einordnung in Kapitel 1, untersucht Kapitel 2 den Zusammenhang zwischen unterschiedlichen Wirtschaftsstrukturen und regionalem Wirtschaftswachstum. In der ökonomischen Literatur werden dahingehend zwei konkurrierende Konzepte diskutiert: Spezialisierung und Diversifikation. In Kontrast zu bestehenden Studien wird argu-mentiert, dass beide Konzepte sich gegenseitig beeinflussen. Für die 70 größten deutschen Städte finden sich negative Interaktionseffekte im Verarbeitenden Gewerbe, Baugewerbe und bei den höherwertigen Dienstleistungen. Bei Kapitel 3 handelt es sich um eine systematische Studie der Prognosegüte einer Vielzahl regionaler, nationaler und internationaler Indikatoren für die Vorhersage des BIP zweier deutscher Bundesländer sowie Ostdeutschlands. Besonders Kombinationsstrategien und regionale Indikatoren, welche die regionale Wirtschaftsstruktur abbilden, besitzen die höchste Treffsicherheit. Kapitel 4 hingegen fragt, ob sektoral disaggregierte Vorhersagen das Prognoseergebnis der gesamten Bruttowertschöpfung (BWS) verbessern. Besonders für Prognosen des kommenden Quartals kann das Ergebnis für die gesamte BWS durch Disaggregation deutlich verbessert werden. Kapitel 5 fokussiert auf die Prognose der Exporte europäischer Staaten. Es wird untersucht, ob Befragungsdaten oder eher harte Fakten die Exportprognose verbessern können. Dabei zeigt sich, dass Befragungsdaten klar im Vorteil sind. Jedoch weisen die Länder eine starke Heterogenität bei ihrer Prognosegüte auf. Diese Unterschiede können wesentlich durch die Exportzusammensetzung der Staaten erklärt werden. Das letzte Kapitel fasst die Arbeit zusammen und gibt Ausblicke für die weitere Forschung.
F17|Wie kann die Krisenanfälligkeit von Schwellenländern reduziert werden?|In vielen Fällen sind Schwellenländer krisenanfälliger als hoch entwickelte Industrieländer. Dies hängt in der Regel mit dort vergleichsweise schwächeren oder labilen Finanzstrukturen zusammen. Die beste Politik die Krisenanfälligkeit eines Landes zu reduzieren ist, und dies gilt generell, eine finanziell gesunde makroökonomische und fiskalpolitische Situation. Eine gesunde finanzielle Situation erhöht auch die Kapazitäten eines Landes, wenn von einer Krise betroffen, diese schneller zu überwinden. Jedoch um eine Krise überwinden zu können, muss eine zusätzliche Bedingung erfüllt werden: Das Land muss seine internationale Wettbewerbsfähigkeit erhöhen, um wieder nachhaltiges Wachstum zu erzielen. Deshalb sollte jede Krisen-Vorsorgepolitik auf eine gesunde finanzielle Situation und einen wettbewerbsfähigen privaten Sektor abzielen. Unter gegenteiligen Bedingungen lässt sich eine einmal ausgebrochene Krise nicht mehr ohne schmerzhafte Maßnahmen überwinden. Der Privatsektor muss sich strukturellen Reformen unterziehen, die kurzfristig in der Regel auf die Senkung von Arbeitskosten abstellen. Fiskale Sparmaßnahmen sind zur Wiedererlangung der Zahlungsglaubwürdigkeit unabdingbar, was soziale Probleme zusätzlich verschärft. Die negativen sozialen Effekte werden von den Betroffenen und deren Interessensorganisationen, je nach Land, in höchst unterschiedlichem Ausmaß toleriert. Es ist dann die Kunst der Politik eines Landes, wenn möglich in Kombination mit internationaler Solidarität, einen politisch durchsetzbaren Weg aus der Krise zu finden. Nicht selten führt eine solche Situation aber zu einer Verschleppung des Erholungsprozesses. Auch deshalb ist gerade in den bislang krisengefährdeten Schwellenländern eine adäquate und rechtzeitige Krisenpräventionspolitik von außerordentlicher Bedeutung.
F17|Going Deep: The Trade and Welfare Effects of TTIP Revised|Since July 2013, the EU and the United States have been negotiating a preferential trade agreement, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP). We use a multicountry, multi-industry Ricardian trade model with national and international inputoutput linkages to quantify its potential economic consequences. We structurally estimate the model's unobserved parameters and the effect of existing preferential trade agreements on trade cost. With those estimates in hand, we simulate the trade, value added, and welfare effects of the TTIP, assuming that the agreement would eliminate all transatlantic tariffs and reduce non-tariff barriers as other deep PTAs have done in the past. We find a long-run increase of real income of .4% for the EU, by .5% for the United States, and by -.02% for the rest of the world relative to the status quo. However, there is substantial heterogeneity across the 140 geographical entities that we investigate. Gross value of EU-US trade is predicted to increase by 50%, but the content of EU and US value added would decrease, signalling a deepening of the transatlantic production network. Moreover, we quantify trade diversion effects on third countries and find that those are less severe for value added trade than for gross trade. This highlights the importance of global value chains in understanding the effects of the TTIP on outsiders and the global economy.
F17|TTIP and Intra-European Trade: Boon or Bane?|The European Union is the world’s deepest free trade zone. Amongst its members, it has abolished tariffs and lowered non-tariff barriers. This has led to trade creation within Europe and to trade diversion between EU countries and outsiders. Deep trade integration and the resulting mutual dependence has, in the eyes of many, facilitated political integration. The Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) will undo some of these effects by means of preference erosion, so that cross-country trade links within Europe may lose relative prominence. However, the presence of a rich fabric of regional value chains in Europe and substantial income effects could counter this development. We provide insights on the empirical importance of these effects based on a New Quantitative Trade Model. We show that TTIP could indeed lower trade integration in Europe since predicted income effects turn out not to be large enough to overcome the effects of preference erosion. However, there is substantial heterogeneity across sectors and countries. One way to minimize preference erosion would be to promote projects and programs to further deepen the EU’s single market.
F17|Forecasting the Great Trade Collapse|This paper introduces a simple methodology to forecast international trade. The main innovation is to calculate non-unitary expenditure elasticities of import demand implied by non-homothetic preferences in the previous year to be further combined with the current change in expenditure to forecast the current imports. Using U.S. data on aggregate expenditure and good-level imports, we test the performance of the methodology in forecasting international imports. The methodology is successful in forecasting not only the Great Trade Collapse and the corresponding recovery period but also the other periods in the sample.
F17|Forecasting the Great Trade Collapse|This paper introduces a simple methodology to forecast international trade. The main innovation is to calculate non-unitary expenditure elasticities of import demand implied by non-homothetic preferences in the previous year to be further combined with the current change in expenditure to forecast the current imports. Using U.S. data on aggregate expenditure and good-level imports, we test the performance of the methodology in forecasting international imports. The methodology is successful in forecasting not only the Great Trade Collapse and the corresponding recovery period but also the other periods in the sample.
F17|Nowcasting the Czech Trade Balance|In this paper we are interested in nowcasting and short-run forecasting of the main external trade variables. We consider four empirical methods: principal component regression, elastic net regression, the dynamic factor model and partial least squares. We discuss the adaptation of those methods to asynchronous data releases and to the mixed-frequency set-up. We contrast them with a set of univariate benchmarks. We find that for variables in value terms (both nominal and real), elastic net regression typically yields the most accurate predictions, followed by the dynamic factor model and then by principal components. For export and import prices, univariate techniques seem to have the higher precision for backcasting and nowcasting, but for short-run forecasting the more sophisticated methods tend to produce more accurate forecasts. Here again, elastic net regression dominates the other methods.
F17|Productivity, Demand, and the Home Market Effect|Abstract The nature of causality between international trade and industrialization remains ambiguous. We consider a model of international trade that features the home market effect—where there are differences in income and productivity between sectors and between countries—to identify additional channels by which to determine the effects of international trade on industrialization. The introduction of non-homothetic preferences and differences in productivity can aid in interpreting of some apparent paradoxes within international trade, such as the commercial relations between more populated countries as China and India and large economies in term of their GDP as the U.S. Population size, demand composition, and productivity levels constitute the three main channels by which to determine the effects of international trade. Interactions among these channels define the results obtained, especially in terms of the countries’ industrialization levels. Additionally, we find that welfare levels under trade are always higher than those under autarky.
F17|Potential Economic Effects of TTIP for the Netherlands|Abstract The transatlantic trade and investment partnership (TTIP) is a comprehensive preferential trade agreement that is expected to significantly increase EU–US bilateral trade and investments. Negotiations are ongoing, so we use a scenario analysis to estimate the potential effects of TTIP under likely negotiated outcomes. In our main scenario, we assume a final trade deal where current tariffs are eliminated and non-tariff barriers are significantly reduced. We simulate the potential economic effects of TTIP using a CGE model. We find that US-Dutch bilateral trade doubles and this is translated into a positive but moderate effect on Dutch income of 1.7%.
F17|The Impact of Uncertainty Shocks: Continental Europe versus the Anglo-Saxon World|For economic forecasting it is important to know how the real economy responds to major events such as the fall of the Soviet Union, the Greek debt crisis, the recent terrorism attacks in Europe, and the Brexit. In addition to potential direct effects, such major events lead to an increase in uncertainty about the economy and consequently firms will postpone their investments. This paper quantifies the economic consequences of the increased uncertainty. For various countries, including the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Germany, France, the Netherlands, and various small open economies, we have estimated the real economic effects of an increase in uncertainty, based on a structural Vector Autoregression with a similar specification as Bloom (2009). Our empirical results show that uncertainty shocks are followed by deeper recessions in Continental Europe than in the Anglo-Saxon World. Moreover, our variance decomposition indicates that the conditional variance of economic activity related to only uncertainty shocks is much larger in Continental Europe. We associate these findings with country heterogeneity in labor and capital market flexibility, since firms are less capable to deal with uncertain situations when investment and hiring decisions are less easy to reverse, as suggested by Bloom (2009) and consistent with the findings of Bartelsman, Gautier, and de Wind (2016). The empirical results of this paper can be used for scenario analyses, and in fact have been used in Veenendaal, Grabska, Lanser, Ligthart, and de Wind (2014) for a CPB scenario about the conflict between Russia and the Ukraine (report only available in Dutch). Moreover, the upcoming MEV projections will include a scenario analysis on the short run after the Brexit and is partly based on the uncertainty effects analyzed in this paper.
F17|Melting Ice Caps and the Economic Impact of Opening the Northern Sea Route|One consequence of melting Arctic ice caps is the commercial viability of the Northern Sea Route, connecting East Asia with Europe. This represents a sizeable reduction in shipping distances and average transportation days compared to the conventional Southern Sea Route. We examine the economic impact of opening this route in a multiâ€ sector Eatonâ€“Kortum model with intermediate linkages. We find remarkable shifts in trade flows between Asia and Europe, diversion of trade within Europe, heavy shipping traffic in the Arctic and a substantial drop in Suez traffic. Projected shifts in trade also imply substantial pressure on an already threatened Arctic ecosystem.
F17|How Large Are the Gains from Economic Integration? Theory and Evidence from U.S. Agriculture, 1880-1997|In this paper we develop a new approach to measuring the gains from economic integration based on a generalization of the Ricardian model in which heterogeneous factors of production are allocated to multiple sectors in multiple local markets based on comparative advantage. We implement this approach using data on crop markets in approximately 2,600 U.S. counties from 1880 to 1997. Central to our empirical analysis is the use of a novel agronomic data source on predicted output by crop for small spatial units. Crucially, this dataset contains information about the productivity of all units for all crops, not just those that are actually being grown—an essential input for measuring the gains from trade. Using this new approach we find substantial long-run gains from economic integration among US agricultural markets, benefits that are similar in magnitude to those due to productivity improvements over that same period.
F17|Trade Elasticity of China|"This paper presents a simple methodology to approximate trade elasticity of China by only using her 2016 firm-level trade data, wherein the exporting country is replaced by the country' most populous destination (a base country) when calculating the export intensity. With Hong Kong being the base country, the estimated trade elasticity to China exports is Î¸ = 8.78 (if Ïƒ = 6.56). This methodology also provides a way to examine the relative ""resistance"" of a country's trading partners while taking them as the base countries: the larger their estimated trade elasticity, the greater their resistance to trade."
F17|The International Law and Economics of Coercive Diplomacy: Macroeconomic Effects and Empirical Findings|This paper empirically investigates the actual and probable macroeconomic effects of economic sanctions (coercive diplomacy) within the framework of international law. It considers the performance of critical macroeconomic variables before and after the imposition of sanctions. The methodology of this paper incorporates risk tolerance (probabilities) in order to report probabilistic and real outcomes when targets become noncompliant. For a select number of countries with a history of exposure to sanctions, this paper finds that states that are willing to accommodate the economic risks imposed by senders are not likely to increase national income and human welfare.
F17|Economic Growth in China and Its Potential Impact on Australia-China Bilateral Trade|This paper uses the GTAP Static model to predict the potential impact of economic growth in China on bilateral trade between China and Australia in 2025, under three different scenarios representing the business-as-usual, the successful reform and the stagnation cases respectively. The results show that exports from Australia to China will continue to increase in both absolute and relative terms, irrespective of which economic growth path China takes, partly due to the strong complementary relationship of production between the two countries. The results also indicate that education service exports will become a new engine of bilateral trade in addition to agricultural and mineral products. Furthermore, comparing the results obtained from the three scenarios shows how successful reform will bring more benefits to both China and Australia in trade, which provides useful insights for policy making to facilitate bilateral economic relationship.
F17|Economic Growth in China and Its Potential Impact on Australia-China Bilateral Trade|This paper uses the GTAP Static model to predict the potential impact of economic growth in China on bilateral trade between China and Australia in 2025, under three different scenarios representing the business-as-usual, the successful reform and the stagnation cases respectively. The results show that exports from Australia to China will continue to increase in both absolute and relative terms, irrespective of which economic growth path China takes, partly due to the strong complementary relationship of production between the two countries. The results also indicate that education service exports will become a new engine of bilateral trade in addition to agricultural and mineral products. Furthermore, comparing the results obtained from the three scenarios shows how successful reform will bring more benefits to both China and Australia in trade, which provides useful insights for policy making to facilitate bilateral economic relationship.
F17|Economic Growth in China and Its Potential Impact on Australia-China Bilateral Trade|This paper uses the GTAP Static model to predict the potential impact of economic growth in China on bilateral trade between China and Australia in 2025, under three different scenarios representing the business-as-usual, the successful reform and the stagnation cases respectively. The results show that exports from Australia to China will continue to increase in both absolute and relative terms, irrespective of which economic growth path China takes, partly due to the strong complementary relationship of production between the two countries. The results also indicate that education service exports will become a new engine of bilateral trade in addition to agricultural and mineral products. Furthermore, comparing the results obtained from the three scenarios shows how successful reform will bring more benefits to both China and Australia in trade, which provides useful insights for policy making to facilitate bilateral economic relationship.
F17|Economic Growth in China and Its Potential Impact on Australia-China Bilateral Trade|This paper uses the GTAP Static model to predict the potential impact of economic growth in China on bilateral trade between China and Australia in 2025, under three different scenarios representing the business-as-usual, the successful reform and the stagnation cases respectively. The results show that exports from Australia to China will continue to increase in both absolute and relative terms, irrespective of which economic growth path China takes, partly due to the strong complementary relationship of production between the two countries. The results also indicate that education service exports will become a new engine of bilateral trade in addition to agricultural and mineral products. Furthermore, comparing the results obtained from the three scenarios shows how successful reform will bring more benefits to both China and Australia in trade, which provides useful insights for policy making to facilitate bilateral economic relationship.
F17|Economic Growth in China and Its Potential Impact on Australia-China Bilateral Trade|This paper uses the GTAP Static model to predict the potential impact of economic growth in China on bilateral trade between China and Australia in 2025, under three different scenarios representing the business-as-usual, the successful reform and the stagnation cases respectively. The results show that exports from Australia to China will continue to increase in both absolute and relative terms, irrespective of which economic growth path China takes, partly due to the strong complementary relationship of production between the two countries. The results also indicate that education service exports will become a new engine of bilateral trade in addition to agricultural and mineral products. Furthermore, comparing the results obtained from the three scenarios shows how successful reform will bring more benefits to both China and Australia in trade, which provides useful insights for policy making to facilitate bilateral economic relationship.
F17|Economic Growth in China and Its Potential Impact on Australia-China Bilateral Trade|This paper uses the GTAP Static model to predict the potential impact of economic growth in China on bilateral trade between China and Australia in 2025, under three different scenarios representing the business-as-usual, the successful reform and the stagnation cases respectively. The results show that exports from Australia to China will continue to increase in both absolute and relative terms, irrespective of which economic growth path China takes, partly due to the strong complementary relationship of production between the two countries. The results also indicate that education service exports will become a new engine of bilateral trade in addition to agricultural and mineral products. Furthermore, comparing the results obtained from the three scenarios shows how successful reform will bring more benefits to both China and Australia in trade, which provides useful insights for policy making to facilitate bilateral economic relationship.
F17|A Global Trade Model for the Euro Area|We propose a model for analyzing euro-area trade based on the interaction between macroeconomic and trade variables. First, we show that macroeconomic variables are necessary to generate accurate short-term trade forecasts; this result can be explained by the high correlation between trade and macroeconomic variables, with the latter being released in a more timely manner. Second, the model tracks well the dynamics of trade variables conditional on the path of macroeconomic variables during the Great Recession; this result makes our model a reliable tool for scenario analysis.
F17|Econometric Estimation of Bilateral Transboundary Trade between Russia and China|The article focuses on the estimation of bilateral transboundary trade between Russia and China. The authors have suggested a hypothesis about the factors, which influence trade flows between the countries involved in trade relations. The research has resulted in a multiplicative model of the dependence of trade flow intensity upon several factors. Empirical estimation has shown that the coefficients used with the main variables of the model are relevant, thus proving the theoretical significance of the model. In the course of this research, the authors have concluded that the size of countries’ economies and their membership in the World Trade Organization determine the intensity of trade flows between the countries.
F17|Methodological Approaches to the Diagnosis and Forecast of the Long-Wave Fluctuations in the Economy|Evolutionary development of economic systems demonstrates the cyclical nature in time. In such a case these cyclical fluctuations comprise all facets of economic relations, starting from the production sector and ending the sphere of services, focused on ensuring the interaction effectiveness of economic relations. As the modern world experience shows the cyclical dynamics has a number of its individual features depending on a wide range of factors, such as the type of economic system (planned or market), market type, forms and methods of state or other effects on the regulation of cycles within smoothing process, etc. The knowledge of these factors, the nature of their origin and the impact on the long-term cyclical fluctuations is not a trivial matter and requires a comprehensive system analysis, based on a synthesis and a dialectic of the established approaches.
F17|Obstfeld and Rogoff׳s international macro puzzles: a quantitative assessment|Obstfeld and Rogoff (2001) propose that trade frictions lie behind key puzzles in international macroeconomics. We take a dynamic multicountry model of international trade, production, and investment to data from 19 countries to assess this proposition quantitatively. Using the framework developed in Eaton et al. (2016), we revisit the puzzles in a counterfactual world without trade frictions in manufactures. Removing these trade frictions goes a long way toward resolving a number of puzzles. The dependence of domestic investment on domestic saving falls by half or disappears entirely, mitigating the Feldstein and Horioka (1980) puzzle. Changes in nominal GDPs in U.S. dollars become less variable across countries and line up with changes in real GDPs as much as with real exchange rates, mitigating the exchange rate disconnect puzzle. Less dramatically, changes in consumption become more correlated across countries, mitigating the consumption correlations puzzle and changes in real exchange rates become less variable across countries, mitigating the relative purchasing power parity puzzle.
F17|Modelling the long-run economic impact of leaving the European Union|We model the long-term implications of leaving the EU for the UK economy using NiGEM, the National Institute's large scale structural global econometric model. We examine a scenario in which the UK has no free trade agreement with the EU, focusing on four key shocks: a permanent reduction in the size of the UK's export market share in EU member countries, an increase in tariffs, a permanent reduction in inward FDI flows and the repatriation of the UK's projected net contributions to the EU budget. We calibrate the size of the shocks on a synthesis of the academic evidence. We explain how each of these four shocks is implemented in NiGEM, as well as examining the key mechanisms by which they are propagated through the model. The export market share channel is the main mechanism by which leaving the EU leads to declines in GDP and consumption relative to the long-run baseline, accounting for a long-run decline in GDP of 2.1% relative to the baseline value, out of a total projected reduction in GDP relative to the baseline of 2.7%.
F17|A World Trade Leading Index (WTLI)|This paper develops a new monthly World Trade Leading Indicator (WTLI) that relies on a dynamic factor model estimated on set of leading indicators of world trade activity. Compared to the CPB World Trade Monitor’s benchmark indicator for global trade the WTLI captures turning points in global trade with an average lead between 2 and 3 months. This new tool can provide policy makers with valuable foresight into the future direction of economic activity by tracking world trade more efficiently.
F17|Trade and fiscal imbalances in Southeastern Europe: Can fiscal devaluation help?|We examine the need, potential and likely effects of fiscal devaluation for a group of seven economies in Southeastern Europe. All the countries face external trade imbalances and most of them also experience large or growing fiscal problems. We conclude that fiscal devaluation could be a useful instrument to help these countries improve their trade balances without (further) deteriorating their fiscal positions. The results of our simulations show that a budget neutral fiscal devaluation in the amount of 1 percent of gross value added could yield short-run improvements in trade balances ranging from 0.56 to 0.94 percentage points of (initial) gross value added. Simultaneously, this is expected to have a positive impact on output as well, which should grow at rates between 0.15 and 0.25 percent.
F17|Global paper market forecasts to 2030 under future internet demand scenarios|The Global Forest Products Model (GFPM) was applied to forecast the effect of increased per capita Internet adoption on the global paper products industry to 2030. Two scenarios were examined: (a) full per capita Internet adoption by 2100, and (b) more rapidly by 2050. Global newsprint consumption is estimated to be 34.2–37.1 million tonnes lower in 2030 than in the US Forest Service 2010 Resources Planning Act report, and the 2010 report from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Similarly, global printing and writing paper consumption is forecasted to be 76.7–87.1 million tonnes lower by 2030. By including controls for per capita Internet use in the demand equations for print based media, this article reflects the recent declines in global paper product consumption. Out-of-sample forecasts over a two-year period indicate global model prediction errors from 0 to 3%, depending on the product and exogenous assumptions. The results highlight the importance of considering market evolution in long-term global forecasting, and a failure to account for future rates of Internet adoption will result in an upward bias on paper product market forecasts.
F17|Gravity with unemployment|Quantifying the welfare effects of trade liberalization is a core issue in international trade. Existing frameworks assume perfect labor markets and therefore ignore the effects of aggregate employment changes for welfare. We develop a quantitative trade framework which explicitly models labor market frictions. To illustrate, we assess the effects of trade and labor market reforms for 28 OECD countries. Welfare effects of trade agreements are typically magnified when accounting for employment changes. While employment and welfare increase in most countries, some experience higher unemployment and lower welfare. Labor market reforms in one country have small positive spillover effects on trading partners.
F17|The composition of trade flows and the aggregate effects of trade barriers|A widely used class of quantitative trade models implicitly assumes that patterns of comparative advantage take a specific form such that they have no influence over the effect of trade barriers on aggregate trade flows and welfare. In this paper, I relax this assumption, developing a framework in which to analyze the role of interactions among countries' patterns of comparative advantage in determining the aggregate effects of trade barriers. My model preserves much of the tractability of standard aggregate quantitative trade models while allowing for the effects of any pattern of comparative advantage, across many products and countries, to be taken into account. After fitting my model to product-level trade data, I find that the composition of trade flows is quantitatively important in determining the welfare gains from trade and the aggregate effects of trade barriers. A key finding is that the welfare gains from trade tend to be larger and more skewed in favor of low-income countries than an aggregate model would suggest.
F17|The accuracy of forecasts prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee|We analyze forecasts of consumption, nonresidential investment, residential investment, government spending, exports, imports, inventories, gross domestic product, inflation, and unemployment prepared by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee from 1997 to 2008, called the Greenbooks. We compare the root mean squared error, mean absolute error, and the proportion of directional errors of Greenbook forecasts of these macroeconomic indicators with the errors from three forecasting benchmarks: a random walk, a first-order autoregressive model, and a Bayesian model averaged forecast from a suite of univariate time-series models commonly taught to first-year economics graduate students. We estimate our forecasting benchmarks both on end-of-sample vintage and real-time vintage data. We find that Greenbook forecasts significantly outperform our benchmark forecasts for horizons less than one quarter ahead. However, by the one-year forecast horizon, typically at least one of our forecasting benchmarks performs as well as Greenbook forecasts. Greenbook forecasts of personal consumption expenditures and unemployment tend to do relatively well, while Greenbook forecasts of inventory investment, government expenditures, and inflation tend to do poorly.
F17|The role of Japanese FDI in China|We quantify the impacts of a sharp fall of Japanese foreign direct investment (FDI) to China that occurred after the worldwide financial crisis in 2009 using a three-region (Japan, China, and the rest of the world) recursive dynamic computable general equilibrium model with multinational enterprises (MNEs). The FDI fall would reduce exports and production of Japanese MNE affiliates in China and depreciate the Renminbi. This latter effect would favor Chinese manufacturing, but China, would not be a gainer, because it would experience a contraction in its service sector, which would exceed the gains in manufacturing.
F17|Dual-use products export multipliers with the indirect effects|The micro–macro link is provided for the impact of the dual-use defence-civilian exports of products and services on the Slovenian economy. The unique firm-level data on the dual-use export is integrated in the symmetric 60 groups of activities input–output tables. The classification of the economic activities is used to integrate data on the firm-to-firm dual-use export transactions in the symmetric input–output coding system to avoid the double counting. The input–output modelling approach is used for the measuring of the direct input–output flows and the dual-use products export multipliers with the indirect effects. The direct and indirect effects are analysed by the economic activities, technological intensity of the products and services, and statistical regions in Slovenia. Comparisons with alternative non dual-use high tech are analysed by economic activities in terms of value-added and labour productivity. The dual-use export is associated with high technologically intensive suppliers and sub-suppliers of defence-civilian goods and services. The empirical estimations can serve as a guide in questions of comparing with alternative in economic policy design when investigating trade-offs between allocation of expenditures for defence equipment and their opportunity costs for non dual-use of high tech products and services.
F17|The blind spots of trade impact assessment: macroeconomic adjustment costs and the social costs of regulatory change|Economic studies on trade liberalization typically highlight positive expected effects. This paper discusses those issues which are frequently neglected, but are nevertheless important for policy-makers. These are macroeconomic adjustment costs and social costs of regulatory change. Our discussion uses the most relevant studies on the economic effects of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) as reference points. We provide a rough estimate of macroeconomic adjustment costs of TTIP in the order of â‚¬33â€“60 billion over a 10-year transition period. Our analysis of regulatory change concludes that assessments have been biased and that the social costs of regulatory change due to TTIP might be substantial. Given the prominence of regulatory issues on the trade agenda, we call for full ex-ante regulatory impact assessment of future trade agreements.
F17|Раздел 4. Реальный Сектор Экономики|Анализ динамики макроэкономических показателей российской экономики за период 2009–2014 гг. показал, что постепенное снижение темпов экономического роста сопровождалось усилением диспропорций в сфере производства, снижением инновационной активности производителей, усилением проблем разбалансированности технико-технологических характеристик основных фондов и инвестиций в основной капитал по базовым видам экономической деятельности. Развитие, основанное на экстенсивном использовании основных факторов, увеличение издержек производства снижали конкурентоспособность российской экономики. Расширение внутреннего потребительского спроса поддерживалось опережающим ростом заработной платы относительно производительности труда. Рост инвестиций в основной капитал не приводил к соответствующему повышению отдачи на единицу используемых ресурсов.
F17|Simulating World Trade in the Decades Ahead: Driving Forces and Policy Implications|The geography and composition of international trade are changing fast. We link a macroeconomic growth model and sectoral CGE framework in order to project the world economy forward to the year 2035 and assess to what extent current trends in trade are expected to continue. Constructing fully traceable scenarios based on assumptions grounded in the literature, we are also able to isolate the relative impact of key economic drivers. We find that the stakes for developing countries are particularly high: The emergence of new players in the world economy, intensification of South-South trade and diversification into skill-intensive activities may continue only in a dynamic economic and open trade environment. Current trends towards increased regionalization may be reversed, with multilateral trade relationships gaining in importance. Hypothetical mega-regionals could slow down, but not frustrate the prevalence of multilateralism. Continuing technological progress is likely to have the biggest impact on future economic developments around the globe. Population dynamics are influential as well: For some countries, up-skilling will be crucial, for others labour shortages may be addressed through migration. Several developing countries would benefit from increased capital mobility; others will only diversify into dynamic sectors, when trade costs are further reduced.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F17|FOOD SECURITY EVALUATIONS RELATED TO EU-27 FOREIGN TRADE, PRIOR vs POST EASTERN ENLARGEMENTS|The study aims to analyze aspects of food security in relation to the agri-food foreign trade developments in the EU Member States prior and post Eastern enlargements. Given the multiple benefits of the open markets, relevant foreign trade indicators have been selected to be quantified: from the set of indicators established by FAO to capture several influences on food security, the cereal import dependency ratio has been calculated as an indicator of the food security variability/ stability; the competition effect has been assessed by measuring the relative competitiveness of the Member States’ agriculture on the world market. The results of the evaluations, based on Eurostat statistics related to the period 2001–2013, highlighted market share variations in Romania’s agri-food performances compared to the EU-27 trade partners and stability gains on the cereals market, in the two reference periods.
F17|Trade, Economic and Welfare impacts of the CARICOM-Canada Free Trade Agreement|This paper estimates the trade, revenue and welfare effects of the proposed Caribbean Community (CARICOM)-Canada FTA on CARICOM countries using a partial equilibrium model. The welfare analysis also takes into account the Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA) which was signed in 2008 between the CARIFORUM (CARICOM and the Dominican Republic) countries and the EU. The Revealed Comparative Advantage (RCA) index, trade complementarity index and transition probability matrices are employed to examine the dynamics of comparative advantage for CARICOM countries exports to Canada. The results obtained from the partial equilibrium model indicate adverse revenue and welfare effects for CARICOM member states. The results from various trade indices employed do not provide evidence to suggest that a FTA between CARICOM countries and Canada can improve trade outcomes.
F17|Emerging economies, productivity growth and trade with resource-rich economies by 2030| Rapid economic growth in some emerging economies in recent decades has significantly increased their global economic importance. If this rapid growth continues and is strongest in resource-poor Asian economies, the growth in global demand for imports of primary products also will continue, to the ongoing benefit of natural resource-rich countries. This paper explores how global production, consumption and trade patterns might change over the next two decades in the course of economic development and structural changes under various scenarios. We employ the GTAP model and version 8.1 of the GTAP database with a base year of 2007, along with supplementary data from a range of sources, to support projections of the global economy to 2030. We first project a baseline assuming that trade-related policies do not change in each region but that factor endowments and real GDP grow at exogenously estimated rates. That baseline is compared with two alternative scenarios: one in which the growth rates of China and India are lower by one-quarter and the other in which this slowdown in emerging economies leads to slower productivity growth in the primary sectors of all countries. Throughout the results, implications are drawn out for natural resource abundant economies, including Australia and New Zealand.
F17|International Price Transmission in CGE Models: How to Reconcile Econometric Evidence and Endogenous Model Response?| The field of price transmission is dominated by econometric time-series analysis (PTA) and rather disconnected from analyses based on CGE models. This paper addresses how a certain degree of empirically determined price transmission can be met in a single country CGE model. We examine and validate seven determinants including structural characteristics of the model, the parameterization of behavioral functions and properties of the sectors concerned.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F17|Deep trade policy options for Armenia: The importance of trade facilitation, services and standards liberalization|In this paper the authors develop an innovative 21 sector computable general equilibrium model of Armenia to assess the impact on Armenia of a Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Agreement (DCFTA) with the EU, as well as further regional or multilateral trade policy commitments. They find that a DCFTA with the EU will likely result in substantial gains to Armenia, but they show that the gains derive from the deep aspects of the agreement. In order of importance, the sources of the gains are: (i) trade facilitation and reduction in border costs; (ii) services liberalization; and (iii) standards harmonization. A shallow agreement with the EU that focuses only on preferential tariff liberalization in goods will likely lead to small losses to Armenia primarily due to a loss of productivity from lost varieties of technologies from the Rest of the World region in manufactured products. Additional gains can be expected in the long run from an improvement in the investment climate. The authors estimate only small gains from a services agreement with the CIS countries, but significant gains from expanding services liberalization multilaterally.
F17|Do U.S. Cotton Subsidies Affect Competing Exporters? An Analysis of Import Demand in China| We estimate the demand for imported cotton in China and assess the competitiveness of cotton-exporting countries. Given the assertion that developing countries are negatively affected by U.S. cotton subsidies, our focus is the price competition between the United States and competing exporters (Benin, Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali, India, and Uzbekistan). We further project how U.S. programs affect China’s imports by country. Results indicate that if U.S. subsidies make other exporting countries worse off, this effect is lessened when global prices respond accordingly. If subsidies are eliminated, China’s cotton imports may not fully recover from the temporary spike in global prices.
F17|Do U.S. Cotton Subsidies Affect Competing Exporters? An Analysis of Import Demand in China| We estimate the demand for imported cotton in China and assess the competitiveness of cotton-exporting countries. Given the assertion that developing countries are negatively affected by U.S. cotton subsidies, our focus is the price competition between the United States and competing exporters (Benin, Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali, India, and Uzbekistan). We further project how U.S. programs affect China’s imports by country. Results indicate that if U.S. subsidies make other exporting countries worse off, this effect is lessened when global prices respond accordingly. If subsidies are eliminated, China’s cotton imports may not fully recover from the temporary spike in global prices.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F17|Effet frontière, intégration économique et « Forteresse Europe »|"[eng] We use the border effects methodology to study the empirical foundation of anxieties relating to construction of a '' Fortress Europe''. We study to what extent imports from the United States and Japan for a representative European country have actually been subject to greater constraints than imports from other European countries, taking intra-national trade as a benchmark. Our findings show a relatively large increase in difficulty of access to the European market for Japanese and American producers during the 1980s. This pattern contrasts quite markedly with the gradual reduction in border effects within the European Union. [fre] Nous utilisons la méthodologie des effets frontières pour étudier les fondements empiriques des inquiétudes liées à la construction d'une "" Forteresse Europe"". Nous étudions dans quelle mesure les importations en provenance des États-Unis et du Japon d'un pays européen représentatif ont été réellement soumises à des contraintes plus importantes que les importations en provenance d'autres pays européens en prenant le commerce intra-national comme niveau de référence. Nos résultats font état d'une augmentation relativement importante de la difficulté d'accès au marché européen pour les producteurs japonais et américains au cours des années 80. Cette évolution contraste assez nettement avec la baisse graduelle des effets frontières à l'intérieur de l'Union Européenne."
F17|Prospects For Skills-Based Export Growth In A Labour-Abundant, Resource-Rich Developing Economy| In an integrated global economy, specialisation in trade is an increasingly prominent strategy. A labour-abundant, resource-rich economy like Indonesia faces stiff competition in labour-intensive manufactures; meanwhile, rapid growth in demand for resources from China and India exposes it to the 'curse' of resource wealth. This diminishes prospects for more diversified growth based on renewable resources like human capital. Using an international panel data set we explore the influence of resource wealth, foreign direct investment and human capital on the share of skill-intensive products in exports. FDI and human capital increase this share; resource wealth diminishes it. We use the results to compare Indonesia with Thailand and Malaysia. Indonesia's reliance on skill-intensive exports would have been greater had it achieved higher levels of FDI and skills. Its performance in accumulating these endowments, and its relative resource abundance, impede diversification in production and trade. We present policy options flowing from these findings.
F17|Prospects for Skills-based Export Growth in a Labor-abundant, Resource-rich Developing Economy| In an integrated global economy, specialisation in trade is an increasingly prominent strategy. A labour-abundant, resource-rich economy like Indonesia faces stiff competition in labour-intensive manufactures; meanwhile, rapid growth in demand for resources from China and India exposes it to the 'curse' of resource wealth. This diminishes prospects for more diversified growth based on renewable resources like human capital. Using an international panel data set we explore the influence of resource wealth, foreign direct investment and human capital on the share of skill-intensive products in exports. FDI and human capital increase this share; resource wealth diminishes it. We use the results to compare Indonesia with Thailand and Malaysia. Indonesia's reliance on skill-intensive exports would have been greater had it achieved higher levels of FDI and skills. Its performance in accumulating these endowments, and its relative resource abundance, impede diversification in production and trade. We present policy options flowing from these findings.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F17|Agricultural trade reform under the Doha Agenda: some key issues| A successful agreement on agriculture is essential for an overall agreement under the WTO’s Doha trade negotiations. Reaching agreement has been difficult, and as of August 2007, much still remains to be done if a successful agreement is to be reached. We consider three of the most controversial areas of the agricultural negotiations: the relative importance of domestic support, market access and export subsidies; three market access issues of sensitive-product exceptions sought for all countries and, the additional special product exceptions sought for developing countries, the proposed special safeguard mechanism; and the domestic support issue. We show that decisions made on reform in these areas will have a critical influence on whether the negotiations achieve their objectives of promoting trade reform and reducing poverty.
F17|Agricultural trade reform under the Doha Agenda: some key issues | A successful agreement on agriculture is essential for an overall agreement under the WTO's Doha trade negotiations. Reaching agreement has been difficult, and as of August 2007, much still remains to be done if a successful agreement is to be reached. We consider three of the most controversial areas of the agricultural negotiations: the relative importance of domestic support, market access and export subsidies; three market access issues of sensitive-product exceptions sought for all countries and, the additional special product exceptions sought for developing countries, the proposed special safeguard mechanism; and the domestic support issue. We show that decisions made on reform in these areas will have a critical influence on whether the negotiations achieve their objectives of promoting trade reform and reducing poverty. Copyright 2008 The Authors.
F17|Trade adjustment and the composition of trade|" A striking feature of U.S. trade is that both imports and exports are heavily concentrated in capital goods and consumer durables. However, most open economy general equilibrium models ignore the marked divergence between the composition of trade flows and the sectoral composition of U.S. expenditure, and simply posit import and exports as depending on an aggregate measure of real activity (such as domestic absorption). In this paper, we use a SDGE model (SIGMA) to show that taking account of the expenditure composition of U.S. trade in an empirically-realistic way yields implications for the responses of trade to shocks that are markedly different from those of a ""standard"" framework that abstracts from such compositional differences. Overall, our analysis suggests that investment shocks, originating from either foreign or domestic sources, may serve as an important catalyst for trade adjustment, while implying a minimal depreciation of the real exchange rate. Moreover, while policy changes that boost investment abroad could serve to significantly improve the U.S. trade balance through an export channel, reforms oriented at stimulating foreign consumption would exert less of a corrective force on the trade balance, and primarily work by restraining real U.S. imports<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
F17|Agricultural Trade Reform and the Doha Development Agenda|This paper examines the extent to which various regions, and the world as a whole, could gain from multilateral trade reform over the next decade. The World Bank's Linkage model of the global economy is employed to examine the impact first of current trade barriers and agricultural subsidies, and then of possible outcomes from the WTO's Doha Round. The results suggest moving to free global merchandise trade would boost real incomes in sub‐Saharan Africa and Southeast Asia (and in Cairns Group countries) proportionately more than in other developing countries or high‐income countries. Real returns to farmland and unskilled labour, and real net farm incomes, would rise substantially in those developing‐country regions, thereby helping to reduce poverty. A Doha partial liberalisation could take the world some way towards those desirable outcomes, but more so the more agricultural subsidies are disciplined and applied tariffs are cut, and the more not just high‐income but also developing countries choose to engage in the process of reform.
F17|U.S.-Canadian Tomato Wars: An Economist Tries to Make Sense Out of Recent Antidumping Suits| U.S. growers filed an antidumping case against Canadian growers of greenhouse-grown tomatoes, alleging that U.S. growers were being injured, or threatened with material injury, by imports from Canada. The U.S. Department of Commerce determined that imports of greenhouse-grown tomatoes were being sold in U.S. markets at less than fair market value. The U.S. International Trade Commission determined the “like product” to be all fresh market tomatoes, concluding the domestic industry was not materially injured. Anecdotal evidence used by the Commission Department in determining like product ignores the wealth of knowledge that economics can add. An economic model is proposed for purposes of determining like product.
F17|Increasing the United States Tariff-Rate Sugar Quota for Cuba and Mexico: A Partial-Equilibrium Simulation| Increases in the United States tariff-rate quota for sugar are simulated to determine the impact of Cuban market access and an increased Mexican allotment. The effects on both domestic and international sugar markets, including production, consumption, prices and trade, are determined and welfare effects identified. This analysis is carried out using a partial-equilibrium simplified world trade model, Modele International Simplifie de Simulation (MISS), which simulates, in a comparative-static framework, the effects of various policy actions.
F17|Regional Trading Arrangements for Chile: do the Results Differ with a Dynamic Model?|Starting from our earlier multi-region trade model, we develop two new 24 sector small open economy (SOE) computable general equilibrium models (CGE) of Chile. One is comparative static and the other is dynamic. We evaluate the impact of Chile forming free trade agreements with either NAFTA or MERCOSUR. Our principal result is that the dynamic SOE model does not produce welfare estimates significantly different from the comparative static SOE model. Our second result is that, although the difference is small, it is possible for a fully dynamic model to produce welfare estimates for a preferential trade area that are welfare inferior than those from a comparative static model.
F17|U.S.-Canadian Tomato Wars: An Economist Tries to Make Sense Out of Recent Antidumping Suits| U.S. growers filed an antidumping case against Canadian growers of greenhouse-grown tomatoes, alleging that U.S. growers were being injured, or threatened with material injury, by imports from Canada. The U.S. Department of Commerce determined that imports of greenhouse-grown tomatoes were being sold in U.S. markets at less than fair market value. The U.S. International Trade Commission determined the “like product” to be all fresh market tomatoes, concluding the domestic industry was not materially injured. Anecdotal evidence used by the Commission Department in determining like product ignores the wealth of knowledge that economics can add. An economic model is proposed for purposes of determining like product.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F17|Increasing the United States Tariff-Rate Sugar Quota for Cuba and Mexico: A Partial-Equilibrium Simulation| Increases in the United States tariff-rate quota for sugar are simulated to determine the impact of Cuban market access and an increased Mexican allotment. The effects on both domestic and international sugar markets, including production, consumption, prices and trade, are determined and welfare effects identified. This analysis is carried out using a partial-equilibrium simplified world trade model, Modele International Simplifie de Simulation (MISS), which simulates, in a comparative-static framework, the effects of various policy actions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F17|International Trade And Foreign Direct Investment: Substitutes Or Complements?| International agricultural trade has evolved over time. Processed foods and developing countries have become major growth markets for U.S. agricultural exports, and foreign direct investment (FDI) has become even more important than exports as a means of accessing foreign markets. The critical question is whether FDI is a substitute for or a complement of exports. This research builds upon an existing theoretical FDI model and contributes to the literature through the development of a simultaneous equation system for FDI and exports, which is estimated using two-stage least squares. Empirical analyses were used to examine the relationship between U.S. FDI and exports of processed foods into East Asian countries - China, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan - from 1989 to 1998. The results indicated that a complementary relationship between FDI and exports. Additionally, these results indicated that interest rates, exchange rates, gross domestic product (GDP), and compensation rates are important variables that influence U.S. FDI in East Asian countries, while GDP, exchange rates, and export prices are important export determinants.
F17|Effet frontière, intégration économique et “Forteresse Europe”|We use the border effects methodology to study the empirical foundation of anxieties relating to construction of a 'Fortress Europe'. We study to what extent imports from the United States and Japan for a representative European country have actually been subject to greater constraints than imports from other European countries, taking intra-national trade as a benchmark. Our findings show a relatively large increase in difficulty of access to the European market for Japanese and American producers during the 1980s. This pattern contrasts quite markedly with the gradual reduction in border effects within the European Union.
F17|International Trade and Foreign Direct Investment: Substitutes or Complements?| International agricultural trade has evolved over time. Processed foods and developing countries have become major growth markets for U.S. agricultural exports, and foreign direct investment (FDI) has become even more important than exports as a means of accessing foreign markets. The critical question is whether FDI is a substitute for or a complement of exports. This research builds upon an existing theoretical FDI model and contributes to the literature through the development of a simultaneous equation system for FDI and exports, which is estimated using two-stage least squares. Empirical analyses were used to examine the relationship between U.S. FDI and exports of processed foods into East Asian countries - China, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan - from 1989 to 1998. The results indicated that a complementary relationship between FDI and exports. Additionally, these results indicated that interest rates, exchange rates, gross domestic product (GDP), and compensation rates are important variables that influence U.S. FDI in East Asian countries, while GDP, exchange rates, and export prices are important export determinants.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
