F18|Is irrigation driven by the economic value of internationally traded agricultural products?|A recent trend of literature investigates how international trade compensates or accentuates the differences in countries' endowments in water resources and whether trade regulation should be used to improve the use of water resources at the global level. In this paper, we develop a simple model establishing a positive link between the demand for irrigation water of agricultural producers and the international price of irrigated goods. Unlike previous works, that focus on the cost of water resources, we emphasize the price of traded goods as a key element of the shadow value of water used in agriculture. We test our model empirically using data on 159 irrigated crops exported by 183 countries, and find that countries' irrigation behavior is strongly linked to the global price of crops. This indicates that agricultural producers internalize the price of irrigation water. The export price effect is stronger when countries are net exporters of irrigated crops and weaker for internationally traded crops that constitute a pillar of most countries' domestic food security, such as cereals. Our results provide elements for the broader issue of the economically efficient use of water resources in agriculture.
F18|Exporting and Pollution Abatement Expenditure: Evidence from Firm-Level Data|The relevance of analyzing whether exporting rms engage in greater pollution abatement cannot be overemphasized. For instance, the question relates to the possibility of export promotion policies being environmentally benecial. In fact, the issue is especially relevant for developing countries typically characterized by ine/ective environmental regulation. However, despite the signicance of the topic, the extant literature examining the environmental consequences of rm-level trade is skewed toward developed countries. Moreover, the existing contributions rarely attend to concerns over non-random selection into exporting. Accordingly, we employ cross-sectional data across Indonesian rms as well as a number of novel identication strategies to assess the causal e/ect of exporting on abatement behavior. Two of the approaches are proposed by Millimet and Tchernis (2013), and entail either minimizing or correcting for endogeneity bias. The remaining methods, attributable to Lewbel (2012) and Klein and Vella (2009), rely on higher moments of the data to obtain exclusion restrictions. While we largely nd exporting to encourage pollution abatement, the estimated impacts are more pronounced after accounting for selection into exporting. Key Words: Exporting, Environment, Pollution Abatement, Instrumental Variables, Treatment Efects
F18|European Gas Markets, Trading Hubs, and Price Formation: A Network Perspective|We apply network theory to analyse the interactions of trading hub prices, and to assess the harmonisation of the European gas market. We construct dynamic networks, where the nodes correspond to the twelve EU trading hubs, and where the edges weight the causality between the variations of the respective gas prices. Network density dynamically calculates the aggregate quantity of causal interactions recorded within the system, which provides information pertaining to the integration of the European gas network. We document a number of spikes in network density, suggesting short periods of improved connectivity of European gas markets. We argue that these results appear to be driven by exogenous factors, such as unseasonal weather patterns, seismic activity and pipeline capacity reductions or outages. The findings elucidate the time varying nature of European gas market dynamics, and the importance of continual monitoring of market evolution.
F18|CO2 embedded in trade: trends and fossil fuel drivers|The amount of CO2 embedded in trade has substantially increased since 1990. We study the trends and some drivers over the period 1995-2009. We find that traded goods tend to have higher emission-intensities compared to average final demand. The second finding is that independently of sector structure, dirty countries tend to specialize in emissionintensive sectors. This finding suggests a comparative advantage mechanism for CO2 and lends support to the hypothesis that trade liberalization tends to increase global emissions. The third finding is that, on average, emission-intensive countries have shifted from trade deficits to surpluses, so a larger share of goods is now produced in emission-intensive countries, consequently increasing global emissions. Finally, our analysis points to coal abundance as an important driver for high levels of both domestic emissions per value added and Sector specialization into emission-intensive sectors. Hence coal abundance is an important driver of net CO2 exports.
F18|Strategic environmental policy and the mobility of firms|"The loss of international competitiveness of domestic industries remains a key obstacle to the implementation of effective carbon prices in a world without harmonized climate policies. We analyze countries' non-cooperative choices of emissions taxes under imperfect competition and mobile polluting firms. In our general equilibrium setup with trade, wage effects prevent all firms from locating in the same country. While under local or no pollution countries achieve the first-best, under transboundary pollution taxes are inefficiently low and lower than under autarky where only the ""standard"" free riding incentive distorts emissions taxes. This effect is more pronounced when polluting firms are mobile."
F18|Environmental policy and firm selection in the open economy|In this paper, we analyse the effects of a unilateral change in an emissions tax in a model of international trade with heterogeneous firms. We find a positive effect of tighter environmental policy on average productivity in the reforming country through reallocation of labour towards exporting firms. Domestic aggregate emissions following the tax increase is smaller than in autarky. Moreover, general equilibrium effects through changes in the foreign wage rate lead to a reduction in foreign emissions and, hence, to negative emissions leakage in case of transboundary pollution.
F18|The Consequences of Unilateral Withdrawals from the Paris Agreement|We develop a multi-sector structural trade model with emissions from production and a con- stant elasticity of fossil fuel supply function to simulate the consequences of unilateral withdrawals from the Paris Agreement. Taking into account both direct and leakage effects, we find that a US withdrawal would eliminate a third of the world emissions reduction (25.7% direct effect and 7% leakage effect), while a potential Chinese withdrawal lowers the world emission reduction by 19.4% (8.2% direct effect and 11.2% leakage effect). The substantial leakage is primarily driven by technique effects induced by falling international fossil fuel prices.
F18|Un cuento de David y Goliat: Comercio, Tecnología y Crisis Ambiental|La heterogeniedad entre las acciones ambientales de los países es uno de los más grandes desafíos sociales y económicos globales. Este trabajo construye un modelo de comercio internacional de dos países y dos sectores simétricos (Sucio y Limpio) con cambio tecnológico dirigido que analiza si una política ambiental unilateral puede asegurar un crecimiento sostenible. La política es tomada por el Norte y, es una función del nivel del consumo y la calidad ambiental del país que la imponga. La política debe tener: (i) un impuesto a los insumos sucios domésticos para reducir el impacto ambiental del Norte; (ii) un arancel a los insumos sucios del extranjero para evitar paraísos de contaminación en los otros países y, (iii) un subsidio al sector limpio para promover la investigación en las tecnologías limpias. Cuando hay difusión tecnológica entre los países, esta política unilateral puede evitar una catástrofe ambiental global.
F18|Un cuento de David y Goliat: Comercio, Tecnología y Crisis Ambiental|La heterogeniedad entre las acciones ambientales de los países es uno de los más grandes desafíos sociales y económicos globales. Este trabajo construye un modelo de comercio internacional de dos países y dos sectores simétricos (Sucio y Limpio) con cambio tecnológico dirigido que analiza si una política ambiental unilateral puede asegurar un crecimiento sostenible. La política es tomada por el Norte y, es una función del nivel del consumo y la calidad ambiental del país que la imponga. La política debe tener: (i) un impuesto a los insumos sucios domésticos para reducir el impacto ambiental del Norte; (ii) un arancel a los insumos sucios del extranjero para evitar paraísos de contaminación en los otros países y, (iii) un subsidio al sector limpio para promover la investigación en las tecnologías limpias. Cuando hay difusión tecnológica entre los países, esta política unilateral puede evitar una catástrofe ambiental global.
F18|Open Access Renewable Resources, Urban Unemployment, and the Resolution of Dual Institutional Failures|This paper investigates how poverty reduction and environmental resource preservation can be simultaneously achieved in a small open dual economy with urban wage rigidity, rural open access resources, and rural-urban migration. An increase in the export tax rate on the rural resource good increases urban unemployment in both the short and long run with resource dynamics. We find that the first-best policy, which makes the two goals compatible, is an urban wage subsidy combined with either a rural wage subsidy at a lower rate or, if the urban output price is sufficiently high, a rural tax. An increase in the export tax on the resource good could induce rural institutional change away from open access, but protection of urban manufacturing through a tariff hinders such rural institutional change.
F18|Unequal vulnerability to climate change and the transmission of adverse effects through international trade|In this paper, we consider the unequal distribution of climate change damages in the world and we examine how the underlying costs can spread from a vulnerable to a non-vulnerable country through international trade. To focus on such indirect effects, we treat this topic in a North-South trade overlapping generations model in which the South is vulnerable to the damages entailed by global pollution while the North is not. We show that the impact of climate change in the South can be a source of welfare loss for northern consumers, in both the short and the long run. In the long run, an increase in the South’s vulnerability can reduce the welfare in the North economy even in the case in which it improves its terms of trade. In the short run, the South’s vulnerability can also represent a source of intergenerational inequity in the North. Therefore, we emphasize the strong economic incentives for non-vulnerable -and a fortiori less-vulnerable – economies to reduce the climate change damages on – more – vulnerable countries.
F18|Is irrigation driven by the economic value of internationally traded agricultural products?|A recent trend of literature investigates how international trade compensates or accentuates the differences in countries' endowments in water resources and whether trade regulation should be used to improve the use of water resources at the global level. Unlike previous works that focus on the cost of water resources, this paper emphasizes the price of traded goods as a key element of the shadow value of water used in agriculture. We use a simple production model to establish a positive link between the demand for irrigation water and the international price of irrigated crops. We test our model empirically using data on 243 irrigated crops exported by 185 countries, and find that higher-priced products are irrigated more intensively. This indicates that agricultural producers internalize the price of irrigation water. The effect is stronger when countries are net exporters of irrigated crops and weaker for crops essential for reaching food security, such as cereals. Our results imply that trade policy is a pertinent instrument to incite or deter the use of irrigation water across products, easier to implement than a differentiated water pricing policy, especially in water-scarce developing countries.
F18|Optimal REDD+ in the carbon market|Unilateral actions to reduce CO2 emissions can be costly and may lead to carbon leakage through relocation of emission-intensive and trade-exposed industries (EITE). This paper examines the welfare effects of introducing an emission offset mechanism for the EITE sector, where EITE producers may have to acquire more than one offset credit to balance one ETS allowance. The analytical results suggest that under certain conditions it is globally welfare improving for a single region to introduce such an offset mechanism. Numerical simulations in the context of the EU ETS and REDD+ credits support the analytical findings, and suggest that it is optimal for the EU to require EITE producers to acquire several REDD+ credits to offset one EU ETS allowance.
F18|Optimal environmental border adjustments under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade|We consider the legal and economic context for border adjustments that might be used to augment subglobal carbon abatement. Following Markusen (1975) we establish optimal border policy in the presence of cross-border environmental damages. The optimal border policy includes a strategic component that is inconsistent with legal commitments under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Incorporating GATT compliance into the theory indicates an optimal border adjustment that taxes the carbon content of trade below the domestic carbon price. This theoretic finding is in contrast to the standard advice to impose the domestic carbon price on the carbon content of trade. The wedge between the domestic carbon price and the optimal environmental border adjustment occurs in general equilibrium because border adjustments inadvertently drive up consumption of emissions intensive goods in unregulated regions. We conclude our analysis with numeric simulations of Annex-I carbon policy. We find an optimal import tariff on the carbon content of aluminum that is on the order of 50% of the domestic carbon price. Countries that impose border carbon adjustments at the domestic carbon price will be extracting rents from unregulated regions at the expense of efficient environmental policy and consistency with international law.
F18|Market size asymmetry and industrial policy in an international duopoly: Environmental tax vs. production subsidy|This paper analyzes how international trade affects the governments’ decision on their industrial policy in the context of bilateral international trade and imperfect competition. We model an international duopoly with market size asymmetry and product heterogeneity. Each firm produces two different products, one for the domestic market and the other one for the foreign market, where the firms’ production generates local emissions. The findings of our paper show the important role of market asymmetry in determining the optimal industrial policy in a setting where both, firms and regulators, act strategically. The government in each country decides, as industrial policy between two option: an emission tax or a production subsidy. We find that the governments in small countries have incentives to set an environmental tax to the firms competing in international markets with similar size. This is the case even if the government in the large market decided to set a production subsidy, as long as market size asymmetry is low enough. Instead, if firms in a small country compete in large markets, that is, increasing the market size asymmetry between countries, it is then optimal for the government in the small country to give up emission taxes and pay productions subsidies to keep the firms’ competitiveness in the home and foreign markets if the government in the big country subsidizes production. In this case, an increase in the firms’ profits offsets the effects of emission damages on the country social welfare.
F18|Social division in the market: conspicuous consumption with nationalist feelings|In this paper, we explore the effects of conspicuous goods as means of social division between native citizens and migrants. We push forward the hypothesis that choosing a particular good can confer a sense of place. We introduce this idea in an international vertical differentiation market with two variants and two social groups: migrants and natives. Natives are narrow- minded since they attribute a positive social value to the variant that complies with their own consumption culture. Migrants are open-minded. When consumers belonging to different groups meet, they exchange information about their consumption habits and consumption well-being that reveals their consumption culture: narrow-minded versus open-minded. Consequently, after meeting, some consumers may change beliefs (narrow-minded to open-minded or vice versa) and consumption choices. Using a dynamic model, we fully elucidate the steady state equilibrium and highlight the impact of nationalism on migrant integration.
F18|Spatial Correlation, Trade, and Inequality: Evidence from the Global Climate|This paper shows that greater global spatial correlation of productivities can increase cross-country welfare dispersion by increasing the correlation between a country's productivity and its gains from trade. We causally validate this prediction using a global climatic phenomenon as a natural experiment. We find that gains from trade in cereals over the last half-century were larger for more productive countries and smaller for less productive countries when cereal productivity was more spatially correlated. Incorporating this role for spatial interdependence into a projection of climate-change impacts raises projected international inequality, with higher welfare losses across most of Africa.
F18|Exploring changes in world production and trade: Insights from the 2018 update of OECD’s ICIO/TIVA database|Drawing on the 2018 update of OECD’s Inter-Country Input-Output (ICIO) database, this paper explores the evolution of trade in value added (TiVA) between 2005 and 2015. Changes in international production systems are examined with particular attention given to four key sectors heavily integrated into global value chains (GVCs): Textiles and Apparel; Chemicals; ICT and Electronics; and, Motor Vehicles. Some insights into the roles played by services sectors and non-residents’ expenditure and, the employment and environmental impacts of GVCs, are also provided.Considerable heterogeneity across countries and regions is revealed, particularly for East and Southeast Asian where China plays a key role. Services are increasingly important for manufactured exporting activities as well as for countries wishing to “upgrade” their activities to higher value added stages of production. Taking a consumption perspective suggests that national efforts to mitigate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions could be affected by international outsourcing of production.
F18|Trends in policy indicators on trade and environment|Addressing the relationship between domestic environmental regulations and international trade policies is essential to better understand the need for consistency and complementarity between these areas. The set of trade and environment indicators developed by the OECD aims to provide insights on this relationship by shedding light on topical debates regarding the interactions between trade and environmental policies. Issues covered include: carbon emissions embodied in trade; embodied raw materials in trade; the volume of trade in environmentally-related goods; tariffs on environmentally-related goods; support measures for fossil fuels; enabling policy and regulatory environment for renewable energy; the volume of trade in waste and scrap; and nutrient balances of exported grains. Although initial insights are provided for these indicators, no detailed analyses is developed at this stage. Rather, these indicators are building blocks to analyse, for instance, the determinants of identified trends or to allow for a better understanding of the issues at hand. Possible avenues for further policy-relevant investigations using the indicators are identified and discussed for each topic covered.
F18|Is Environmental Tax Harmonization Desirable in Global Value Chains?|The current globalization is characterized by the spatial unbundling of parts production and assembly, leading to the dispersion of pollution. We study environmental taxes in a two-country model of global value chains in which the location of parts and assembly can di er. When unbundling costs are so high that parts and assembly must co-locate in the pre-globalized world, pollution is spatially concentrated and harmonizing environmental taxes maximizes the global welfare. By contrast, under low unbundling costs triggering the dispersion of parts and thus of pollution in the world today, the harmonization does not maximize the global welfare.
F18|Impacts of China Coal Import Tariff against US on Global Economy and CO2 Emissions|This paper examines the impacts of China coal import tariff against US on global economy and CO2 emissions. Using Global Trade Analysis Project Environmental (GTAP-E) model, coal import tariff was found to generate trade deflection and trade depression phenomena. Then, US and China’s would have welfare loss, but Indonesia and Australia would seem gainers from this tariff war. Furthermore, skilled and unskilled labor will decline in coal’s industry in US and increase in China. Finally, it is also found evidence that China coal import tariff was not good policy because not only the global economy, the environment would be disadvantaged by increasing CO2.
F18|Trade Negotiations and Global Relations: Emerging Players and Actors|"The EU's development policy seeks to eradicate poverty, promote the sustainable development of developing countries, defend human rights and democracy and promote gender equality and overcome environmental and climate challenges. Development aid is a limited resource. For this reason, the Union is committed to the effectiveness of aid and promotes close relations with partner countries in terms of programming and implementing development actions. With this perspective, the ""EU Code of Conduct on the division of labor in the field of development policy"" was adopted in 2007, and the ""Operational framework on the effectiveness of development aid"" was adopted in 2011. These measures are consistent with the international measures undertaken in response to the 2005 Paris Declaration of the OECD, which promotes ownership, harmonization, alignment, results and mutual responsibility in development assistance. Amidst highly anticipated outcomes from ongoing trade talks between US and China, Brexit negotiations outcomes, as well recently concluded NAFTA negotiations, the atmosphere surrounding global trade relations could not be more highly charged. This volume not only illustrates how the changing face, landscape and scene of political economy and international trade relations are significantly impacting financial stability, regulatory, legal and financial related actors; but also highlights and explains how certain actors are contributing in addressing those instabilities which are threatening current global spheres as a result of recent developments."
F18|Experiential EKC: Trade Openness for Optimal CO2 Emission in SAARC Region|Impact of globalization in terms of environmental degradation over trade liberalization is renowned strong theoretical underpinning in the literature. Nevertheless, testing Environmental Kuznets model of trade liberalization is not adequately estimated to provide pragmatic evidences for optimal environmental policy designs. Besides identifying the Environmental Kuznets Hypothesis (EKH); testing for (i) CO2 emission and economic growth (ii) CO2 emission and trade openness, (iii) changes of emissions over simulated trade openness under the experiential Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) was estimated using dynamic panel data estimation with Instrumental Variable-Generalized Methods of Moments. The paper used innovative approach to measure the scale effect after performing series of approximations of EKH relationships, a non-linear relationship between percentage changes of CO2 emission with respect to the simulated trade openness, are predicted using Monte Carlo simulation experiments. Data from WDI of World Bank was used to model the EKC relationships. The results provides evidences that the impacts are considered as the magnifier effect, as this experimentation shows that the increase of trade openness, under these economic situations need to increase 400% to reach the maximum % of CO2 emissions to decrease gradually. The South Asian Association for Regional Corporation (SAARC) countries cannot increase the trade openness for eight times from current level of trade openness to minimize the emissions, thus high emission rates with increase of trade openness can’t be avoided without incorporation of environmental policy instruments. This study also verified that when trade liberalization eliminates subsidies, inducing less environmental friendly effects in the production processes, both trade flows and quality of the environment improves. Finally, the study produced evidences for policymakers to consider the regulatory effect of the trade liberalization in the SAARC region. The paper recommends movements towards the free trade intimidate the optimal environmental standards. Thus, optimal trade openness is essential for amending the SAARC regional trade agreement for environmental effects with regulations for minimizing the environmental impacts and sharing the common benefits among partners for designing the open economic policies.
F18|Avoiding a “No Deal” Scenario: Free Trade Agreements, Citizenship and Economic Rights|Whilst the legal and economic challenges presented by Brexit are gradually becoming more evident, observations and recommendations are already being drawn from consequences of a “ no deal scenario” and particularly the possibilities of entering into a variant of a Free Trade Agreement which should, prevent a “no deal” situation. Such a Free Trade Agreement existing between the current 28 EU Member States and the three EEA European Free Trade Association (EFTA) States Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway (EEA Internal Market) This paper, amongst other objectives, is aimed at highlighting such proposals which have been put forward to avert a “no deal scenario”. It is obvious that change – and more specifically, fundamental legislative, regulatory overhauls, will require not only the incorporation of expertise from different fields, but also time consuming and costly resources to address the demands of the transitional and implementation periods of such legislatively transformed landscapes. Certainly, a gradual process of incorporating and adapting to new regulatory and legislative changes and environments – and particularly in respect of economically sensitive related matters, would require not only thorough and dedicated observatory and monitoring periods, but also one which facilitates and encourages a process of greater democratic accountability and transparency to be incorporated into the legislative processes. Even though Brexit has generated a great degree of economic uncertainty – which has in turn presented challenges – as well as consequences, it also presents opportunities for new actors to engage and influence vital decision making aspects in areas which particularly revolve around information technology, sustainable development, innovation – as well hybrid financial instruments and volatile mediums which are embodied and personified by crypto currencies, derivatives and other complex financial instruments and mediums of exchange - all of which are reflective of a rapidly changing and evolving financial environment. The challenges now involve to a larger extent, the manner and the degree of relevance to which vital and dominating actors and institutions will be accurately represented and impact future legislation – particularly those which focus around issues relating to trade, environment and sustainable development policies.
F18|Cambodian place in the International trade of Textile and Clothing: Threat and Opportunity|This paper analyzes the threat and opportunity of textiles and clothing industry in Cambodia by employing SWOT analysis, quantitative method of revealed comparative and competitive advantage. The findings reveal that Cambodia has both comparative and competitive advantage of garment industry comparing to another Asian garment exporting countries-namely India, Pakistan, Thailand, and Vietnam, except Bangladesh. Whereas the Cambodian textile industry experiences both comparative and competitive disadvantage as it obtains the lowest score among counties in this study. Our analysis shows that the Cambodian T&S sector faces the risk of EBA, negative impact on the US-China trade war. Vietnam’s readiness, along with good trade policy between India and Bangladesh, is also has a negative impact on Cambodia. Cambodia must consider long-term and medium-term strategies to expand competitiveness for T&S exports. Nevertheless, the term of trade could obtain positive growth since the price of garment and textile products experiences an increasing trend.
F18|Determinants of Foreign Direct Investment in Ghana: A Sectoral Analysis|This study assesses the determinants of foreign direct investment (FDI) at sector level in Ghana taking into consideration the agriculture sector, services sector, and manufacturing sector. Using sector level data spanning 2000-2014, findings from the Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) regression analysis show that market size (measured by GDP) and labour cost have a significant impact on the inflows of agriculture sector FDI. The results also confirm trade openness and exchange rate to significantly influence services sector FDI. Unexpectedly, none of the variables are found to have significant effect on manufacturing sector FDI. The study recommends that the government should implement strategies that will enhance the growth of Ghana’s GDP, and deregulate the economy to allow more foreign investors into the country.
F18|CETA and Air Pollution|The study empirically investigates and shows that on average, the implementation of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) may contribute to the fight against global warming. This study finds that on average, a one percent increase of a percentage point in the bilateral volume of trade as a portion of GDP between Canada and a typical EU member could help reduce annual per capita emissions of GHGs in an average CETA member by about .57 percent. The results also show that the presence of CETA may decrease annual per capita emissions of GHGs in almost all CETA members. There is no statistically significant evidence suggesting an increase of GHGs per capita emissions in any CETA member, regardless of the model or statistical method employed in the paper. These results stand because of the combinations of the factor endowment hypothesis (FEH), the pollution haven hypothesis based on population density variations (PHH2), and the pollution haven hypothesis based on national income differences (PHH1) between each EU member and Canada.
F18|The Role of TTIP on Other than CO2 Air Pollutants|We empirically investigate the impacts of the implementation of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) on per capita emissions of eight air pollutants and municipal waste. We employ the same explanatory variables and apply the same empirical strategy and methodologies as in (Qirjo and Pascalau, 2019). We provide robust evidence suggesting that the implementation of TTIP could be beneficial to the environment because it may help reduce per capita emissions of NO2 and HFCs/PFCs/SF6 in a typical TTIP member. This result is based on the statistically significant evidence showing that, on average, the pollution haven motive based on national per capita income variations is dominated by the Factor Endowment Argument based on the classical Heckscher-Ohlin trade theory and the pollution haven motive originating from an inverse measurement of national population density differences. However, we also report generally statistically significant evidence implying that the implementation of TTIP could denigrate the environment because it may help increase per capita emissions of SO2, SOx, NOx, SF6, and NH3.
F18|China shock: environmental impacts in Brazil|We study whether the â€œChina shockâ€ , defined as Chinaâ€™s rapid emergence in global markets, caused environmental impacts in Brazilian municipalities, since previous evidence points to effects on real wages and formal sector employment over the period of 2000 to 2010. Building on recent theoretical developments, we implement a shift-share strategy to explore variation in economic specialization between municipalities and find that Chinaâ€™s direct influence on deforestation of the Amazon and Cerrado was on average insignificant, which is supported by the literature. On the other hand, Chinaâ€™s demand for commodities seems to have increased pollution-related mortality of children in mining municipalities, a result obtained by comparing it to mortality caused by other factors. However, we show that this is most likely explained by a municipalityâ€™s degree of specialization in mining activities rather than its exposure to trade with China. We conclude that the environmental impacts of the China shock on Brazilian municipalities were small, if not negligible.
F18|Environmental Policy and Firm Selection in the Open Economy|In this paper, we analyse the effects of a unilateral change in an emissions tax in a model of international trade with heterogeneous firms. We find a positive effect of tighter environmental policy on average productivity in the reforming country through reallocation of labour towards exporting firms. Domestic aggregate emissions fall, due to both a scale and a technique effect, but we show that the reduction in emissions following the tax increase is smaller than in autarky. Moreover, general equilibrium effects through changes in the foreign wage rate lead to a reduction in foreign emissions and, hence, to negative emissions leakage in case of transboundary pollution.
F18|Strategic environmental policy and the mobility of firms|"The loss of international competitiveness of domestic industries remains a key obstacle to the implementation of effective carbon prices in a world without harmonized climate policies. We analyze countries' non-cooperative choices of emissions taxes under imperfect competition and mobile polluting firms. In our general equilibrium setup with trade, wage effects prevent all firms from locating in the same country. While under local or no pollution countries achieve the first-best, under transboundary pollution taxes are inefficiently low and lower than under autarky where only the ""standard"" free-riding incentive distorts emissions taxes. This effect is more pronounced when polluting firms are mobile."
F18|Environmental policy and firm selection in the open economy|In this paper, we analyse the effects of a unilateral change in an emissions tax in a model of international trade with heterogeneous firms. We find a positive effect of tighter environmental policy on average productivity in the reforming country through reallocation of labour towards exporting firms. Domestic aggregate emissions fall, due to both a scale and a technique effect, but we show that the reduction in emissions following the tax increase is smaller than in autarky. Moreover, general equilibrium effects through changes in the foreign wage rate lead to a reduction in foreign emissions and, hence, to negative emissions leakage in case of transboundary pollution.
F18|Strategic environmental policy and the mobility of firms|The loss of international competitiveness of domestic industries remains a key obstacle to the implementation of effective carbon prices in a world without harmonized climate policies. We analyze countries’ non-cooperative choices of emissions taxes under imperfect competition and mobile polluting firms. In our general equilibrium setup with trade, wage effects prevent all firms from locating in the same country. While under local or no pollution countries achieve the first-best, under transboundary pollution taxes are inefficiently low and lower than under autarky where only the ‘standard’ free-riding incentive distorts emissions taxes. This effect is more pronounced when polluting firms are mobile.
F18|The effects of natural disasters and weather variations on international trade: A review of the empirical literature|This review summarizes the empirical literature on the effects of natural disasters and weather variations on international trade flows. A first result is that the body of literature is actually not as small as previously suggested. In total, I summarize 19 studies of 18 independent research teams and show that there is a large diversity in terms of motivations, data sets used, methodologies, and results. Still, some overarching conclusions can be drawn. Increases in average temperature seem to have a detrimental effect on export values (less on imports), mainly for manufactured and agricultural products. Given climate change, this is an important finding for projecting long-term developments of trade volumes. Imports seem to be less affected by temperature changes in the importing country. Findings on the effects of natural disasters are more ambiguous, but at least it can be said that exports seem to be affected negatively by occurrence and severity of disasters in the exporting country. Imports may decrease, increase, or remain unaffected by natural disasters. Regarding heterogeneous effects, small, poor, and hot countries with low degrees of institutional quality and political freedom seem to face the most detrimental effects on their trade flows. Possible directions of future research include analyzing spillover effects in-depth (in terms of time, space, and trade networks), considering adaptation, and using more granular data.
F18|Are exporters more environmentally friendly? A re-appraisal that uses China's micro-data|Is a firm's ability to export an important determinant of environmental performance? To answer this question, we construct a unique micro dataset that merged two rich firm-level datasets for China for 2007. When combining this new dataset with well-received empirical specifications, we found that both export status and export intensity are associated with lower sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions intensity. In addition to the traditional OLS estimation, we verified this association by using the propensity score matching method. Our findings show that the baseline result still holds. In short, exporters are more environmentally friendly than non-exporters,which is in line with previous evidence reported for developed economies. We further discuss mechanisms that explain the observed pattern and show that exporters realize higher abatement efforts compared to non-exporters. This study complements the literature in terms of providing China's micro evidence on SO2 abatement efforts. It also serves as a first step toward a better understanding of the impact of trade on the environment, especially in developing countries.
F18|Environmental regulation and eco-industry trade: Theory and evidence from the European Union|"In this paper, we theoretically and empirically study the impact of environmental taxation on trade in environmental goods (EGs). Using a trade model in which the demand for and supply of EGs are endogenous, we show that the relationship between environmental taxation and demand for EGs follows a bell-shaped curve. Above a cutoff tax rate, a higher pollution tax rate can reduce the bilateral trade of EGs because there are too many low-productivity suppliers of EGs. Our empirical results confirm our main findings using data regarding the EU-27 countries. We also theoretically and empirically show that environmental taxation has a monotonically positive impact on the extensive margin of trade. Furthermore, we show that if countries apply an environmental tax rate equals to the ""optimal"" tax rate, 4.03% (e.g., the tax rate maximizing international trade of EGs), then trade in EGs would experience an increase of 22 percentage points."
F18|Convergence in pollution terms of trade| To construct pollution terms of trade (PTT) on the basis of CO2 emissions, we implement the world input–output tables for 40 countries by 35 industries to account for intermediate trade. We examine whether the PTTs have converged among the 40 countries between 1995 and 2009. The empirical evidence supports PTT convergence; PTT growth is negatively related to its initial level and this empirical result is robust to various control variables.
F18|The international elasticity puzzle is worse than you think|We instrument export prices with firm level electricity cost shocks and estimate three international price elasticities using firm-level export data: the elasticity of firm exports to export price, tariff and real exchange rate shocks. In standard models these three elasticities should be equal. We find that this is far from being the case. The export price elasticity is the highest, around 5, much larger than the exchange rate elasticity. The international elasticity puzzle is therefore worse than previously thought. We also show that exporters absorb one third of tariff changes in their export prices. Because we take into account this reaction of export prices to tariffs, our estimate of the tariff elasticity corrects from this omitted-variable bias.
F18|Climate Change, Strict Pareto Improvements in Welfare and Multilateral Income Transfers|This paper explores the role of multilateral transfers in achieving strict Pareto improvements in welfare, focusing on identifying conditions under which their use is warranted when carbon prices differ internationally and there are impediments to international trade. Using a general equilibrium model of international trade with global emission externalities, it is shown that strict Pareto improvements in welfare may arise from multilateral income transfers when either trade or carbon taxes are constrained away from their Pareto optimal levels. The purpose of transfers is then to account for the impact on emissions of the trade distortions and inappropriate carbon pricing. Such transfers exist if and only if a generalized normality condition is violated. A numerical example illustrates the transfer mechanism.
F18|Endogenous Climate Coalitions and Free Trade - Building the Missing Link|In this paper, we discuss the endogenous formation of climate coalitions in an issue-linkage regime. In particular, we propose to build a link to the issue of preferential free trade. Trade privileges exclusively granted to members of the climate coalition work as an incentive mechanism for countries to join in. A multi-stage strategic trade framework is used in which coalition (fringe) countries can dispose of a policy set comprising a discriminatory import-tariff on dirty goods as well as producer emission permits traded on a common (local) permits market. A fairly novel modelling of the preferential free trade area is incorporated which is at the core of our approach. We find strong support for the claim that trade liberalization can promote relatively large and effective climate coalitions compared to the single issue regime. As a policy implication, negotiations on international climate treaties and free trade arrangements should be interlinked.
F18|On Sharing Responsibilities for Pollution Embodied in Trade|In this article, we propose a new way of assessing environmental responsibility at the country level, taking into account their trade balance in terms of carbon. Starting from the fact that the approach based on the respective responsibilities of the producer and the consumer, which are widely promoted and used in the literature, each have their own limitations, we introduce a modiÖed formula for the net trade balance of carbon at the country level. To do this, we examine the extent to which trade áows for a given country increase or decrease global emissions relative to the virtual situation where imports would have been produced in the consumer country. We argue that it would be fair for countries to retain responsibility for the additional emissions they create when trading. We then discuss the incentives provided by the modiÖed liability rule to reduce emission intensity and extend our formula to include trade in intermediate goods. Finally, we illustrate our concept using World Bank and OECD data on trade áows and emission intensity ratios. Finally, we characterize six groups of countries according to the respective order of their producer, consumer and our new liability rule.
F18|Border Tax Adjustments and Tariff-Tax Reforms with Consumption Pollution|We develop a model of a small open economy, where pollution per unit of consumption between domestically produced and imported quantities of the same good differs. We show that the first-best policy combination calls for consumption taxes on all polluting goods, and Border Tax Adjustment (BTA) measures, i.e., tariffs or import subsidies. We identify conditions under which well known tariff-tax reform policies for developing economies, such as a consumer-price-neutral piecemeal reform of a trade and a consumption tax, and a consumer-price-neutral reform of all trade and consumption taxes improve welfare. We also evaluate whether a consumer-price-neutral reform of a tariff and a consumption tax is superior to a reform of a tariff alone.
F18|Fluctuations in renewable electricity supply: Gains from international trade through infrastructure?|113 countries report producing electricity from non-hydro renewable sources and thereby participate in the global energy transition. This paper shows through a dynamic panel data analysis that imports of electric currents have increased and exports have decreased through the higher share of renewables in electricity production, controlling for other factors. On the one hand more cables have been built recently; but on the other hand some countries are blocking electricity shocks technologically as they suffer from free trade temporarily when receiving supply shocks. This shows that trade currently helps dealing with fluctuations of supply, but temporary losses for recipients of shocks may require payments to leave the borders open.
F18|Virtual Water Trade: The Implications of Capital Scarcity|The original idea behind the virtual water (VW) concept is that water-abundant countries will become producers of water-intensive goods and consequently net exporters of water, and this will alleviate the initial unequal distribution of hydric resources. We criticize this optimistic view by introducing empirical evidence that is consistent with the Heckscher-Ohlin model of international trade. We find that, though virtual water exports are increasing in the combined availability of water and arable land when comparing countries with a similar level of available water-land resources, those with higher (lower) levels of physical-human capital tend to be net importers (exporters) of water. This result relies on the intuition that high levels of capital accumulation lead water to become a relatively scarce factor in developed countries. Thus, while more developed countries shift away from agriculture, less developed countries that lack sufficient capital do not have this option and end up using water resources even if they are not abundant. Such a trade pattern could create immediate economic benefits for less developed countries, but also exerts pressure on their water resources. Therefore, prioritizing economic development in countries that have limited water availability, may be crucial to avoid excessive usage and depletion of global water resources.
F18|Regulation of Geo-blocking: does it address the problem of low intraEU iTrade?|The goal of the article is to critically verify and to discuss main areas necessary for increasing intraEU iTrade. To achieve this aim, the legal analysis of the regulation is confronted with the econometric approach identifying the main determinants of cross-border e-commerce. The model is based on data from a survey conducted among 6901 Polish business owners in 2017. Our hypotheses include the following issues: (1) the main barrier of intraEU iTrade is the low level of integration of digital technologies by SMEs; therefore (2) the character of the impact of legal means adopted in the regulation 2018/302 on the development of transnational service provision and entrepreneurship based on e-commerce is doubtful. We argue that the introduction of more and more advanced requirements by EC will only reduce their interest in developing business abroad through cross-border e-commerce and result in losing the opportunities linked to the development of digital economy.
F18|Empirical estimates of the methane–income elasticity|We estimate the income-elasticity of methane emissions per capita derived from production, final production, and consumption in a global sample of countries for 1997–2011. We find relative decoupling between emissions and income, and evidence for a piecewise-linear relationship. The relation between economic growth and emissions improves as countries reach high levels of income, although the magnitude of the improvement is small. This points to very minor methane-efficiency gains from economic development.
F18|Are International Environmental Policies Effective? The Case of the Rotterdam and the Stockholm Conventions|This is the first paper to show that participation in an international environmental agreement has some effectiveness. Our identification strategy consists of applying difference-in-differences techniques in a panel data framework to various levels of data aggregation. We find that ratification of the Rotterdam Convention (RC) and the Stockholm Convention (SC) leads to a reduction in trade of hazardous substances from OECD to non-OECD countries. In particular, we find that when the exporter ratifies the RC, there is a reduction in the import of hazardous chemicals of about 7 percent. In the case of the SC, the results show significant reductions of around 16 percent in trade shipments of persistent organic pollutants. This reduction is more than double the effect found for the RC, which was expected due to a more restricted obligation imposed by the SC convention.
F18|Emission Taxes, Firm Relocation, and Quality Differences|This paper studies the effect of an emission tax on the relocation decision in a duopoly with exogenous vertical product differentiation. We establish the relationship between quality difference, relocation cost, and marginal damage of emissions in a two-country-setting for three cases: An environmental tax set only by one country, non-cooperative environmental taxation in both countries, and coordinated environmental taxation. We consider two different timings: a time-consistent government, and a committed government. The higher the quality difference, the more likely it is that at least one firm relocates to the foreign country. A lower marginal damage decreases the equilibrium tax rate and lowers the incentive for relocation. If also the foreign country applies an emission tax, there is no equilibrium in which both firms relocate to the foreign country. If both governments set taxes non-cooperatively, the low-quality firm never relocates in equilibrium. If both countries set taxes cooperatively, it is more likely that both firms remain in the home country. Also, relocation of the low-quality firm only is a possible outcome of cooperative taxation.
F18|Low, High and Super Congestion of an Open-Access Resource: Impact under Autarky and Trade, with Aquaculture as Illustration|Analysis of open-access common-property natural resource (NR) has occurred under “low” congestion (LC) – where 𝐴𝐶 and 𝑀𝐶 increase with output 𝑄 – and has for the most part ignored the more important congestion categories where 𝐴𝐶 (𝑀𝐶) is backward-bending (negative) and welfare and NR losses are significantly greater. This paper identifies two such categories, “high” (HC) and “super” (SC) congestion, and examines the impact of open access on steady-state welfare, NR, employment, output and price in a general equilibrium model. Main findings are: i) Welfare and NR costs (and optimal taxes) are a multiple or orders of magnitude greater under HC and (especially) SC than under LC, with trade further – and always – reducing an open-access exporter’s NR and welfare. These results are robust to alternative parameter values and functional forms and greatly increase the importance of regulation; ii) An optimal tax raises price and reduces output under autarky in the case of LC and HC but reduces price and raises output under SC, with significantly larger gains; iii) Studies conducted under LC show trade between open-access developing country C1 and regulated but otherwise identical C2 reduces C1’s welfare and both C1’s and global NR, and though the same holds under HC, the opposite holds under SC; iv) Trade between two open-access countries – say, a developing and an emerging one – with different externality (population) levels raises global output and welfare, improves NR’s global efficiency, raises (does not affect) its level, and reduces international inequality; and v) Emigration’s welfare gain is much larger under SC than under LC, especially if migration results in LC after migration. Application to other issues and policy implications are provided.
F18|Harmonization of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Standards in Cocoa Trade: How Competitive are the Major Exporting Countries?| The importance of Sanitary and Phytosanitary (SPS) standard stems from its usefulness in ensuring plant, animal and human safety. However, stringency and multiplicity of the export standards stand in the way of achieving gains of trade globalization and true competitiveness by developing countries that are mostly exporters of primary agricultural produce. To this end, this study analyzed the effect of stringency of SPS standards on the competitiveness of cocoa exporters from the perspectives of individual importing countries and harmonized standards. The study found out that the increasingly stringent global standards improved trade rather than hampering it, exporting countries lost huge revenue in the absence of harmonization and exporters competitiveness was dependent on market type and scale of trade. The study recommended that cocoa exporting countries should take care of hindrances to supply-side factors, engage in country and market-specific negotiations on standards harmonization at the WTO and get involved in inter-governmental engagements. Keywords: SPS measures, harmonization, competitiveness, cocoa, international trade JEL: C23, F14, F18, Q17, Q18 Acknowledgement :
F18|Environmental regulation and eco-industry trade: Theory and evidence from the European Union|In this paper, we theoretically and empirically study the impact of environmental taxation on trade in environmental goods (EGs). Using a trade model in which the demand for and supply of EGs are endogenous, we show that the relationship between environmental taxation and demand for EGs follows a bell-shaped curve. Above a cutoff tax rate, a higher pollution tax rate can reduce the bilateral trade of EGs because there are too many low-productivity suppliers of EGs. Our empirical results confirm our main findings using data regarding the EU-27 countries. We also theoretically and empirically show that environmental taxation has a monotonically positive impact on the extensive margin of trade. Furthermore, we show that if countries apply an environmental tax rate equals to the “optimal” tax rate, 4.03% (e.g., the tax rate maximizing international trade of EGs), then trade in EGs would experience an increase of 22 percentage points.
F18|Can Cleaner Environment Promote International Trade? Environmental Policies as Export Promoting Mechanisms|We develop an international duopoly model where the firms export their output to a world-market. Production uses a depletable resource, and it generates pollution which affects negatively households welfare. Governments control pollution using (i) an emission tax, the revenue from which finances public pollution abatement, (ii) a revenue-recycling tax, refunded to the emitting firm contingent on reducing the cost of private pollution abatement, and (iii) an environmentally related standard. We evaluate them as (i) export promoting Non-Tariff Measures (NTMs) measuers, and (ii) resource conserving/depleting and welfare enhancing policy instruments. Our results indicate that, by and large (i) public pollution abatement works as an export-promoting but resource depleting mechanism, which under certain conditions can enhance welfare; (ii) revenue recycling works as an export-contracting but resource preserving mechanism, and (iii) environmental standards relative to public abatement work as an export-contracting but resource preserving mechanism, but relative to revenue recycling work in the opposite direction.
F18|Border Tax Adjustments and Tariff-Tax Reforms with Consumption Pollution|We develop a model of a small open economy, where pollution per unit of consumption between domestically produced and imported quantities of the same good differs. We show that the first-best policy combination calls for consumption taxes on all polluting goods, and Border Tax Adjustment (BTA) measures, i.e., tariffs or import subsidies. We identify conditions under which well known tariff-tax reform policies for developing economies, such as a consumer-price-neutral piecemeal reform of a trade and a consumption tax, and a consumer-price-neutral reform of all trade and consumption taxes improve welfare. We also evaluate whether a consumer-price-neutral reform of a tariff and a consumption tax is superior to a reform of a tariff alone.
F18|Free Trade Agreements with Environmental Standards|In this paper, we investigate the effects of a free trade agreement (FTA) with environmental standards between Northern and Southern countries, with explicit considerations for transferring clean technology and enforcing reduced emissions. Southern producers benefit greatly by having access to a Northern market without barriers, while they are reluctant to use new high-cost, clean technology provided by the North. Thus, environmentally conscious Northern countries should design an FTA where Southern countries provide sufficient benefits for the membership while imposing tighter enforcement requirements. Since including too many Southern countries dilutes the benefits of being a member of the FTA, it is in the best interest of the North to limit the number of Southern memberships while requiring strict enforcement of emissions reduction. This may result in unequal treatment among the Southern countries. We provide a quantitative evaluation of FTA policies by using a numerical example.
F18|International spillovers and carbon pricing Policies|Globally coordinated climate action has resulted in sub-optimal emissions reductions and unilateral (second-best) climate policies have so far provided the bulk of emissions reductions. This paper argues that the development of new unilateral carbon pricing policies was fostered by international signalling and technological spillover effects. The strength of both effects hinges, for each jurisdiction, on trade relations with other CO2-abating jurisdictions. We provide a stylised theoretical discussion in support of our proposition and investigate it using data on a panel of 121national jurisdictions over the period 1990-2014. Results show a strong positive association between import-weighted exposure to CO2-pricing partners and domestic environmental policy. The analysis also supports the technological spillover channel: trade-weighted installed capacity of wind and solar energy seems to prompt implementation of and more stringent carbon pricing policies.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F18|Per Capita Income, Consumption Patterns, and CO2 Emissions|This paper investigates the role of income-driven differences in consumption patterns in explaining and projecting energy demand and CO 2 emissions. We develop and estimate a general-equilibrium model with non-homothetic preferences across a large set of countries and sectors, and trace embodied energy consumption through intermediate use and trade linkages. Consumption of energy goods is less than proportional to income in rich countries, and more income-elastic in low-income countries. While income effects are weaker for embodied energy, we find a significant negative relationship between income elasticity and CO 2 intensity across all goods. These income-driven differences in consumption choices can partially explain the observed inverted-U relationship between income and emissions across countries, the so-called environmental Kuznet curve. Relative to standard models with homothetic preferences, simulations suggest that income growth leads to lower emissions in high-income countries and higher emissions in some low-income countries, with only modest reductions in world emissions on aggregate.
F18|Regulating Mismeasured Pollution: Implications of Firm Heterogeneity for Environmental Policy|This paper provides the first estimates of within-industry heterogeneity in energy and CO2 productivity for the entire U.S. manufacturing sector. We measure energy and CO2 productivity as output per dollar energy input or per ton CO2 emitted. Three findings emerge. First, within narrowly defined industries, heterogeneity in energy and CO2 productivity across plants is enormous. Second, heterogeneity in energy and CO2 productivity exceeds heterogeneity in most other productivity measures, like labor or total factor productivity. Third, heterogeneity in energy and CO2 productivity has important implications for environmental policies targeting industries rather than plants, including technology standards and carbon border adjustments.
F18|Regulating Mismeasured Pollution: Implications of Firm Heterogeneity for Environmental Policy|This paper provides the first estimates of within-industry heterogeneity in energy and CO2 productivity for the entire US manufacturing sector. We measure energy and CO2 productivity as output per dollar energy input or per ton CO2 emitted. Three findings emerge. First, within narrowly defined industries, heterogeneity in energy and CO2 productivity across plants is enormous. Second, heterogeneity in energy and CO2 productivity exceeds heterogeneity in most other productivity measures, like labor or total factor productivity. Third, heterogeneity in energy and CO2 productivity has important implications for environmental policies targeting industries rather than plants, including technology standards and carbon border adjustments.
F18|Evaluating the Economic Cost of Coastal Flooding|Sea-level rise and ensuing permanent coastal inundation will cause spatial shifts in population and economic activity over the next 200 years. Using a highly spatially disaggregated, dynamic model of the world economy that accounts for the dynamics of migration, trade, and innovation, this paper estimates the consequences of probabilistic projections of local sea‐level changes under different emissions scenarios. Under an intermediate greenhouse gas concentration trajectory (Representative Concentration Pathway [RCP] 4.5), permanent flooding is projected to reduce global real GDP by an average of 0.22% in present value terms, with welfare declining by as much as 0.76% as people move to places with less attractive amenities. By the year 2200 a projected 0.79% of world population will be displaced (with a 95% credible interval 0.20%‐1.51%). Losses in many coastal localities are more than an order of magnitude larger, e.g., 10% of 10 x 10 coastal cells lose more than 8% of real GDP in present discounted value terms.
F18|Barriers to Trade in Environmental Goods: How Important they are and what should developing countries expect from their removal|Few developing countries have participated in the environmental goods agreement (EGA) negotiations to reduce barriers on trade in Environmental Goods (EGs). Reasons for this reluctance are first reviewed along with a comprehensive description of barriers to trade (tariffs and NTBs) on two lists of EGs used in negotiations comprised mostly industrial products (The APEC and WTO lists), and a third, a list of Environmentally Preferable Products (EPPs) more representative of the perceived interests of developing countries. The paper then revisits and extends the literature on the estimation of barriers to trade in EGs for these lists. These estimates are carried out with a structural gravity model and new data: (i) on bilateral (rather than MFN) tariffs, and; (ii) with a measure of regulatory overlap in bilateral trade to capture the often-observed pattern of greater bilateral trade among countries that share similar regulatory regimes. Results show that tariffs generally reduce the intensity of bilateral trade, often with little difference in statistical significance between the EG and non-EG group for each list. Regulatory harmonization, as captured by an increase in regulatory overlap is also estimated to be conducive to more intense bilateral trade.
F18|Fossil Fuel Subsidy Reform in the Developing World: Who Wins, Who Loses, and Why?|Fossil fuel subsidies are widespread in developing countries, where reform efforts are often derailed by disputes over the likely distribution of gains and losses. The impacts of subsidy reform are transmitted to households through changes in energy prices and prices of other goods and services, as well as through factor earnings. Most empirical studies focus on consumer expenditures alone, and computable general equilibrium analyses typically report only total effects without decomposing them by source. Meanwhile, analytical models neglect important open-economy characteristics relevant to developing countries. In this paper, we develop an analytical model of a small open economy with a preexisting fossil fuel subsidy and identify direct and indirect impacts of subsidy reform on real household incomes. Our results, illustrated with data from Viet Nam, highlight two important drivers of distributional change: (i) the mix of tradable and nontradable goods, reflecting the structure of a trade-dependent economy; and (ii) household heterogeneity in sources of factor income.
F18|International Spillovers and Carbon Pricing Policies|Globally coordinated climate action has resulted in sub-optimal emissions reductions and unilateral (second-best) climate policies have so far provided the bulk of emissions reductions. This paper argues that the development of new unilateral carbon pricing policies was fostered by international signalling and technological spillover effects. The strength of both effects hinges, for each jurisdiction, on trade relations with other CO2-abating jurisdictions. We provide a stylised theoretical discussion in support of our proposition and investigate it using data on a panel of 121national jurisdictions over the period 1990-2014. Results show a strong positive association between import-weighted exposure to CO2-pricing partners and domestic environmental policy. The analysis also supports the technological spillover channel: trade-weighted installed capacity of wind and solar energy seems to prompt implementation of and more stringent carbon pricing policies.
F18|Unequal vulnerability to climate change and the transmission of adverse effects through international trade|In this paper, we consider the unequal distribution of climate change damages in the world and we examine how the underlying costs can spread from a vulnerable to a non-vulnerable country through international trade. To focus on such indirect effects, we treat this topic in a North-South trade overlapping generations model in which the South is vulnerable to the damages entailed by global pollution while the North is not. We show that the impact of climate change in the South can be a source of welfare loss for northern consumers, in both the short and the long run. In the long run, an increase in the South's vulnerability can reduce the welfare in the North economy even in the case in which it improves its terms of trade. In the short run, the South's vulnerability can also represent a source of intergenerational inequity in the North. Therefore, we emphasize the strong economic incentives for non-vulnerable - and a fortiori less-vulnerable - economies to reduce the climate change damages on - more - vulnerable countries.
F18|Foreign Demand and Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Empirical Evidence with Implications for Leakage|With asymmetric climate policies, regulation in one country can be undercut by emissions growth in another. Previous research finds evidence that regulation erodes the competitiveness of domestic firms and leads to higher imports, but increased imports need not imply increased emissions if domestic sales are jointly determined with export sales or if emission intensity of manufacturing adjusts endogenously to foreign demand. In this paper, we estimate for the first time how production and emissions of manufacturing firms in one country respond to foreign demand shocks in trading partner markets. Using a panel of large Indian manufacturers and an instrumental variable strategy, we find that foreign demand growth leads to higher exports, domestic sales, production, and CO2 emissions, and slightly lower emission intensity. The results imply that a representative exporter facing the average observed foreign demand growth over the period 1995-2011 would have increased CO2 emissions by 1.39% annually as a result of foreign demand growth, which translates into 6.69% total increase in CO2 emissions from Indian manufacturing over the period. Breaking down emission intensity reduction into component channels, we find some evidence of product-mix effects, but fail to reject the null of no change in technology. Back of the envelope calculations indicate that environmental regulation that doubles energy prices world-wide (except in India) would only increase CO2 emissions from India by 1.5%. Thus, while leakage fears are legitimate, the magnitude appears fairly small in the context of India.
F18|National Policies for Global Emission Reductions: Effectiveness of Carbon Emission Reductions in International Supply Chains|In a world with diverging emission reduction targets, national climate policies might be ineffective in reducing consumption-based CO2 emissions (carbon footprints), i.e. emissions of final demand that are embodied across the whole supply chain, including international fractions. We analyse a set of different policies in three areas with particularly high consumption-based emissions in Austria: building construction, public health, and transport. To capture the substitution possibilities triggered by these policies and the induced emission reductions along the full global supply chain, our analysis combines a Computable General Equilibrium with a Multi-Regional Input-Output model. For construction of buildings we find that a carbon added tax is highly effective in reducing consumption-based emissions whereas an information obligation on vacant dwellings combined with a penalty payment when vacant buildings are not made available is ineffective because of reallocated investment capital. Mandatory energy efficiency improvements in public health and mobility are found equally effective in reducing consumption- and production-based emissions while a decarbonization of freight transport logistics stronger reduces production-based emissions. Overall, the effectiveness of policies, to mitigate consumption-based emissions, is therefore determined by the backward and forward linkages of the sector addressed by the policy as well as the substitution effects within final demand.
F18|The implications of climate change on Germany’s foreign trade: A global analysis of heat-related labour productivity losses| We investigate climate change impacts transferred via foreign trade to Germany, a country which is heavily engaged in international trade. Specifically, we look at temperature changes and the associated labour productivity losses at a global scale until 2050. We assess the effects on Germany’s imports and exports by means of a global Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model. To address uncertainty, we account for two Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSP2 and SSP3) and two Representative Concentration Pathways (RCP4.5 and RCP8.5) using projections from five global climate models. We find that average annual labour productivity for high intensity work declines by up to 31% (38% with the higher emission scenario) in South-East Asia and the Middle East by 2050 (relative to a 2050 baseline without climate change). As a consequence, Germany’s imports from regions outside Europe are lower by up to 2.4%, while imports from within Europe partly compensate this reduction. Also Germany’s exports to regions outside Europe are lower but total exports increase slightly due to higher exports to EU regions. Germany’s GDP and welfare, however, are negatively affected with a loss of up to -0.41% and -0.46%, respectively. The results highlight that overall positive trade effects for Germany constitute a comparative improvement rather than an absolute gain with climate change.
F18|Energy efficiency gains from importing intermediate inputs: Firm-level evidence from Indonesia|This paper investigates whether importing intermediate goods improves firm-level environmental performance in a developing country, using data from the Indonesian manufacturing sector. We build a simple theoretical model showing that trade integration of input markets entails energy efficiency improvements within importers relative to non-importers. To empirically isolate the impact of firm participation in foreign intermediate input markets we use ‘nearest neighbour’ propensity score matching and difference-in-difference techniques. Covering the period 1991–2005, we find evidence that becoming an importer of foreign intermediates boosts energy efficiency, implying beneficial effects for the environment.
F18|Barriers to trade in environmental goods: How Important they are and what should developing countries expect from their removal|Few developing countries have participated in the environmental goods agreement (EGA) negotiations to reduce barriers on trade in Environmental Goods (EGs). Reasons for this reluctance are first reviewed along with a comprehensive description of barriers to trade (tariffs and NTBs) on two lists of EGs used in negotiations comprised mostly industrial products (The APEC and WTO lists), and a third, a list of Environmentally Preferable Products (EPPs) more representative of the perceived interests of developing countries. The paper then revisits and extends the literature on the estimation of barriers to trade in EGs for these lists. These estimates are carried out with a structural gravity model and new data: (i) on bilateral (rather than MFN) tariffs, and; (ii) with a measure of regulatory overlap in bilateral trade to capture the often-observed pattern of greater bilateral trade among countries that share similar regulatory regimes. Results show that tariffs generally reduce the intensity of bilateral trade, often with little difference in statistical significance between the EG and non-EG group for each list. Regulatory harmonization, as captured by an increase in regulatory overlap is also estimated to be conducive to more intense bilateral trade.
F18|Are international environmental policies effective? The case of the Rotterdam and the Stockholm Conventions|This paper is the first to estimate the effect of two international agreements (Rotterdam Convention, RC, and the Stockholm Convention, SC) in reducing trade in hazardous substances. We estimate the effects of ratification of these agreements on imports of the affected products putting emphasis in the flows from developed countries (OECD) to developing countries (non-OECD) to capture pollution deviation. We use product level data to identify the goods subject to the conventions and the identification strategy relies on the use of difference-in-difference techniques in a panel data framework. We find that when the exporter ratifies the RC and the flow is from OECD to non-OECD countries, a significant reduction of imports in hazardous chemicals is observed after ratification. The magnitude of the effect is a cumulative decrease in imports of about 7 percent. In the case of the SC, the results show significant reductions in trade shipments from OECD to non-OECD countries in persistent organic pollutants for non-OECD importers that have ratified the convention. We observe a reduction of around 16 percent, more than double the effect found for the RC, which was expected due to the different obligations imposed by the respective conventions.
F18|Appellations d’origine : un atout pour l’export ?|Les Appellations d’origine protégées (AOP) garantissent que toutes les étapes de production d’un produit ont été réalisées selon un savoir-faire reconnu attaché à un territoire. Ce cadre, hérité des appellations d’origine françaises et italiennes et harmonisé au niveau européen depuis 1992, est très différent de celui des pays anglo-saxons qui privilégient le système des marques, ce qui rend le sujet sensible dans les négociations commerciales. Au-delà de ces différends, quelle est l’incidence de ces AOP sur les performances des entreprises exportatrices ? Cette Lettre présente les résultats d’une étude associant le CEPII et l’INRA portant sur les fromages français qui montre que les produits AOP sont reconnus par les consommateurs étrangers comme des produits de qualité. Cette qualité perçue permet à ces produits d'être vendus sur un plus grand nombre de marchés à des prix plus élevés. En revanche, elle ne permet pas d’accroître la quantité exportée.
F18|Antidumping and Feed-In Tariffs as Good Buddies? Modeling the EU-China Solar Panel Dispute|The paper analyzes the interactions between trade and renewable energy policies based on the EU-China solar panel dispute which is the most significant antidumping (AD) complaint in Europe. We build a price competition duopoly model with differentiated products and intra-industry trade in photovoltaic (PV) equipment. We show that an optimal antidumping duty always increases with the feed-in tariff (FIT) program set in the home country. An appropriate antidumping duty - nullifying the dumping margin - decreases with the FIT program. We show that optimal FIT increases with the AD duty. Therefore, trade and renewable energy optimal policies may complement one another. Lastly, we introduce R&D activities in the PV sector, and international spillovers. We show that R&D makes the optimal FIT lower and increases the dumping margin. These effects are reinforced by technological spillovers.
F18|Measuring the Impact of Agricultural Production Shocks on International Trade Flows|The purpose of this study is to measure the sensitivity of traded quantities and trade unit values to agricultural production shocks. We develop a general equilibrium model of trade in which production shocks in exporting countries affect both traded quantities and trade unit values. The model includes per-unit trade costs and develops a methodology to quantify their size exploiting the trade unit value data. Using bilateral trade flow data for a large sample of countries and agricultural commodities we find that the intensive margin of trade is relatively inelastic to production shocks, with a 1 percent increase in production leading to a 0.5 percent increase in exports. We also find that per-unit trade costs are large, comprising 15 to 20 percent of import unit values on average. Overall, our results suggest that there is room for improving trade as a mechanism for coping with food production volatility.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F18|Emission price, output-based allocation and consumption tax: Optimal climate policy in the presence of another country’s climate policy|The allowances in an emission trading system (ETS) are commonly allocated for free to the sector, e.g., in the form of output-based allocation (OBA). The reason is the risk of carbon leakage exposure such as relocation of emission-intensive and trade-exposed industries (EITE). A prime example of this is the EU ETS, where the policymakers have stated that they will continue this practice. However, lately a third approach, combining OBA with a consumption tax, has been proposed to mitigate carbon leakage, and it has been shown to have an unambiguously global welfare improving effect. This paper presents the potential outcome of climate policy, by examining the Nash equilibrium of a policy instrument game between regions who regulate their emissions separately. In particular, we investigate the case when a policymaker can choose to supplement her ETS with OBA and/or with a consumption tax, based on another policymaker’s optimal choice for her ETS. We show analytically the optimal rate of OBA and consumption tax in the presence of a climate polices in another region. Finally, we present the results from a numerical simulation in the context of the EU ETS and the Chinese ETS.
F18|Discrepancies Between Environmental Kuznets Curves For Production- And Consumption-Based Co2 Emissions|This paper analyzes the patterns of CO2 emissions for a sample of 144 countries in 1992–2013. The environmental Kuznets curve (EKC) hypothesis was tested with the help of econometric analysis for both production- and consumption-based emissions. The relationship between incomes and emissions was also examined for leading national economies. The results show an important distinction: while there is some evidence of decoupling between economic growth and the growth of production-based emissions at a higher level of income, consumption-based emissions continue to grow with rising incomes even in the richest countries. There is further investigation of the discrepancies between production and consumption EKCs, which are determined by emissions embodied in international trade. A structural decomposition analysis (SDA) was applied to define the contribution of different factors to the change in emissions embodied in trade with the rise of GDP per capita. While structural and technological factors explain most of this change at low and middle levels of income, the effect of the volume of trade plays the key role in the evolution of emissions embodied in trade in high-income countries
F18|The Short and Long-Run Effects of International Environmental Agreements on Trade|Does the ratification of an international environmental agreement (IEA) reduce a countryâ€™s competitiveness on world markets? In this paper, we take a gravity regression approach to answering this question by using industry-level bilateral trade data and employing time-varying country fixed effects to control for the endogeneity of treaty participation. We find that ratifying an IEA has significant (albeit small) negative effects on the exports of a countryâ€™s median manufacturing industry as well as a compositional shift towards exporting cleaner goods. However, we also show that this negative competitive effect on the median manufacturing industry disappears in the long-run. In fact, the positive compositional shift becomes stronger in the long-run as a ratifying country sees a further decline in exports of dirtier industries which is more than compensated for by an increase in exports of cleaner industries, with an overall positive but negligible effect on employment.
F18|Supply-side links in oil and gas markets|Previous analyses of relationships between crude oil and natural gas markets focused primarily on demand-side connections. We provide a model and empirical evidence of important supply-side connections. First, crude oil and natural gas production require common inputs: drilling rigs, well completion services, and specialized labor. Competition for these inputs creates a \emph{cost-spillover} channel through which a price shock for one commodity reduces supply of the other commodity. Second, crude oil wells produce associated gas, while natural gas wells often produce associated liquid hydrocarbons. This creates an \emph{associated-commodity} channel through which a price shock for one commodity will increase supply of the other. Which effect dominates depends on the characteristics of the producing region. We test the model using well-level data from five large oil and gas producing basins in Texas and Oklahoma. We find substantial evidence across all five basins of a cost-spillover channel between natural gas prices and oil drilling, but mixed evidence of an associated-commodity channel between oil prices and natural gas drilling. Finally, we discuss the implications of these supply-side connections for energy policy.
F18|Per Capita Income, Consumption Patterns, and CO2 Emissions|This paper investigates the role of income-driven differences in consumption patterns in explaining and projecting energy demand and CO2 emissions. We develop and estimate a general-equilibrium model with non-homothetic preferences across a large set of countries and sectors, and trace embodied energy consumption through intermediate use and trade linkages. Consumption of energy goods is less than proportional to income in rich countries, and more income-elastic in low-income countries. While income effects are weaker for embodied energy, we find a significant negative relationship between income elasticity and CO2 intensity across all goods. These income-driven differences in consumption choices can partially explain the observed inverted-U relationship between income and emissions across countries, the so-called environmental Kuznet curve. Relative to standard models with homothetic preferences, simulations suggest that income growth leads to lower emissions in high-income countries and higher emissions in some low-income countries, with only modest reductions in world emissions on aggregate.
F18|The Crucial Role of International Trade in Adaptation to Climate Change|Climate change effects on agricultural yields will be uneven over the world with a few countries, mostly in high latitudes, that may experience gains, while most will see average yield decrease. This paper aims at quantifying the role of international trade in attenuating the effects of climate change by allowing the expression of the new climate-induced pattern of comparative advantages. To do this, we develop a quantitative general equilibrium trade model where the representation of acreage and land use choices is inspired from modern Ricardian trade models but also consistent with theoretical and empirical literature on land use choices. The model is calibrated on spatially explicit information about potential yields before and after climate change coming from the agronomic literature. The results show that the climate-induced yield changes generate large price movements that incentivize adjustments in acreage and trade. The new trade pattern is very different from the current one, showing the important role of trade flows in adapting to climate change. This is confirmed by larger welfare losses from climate change when adjustments in trade flows are constrained versus when they are not.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F18|Assessing Implementation of Environmental Provisions in Regional Trade Agreements|This report assesses the progress of the implementation of environmental provisions in RTAs. It focuses on the extent to which governments have complied with the environmental commitments made in the trade agreements to which they are a Party. The report takes a two track approach. First, a review of implementation and evaluation reports associated with environmental provisions in such agreements is performed. Second, a survey of government officials, trade negotiators and other experts is carried out.
F18|Assessing the Effectiveness of Environmental Provisions in Regional Trade Agreements: An Empirical Analysis|This report aims to test whether the inclusion of environmental provisions in Regional Trade Agreements (RTAs) has contributed to the improvement of environmental quality among the Parties to these agreements through empirical modelling and analysis. Three indicators are considered as a proxy for environmental quality: concentrations of suspended particulate matter less than 2.5 microns (PM2.5), sulphur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxide (NOx).The analysis identifies a statistically significant and positive relationship between membership in RTAs, either with or without environmental provisions, and improved environmental quality for two out of three pollutants investigated. However, the extent to which RTAs with environmental provisions makes an additional difference on emissions in comparison to those without environmental provisions could not be concluded with enough statistical certainty under the current empirical framework. Future analysis could benefit from better information on the channels of effects and the further developed environmental indicators on both policy and output.
F18|International Trade and the Transition to a More Resource Efficient and Circular Economy: A Concept Paper|The transition towards a more resource efficient and circular economy has broad linkages with international trade through the emergence of global value chains as well as trade in second-hand goods, end-of-life products, secondary materials and waste. Despite of the potential linkages between trade and the circular economy, the existing research on this issue is limited to date. For this reason, this paper highlights the potential interaction of international trade and the circular economy in order to map out potential issues to address and to guide further research areas to explore on this topic. The paper first briefly introduces the circular economy concept and how trade can come into play, second highlights the various ways in which trade and the circular economy can potentially interact with one another, and third briefly concludes with potential ways forward and next steps.
F18|Export Survival of Manufacturing Firms in Ethiopia:Empirical Evidence|This study used panel data for manufacturing firms from 2006 to 2016 to analyze the patterns and determinants of export survival of exporting firms in Ethiopia. The empirical investigation has two parts: non-parametric and semi-parametric methods. The non-parametric method analyzes the survivor function and the hazard (exit) rate of firms on the whole sample and by groups, while the semi-parametric analyzes a regression outputs based on the discrete-time model of proportional hazard model. The result from the survivor function analysis shows that, at the end of the study period, the number of firms that survive in export market are more than 50%. Moreover, the result of the hazard rate reveals as the duration of time increases, the rate at which firms exit the export market decreases sharply. With regard to our semi-parametric analyses, we examine the factors that affect survival of manufacturing firms in international market and observed the direction of the impacts they have on the survival rates. The findings show that large and medium firms, firms that have higher productivity, export oriented firms, private owned enterprises, firms located in textile and garment industries, firms located outside Addis Ababa and firms categorized as importers have higher probability of staying in export markets than the others.
F18|Impact of Financial Development, Economic Growth and Energy Consumption On Environmental Degradation: Evidence from Pakistan|With the advent of globalization and industrialization, the life of human being has become luxurious, efficient and comfortable but at the same time, the economies are facing the challenge of environmental degradation. Environmental degradation has become the significant problem around the world and increasing day by day. Amongst many, the key reasons of this environmental degradation are the financial development and energy consumption. The purpose of this study is to examine the impact of financial development, economic growth and energy consumption on environmental degradation in Pakistan. We construct financial development index for Pakistan by applying principle component method on the major four proxies of financial development available in literature namely; domestic credit by banking sector, domestic credit to private sector, stock market capitalization, and liquid liabilities. The unit root test, co-integration test, and ordinary least square analyses have been applied on the historical data over the period of 1972-2014. The empirical evidence shows that all the variables have a significant positive effect on environmental degradation which means an increase in any variable will increase the environmental degradation. This study will be beneficial for the strategy makers and government of Pakistan in the formulation of eco-friendly strategies.
F18|Output, renewable and non-renewable energy production, and international trade: Evidence from EU-15 countries|This research presents first empirical evidence on the dynamic relationship between output, renewable and non-renewable energy production, international trade, capital and labour in the case of the EU-15 countries over the period of 1980–2015 for individual countries as well as a group. A simple production function of capital and labour is extended as such that it incorporates the impact of renewable and nonrenewable energy inputs, and international trade on output level. Econometric estimations of the extended production equations are carried out via ARDL approach to cointegration for individual country cases and panel GMM econometric technique for the entire EU-15. The ARDL empirical results indicate the existence of cointegration relationships amongst the variables in the case of seven countries of the EU-15, in addition to the GMM based, long-run relationship for the entire EU-15 as a panel. The ARDL procedure suggests that the relative impact of renewable and nonrenewable energy inputs on output levels vary considerably for individual countries. The GMM results demonstrate the existence of the relative importance of renewable and non-renewable energy inputs along with international trade on output in the EU-15 countries. This paper also discusses policy implications of the empirical results, as well as offering policy recommendations.
F18|Is there green growth in OECD countries?|Taking the Ecological Footprint (EF) as a broad measure of environmental impact of economic activity, there is substantial progress in decoupling economic output from environmental impact. However, this progress has been too slow to compensate the negative environmental impact of economic growth. But since mid of 2000s the EF declines in the OECD countries, and the global EF increase is driven by emerging countries, i.e. China. However, the decline could be mainly explained by a GDP growth slowdown. To achieve a significant reduction (comparable to the goals of the Paris Agreement) a further slowdown could be necessary. Moreover, the paper investigates the role of globalization because the greening of production in OECD countries could be due to a shift of dirty industries to non-OECD countries. Thus OECD countries are net importers of the EF embodied in traded goods. However, the amount of net EF imports is too small and not correlated with the eco-productivity of production. As ecological productivity is strongly correlated with enforced environmental policy, globalization could be used as a vehicle to promote eco-productivity also in non-OECD countries.
F18|How Production Based and Consumption Based Emissions Accounting Systems Change Climate Policy Analysis: The Case of CO2 Convergence|Much of the existing research analyses on emissions and climate policy are dominantly based on emissions data provided by production-based accounting (PBA) system. However, PBA provides an incomplete picture of driving forces behind these emission changes and impact of global trade on emissions, simply by neglecting the environmental impacts of consumption. To remedy this problem, it is proposed to calculate national emissions based on consumption-based accounting (CBA) system. In this article we question the relevance of PBA’s dominance. To this end, we, firstly, try to assess and compare PBA with CBA adopted in greenhouse gas emissions accounting systems in climate change debates on several issues and to discuss the policy implications of the choice of approach. Secondly, we investigate the convergence patterns in production-based and consumption-based carbon emissions in 35 Annex-B countries for the period between 1990 and 2015. This study, for the first time, puts all these arguments together and discusses possible outcomes of convergence analysis by employing both the production and consumption based CO2 per capita emissions data. The empirical results found some important conclusions which challenge most of the existing CO2 convergence studies.
F18|Assessing the Impact of Ease of Doing Business and Corruption on Economic Growth for Africa Free Trade Zone (AFTZ) Member States|A positive economic growth is one crucial macroeconomic objective of every nation. Many countries have formed regional as well as international trading blocs in an attempt to enhance economic growth and maximise welfare of each member state, the AFTZ member states are not an exception. This paper seeks to investigate the impact of ease of doing business and corruption on economic growth of AFTZ member states. The study employed a panel data analysis for the period 2010-2016, using Stata Statistical Software. The study findings for the bloc, indicated that corruption, trading across borders, getting credit, registration of property, dealing with construction permits, and starting business have a significant impact on the bloc’s economic growth; with insolvency resolving and investor protection of concern as well. Paying attention to country effects test, with the quest for efficient results, the study further divided the AFTZ bloc into 3 groups using average GDP as the determining variable. The usual 3 panel models were run for each group, with efficiency noted from the reported adjusted R-squared and overall R-squared. The study recommends each member state to pay particular attention to the identified affecting variables for improved economic growth. The onus to improve economic wellbeing of each state does not lie on the bloc only but on individual efforts as well, since individual differences prevail. All this will enable the broader efficacy and vision of AFTZ to be realised.
F18|Trade Balance Analysis in Zimbabwe: Import and Export Examination Using Vector Auto-Regression Model|Zimbabwe, just like many other developing nations have failed to register a positive trade balance for the past decade. Zimbabwe, is then labelled a net-importer or a permanent net-importer, since imports have always been greater than exports. Despite differences in value of imports and exports, quality is also essential to determine the country’s development path. The trade balance is affected by both international and domestic events. Chief exports for Zimbabwe remains primary products which are unprocessed, while the country imports finished products which have been value-added. The study seeks to analyse the trade balance over the years 1980 to 2017, paying particular attention to the periodic trends. The study also explore the relationship between the trade balance components, being imports and exports. The study employed a trend analysis and a statistical analysis to attain its study objectives. The study noted a general rise in both exports and imports, however imports significantly above imports for the entire study period, whether for merchandise or non-merchandise. ADF unit root tests were applied to time series data and variables were found to be integrated of order one. Imports have been found to Granger cause exports while exports Granger cause imports as well. Johansen Cointegration test shows that exports and imports are cointegrated, however using the VAR model, the error correction term was insignificant, discarding the existence of a longrun relationship. Exports levels are affected by its past values and also past values of imports significantly. Imports are also affected by historical exports significantly. Improvement in export policy is critical, value addition to exports, market fetching through regionalism and import substitution is essential to manage the trade balance.
F18|Trade in Environmental Goods: Empirical Exploration of Direct and Indirect Effects on Pollution by Country’s Trade Status| Based on panel data covering 114 countries in the world, this study investigates the direct, indirect and total effects of trade flows in environmental goods (EG) on total CO2 and SO2 emissions. Our system-GMM estimations reveal positive direct scale – [between-industry] composition effects prevailing on the negative direct technique – [within-industry] composition effects (if any), as well as compensating the significant indirect technique effects channelled by the stringency of environmental regulations and per capita income. If the net importers of EGs (namely from the APEC54 and WTO26 lists) are recurrently found to face increased pollution (in particular CO2 emissions) due to direct scale-composition effects of trade in EGs, the EGs’ net exporters are more likely to see their local pollution to decrease, in particular thanks to income-induced effects. We show that the direct, indirect and total effects of trade in EGs depend on the country’s net trade status, the EGs’ classification and the pollutant considered.
F18|More Gas, Less Coal, and Less CO2? Unilateral CO2 Reduction Policy with More than One Carbon Energy Source|We examine an open economy’s strategy to reduce its carbon emissions by replacing its consumption of coal—very carbon intensive—with gas—less so. Unlike the standard analysis of carbon leakage, unilateral carbon-reduction policies with more than one carbon energy source may turn counter-productive, ultimately increasing world emissions. Thus, we establish testable conditions as to whether a governmental emission-reduction commitment warrants the exploitation of gas, and whether such a strategy increases global emissions. We also characterize the extent to which this unilateral policy makes the rest of the world’s emission commitments more difficult to meet. Finally, we apply our results to the case of the US.
F18|Working Paper 10-17 - Belgium’s Carbon Footprint - Calculations based on a national accounts consistent global multi-regional input-output table|The traditional attribution of responsibility for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to producing countries may be distorted by international trade flows as importing emission-intensive commodities contributes to reducing a country's production-based emissions. This has motivated the calculation of carbon footprints that measure the amount of domestic and foreign GHG emissions (directly and indirectly) embodied in commodities intended for final consumption by a country's residents. In thisworking paper, we present carbon footprint estimations for Belgium based on global multi-regional input-output (MRIO) tables that have been made consistent with detailed Belgian national accounts. According to our calculations, Belgium's carbon footprint is substantially higher than its productionbased emissions, which means that Belgium is a net importer of GHG emissions. Moreover, our results show that consistency with detailed national accounts does matter for MRIO-based carbon footprint calculations, in particular for a small open economy like Belgium.
F18|Antidumping and Feed-In Tariffs as Good Buddies? Modeling the EU-China Solar Panel Dispute|The paper analyzes the interactions between trade and renewable energy policies based on the EU--China Solar Panel dispute which is the most significant antidumping (AD) complaint in Europe. We build a price competition duopoly model with differentiated products and intra-industry trade in photovoltaic equipment. We provide two relevant types of AD duties. The optimal AD which maximizes social domestic welfare always increases with the feed-in tariff (FIT) program set in the home country. The appropriate AD -- equalizing the foreign firm's price on the domestic market with the foreign market price -- decreases with the FIT program. We show that the optimal FIT increases with the AD duty. Therefore, trade and renewable energy optimal policies may complement one another. When setting AD duties in clean energy sectors, it is important not to ignore the extent to which renewable energy is subsidized.
F18|Product quality and sustainability: The effect of international environmental agreements on bilateral trade|This paper addresses the impact of sustainability in production on international trade. In particular, it examines the effect of the International Tropical Timber Agreement (ITTA) on tropical timber trade. The empirical analysis is based on a gravity equation in a difference‐in‐difference setting, which is estimated by a panel Heckman's selection model. This accounts for the potentially systematic selection of trading partners into timber trade activity. We then conduct a comprehensive comparative static analysis solving the structural gravity model with and without the ITTA. This allows us to determine the trade impact of an ITTA‐induced increase in sustainability for participating as well as for third countries. We find that countries participating in the ITTA exhibit a significant and substantial increase in trade values ranging from 4% to 6%. Furthermore, we observe that this effect is more pronounced for smaller member countries. Non‐ITTA countries are confronted with reduced values of tropical timber trade flows.
F18|Der Einsatz von MRIO zur Berechnung der Fußabdrücke von Nationen – eine Anwendung der EXIOBASE-Datenbank|Ein Treibhausgas(THG)-Fußabdruck ist ein Maß für die Gesamtmenge an THG-Emissionen. Er erfasst die direkt und indirekt durch eine Aktivität verursachten THG-Emissionen oder die sich über die Lebensdauer eines Produktes akkumulierten THG-Emissionen. Es werden die durch Konsum von Gütern und Dienstleistungen verursachten Emissionen durch private Haushalte, den Staat und andere Endnachfrager berücksichtigt. Durch eine zunehmende internationale Verflechtung der Produktion werden auch die den international gehandelten Gütern und Dienstleistungen zurechenbaren Emissionen erfasst. Der Fußabdruck eines Landes ergibt sich somit aus der Summe der durch Konsum und Investitionen verursachten Emissionen im In- und Ausland. Fußabdrücke unterscheiden sich damit von der territorial abgegrenzten Sichtweise auf die Emissionen der internationalen THG-Berichterstattung. Dieses Paper gibt zunächst eine kurze Einführung in die Systematik der Input-Output-Tabellen und die Input-Output-Analyse. Anschließend wird ein Überblick über die aktuell in der Wissenschaft eingesetzten multiregionalen Input-Output-Modelle (MRIO) gegeben. Es wird die Theorie der Berechnung von Fußabdrücken erläutert und mit dem EXIOBASE-Datensatz ein THG-Fußabdruck für Deutschland berechnet.
F18|The Incentives for North-South Transfer of Climate-Mitigation Technologies with Trade in Polluting Goods|Abstract The need to transfer climate mitigation technologies towards the developing world has been acknowledged since the beginning of climate negotiations. Little progress has however been made, as shown by Article 10 of the Paris Agreement. One reason is that these technologies could become vital assets to compete on global markets. This paper presents a partial equilibrium model with two regions, the North and the South, and imperfect competition in the international polluting goods market, to analyze the North’s incentives to accept technology transfer. Results crucially depend on the existence of environmental cooperation. When both northern and southern governments set emission quotas non-cooperatively, inducing fewer global emissions is a necessary, but not sufficient condition for the North to accept the transfer. In contrast, when governments set quotas cooperatively, the North has no incentive to share its technology either before or after the agreement. Technology transfer commitments may be included in the agreement, but with no effect on global emissions and global surplus. The only impacts are distributional, technology transfers and side payments may be substitute instruments.
F18|Promotion of cooperation when benefits come in the future: A water transfer case|This paper presents a two-regime differential game, with a first period in which two countries cooperate in a joint investment project to construct a specific infrastructure. This period ends when the infrastructure is finished, which serves to increase each player's welfare in a subsequent non-cooperative game played by the two countries thereafter. We define an imputation distribution procedure (IDP) to share the investment costs during cooperation according to each player’ future benefits. We prove that the IDP is time consistent if at any time within the cooperative period each country's share on the surplus to go is equal to or converges towards the country's relative gains from the existence of the infrastructure (realized in the subsequent non-cooperative period). Furthermore, we obtain the instantaneous side-payment scheme which makes the IDP feasible. The mechanism is studied for a joint investment project to build a water canal to transfer water between a surplus and a deficit river basin.
F18|Cleaner firms or cleaner products? How product mix shapes emission intensity from manufacturing|We explore the contribution of product mix in determining firm and aggregate emission intensity. First, using detailed firm-product emission intensity data from India, we find that more efficient firms are less emission intensive, and that products with the largest sales tend to be cleaner than other products within the firm. We also find that emission intensity in India dropped significantly between 1990-2010 through reallocations across firms, while product mix played a counteracting role in increasing firm emission intensity. Next, we develop a multi-product multi-factor model with heterogeneous firms, variable markups, and monopolistic competition in which each product has a specific emission intensity. We find that pro-competitive market developments lead to an improvement in the aggregate emission intensity – through reallocations across firms – even though firms can become dirtier or cleaner through product mix. This theoretical result fits particularly well the empirical facts.
F18|Food trade, Biodiversity Effects and Price Volatility|Biotic factors such as pests create biodiversity effects that increase food production risks and decrease productivity when agriculture specializes. Under free trade, they reduce the specialization in food production that otherwise prevails in a Ricardian two-country setup. Pesticides allow farmers to reduce biodiversity effects, but they are damaging for the environment and for human health. When regulating farming practices under free trade, governments face a tradeoff: they are tempted to restrict the use of pesticides compared to under autarky because domestic consumption partly relies on imports and thus depends less on them, but they also want to preserve the competitiveness of their agricultural sector on international markets. Contrary to the environmental race-to-the-bottom tenet, we show that at the symmetric equilibrium under free trade restrictions on pesticides are generally more stringent than under autarky. As a result, trade increases the price volatility of crops produced by both countries, and, depending on the intensity of the biodiversity effects, of some or all of the crops that are country-specific.
F18|Trade Integration and the Polarisation of Eco-Labelling Strategies|Growing ecological concerns give rise to salient discussions of green policy impact within different social sciences domains. This research studies the outcomes of voluntary environmental labelling in autarky and upon trade integration in the presence of two types of heterogeneity, across countries and across producers. It investigates the impact of the two main types of eco-labels - multiple-criteria-based programmes (ISO Type I) and self-declared environmental claims (ISO Type II), both of which are simultaneously introduced due to the environmental concerns of consumers. The model illustrates the polarisation of eco-labels when the least productive firms tend to avoid green strategies, lower-middle productive and the most efficient firms are incentivized to greenwash, and the upper-middle productive firms choose trustful programmes. It also shows that voluntary green restrictions lead to substantial productivity effects in the market upon opening to international trade, conditionally, depending on the type of the labelling and the relative degree of environmental awareness across trading countries. The model predicts average market productivity losses and within segments productivity gains for the relatively more eco-concerned country, while the effects for the relatively less eco-concerned country are the opposite.
F18|A Regional Trade Model with Ricardian Productivity Gains and Multi-technology Electricity Supply|This article presents an applied general equilibrium model which combines the theoretical foundations of an Eaton-Kortum type model of international trade with the complexity of a global multi-region, multi-sector Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model of production and consumption. The Eaton-Kortum model features endogenous trade-induced productivity gains via Ricardian specialization and takes non-tariff trade costs into account. Model regions and sectors can be disaggregated, e.g., representing technology-specific electricity generation. The models is tailored to explicitly study the German Federal State of Lower Saxony, a prime location for renewable electricity generation in Germany with ambitious climate policy goals. The calibration utilizes the structural estimation of a gravity model with constraints, while the disaggregation adapts methods used in regional science and energy economics. With these features the model goes beyond standard CGE models and provides new insights in the nexus between trade policy and climate policy. Simulations suggest that the removal of tariffs creates smaller welfare gains than a comparable reduction of non-tariff barriers to trade but also a slightly smaller increase in global CO2 emissions. Trade policy-induced productivity gains and renewable energy subsidies significantly reduce carbon leakage from the EU to the rest of the world by making the EU more CO2-efficient. With its large wind power potential, Lower Saxony is less susceptible to negative effects of climate policy than the rest of Germany.
F18|The effect of globalisation on energy footprints: Disentangling the links of global value chains|This paper investigates the impact of global value chains on energy footprints. Energy footprints are consumption-based indicators which record the energy used to produce a country's final demand. In order to disentangle key characteristics of global value chains and their effects on the global energy footprint, we employ structural decomposition analyses (SDA). Furthermore, the analysis combines a retrospective with a prospective SDA approach. After an analysis of the global energy footprint for the period between 1995 and 2009, we discuss three scenarios of international integration and their implications for energy footprints for the period from 2009 to 2030. Our results show that the global energy footprint has increased by 29.4% from 1995 to 2009, and the scenarios indicate that it will increase by another 23.5% until 2030. Economic activity is the most important driver for the increase in energy footprints. Rising final demand alone would have increased the global energy footprint by 47.0% between 1995 and 2009. The composition of countries from where consumption and investment goods come adds another 12.6%. Sectoral energy intensity reductions are the most important decelerator of energy use (−27.8%). There is a substantial contribution of changing global value chains on the rise in the global energy footprint (7.5%): Stronger backward linkages in global value chains increased the global energy footprint by 5.5% between 1995 and 2009. Changes in the regional composition of intermediate inputs raised it by another 1.8%. The shift of the world economy towards East Asia alone would have increased the global energy footprint by 3.0%. The sectoral composition of global value chains, on the other hand, had a negligible effect on energy footprints.
F18|Taxing consumption to mitigate carbon leakage|Unilateral actions to reduce CO2 emissions could lead to carbon leakage such as relocation of emission-intensive and trade-exposed industries (EITE). To mitigate such leakage, countries often supplement an emissions trading system (ETS) with free allocation of allowances to exposed industries, e.g. in the form of output-based allocation (OBA). This paper examines the welfare effects of supplementing OBA with a consumption tax on EITE goods. In particular, we investigate the case when only a subset of countries involved in a joint ETS introduces such a tax. The analytical results suggest that the consumption tax would have unambiguously global welfare improving effects, and under certain conditions have welfare improving effects for the tax introducing country as well. Numerical simulations in the context of the EU ETS support the analytical findings, including that the consumption tax is welfare improving for the single country that implements the tax.
F18|Eco-Efficiency Of The Road Freight Transport Of The Region North America In The International Trade|This research aims at quantifying and analyzing carbon footprint as an indicator of eco-efficiency in the Mexican international road freight transport industry. We compare Mexican efficiency to the United States and Canada. This evaluation is done using GHG emissions (Greenhouse Gas) of Quantis in its Scope 3 version. We examine data series for the period 2003-2011. The carbon footprint of Mexico, USA and Canada was calculated and then a comparative evaluation of the emissions was performed for each of the 3 countries. The results show that Mexico and Canada generate a higher percentage of indirect emissions, without downplaying direct emissions generated. In the US the total emissions from the sector study (80.62%) refers to emissions generated directly by operating units of the sector. It concludes with alternative solutions to mitigate emissions
F18|Economic Liberalization and the Environmental Kuznets Curve: Some Empirical Evidence|This paper applies the Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) model to examine the impact of trade openness, foreign direct investment liberalization, the decreasing role of the state, energy consumption and urbanization on per capita emission in countries at various stages of economic development and as a group. For this purpose, a dynamic panel estimation applying the Arellano-Bond¡¯s Generalized Method of Moments (GMM) was conducted using the average of five-year observations from 1980?2009. The findings suggest that while trade and Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) are not expected to affect environmental quality, increasing role of the state has a negative and significant impact only in developed countries. Further, the results suggest that energy consumption has a significant impact on all countries regardless of their stage of development, while urbanization affects environmental quality only in the least developed countries.
F18|Trade Patterns and the Ecological Footprint - a theory-based Empirical Approach|"With global specialization and trade, countries make directly but also indirectly use of the environment via traded goods. Based on the theory of comparative advantages, the Heckscher-Ohlin-Vanek approach, we are using the Ecological Footprint as a broad measure of environmental use because its methodology explicitly accounts for the environmental use embodied in the traded goods. The comparative advantages depend on the endowment of environment as well as on the stringency of environmental policy which regulate the access to these factors. We empirically analyse the determinants of the ecological side of the trade pattern, i.e. whether the net export of the Ecological Footprint, embodied in the traded goods, depends on the comparative advantages as predicted by the theory, but also on a couple of control variables. A special focus is put on the role of environmental policy stringency which links our analysis to the ""Pollution Haven"" hypothesis. We also briefly analyse the role of FDI flows for the emergence of the ecological specialization pattern of production and trade."
F18|How does Foreign Direct Investment Affect Pollution? Toward a Better Understanding of the Direct and Conditional Effects|Abstract This paper seeks to investigate the impact of foreign direct investments (FDIs) on industrial pollution ( $$\hbox {CO}_{2}, \hbox {SO}_{2}, \hbox {NO}_\mathrm{x}$$ CO 2 , SO 2 , NO x and BOD emissions) on a large sample of highly heterogeneous countries. By using panel data on manufacturing FDIs from France, Germany, Sweden, and the United Kingdom between 1995 and 2008, and by developing an empirical model with “first” and “second order” interaction terms, we investigate the existence and the conditionality of the most controversial FDI-induced effects on industrial emissions, i.e., Pollution Haven, Factor Endowments and Pollution Halo hypotheses. The paper has three main findings: (1) the central hypotheses linking pollution to FDI are found to act simultaneously, with opposing effects; (2) FDIs are associated with pollution reduction, i.e., predominating pollution halo induced effect, in countries with low to average capital-to-labour ratio but not too lax environmental regulation; (3) FDIs are found to increase pollution, i.e., prevailing pollution haven and/or factor endowments induced effects, in countries with average capital endowments and lax environmental regulations, as well as in all the capital abundant countries, though with a smaller magnitude in countries having strict environmental regulations and/or a high-skilled labour force. Some specific and interesting findings are discussed regarding different FDI-origin countries and FDI-host country groups.
F18|Environmental Protection for Sale: Strategic Green Industrial Policy and Climate Finance|Abstract Industrial policy has long been criticized as subject to protectionist interests; accordingly, subsidies to domestic producers face disciplines under World Trade Organization agreements, without exceptions for environmental purposes. Now green industrial policy is gaining popularity as governments search for low-carbon solutions that also provide jobs at home. The strategic trade literature has largely ignored the issue of market failures related to green goods. I consider the market for a new environmental good (like low-carbon technology) whose downstream consumption provides external benefits (like reduced emissions). Governments may have some preference for supporting domestic production, such as by interest-group lobbying, introducing a political distortion in their objective function. I examine the national incentives and global rationales for offering production (upstream) and deployment (downstream) subsidies in producer countries, allowing that some of the downstream market may lie in nonregulating third-party countries. Restraints on upstream subsidies erode global welfare when environmental externalities are large enough relative to political distortions. Climate finance is an effective alternative if political distortions are large and governments do not undervalue carbon costs. Numerical simulations of the case of renewable energy indicate that a modest social cost of carbon can imply benefits from allowing upstream subsidies.
F18|Trade and Commodity Taxes as Environmental Instruments in an Open Economy|In a simple reciprocal dumping model of trade, this study scrutinizes the strategic role of trade and commodity taxes as environmental instruments when consumption of an imported product generates pollution. The results suggest that both trade and commodity taxes have important implications on countries’ integration through trade. For sufficiently small values of the marginal disutility from pollution, the country claiming responsibility for pollution prefers commodity taxes over import tariffs, and compared to the case of trade policies, free trade can be maintained for larger values of the marginal disutility from pollution when commodity taxes are used strategically as environmental instruments.
F18|Could China Be the Winner of the Next Industrial Revolution?|This paper attempts to give a comprehensive picture of China’s current position and prospects for growth in the next industrial revolution, assessing whether the country can emerge as one of the “global winners” of the coming transformation. We provide an overview based on a review of the literature on the main driving megatrends of the so-called Fourth Industrial Revolution and present the most important socioeconomic implications affecting China. We progress by analysing China’s current economic situation and growth prospects, reviewing secondary data. We find that to ensure a positive grow path, there is a need to enhance productivity via innovation, and we thus evaluate the innovative capacities of Chinese industry. We conclude that China is already a world leader in various industries based on consumer-focused, efficiency-driven innovation, and while Chinese players have not attained global competitiveness yet in engineering and science-based industries, if the country can follow its current path of development in promoting R&D, with no major systemic disturbances, it is only a matter of time before Chinese players will also emerge as world leaders in high-tech sectors.
F18|International trade consequences of climate change|"This report provides an analysis of how climate change damages may affect international trade in the coming decades and how international trade can help limit the costs of climate change. It analyses the impacts of climate change on trade considering both direct effects on infrastructure and transport routes and the indirect economic impacts resulting from changes in endowments and production. A qualitative analysis with a literature review is used to present the direct effects of climate change. The indirect impacts of climate change damages on trade are analysed with the OECD’s ENV-Linkages model, a dynamic computable general equilibrium model with global coverage and sector-specific international trade flows. By building on the analysis in the OECD (2015) report ""The Economic Consequences of Climate Change"", the modelling analysis presents a plausible scenario of future socioeconomic developments and climate damages, to shed light on the mechanisms at work in explaining how climate change will affect trade."
F18|Trade in services related to the environment|This paper discusses the nature and scope of international trade in environmentally related services, and analyses the implications that services trade restrictions have on the provisions of these services domestically and abroad. Numerous services appear crucial to the delivery and proper functioning of environmental goods and equipment be they a wastewater-treatment facility or a renewable power plant. By helping lower the costs of these services and improving access to world-class suppliers, trade policy can contribute alongside energy and environmental policy to the prevention and abatement of greenhouse-gas emissions and pollution in all its forms. Besides clarifying the role and scope of services related to the environment, the analysis undertaken in this paper suggests that the restrictions that countries impose on services trade may have a detrimental effect on the provision of environmental activities through the establishment by specialised firms of a commercial presence abroad, i.e. through mode 3 trade in services.
F18|Climate change and trade policy interaction: Implications of regionalism|This report investigates the implications of regionalism for the interaction between trade and climate policy. It examines the implications of regional climate governance for international trade and conversely the implications of regional trade governance for climate change action. Regional approaches to climate change governance are discussed with a specific focus on the rise of “climate clubs” and their implications for international trade. Moreover, regional trade agreements and their current environmental provisions related to climate change are also examined. Building on these analyses, this report explores the various ways in which regional trade agreements could address climate change objectives, and draws lessons from recent developments in regional trade governance for the further evolution of such agreements.
F18|Making trade work for all|Against the background of rising anti-globalisation sentiment, this report argues that, while there are good reasons for some people to be angry, trade is not the root of many problems, nor can it solve them on its own. What is needed is an integrated approach to make the whole system work better for more people. This means three things. First, creating the environments where benefits from trade can materialise through domestic policies that encourage opportunity, innovation and competition by cutting unnecessary trade costs and investing in people and digital and physical infrastructure. Second, doing more to bring everyone along, including in lagging regions where trade shocks can be concentrated. Third, making the international system work better, harnessing the full range of international economic co-operation tools to level the international playing field, addressing the gaps in the rules and doing more to ensure that everyone, from companies to countries, plays by the rules.
F18|The Product-Related Environmental Regulation, Innovation, and Competitiveness: Empirical Evidence from Malaysian and Vietnamese Firms|This study examined the impact of two PRERs released by the EU—RoHS and REACH—on Malaysian and Vietnamese firms’ compliance. The analysis considers productivity as a realization of innovations and examines the R&D enhancement effect of PRERs. The effect of PRERs on productivity is also broken down into direct and indirect effects through R&D enhancement. The result shows that the response to REACH can create incentives to advance R&D, and productivity can increase through both direct and indirect channels. No relationship between the response to RoHS and R&D expenditure is found. Further analysis shows that firms comply with RoHS and REACH in different ways, but just the ability to continue exporting to the EU motivates compliance.
F18|Trade and Environmental Quality in African Countries: Do Institutions Matter?|Abstract We examine the impact of trade and political institutions on environmental quality in Africa and explore whether political institutions matter to the trade–environment relationship. We use data from a large group of African countries, covering the period 1990–2008 and two indicators of environmental quality: net forest depletion and CO2 emissions. Results from GMM-SYS estimates suggest that political institutions influence the relationship between trade and environmental quality only in the case of CO2 emissions. Interestingly, we find that polity has a U relationship with net forest depletion. In addition, the results are in favor of an environmental Kuznets curve in the case of pollution but not in the case of net forest depletion. Finally, the results suggest that urbanization has a positive and linear impact on CO2 emissions, while it has a U-shaped relationship with deforestation. We discuss the policy implications of these findings.
F18|Firm Risk and Performance: The Role of Corporate Governance in Bertam Alliance Berhad|The aim of this study is to analyze company profit and firm performance with the specific risk. The data obtained from the annual report Bertam Alliance Berhad starting from the year 2012 to the year 2015. The measurement of liquidity ratio and operating ratio used to see the overall performance of the Bertam Alliance Berhad in 5 years. The other measurement that have been used is current ratio, debt to equity ratio, return on asset, return on equity and the average collection period. To see the relationship of the risks factors to the profitability, this study use liquidity ratio which is current ratio, GDP and operating ratio. The data was analysed by using correlation table. In this study found that the return of asset is positively significant to return on equity.
F18|The Role of TTIP on the Environment|The current study empirically investigates and shows that, on average, the possible implementation of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) would generally help in the fight against global warming. In particular, the study finds that a 1% increase in the bilateral trade between the United States and the typical EU member would reduce annual per capita emissions of CO2 and GHGs in the typical TTIP member by about 2.7% and 2.4%, respectively. However, results also show that TTIP may increase annual per capita emissions of GHGs in the United States by about 2.5% per year. These results stand because the factor endowment hypothesis and the pollution haven hypothesis based on population density variations appear to dominate the pollution haven hypothesis based on national income differences.
F18|TTIP and the Environmental Kuznets Curve|This paper uses data on emissions per capita of ten air pollutants and municipal waste to investigate the potential impact of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) on the empirical validity of the Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC). Using a dataset of the twenty-eight EU members and of the U.S. over a twenty-five year period, the results in this paper provide robust and statistically significant evidence consistent with the EKC argument for CO2, CH4, and HFCs/PFCs/SF6, respectively. Further, the paper finds a monotonically increasing relationship between income per capita and emissions per capita in the cases of GHGs, SF6, and NO2, respectively. In addition, this paper finds that the EKC’s turning point values of each pollutant are sensitive to the econometric approach and/or to the employed control variables. Finally, the study reports statistically significant evidence suggesting a U-shaped relationship between emissions per capita of SO2 or SOx and income per capita.
F18|Determinants of FDI in Afghanistan: An Empirical Analysis|Purpose: The purpose of this study is to describe the major FDI determinants that show capital flow in Afghanistan and to investigate impact of FDI determinants on economy of Afghanistan in particular. Design/methodology/approach: This Research look into whether FDI determinants influence FDI based in Afghanistan by taking time series data using OLS, over the period of 2005-2015. Findings: The relation of FDI with a few FDI determinants including total debt service, total external debt, gross domestic production and gross fixed capital formation contain a strong positive result on economic growth in Afghanistan; at the same time as the relation of FDI with Inﬂation contain a negative effect. Research limitations/implications: The restrictions of the study are basically the enlargement of data which cannot be found continuous for 2015 completely for all variables. Originality/value: The objective of this research is to define the main FDI determinants that show capital flow in Afghanistan and to explore impact of FDI determinants on economy of Afghanistan in particular. Secondary objective is the quantify FDI determinants to suggest some policies through which FDI can improve in Afghanistan.
F18|Diamonds and “the Golden Flute”: from the Golden Age of prodigies and geniuses to the Knowledge Based Digital Economy|Information sharing, as a means of resource generating capabilities – as well as mitigating information gaps which present challenges to the development of innovative techniques, has also been facilitated through information technology, the rise of the digital economy and resources which avail from the rapidly advancing era of information technology. To what extent are our creative abilities still motivated and stimulated? Can an unhealthy balance and level of competition serve as a deterrent to constructive innovation? This paper attempts to investigate – as well as appreciate the role of information technology in generating economic stimulus and development – particularly in a world where budding entrepreneurs and innovation constitute key elements in addressing poverty alleviating initiatives. It also aims to highlight why, whilst certain geniuses may still exist, it is certainly evident that the current environment does not really stimulate or generate the same enthusiasm or kind of magical revolution that took place during the Golden Age.
F18|The causal linkage between trade openness and economic growth in Argentina: Evidence from the ARDL and VECM techniques|The Ricardian-Heckscher-Ohlin trade model drawn from Solow's (1957) model points out that since the country allocates its resources more efficiently after opening up based on its comparative advantages that openness to international trade will bring only a one-time increase in output, therefore having no implications for long-run growth. This led to this study investigating the causal relationship between economic growth and trade openness in Argentina covering the period between 1970 and 2016. Foreign direct investments and capital are incorporated as additional variables to form a multivariate framework. The findings from the ARDL bounds test validated the existence of a long run relationship between economic growth, trade openness, foreign direct investment and capital in Argentina. The results further indicated that there is a long run causality flowing from trade openness, foreign direct investment and capital to economic growth. These results presents a fresh perspective to trade policy makers in Argentina.
F18|East Asian Integration: Towards an East Asian Economic Community|East Asia is a region of great global significance, currently accounting for around 30% of the global economy by most measures, e.g. production, trade, investment, and finance. It has also become increasingly integrated in various ways. Integration at the micro-level has steadily progressed since the 1960s, as indicated by rising intraregional trade. Moreover, East Asia’s economic regionalisation has become more functionally integrative, this broadly relating to the spread of transnational business and other technical systems where production, trade, and investment have become a function of each other within those systems. For example, as later explored, much of East Asia’s regionalised trade concerns cross-border movement of parts and components within the international production networks of multinational enterprises. Since the 1990s, East Asian states have in addition looked to strengthen regional cooperation and integration intergovernmentally at the macro-level, i.e. involving whole country economies. This has been driven by the need to manage their growing regional economic interdependencies and address future challenges that confront them all, such as globalisation and climate change. As we will discuss, this has been part of regional economic community-building efforts in East Asia, both across the whole region and within it at various subregional levels. We examine the key dimensions of East Asia’s integration, how they have developed over time, and what likely paths lie ahead in the endeavour to strengthen regional economic community-building.
F18|Empirical Assessment of Trade Engagements: Africa, China and the Maritime Belt and Road Initiative|Recent development economic literatures theorize that South-South trade and foreign investment may have a larger impact on economic growth in developing economies than North-South trade and investment, since investors from the South are more familiar with local developing markets and business practices, which increases their productivity spillovers (Aykut and Goldstein 2007). Amighini and Sanfilippo (2014) provided evidence that South-South trade and investments stimulate product diversification in light manufacturing industries such as agroprocessing, plastic, textile and leather production. The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) launched in 2013, aims to create economic opportunities as well as improve and establish new trading routes between China and connected regions. This paper attempts to evaluate the degree of trade relations between China and selected African countries along the Maritime Silk Route (MSR) and further appraise the trade potentials and gains inherent for African economies through the initiative. To achieve our objective, we apply quantitative techniques in trade evaluation to enable us explore and estimate the degree and intensity of trade engagements amongst selected Sino-African silk route countries, identify the trade opportunities and potentials, which are critical for increased trade engagements between both parties along the route and to explore some of the channels through which the maritime route can impact on investment, trade and economic growth in Africa. Findings from the analysis indicate that while the degree of trade integration is unbalanced and favourable to China relative to Africa, the trade pattern and structure are observed to be more complementary than competitive, and this provides Africa with ample opportunity to engage in product upgrading and diversification, critical for structural transformation.
F18|The Impact of Globalization on the Agricultural Sector and Food Security|We can look at the impacts of globalization on agriculture and food security from different angles. However, not all findings can be positive. Looking at the growth of international trade and the amount of pollutants released into the air when transporting goods or protecting crops against pests, globalization contributes to disruption of global ecosystem and climate change. As a result, climatic fluctuations and extreme weather events - droughts, floods or torrential rainfalls that cause arable soil leakage - are becoming more and more frequent. Subsequent non-crops can negatively affect GDP (especially in the case of agricultural economies) and endanger the food security of the country. Secondly the changes in structure of economies in favor of production with higher labor productivity and smaller proportion of agriculture can force some countries to import even basic food. These facts are also indirectly reflected in the social environment. The paper draws attention to the fact that such structure of economy is cyclically very sensitive and may adversely affect the development of the underlying macroeconomic indicators. It focuses on certain weaknesses in this trend. The sources come from databases of statistical offices and a genetic-historical analysis was used in the paper.
F18|Modeling the future evolution of the virtual water trade network|The paper investigates how the topological features of the virtual water (VW) network and the size of the associated VW flows are likely to change over time, under different socio-economic and climate scenarios. We combine two alternative models of network formation –a stochastic and a fitness model, used to describe the structure of VW flows- with a gravity model of trade to predict the intensity of each bilateral flow. This combined approach is superior to existing methodologies in its ability to replicate the observed features of VW trade. The insights from the models are used to forecast future VW flows in 2020 and 2050, under different climatic scenarios, and compare them with future water availability. Results suggest that the current trend of VW exports is not sustainable for all countries. Moreover, our approach highlights that some VW importers might be exposed to “imported water stress” as they rely heavily on imports from countries whose water use is unsustainable.
F18|Drivers of international shipments of hazardous waste: the role of policy and technology endowment|Using a gravity model for trade, this work analyzes the factors influencing the patterns of international hazardous waste flows, relying on newly available data reported in the E-PRTR (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Registry) for EU-OECD countries over the period 2007 to 2014. Exploiting a consolidated empirical framework (Kellenberg, 2012), we test two empirical hypotheses: firstly, we explicitly assess if, according to the pollution heaven hypothesis (PHH), the relative levels of environmental policies across countries are an important determinant of hazardous waste trade, and secondly, we test if technological specialization, proxied here by a technology-specific patent stock, can be considered as a pull factor capable to influence the patterns of international trade of hazardous waste.
F18|Environmental Disasters and Electoral Cycle: An Empirical Analysis on Floods and Landslides in Italy|Abstract The aim of this paper is to analyse potential drivers of land use policy, in the form of building permits issued in Italian provinces. We first derive testable implications on the basis of a standard political agency framework, augmented to account for the impact of past environmental disasters (floods, landslides and earthquakes) and for the relevance of “building permits intensive” sectors in determining voters’ support to an incumbent politician. We then perform an empirical analysis that tests theoretical predictions using a unique dataset covering Italy in the period 2001–2012. Our main conclusions show that the occurrence of floods and earthquakes decreases building permits, implying that a bad history in terms of these phenomena strengthens the importance of voters affected by past disasters. No corresponding evidence seems to emerge with reference to landslides. On the other hand, the relevance of the construction sector increases the number of building permits issued. Finally, when elections approach, the number of building permits issued grows, suggesting that incumbent politicians may distort land use policies in order to favour “brown” voters in periods close to elections.
F18|The Allure of the Illegal: Choice Modelling of Rhino Horn Demand in Vietnam|Demand for rhino horn products is the main driver of illegal hunting of African rhinos. Using choice modelling we identify the main drivers of demand and estimate consumer willingness to pay for rhino horn attributes of high policy relevance among Vietnamese users and potential users. We find that wild or semi-wild sourced horn, harvested humanly from least rare species is the most valued among Vietnamese consumers. Furthermore, consumers are willing to pay more for illegally-traded horn, indicating that the international ban on the trade has generated a premium for illegal horn.
F18|Building Climate Coalitions on Preferential Free Trade Agreements|In this paper, we discuss the endogenous formation of climate coalitions in the tradition of the issue-linkage literature. In particular, we propose a preferential free trade agreement on which a climate coalition should be built. The basic idea is that the benefits of free trade provide strong incentives for free riders to join the coalition. As a framework, a multi-stage strategic trade model is used in which a country may discourage greenhouse gas emissions by setting an emissions cap effective on a permit market. In addition, a discriminatory import tariff is imposed on dirty goods. However, at the heart of our approach are the trade privileges granted to coalition members shifting the terms of trade favourably without prodiving incentives towards eco-dumping. As a main result, we find that trade liberalisation is much more effective in building climate coalitions than a single-issue environmental agreement. The parametrical simulation of the model in particular shows that participation in joint emission reduction is higher, consumption patterns are more environmentally friendly, and coalitional welfare is improved. As a policy implication, negotiations on climate treaties and free trade arrangements should be integrated.
F18|Emissions leakage, environmental policy and trade frictions|We develop a two-good general equilibrium model of a small open economy to decompose the effect of a country's unilateral strengthening of environmental policy on pollution emissions in the rest of the world, known as emissions leakage. We show analytically and numerically that the level of emissions leakage depends on the level of trade friction in the service sector. In the model, production in the manufacturing sector is associated with pollution emissions, and production in the service sector is clean. In a special case with free trade in manufacturing and no trade in services, no leakage occurs. Allowing for trade in services, we solve for the relationship between trade frictions in the service sector and leakage. At lower levels of service sector's trade friction, leakage from a small strengthening of environmental regulation decreases (increases) if services are imported (exported). Finally, we simulate the model, calibrating the to the Canadian economy to compare these effects’ relative sizes over a range of plausible parameter values. Leakage is about 18% lower when using trade friction levels estimated from the literature rather than assuming no trade friction in services.
F18|Beyond Water Stress: Structural Adjustment and Macroeconomic Consequences of the Emerging Water Scarcity|This work analyzes some system-wide macroeconomic consequences of lower (sustainable) water availability, when global economic growth is postulated according to the Shared Socio-Economic Pathway 1 (SSP1), for the reference year 2050. After finding that the rather optimistic forecasts of economic development cannot be met in most water scarce macro-regions, we assess what consequences for the structure of the economy, welfare and the terms of trade, the insufficiency of water resources would imply. The analysis is undertaken by means of numerical simulations with a global computable general equilibrium model, under a set of alternative hypotheses. In particular, we consider whether (or not) the regional economic systems have a differentiated capability of adaptation (by means of innovation and modification of economic processes), and whether (or not) the scarce water resources can be allocated among industries, such that more water is assigned where its economic value is greater.
F18|Emission taxes, firm relocation, and quality differences|This paper studies the effect of an emission tax on the relocation decision in a duopoly with exogenous vertical product differentiation. We establish the relationship between quality difference, relocation cost, and marginal damage of emissions in a two-country-setting for three cases: An environmental tax set only by one country, non-cooperative environmental taxation in both countries, and coordinated environmental taxation. We consider two different timings: a time-consistent government, and a committed government. The higher the quality difference, the more likely it is that at least one firm relocates to the foreign country. A lower marginal damage decreases the equilibrium tax rate and lowers the incentive for relocation. If also the foreign country applies an emission tax, there is no equilibrium in which both firms relocate to the foreign country. If both governments set taxes non-cooperatively, the low-quality firm never relocates in equilibrium. If both countries set taxes cooperatively, it is more likely that both firms remain in the home country. Also, relocation of the low-quality firm only is a possible outcome of cooperative taxation.
F18|International Fisheries Access Agreements and Trade|International fishery access agreements allow fishermen from one country to harvest fish in another country's waters. We empirically examine, using a unique global panel dataset, why countries sign fisheries access agreements with each other and compare these to the characteristics of countries that choose the path of international trade. We show that access agreements and fish exports are driven by two key motives: a pattern of comparative advantage in fishing, which depends on fish stocks and fishing capacities; and gravity factors of economic size and distance. Our results suggest that most gravity factors work similarly for agreements and exports: larger countries that are closer to each other are more likely to sign access agreements or to trade. However, the pattern of advantage is determined differently: source countries with larger fishing capacity are more likely to export fish, while source countries with lower fishing capacity are more likely to sign agreements.
F18|Measuring the Impact of Agricultural Production Shocks on International Trade Flows| The purpose of this study is to measure the sensitivity of trade volumes and trade unit values to agricultural production shocks. We derive a gravity model of trade with two new features. First, the model assumes perfectly in- elastic supply, which captures the short-run nature of year-to-year production shocks and has important implications for levels of regression coecients and how they can be used to measure the elasticity of substitution. Second, the presence of per-unit trade costs implies that, in percentage terms, unit values based on importing country data (including trade costs) should react less to production shocks than unit values based on exporting country data (exclud- ing trade costs). Using bilateral trade ow data for a large sample of countries and agricultural commodities we nd empirical support for the predictions of the model, with relatively high substitutability between varieties of crops dif- ferentiated by country of origin and quantitatively large per-unit trade costs. Our framework provides a new method for measuring substitution elasticities and per-unit trade costs using international trade data. Furthermore, our results suggest that trade frictions or substitution with other goods diminish the role of international trade as way of coping with production volatility.
F18|Trade in Environmental Goods: Empirical Exploration of Direct and Indirect Effects on Pollution by Country’s Trade Status|Based on panel data covering 114 countries in the world, this study investigates the direct, indirect and total effects of trade flows in environmental goods (EG) on total CO2 and SO2 emissions. Our system-GMM estimations reveal positive direct scale – [between-industry] composition effects prevailing on the negative direct technique – [within-industry] composition effects (if any), as well as compensating the significant indirect technique effects channelled by the stringency of environmental regulations and per capita income. If the net importers of EGs (namely from the APEC54 and WTO26 lists) are recurrently found to face increased pollution (in particular CO2 emissions) due to direct scale-composition effects of trade in EGs, the EGs’ net exporters are more likely to see their local pollution to decrease, in particular thanks to income-induced effects. We show that the direct, indirect and total effects of trade in EGs depend on the country’s net trade status, the EGs’ classification and the pollutant considered.
F18|Trade Integration and the Polarisation of Eco-Labelling Strategies|Growing ecological concerns give rise to salient discussions of green policy impact within different social sciences domains. This research studies the outcomes of voluntary environmental labelling in autarky and upon trade integration in the presence of two types of heterogeneity, across countries and across producers. It investigates the impact of the two main types of eco-labels - multiple-criteria-based programmes (ISO Type I) and self-declared environmental claims (ISO Type II), both of which are simultaneously introduced due to the environmental concerns of consumers. The model illustrates the polarisation of eco-labels when the least productive firms tend to avoid green strategies, lower-middle productive and the most efficient firms are incentivized to greenwash, and the upper-middle productive firms choose trustful programmes. It also shows that voluntary green restrictions lead to substantial productivity effects in the market upon opening to international trade, conditionally, depending on the type of the labelling and the relative degree of environmental awareness across trading countries. The model predicts average market productivity losses and within segments productivity gains for the relatively more eco-concerned country, while the effects for the relatively less eco-concerned country are the opposite.
F18|ERSs and Trade in Natural Resources: The Impact on Economic Growth and Poverty in LDCs|We study the impact on economic growth of LDCs of environmentally related standards (ERSs) adopted by such economies to bypass non-tariff-measures (NTMs) imposed as environmental regulatory requirements on their exports of natural resources to developed importing countries. In particular, we develop an empirical growth model that incorporates the impacts of resource abundance and of ERSs, the latter being measured by the number of ISO14001 certificates which a LDC holds, on per capita GDP growth. This specification allows to test for the existence of the 'resource curse' and for the effects of ERSs on growth through their interaction with the resource abundance measure. Our results suggest that ERSs can be growth promoting and in certain cases a factor mitigating the 'resource curse' in LDCs. Thus, compliance with ERSs combined with aid in institution formation or technology transfers can allow LDCs to enhance economic growth and alleviate poverty.
F18|Beyond Water Stress: Structural Adjustment and Macroeconomic Consequences of the Emerging Water Scarcity|This work analyzes some system-wide macroeconomic consequences of lower (sustainable) water availability, when global economic growth is postulated according to the Shared Socio-Economic Pathway 1 (SSP1), for the reference year 2050. After finding that the rather optimistic forecasts of economic development cannot be met in most water scarce macro-regions, we assess what consequences for the structure of the economy, welfare and the terms of trade, the insufficiency of water resources would imply. The analysis is undertaken by means of numerical simulations with a global computable general equilibrium model, under a set of alternative hypotheses. In particular, we consider whether (or not) the regional economic systems have a differentiated capability of adaptation (by means of innovation and modification of economic processes), and whether (or not) the scarce water resources can be allocated among industries, such that more water is assigned where its economic value is greater.
F18|Can degrowth overcome the leakage problem of unilateral climate policy?|Unilateral climate policy suffers from carbon leakage, i.e. the (partial) offset of the initial emission reduction by increases in other countries. Different than most typically discussed climate policies, degrowth not only aims at reducing the fossil fuel use in an economy, but rather (besides other social and political goals) at a reduction of all factor inputs, which may lead to different leakage implications. We conduct the first investigation of degrowth in a multi-country setting in order to (i) compare the leakage effects of national pure emission reduction policies to degrowth scenarios, (ii) identify underlying channels by decomposing the implied emission changes into scale, composition, and technique effects, and (iii) investigate which country characteristics determine degrowth's relative effectiveness to overcome the leakage problem. Using a structural gravity model, we find that degrowth indeed significantly reduces leakage by keeping the sectoral composition of the country more stable and reducing uncommitted countries' incentives to shift towards more energy-intensive production techniques. The higher effectiveness of degrowth in reducing carbon emissions is most pronounced for small and trade-open economies with comparatively clean production technologies.
F18|More Gas, Less Coal, and Less CO2? Unilateral CO2 Reduction Policy with More than One Carbon Energy Source|Natural gas is hoped to effectively help shale gas producing regions meet their carbon emission reduction commitments. We examine an open economy that produces both gas and another, more carbon intensive fuel like coal. In presence of two carbon energy sources, the analysis sharply contrasts with the standard single-energy case in which leakage is less than 100%: We show that, in general, an economy that relies on domestic gas to meet its emission commitment may contribute to increase global emissions. Indeed, gas production releases coal that is exported instead of being consumed domestically, potentially increasing emissions in the rest of the world. In this new context, we establish testable conditions as to whether a governmental emission reduction commitment warrants the domestic exploitation of shale gas, and whether this unilateral strategy increases global emissions. We also characterize the extent to which this unilateral strategy makes the rest of the world’s emission commitment more difficult to meet. Finally, we show how our results apply to the case of the US.
F18|Moving on Towards a Workable Climate Regime|The Paris Agreement (PA) signed by 175 parties is now a Treaty since a quorum of signatories has been obtained. This Treaty is really the first important step taken to limit temperature increase, as pledges, if sustained and far more ambitious beyond 2030, would drastically limit the projected temperature increase from projections in the absence of measures to limit emissions of greenhouse gases. Contributions however fall short of the intentions to limit temperature increase to the +1.5° to +2° Celsius range since the onset of industrialization. Drawing on recent contributions, this paper reviews where we stand in tackling four challenges ahead: (i) taking fuller cognizance of the accumulating scientific evidence calling for urgent action; (ii) designing an architecture that will render effective the blend of ‘bottom-up’ and ‘top-down’ approaches; (iii) choosing policy options and tackling the slow transition to a low-carbon economy, and; (iv) raising finance and addressing burden sharing.
F18|Carbon Dioxide Emissions and Economic Growth: An Assessment Based on Production and Consumption Emission Inventories|Working with a new dataset on comparable global CO2 production and consumption inventories spanning the 1997–2011 period, we investigate the relationship between real gross domestic product (GDP) per capita and CO2 emissions per capita associated with both production and consumption activities. By including linkages between production-based emissions in one country and final consumption in another (via cross-border value chains), we focus on the entire carbon chain. We estimate polynomial and threshold models, accounting for reverse causality and identification problems. We find that the income-elasticity for both inventories is regime-dependent and reflects small carbon efficiency gains from economic development. Carbon footprints show larger income-elasticities, while national policy instruments targeting production can clearly be circumvented by carbon embodied in intermediate trade. This implies problems of environmental sustainability that may require consumption-based policy instruments.
F18|Does the EU ETS cause carbon leakage in European manufacturing?|Carbon leakage is of interest in both academic and policy debates about the effectiveness of unilateral climate policy, especially in Europe, where the EU Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) affects many traded sectors. We review how the literature identifies leakage and the pollution haven effect. We then evaluate whether EU ETS emission costs caused carbon leakage in European manufacturing, using trade flows in embodied carbon and value from the Global Trade Analysis Project (GTAP). We find no evidence that the EU ETS caused carbon leakage.
F18|Pollution control and foreign firms’ exit behavior in China|China faces a common dilemma of how to maintain rapid economic growth while also reducing the pollution that has accompanied growth. Will stricter pollution controls drive away the foreign firms that have helped spur growth in China? This paper studies the effects of the Two-Control-Zone (TCZ) pollution control policy on foreign firms’ exit behavior in China. Based on firm-level data from 1998 to 2009, we find that foreign firms’ responses are not significantly different from domestic firms on average once environmental regulations impose an added cost of business. However, foreign firms’ responses to stricter pollution controls tend to differ based on various firm characteristics. Our estimation indicates that larger size, higher productivity and exporting all make foreign firms less likely to exit than similar domestic firms in regions with stricter pollution control.
F18|Caloric unequal exchange in Latin America and the Caribbean|The existence of an unequal exchange between rich and poor countries has been well studied in the literature, explained by differences in labour costs that were reflected in the prices of traded goods. Research has also demonstrated that the failure to include environmental impacts in prices of traded goods concealed an ecologically unequal exchange. This paper contributes to the discussion with the newly coined concept of caloric unequal exchange that defines the deterioration of terms of trade in food in units of calories. Exports and imports to and from Latin America and the Caribbean are analysed for the period 1961 through 2011 in volume, value, and calories, for different groups of products. The study concludes that although calories exported by the region to the rest of the world are more expensive than those imported, the ratio is deteriorating over time. This trend is found to be dependent of the trading partner involved. The region is helping the rest of the world in supplying their diets at a lower cost. A side result is that globalisation is homogenising diets over time, concentrating most food consumption in a reduced number of products, and therefore increasing interdependency among countries and affecting food security.
F18|The unilateral implementation of a sustainable growth path with directed technical change|We determine the conditions under which unilateral policies can implement global sustainable growth in a dynamic two-country directed technical change framework. Domestic climate policies alter the structure of domestic and foreign production and thereby innovation incentives across countries. Implementing sustainable growth requires redirecting global innovation to the nonpolluting sector. If most innovation takes place in the foreign country, policies must redirect foreign innovation by relocating clean production to the foreign country. A calibration exercise suggests that the US or EU alone are too small to implement sustainable growth. A coalition of Annex I countries that ratified the Kyoto protocol can implement sustainable growth, yet required tax rates are very high.
F18|Trade liberalization and the environment: Evidence from NAFTA and U.S. manufacturing|The unobserved responses of individual polluters are often used to rationalize the aggregate effects of international trade on the environment. In this paper, I provide the first evidence of these responses. I estimate the effects of NAFTA on the emissions of particulate matter (PM10) and sulfur dioxide (SO2) from manufacturing plants in the United States. My findings suggest that trade liberalization led to significant reductions of these pollutants at affected plants. On average, nearly two-thirds of the reductions in PM10 and SO2 emissions from the U.S. manufacturing sector between 1994 and 1998 can be attributed to trade liberalization following NAFTA.
F18|How did Japanese exports evolve from 1995 to 2014? A spatial econometric perspective|Spatial econometric techniques can eliminate the bias when spatial effects are neglected. However, so far there is no research on investigating the spatial configuration of Japanese exports and determinants of its exports to sustain its exports competitiveness.
F18|Is Chinese trade policy motivated by environmental concerns?|This paper analyses whether China's export VAT rebates and export taxes are driven by environmental concerns. Since China struggles to enforce environmental regulation, trade policy can be used as a second-best environmental policy. In a general equilibrium model it is possible to show that the second-best export tax increases in a product's pollution intensity. The empirical analysis investigates whether the export tax equivalent of partial VAT rebates and export taxes are higher for products which are more pollution intensive along several dimensions. The results indicate that the VAT rebate rates are set in a way that discourages exports of water pollution intensive, SO2 intensive and energy intensive products from 2007 on. Moreover, the conservation of natural resources such as minerals, metals, wood products and precious stones seems to be a key determinant of China's export VAT rebate rates. There is little evidence that export taxes are motivated by environmental concerns.
F18|Testing the Kuznets Curve hypothesis for Qatar: A comparison between carbon dioxide and ecological footprint|This paper explores the validity of the Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) using two different environment indicators: the carbon dioxide emissions (CO2) and the ecological footprint (EF) in Qatar over the 1980–2011 period. To this end, we investigate the impact of real gross domestic product (RGDP), the square of RGDP, the energy use, the financial development and the trade openness on the CO2 emissions and the EF. We employ the autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) model with the presence of unknown structural breaks in order to study short-run and long-run elasticity between the variables. The findings infer that there is a long-run relationship among the selected variables with a shift in the cointegration vector in 1991 and 2000. The empirical result indicates that the inverted U-shaped hypothesis is not valid in Qatar when we use the CO2 emissions, whereas the inverted U-shaped held when using the EF. Furthermore, the error correction results confirm that the convergence towards the long-run equilibrium will mostly occur within one year after a short run shock. Generally, the findings suggest that Qatar should invest more in efficient energy and continue sustained its growth. Moreover, more efforts are needed for diversification particularly in technology-intensive and environment-friendly industries to improve environmental quality.
F18|Strategic Environmental Policy, International Trade and Self-enforcing Agreements: The Role of Consumers' Taste for Variety|We study the coordination of environmental policy within an agreement in the context of international trade. In an n-country intra-industry trade model, firms produce a horizontally differentiated good and consumers have a taste for variety. Governments choose strategically an emission tax and their membership in an international agreement. We show that only a strong taste for variety reduces the competition among governments sufficiently enough to allow for some form of policy coordination, though full cooperation will never be obtained.
F18|Peat Policy and Its Implications on Value Chains of Indonesian Palm Oil|Palm oil and its derivative products are strategic commodities that play an important role in the economic development of Indonesia which, along with Malaysia, is a major exporter to the global markets. Global as well as national demands on crude palm oil are increasing, not only as food but also as raw material for biodiesel. To increase production, the extensification of oil palm plantations in Indonesia is still the preferred option. Since there are limited fertile mineral soils, marginal land such as peatlands have become targeted areas to open new plantations. Due to recurring fire and haze problems, while attempting to restore degraded peatlands, the government issued By Law No. 57 in 2016 to protect and manage the peat ecosystem (Peat Policy). This peat policy, which mainly aims to prevent environmental degradation, would to some extent reduce planting areas and impact on production, stretching to the supply and value chain of palm oil and its derivative products. This study assessed how the peat policy affected the planting areas; production; economic value; growers, especially the farmers; and export quantity and value. We applied numerical approaches followed by simulations of certain scenarios. Compared to 2015 figures, the peat policy would reduce the palm oil plantation area by 10%-18% and production by 12%-15%, with the potential to reduce: 1) economic values by 12%-15%; 2) the number of farmers by 12%-15%; 3) exported palm oil by 21%-24% and export value by 22%-24%; and 4) the cost of fresh fruit bunch by 6%-8%. These reductions will severely affect the economic development of the country and threaten the welfare of the farmers. The government and practitioners should therefore make policy choices that are conducive to the sustainable development of oil palm plantation in the peatlands, i.e. how to promote intensification programs to increase productivity and to manage sustainable production.
F18|Marketing Mechanisms for the Development of Transport Infrastructure of Russia and the EU|In the article the authors determined the value of the transport infrastructure for economic growth and development, analyzed the influence of various factors on the dynamics of change in the index of development of transport infrastructure, as well as reviewed the status and trends of development of transport infrastructure in Russia and the European Union. As a result, the authors concluded that for Russia and the EU are characterized by common problems in the field of transport infrastructure and for integrated solutions and accelerated development of transport infrastructure in Russia and the European Union need to ensure the marketing of this process. To do this work the author's marketing model development of transport infrastructure in Russia and the European Union.
F18|Trade-related aspects in the current context of sustainable development|According to the 2030 Agenda and its Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), countries should consider achieving all of the three dimensions of sustainable development, namely, economic, social and environmental. In this context, the external trade is acknowledged as a „mean of implementation” for the achievement of the SDGs, facilitating countries progress towards the achievement of sustainable development. However, evaluation of its contribution to sustainable development is a challenge. This paper intend to explore contribution of external trade of Romania to several key objectives of the 2030 Agenda, trying to capture, through specific or proxy statistical indicators, some trade-related aspects of the goals, as for example relationship tradeeconomic growth, evolution of trade exchanges by countries in different development stages, agro-food products trade, trade by technologies and trade with environment goods. When relevant, comparisons with other EU Member States and territorial decomposition by Romania’s counties or regions are presented to highlight aspects related to reducing inequalities.
F18|Learning-by-Exporting across Export Destinations: Evidence from Lithuanian Manufacturing|This paper investigates micro-level effects of export market entry on firm-level productivity. In particular, we study the effects of single and multiple export market entry, and additionally differentiate between the effects of export market entry by destination country. To isolate the impact of participation in foreign markets we employ matching techniques. Using micro-level trade and balance sheet data for firms in Lithuania, we show that single export market entry is linked with larger post-entry productivity growth for new export market entrants, relative to similar non-exporting firms. Moreover, we find support for more learning-by-exporting when looking at firms exporting to more sophisticated markets with presumably higher productivity standards.
F18|Polarisation of Eco-Labelling Strategies|Growing ecological concerns give rise to salient discussions of green policy impact within different social sciences domains. This research studies the outcomes of voluntary environmental labelling in autarky and upon trade integration in the presence of two types of heterogeneity, across countries and across producers. It investigates the impact of the two main types of eco-labels – multiple-criteria-based programmes (ISO Type I) and self-declared environmental claims (ISO Type II), both of which are simultaneously introduced due to the environmental concerns of consumers. The model illustrates the polarisation of eco-labels when the least productive firms tend to avoid green strategies, lower-middle productive and the most efficient firms are incentivized to greenwash, and the upper-middle productive firms choose trustful programmes. It also shows that voluntary green restrictions lead to substantial productivity effects in the market upon opening to international trade, conditionally, depending on the type of the labelling and the relative degree of environmental awareness across trading countries. The model predicts average market productivity losses and within segments productivity gains for the relatively more eco-concerned country, while the effects for the relatively less eco-concerned country are the opposite.
F18|The Strategic Value of Carbon Tariffs|We ask whether the threat of carbon tariffs might lower the cost of reductions in world carbon emissions by inducing unregulated regions to adopt emission controls. We use a numerical model to generate payoffs of a game in which a coalition regulates emissions and chooses whether to employ carbon tariffs against unregulated regions. Unregulated regions respond by abating, retaliating, or ignoring the tariffs. In the Nash equilibrium, the use of tariffs is a credible and effective threat. It induces cooperation from noncoalition regions that lowers the cost of global abatement substantially relative to the case where the coalition acts alone. (JEL D58, F13, F18, H23, Q54, Q58)
F18|Trade Costs, CO2, and the Environment|This paper quantifies how international trade affects CO2 emissions and analyzes the welfare consequences of regulating the CO2 emissions from shipping. To this end, the paper describes a model of trade and the environment, compiles new data on the CO2 emissions from shipping, and estimates key parameters using panel data regressions. Results show that the benefits of international trade exceed trade's environmental costs due to CO2 emissions by two orders of magnitude. While proposed regional carbon taxes on the CO2 emissions from shipping would increase global welfare and increase the implementing region's GDP, they would also harm poor countries.
F18|Asymmetric Trade Flows and Their Implication for Competitiveness, Efficiency and Trade| The asymmetric trade flow of agricultural goods can serve as a clue to help understand unobservable agricultural competitiveness, infrastructural efficiency for exports, and net openness to imports. In order to identify these three factors from agricultural trade data, we adapt a trade model developed by Eaton and Kortum. Unlike Eaton and Kortum, we interpret specific country dummy variables as proxies representing these three factors. This study makes four important findings. First, agricultural trade flow is strongly related to net openness to imports but less to agricultural competitiveness. Second, agricultural competitiveness is more related to land endowments than economic development. Third, economic development improves infrastructural efficiency for agricultural exports. Finally, existing agricultural import restrictions are shown to be punitive.
F18|Trade Creation and Diversion under NAFTA: The North American Strawberry Market| In order to identify the effect on trade creation and diversion of NAFTA in the North American strawberry market, this study conducts a partial equilibrium analysis by using the CES utility and production functions of Dixit and Stiglitz which provide necessary equations to estimate unobservable final prices of imported strawberries and non-tariff trade costs. Based on the results of this study, we could confirm that 1) the effect on trade creation of NAFTA is greater than the effect on trade diversion, which leads to positive effect of NAFTA on the North American strawberry market, 2) the difference between the local price and the imported price might be due to high non-tariff trade costs that exist between borders, 3) market integration simulation shows trade creation of 453% and no trade diversion, and 4) market segregation simulation shows that trade volume in the regional market decreases by 26% and trade volume out of regional market increases by 1045%.
F18|Determining the Effect of NAFTA on the North American Sweet Potato Market| In order to analyze the effect of NAFTA on the North American sweet potato market, this study uses both observable trade data such as trade volumes and home prices and unobservable trade data such as imported prices and non-tariff trade costs. The unobservable trade data are estimated by the model used in this study. Unlike previous studies, this study confirms that the degree of integration in the North American sweet potato markets is relatively low because the three individual sweet potato markets are mostly dominated by their own product and the difference between home and imported prices in each NAFTA member country have increased from pre-NAFTA to post-NAFTA levels. Two counterfactual analyses confirm that low levels of market integration may be due to high non-tariff trade costs.
F18|Analyzing Collective Trade Policy Actions in Response to Cyclical Risk in Agricultural Production: The Case of International Wheat| This study shows how cyclical risk and collective trade policy actions can cumulatively worsen international food price spikes. By using spatial Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) and Eaton and Kortum’s trade model, this study offers the following conclusions. At first, the cyclical shock in agricultural production might cause agricultural and food price spikes in the international agricultural and food markets. Second, export restrictions and import responses can worsen food price spikes and disrupt trade flows in international agricultural and food markets. Finally, the effect of these collective trade policy actions and resulting food price spikes in international agricultural and food markets do not dissipate even after agricultural production has recovered.
F18|Are Free Trade Agreements Good for the Environment? A Panel Data Analysis| This study attempts to empirically re-examine the relationship between free trade agreements (FTAs) and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. For this aim, we chose three different free trade agreements: Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR), North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), and the Australia-United States Free Trade Agreement (AUSFTA). These FTAs are between developing countries, developed and developing countries, and only developed countries, respectively. Panel unit root, panel cointegration, and fully modified OLS (FMOLS) estimators are employed to find the longrun relationship between GHG emission, trade liberalization, and other economic factors. The results indicate that the environmental effect of a free trade agreement depends on the agreement type. When the agreement is among only developed or only developing countries, there is no environmental damage to the world and these types of FTAs can be beneficial for the world environment. However, when developing and developed countries are in the agreement, world GHG emissions increase.
F18|A Dynamic Model of Effects of Effects of Trade and Environmental Policies on Firms' Offshoring and Clean Technology Adoption Decisions| This paper develops a dynamic general equilibrium model to analyze the effects of changes in trade and environmental policies on firms' production location choices and clean technology adoptions to reduce emission. During this process, the equilibrium worker's wages and environmental quality of related countries are determined. In addition, this model is applied to the trade and production relocation issues between the United States and China over 1999-2013 to quantify the pollution haven effects and the total production offshoring directly and indirectly from the U.S. to China. Further, the long-run predictions on offshoring and emission levels in both countries and counterfactual policy analysis are discussed in this paper.
F18|China's pursuit of environmentally sustainable development: Harnessing the new engine of technological innovation|Whether China continues its business-as-usual investment-driven, environment-polluting growth pattern or adopts an investment and innovation-driven, environmentally sustainable development holds important implications for both national and global environmental governance. Building on a Ramsey-Cass-Koopmans growth model that features endogenous technological change induced by R&D and knowledge stock accumulation, this paper presents an exposition, both analytically and numerically, of the mechanism underlining China’s economic transition from an investment-driven, pollution-intensive to an investment and innovation-driven, environmentally sustainable growth path. We show that if R&D technological innovation is incorporated into China’s growth mechanism, then at some tipping point in time when marginal welfare gain of R&D for knowledge accumulation becomes equalized with that of investment for physical asset deployment, China’s economy will launch capital investment and R&D simultaneously and make a transition to a sustainable growth path along which consumption, capital investment, and R&D have a balanced share of 5: 4: 1, consumption, capital stock, and knowledge stock all grow at a rate of 4.9%, and environmental quality improves at a rate of 2.5%. In contrast, if R&D technological innovation is not harnessed as a new growth engine, then China’s economy will follow its business-as-usual investment-driven growth path along which standalone accumulation of dirty physical capital stock will lead to a more than 200-fold increase in environmental pollution.
F18|Intermediate input linkage and carbon leakage|Climate regulations tend to target energy intensive sectors whose products are widely used in industrial production as intermediate inputs, such as electricity, and the carbon abatement may be partially offset by intermediate input-led leakage. This paper aims to examine the impact of intermediate input linkage on the carbon leakage both theoretically and empirically. We develop a Harberger-type model with an input-output linkage structure, identify four leakage effects and derive closed-form solutions for these leakage effects. For empirical simulation, we build a computable general equilibrium model of China’s economy and introduce Structural Decomposition Analysis to link both the theoretical and empirical models. When imposing a carbon price on the electricity generation sector, our results show significant carbon leakage. Our decomposition analysis further suggests that such leakage is mainly through the production substitution effect, followed by the multiplier effect. Both of the two effects are closely related to the intermediate input linkage, and thus shed some light on the importance of considering sectoral linkage when discussing the carbon leakage issue of climate policies.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F18|Strategic Subsidies for Green Goods|Globally and locally, government support policies for green goods (like renewable energy) are much more popular internationally than raising the cost of bads (as through carbon taxes). These support policies may encourage downstream consumption (renewable energy deployment) or upstream development and manufacturing of those technologies. The use of subsidies—particularly upstream ones—is disciplined by World Trade Organization agreements, and its subsidies code lacks exceptions for transboundary externalities like human health or resource conservation, including those related to combating global climate change. The strategic trade literature has devoted little attention to the range of market failures related to green goods. This paper considers the market for a new environmental good that when consumed downstream may provide external benefits like reduced emissions. The technology is traded internationally but provided by a limited set of upstream suppliers that may operate in imperfect markets, such as with market power or external scale economies. We examine the national incentives and global rationales for offering production and consumption subsidies in producer countries, allowing that some of the downstream market may lie in nonregulating third-party countries. Although technology producer countries can benefit from restraints on upstream subsidies, global welfare is higher without them, and market failures imply that optimal subsidies are even higher. We supplement the analysis with numerical simulations of the case of renewable energy, exploring optimal subsidies for the major renewable energy producing and consuming regions and the cost of restrictions on upstream subsidies.
F18|The Role of Private Standards for Manufactured Food Exports from Developing Countries| The effect of food standards on agricultural trade flows remains unclear. We contribute to the debate with a unique dataset that contains the number of food processing firms of 88 countries from 2008 to 2013 that are certified with the International Featured Standard (IFS). Based on a theoretical framework that combines Melitz-type firm heterogeneity with quality upgrading, we estimate a gravity-model using the one-year lag of IFS as well as modern grocery distribution as an Instrument to address potential endogeneity. We find that IFS increases c.p. bilateral exports on average of seven agricultural product categories in both specifications. However, the effect remains only for upper- and middle-income countries once we separate by income and turns even negative for low income countries in the IV-specification. Hence, whereas IFS increases exports on average, it has a trade-impeding effect for low-income countries. Therefore, private standards are not a sufficient development policy tool to integrate low-income countries to the world trading system without being accompanied by other measures.
F18|Simulating the Macroeconomic Impact of Future Water Scarcity: an Assessment of Alternative Scenarios|In this paper we consider some of the economic implications of climate change scenarios as described in the Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSPs). By comparing potential water demand with estimates of (sustainable) water availability in different regions, we identify regions that are likely to be constrained in their future economic growth potential by the scarcity of water resources. We assess the macroeconomic impact of water scarcity under alternative allocation rules finding that, by assigning more water to sectors in which it has a higher value, shifting production to less water intensive sectors, and importing more water intensive goods, constrained regions can effectively neutralize these water related climate risks and adapt to a changing water environment. However, this adaptation effort is likely to imply some radical changes in water management policies.
F18|Determinants of exports: firm heterogeneity and local context|It is frequently argued that the geographical context in which firms operate can have a crucial impact on their propensity to internationalize. In this paper, we present the results of an empirical analysis that examines the determinants of export performance for a sample including more than 4,300 Italian manufacturing firms over the period 2000-2013, focusing on the role of provincial context, after controlling for firm-level characteristics. To this end, we first adopt a cluster analysis methodology to classify each Italian province in terms of context variables, such as: the distance to foreign markets, the level of human and social capital and the degree of efficiency of the public administration. Second, we estimate a set of binomial choice and linear models to assess the impact of the economic and social environment on the extensive and intensive margins of trade. The results, after confirming that firm-specific factors (size, experience, productivity, capital intensity, innovation, geographical agglomeration and, to some extent, credit constraints) affect both the intensive and the extensive margins of exports, show that context characteristics at the province level have an additional (statistically and economically) significant impact on the export performances of firms.
F18|Environmental tax competition under firm mobility and leakage|The loss of competitiveness of domestic firms that operate in globalized markets remains a key obstacle to the implementation of effective carbon prices in a world without harmonized climate policies. The relocation of firms and productive activities is the most adverse consequence of unilateral carbon pricing. We analyze countries' strategic choice of environmental taxes implemented to control the emissions in an imperfectly competitive sector of the economy. Wage effects prevent all firms from locating in the same country when tax levels differ across countries. We demonstrate that environmental taxes are set at an inefficiently low level, compared to a non-strategic reference case where the environmental externalities between countries are neglected. The effect is particularly pronounced when firms are mobile. Hence, the possibility of firm relocation offers a plausible explanation why few countries have implemented effective carbon prices unilaterally until today. In our model, the relation between the strength of the environmental externalities and welfare is non-linear. Under some conditions, countries beneffit when externalities become stronger, due to a coordinating effect. In the absence of environmental externalities, tax competition vanishes.
F18|Impact of Trade Openness and Sector Trade on Embodied Greenhouse Gases Emissions and Air Pollutants|The production of goods and services generates greenhouse gases (GHGs) and air pollution both directly and through the activities of the supply chains on which they depend. The analysis of the latter—called embodied emissions—in the cause of internationally traded goods and services is the subject of this paper. We find that trade openness increases embodied emissions in international trade (EET). We also examine the impact of sector trade on EET. By applying a fixed-effect model using large balanced panel data from 187 countries between 1990 and 2011, we determine that each unit of increase in trade openness results in a 10% to 23% increase in GHG embodied emissions (EE). The sector trade effect is also significant for the EE of carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) nitrous oxide (N2O), carbon monoxide (CO), non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOCs), particulates (PM10 ) and sulfur dioxide (SO2). Our findings also clearly indicate that the impact of the GDP on the EE of exports is positive, increasing emissions, but that it is negative on the EE of imports. We suggest that countries monitor trade sector emissions and trade openness to mitigate global embodied GHG emissions and air pollutants.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F18|Trade and the Environment: New Methods, Measurements, and Results|We review recent research linking international trade to the environment, with a focus on new results and methods. The review is given structure by a novel decomposition linking changes in emissions to changes in productive activity at the plant, firm, industry, and national levels. Although some new results have emerged from the application of a Melitz-style approach to trade and the environment, the full potential of this approach has not yet been realized. We discuss existing empirical and theoretical work, introduce three new hypotheses, and suggest paths for future researchers to follow.
F18|Agricultural Trade, Biodiversity Effects and Food Price Volatility|Production risks in agriculture due to biotic elements such as pests create biodiversity effects that impede productivity. Pesticides reduce these effects but are damaging for the environment and human health. When regulating farming practices, governments weigh these side-effects against the competitiveness of their agriculture. In a Ricardian two-country setup, we show that free trade results in an incomplete production specialization, that restrictions on pesticides are generally more stringent than under autarky and that trade increases the price volatility of crops produced by both countries and some of the specialized crops. If biodiversity effects are large, the price volatility of all crops is larger than under autarky.
F18|Melting Ice Caps and the Economic Impact of Opening the Northern Sea Route|One consequence of melting Arctic ice caps is the commercial viability of the Northern Sea Route, connecting East Asia with Europe. This represents a sizeable reduction in shipping distances and average transportation days compared to the conventional Southern Sea Route. We examine the economic impact of opening this route in a multiâ€ sector Eatonâ€“Kortum model with intermediate linkages. We find remarkable shifts in trade flows between Asia and Europe, diversion of trade within Europe, heavy shipping traffic in the Arctic and a substantial drop in Suez traffic. Projected shifts in trade also imply substantial pressure on an already threatened Arctic ecosystem.
F18|Resource effects in the Core-Periphery model|This paper developes an extension of Krugmanâ€™s (1991) Core-Periphery model, by considering the traditional sector as a competitive primary sector that makes use of a renewable natural resource. The natural resource can be consumed or used as a raw material in the industrial sector. Three results stand out. First, the dynamics of the resource and its use as a raw material give rise to new dispersion forces: the resource and the primary price index effects. Second, the pattern that arises reverts the usual stability behavior in core-prephery models. And third, different types of bifurcationsarise, resulting in different patterns of agglomeration-dispersion. In addition to transport costs, the productivity of the resource sector plays a key role in the bifurcation diagrams.
F18|Quantifying Impacts of Consumption Based Charge for Carbon Intensive Materials on Products|After the Paris Climate Agreement, it is anticipated that carbon prices will differ across regions for some time. If countries use free allowance allocation as carbon leakage protection, only a fraction of carbon prices are passed through to consumers particularly by carbon intensive materials producers. Adding a consumption charge based on benchmarks applied to the material content can reinstate the carbon price signal. The paper investigates the implications of such a consumption charge for industry and consumers based on material flow analysis and material flow cost accounting. The material‐related carbon liabilities for production, import, export, and consumption are estimated for 4000 commodity groups that contain one or more of the five bulk materials steel, aluminium, plastics, paper, and cement. Assuming an underlying carbon price of 30 Euros per ton of CO2, the total charge to European final consumers is estimated to be about 17 billion EUR. The total charges levied on imports and those waived for exports are each of similar size and roughly amount to half of the total charge to European final consumers. To reduce administrative efforts, the charge is not levied on imported products for which the value of the consumption charge compared to product price falls below a threshold. Thus administrative efforts for 77 to 83% of imports could be avoided while still 85% to 90% of import‐related carbon liabilities are included.
F18|El Comercio Internacional De Pasta, Papel Y Cartón: Una Mirada Desde Europa|El papel y el cartón son ampliamente utilizados como productos finales y como bienes intermedios que forman parte de otros procesos productivos. La importancia de este trabajo subyace en el interés de conocer, para estos productos, cuáles tienen mayor peso relativo en el comercio internacional, haciendo especial referencia a las materias primas (donde se incluyen los residuos) utilizadas por la industria papelera. En efecto, los inputs empleados en el proceso productivo del papel incluyen pastas elaboradas a partir de materias primas vírgenes así como de residuos reciclados, por lo que están tomando cada vez más protagonismo en el comercio mundial.
F18|Trade Openness and Environmental Pollution in Emerging Market Economies|Global trade volume has experienced significant increases with accelerating globalization process as of late 1970s. This study examines the impact of trade openness and economic growth on the environmental pollution in 20 emerging market economies during 1995-2011 period by using panel regression method and we found that both trade openness and economic growth had positive impact on the environmental pollution.
F18|Examining Trade Mechanism of International Carbon Dioxide Emission: Evidence from Major Emitter Countries|This study examines factors affecting the changes in the net exports of the carbon dioxide (CO2 ) emissions embodied in global trade, conducting seemingly unrelated regression-based generalized least square (GLS) method. The study uses balanced panel data sets of 34 OECD and 7 major nonOECD countries in the G-20 and the period of 1996-2011. Along with various explanatory variables, we also add interaction terms between structural changes and income variables for crosschecking. Results reveal that trade openness leads to increase in emission exports, while GDP per capita has a slight negative effect. Net oil export per capita is the most important factor raising the emission export. The finding that structural changes also affect emission density affirms the importance of technological progress. Considering international trade pattern, overall results underline that nobody is responsible for global emission individually since countries emit for others. For trade mechanism of emission reduction, “ideal” and “global” green trade implications seem to be appropriate policy initiatives
F18|Exports versus export-platform FDI with endogenous wage determination|In this paper, we explain why unionized MNFs in the same industry choose different entry modes between export and export-platform FDI when serving the same market. The platform-type FDI becomes more likely, ceteris paribus, with higher wage-oriented behavior by the unions, deeper trade liberalization in the host country, and lower fixed costs incurred in the FDI. Some of our results are counter-intuitive. It is particularly shown that a non-unionized MNF undertakes FDI whereas a unionized MNF remains in the domestic country even in the absence of productivity differences between the firms. Under certain conditions, trade liberalization in the host country might cause a complete reversal in the location pattern between unionized and non-unionized firms. Moreover, FDI induced by trade liberalization might hurt the domestic economy as a whole due to the loss of union rents and rival firms' profits, which provides a rationale for the use of lump-sum production subsidies as a government policy.
F18|Carbon dioxide emissions and international trade at the turn of the millennium|We present a new dataset of geographical production-, final (embodied) production-, and consumption-based carbon dioxide emission inventories, covering 78 regions and 55 sectors from 1997 to 2011. We extend previous work both in terms of time span and in bridging from geographical to embodied production and, ultimately, to consumption. We analyse the recent evolution of emissions, the development of carbon efficiency of the global economy, and the role of international trade. As the distribution of responsibility for emissions across countries is key to the adoption and implementation of international environmental agreements and regulations, the final production- and consumption-based inventories developed here provide a valuable extension to more traditional geographical production-based criteria.
F18|Mitigation of adverse effects on competitiveness and leakage of unilateral EU climate policy: An assessment of policy instruments|The European Union (EU) has developed a strategy to mitigate climate change by cutting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and fostering low carbon technologies. However, the risk of implementing unilateral policies is that distortive effects are generated at the global scale affecting world energy prices, international competitiveness and the geographical allocation of carbon intensive production processes. Using a dynamic CGE model, we assess the rate of carbon leakage and adverse impacts on competitiveness in a number of scenarios over the period 2010–2050. According to the model results, we highlight two major issues. First, in the case of a unilateral EU climate policy, carbon leakage and negative effects on competitiveness are quite serious. Anti-leakage measures can only mitigate leakage and adverse economic impacts on competitiveness in a limited way. On the contrary, an optimality analysis addressing the environmental effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and political feasibility of alternative policy solutions reveals that the EU long term decarbonisation strategy by investing in energy efficiency and renewable energy might ensure protection of vulnerable manufacturing activities while enhancing the competitiveness of technologically-advanced industries.
F18|Border carbon adjustment and trade retaliation: What would be the cost for the European Union?|Unilateral climate policy, such as carbon pricing, represents an additional cost to the economy, especially to energy-intensive industrial sectors, as well as those exposed to international competition. A border carbon adjustment (BCA) is often presented as an attractive policy option for countries that wish to go ahead without waiting for a global climate agreement. We used the computable general equilibrium model MIRAGE to simulate the impact of the introduction of a BCA on imports of energy-intensive products in EU and EFTA countries and to evaluate the exports their main trade partners would lose. Given that a BCA is a trade measure, it might cause disputes at the World Trade Organization (WTO). If the BCA is considered illegal, the losses suffered by some partners may justify trade retaliations. At that point, it would be likely that prohibitive retaliatory tariffs target sensitive products in the EU, which are often related to the European agricultural sector. These trade measures would limit the drop in production in the energy-intensive and trade-exposed (EITE) sectors, but at the expense of the other sectors. Nevertheless, neither the BCA nor retaliation would have sizeable impacts on real income or GDP in the EU or on the retaliators, while leading to a small decrease in global emissions.
F18|International spillover and rebound effects from increased energy efficiency in Germany|The pollution/energy leakage literature raises the concern that policies implemented in one country, such as a carbon tax or tight energy restrictions, might simply result in the reallocation of energy use to other countries. This paper addresses these concerns in the context of policies to increase energy efficiency, rather than direct action to reduce energy use. Using a global CGE simulation model, we extend the analyses of ‘economy-wide’ rebound from the national focus of previous studies to incorporate international spill-over effects from trade in goods and services. Our focus is to investigate whether these effects have the potential to increase or reduce the overall (global) rebound of local energy efficiency improvements. In the case we consider, increased energy efficiency in German production generates changes in comparative advantage that produce negative leakage effects, thereby actually rendering global rebound less than national rebound.
F18|Limited trading of emissions permits as a climate cooperation mechanism? US–China and EU–China examples|Recent multilateral climate negotiations have underlined the importance of international cooperation and the need for support from developed to developing countries to address climate change. This raises the question of whether carbon market linkages could be used as a cooperation mechanism. Policy discussions surrounding such linkages have indicated that, should they operate, a limit would be set on the amount of carbon permits that could be imported by developed regions from developing countries. This paper analyzes the impact of limited carbon trading between an ETS in the EU or the US and a carbon market covering Chinese electricity and energy intensive sectors using a global economy-wide model. We find that the limit results in different carbon prices between China and Europe or the US. Although the impact on low-carbon technologies in China is moderate, global emission reductions are deeper than in the absence of international trading due to reduced carbon leakage. If China captures the rents associated with limited permit trading, we show that it is possible to find a limit threshold that makes both regions better off relative to carbon markets operating in isolation.
F18|Bi-lateral CO2 emissions embodied in Australia–China trade|This paper quantifies the CO2 emissions embodied in bi-lateral trade between Australia and China using a sectoral input–output model. The results revealed: (1) that China performs lower than Australia in clean technology in the primary, manufacturing, energy sectors due to their overuse of coal and inefficient sectoral production processes, and (2) that China had a 30.94Mt surplus of bi-lateral CO2 emissions in 2010–2011 and (3) overall global emissions were reduced by 20.19Mt through Australia–China trade in 2010–2011. The result indicates that the greater the energy efficient a country among the trading partners the lower will be the overall global CO2 emissions. Global emissions decreased mainly because China consumed Australian primary products rather than producing them. Australia is an energy efficient producer of primary products relative to China. The bilateral trade compositions and trade volume played an important role in lowering global emissions and therefore one can view proposed China Australia Free trade Agreement positively in reducing global emissions. However, for the sustainable development, China should strengthen clean energy use and both countries should adopt measures to create an emission trading scheme in order to avoid protectionism in the form of future border price adjustments.
F18|The United States-Canada softwood lumber trade: An actual versus optimal export tax|By developing a two-country two-stage game model, this study examines an optimal level of export tax under the framework of the 2006 United States (U.S.)-Canada Softwood Lumber Agreement (SLA 2006). The theoretical results suggest that marginal lumber production costs in Canada and U.S. lumber production capacity along with linear demand parameters determine an optimum rate of export tax on Canadian lumber exports to the U.S. The empirical estimation reveals that the monthly optimal export tax during the SLA 2006 period follows the actual export tax closely with a monthly rate ranging from −4% to 19%.
F18|The dynamic impact of unilateral environmental policies|This paper builds a two-country, two-sector (polluting, nonpolluting) trade model with directed technical change, examining whether unilateral environmental policies can ensure sustainable growth. The emission rate of the polluting sector depends on its relative use of a clean and a dirty input. A unilateral policy combining clean research subsidies and a trade tax can ensure sustainable growth, while unilateral carbon taxes alone increase innovation in the polluting sector abroad and generally cannot ensure sustainable growth. Relative to autarky and exogenous technical change respectively, trade and directed technical change accelerate environmental degradation either under laissez-faire or with unilateral carbon taxes, yet both help reduce environmental degradation under the appropriate unilateral policy. I characterize the optimal unilateral policy analytically and numerically using calibrated simulations. Knowledge spillovers have the potential to reduce the otherwise large welfare costs of restricting policy to onecountry.
F18|Cross-country electricity trade, renewable energy and European transmission infrastructure policy|This paper develops a multi-country multi-sector general equilibrium model, integrating high-frequency electricity dispatch and trade decisions, to study the effects of electricity transmission infrastructure (TI) expansion and renewable energy (RE) penetration in Europe for gains from trade and carbon dioxide emissions in the power sector. TI can benefit or degrade environmental outcomes, depending on RE penetration: it complements emissions abatement by mitigating dispatch problems associated with volatile and spatially dispersed RE but also promotes higher average generation from low-cost coal if RE production is too low. Against the backdrop of European decarbonization and planned TI expansion, we find that emissions increase for current and targeted year-2020 levels of RE production and decrease for year-2030 targets. Enhanced TI yields sizeable gains from trade that depend positively on RE penetration, without creating large adverse impacts on regional equity.
F18|On the mechanism of international technology diffusion for energy technological progress|As a needed methodological complement to the existing large-scale complex policy modelling for energy technology diffusion, this paper contributes to an analytical exposition of the fundamental mechanism of international technology diffusion (ITD) for energy technological progress. We offer two different and complementary perspectives to explore the dynamics of energy technology diffusion and progress. We first develop a Solow-type efficiency-improving model of energy technological progress which is described by improvements in primary energy-augmenting efficiency. We further provide a Romer-type variety-expanding model of energy technological progress which is represented by the expansion of differentiated varieties of primary energy technology blueprints. Analysis based on two different models reaches consistent results: there are potential forces in the world economy – working through ITD – that pull individual countries to advance energy technology, ensuring a cross-country convergence in the growth rates of energy technology in the balanced growth path. While ITD plays a role in a cross-country convergence in technological growth rates, cross-country differences in the efficiency of undertaking indigenous research and the capacity of absorbing foreign technology spillovers would lead to a cross-country divergence in the absolute levels of energy technology.
F18|The global EKCs|A substantial fraction of the production in the emerging economies satisfies the consumption in the developed countries. This causes the notorious carbon leakage problem where the embodied carbon emissions in exports are not counted in the traditional territorial production-based emission accounting (PBA). We calculate the consumption-based emissions using latest available Eora data in a multiregional input–output (MRIO) model and then perform fixed effect and random effect panel regressions, dynamic panel regression, and heterogeneous panel regressions using the PBA data and consumption-based accounting (CBA) obtained from the MRIO model. The results show that the inverted-U-shaped Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) does not exist for CBA. Indeed, results obtained in this paper show that the consumption-based EKC is linearly increasing.
F18|China’s Pursuit of Environmentally Sustainable Development: Harnessing the New Engine of Technological Innovation|Whether China continues its business-as-usual investment-driven, environment-polluting growth pattern or adopts an investment and innovation-driven, environmentally sustainable development holds important implications for both national and global environmental governance. Building on a Ramsey-Cass-Koopmans growth model that features endogenous technological change induced by R&D and knowledge stock accumulation, this paper presents an exposition, both analytically and numerically, of the mechanism underlining China’s economic transition from an investment-driven, pollution-intensive to an investment and innovation-driven, environmentally sustainable growth path. We show that if R&D technological innovation is incorporated into China’s growth mechanism, then at some tipping point in time when marginal welfare gain of R&D for knowledge accumulation becomes equalized with that of investment for physical asset deployment, China’s economy will launch capital investment and R&D simultaneously and make a transition to a sustainable growth path along which consumption, capital investment, and R&D have a balanced share of 5: 4: 1, consumption, capital stock, and knowledge stock all grow at a rate of 4.9%, and environmental quality improves at a rate of 2.5%. In contrast, if R&D technological innovation is not harnessed as a new growth engine, then China’s economy will follow its business-as-usual investment-driven growth path along which standalone accumulation of dirty physical capital stock will lead to an more than 200-fold increase in environmental pollution.
F18|Trade and fisheries subsidies|Many renewable resource sectors are heavily subsidized and yet the resources are also seriously depleted. World Trade Organization members included subsidies in a key renewable resource sector (fisheries) in the Doha round of trade negotiations, which subsequently stalled. This paper develops a simple model to show why prospects for a deal on fisheries subsidies may be difficult. Typically international spillover effects create incentives among exporters to negotiate reductions in subsidies: one country's subsidy worsens other exporters' terms of trade. These incentives may not exist in fisheries for 3 reasons. First, open access fishery supply curves are backward bending and so if fisheries are depleted, subsidies raise prices (by reducing sustainable harvesting) and improve other exporters' terms of trade. Second, ecological constraints put an upper bound on sustainable harvesting. This means that subsidies that increase employment may have no effect on output and hence generate no international spillover effects if resources are well managed. And third, even if governments were compelled to reduce fishery subsidies, there may be no spillover benefits to trading partners because of policy substitution: governments would be motivated to weaken other regulations targeting the fish sector.
F18|Trade in environmental goods and sustainable development: What are we learning from the transition economies’ experience?|We investigate the causal effects of trade intensity in environmental goods (EGs) on air and water pollution by treating trade, environmental policy and income as endogenous. We estimate a system of reduced-form, simultaneous equations on extensive data, from 1995 to 2003, for transition economies that include Central and Eastern Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States. Our empirical results suggest that although trade intensity in EGs (pooled list) reduces CO? emissions mainly through an indirect income effect, it increases water pollution because the income-induced effect does not offset the direct harmful scale-composition effect. No significant effect is found for SO2 emissions with respect to the list of aggregated EGs. In addition to diverging effects across pollutants, we show that results are sensitive to EGs’ classification: e.g., cleaner technologies and products, end-of-pipe products, environmentally preferable products, etc. For instance, a double profit—environmental and economic—is found only for “cleaner technologies and products” in the models explaining greenhouse gases emissions. Interesting findings are discussed for imports and exports of various classifications of EGs. Overall, we cannot support global and uniform trade liberalization for EGs in a sustainable development perspective. Regional or bilateral trade agreements taking into account the states’ priorities could act as building blocks towards a global, sequentially achieved liberalization of EGs.
F18|Moving on Towards a Workable Climate Regime|The Paris Agreement (PA) signed by 175 parties is now a Treaty since a quorum of signatories has been obtained. This Treaty is really the first important step taken to limit temperature increase, as pledges, if sustained and far more ambitious beyond 2030, would drastically limit the projected temperature increase from projections in the absence of measures to limit emissions of greenhouse gases. Contributions however fall short of the intentions to limit temperature increase to the +1.5° to +2° Celsius range since the onset of industrialization. Drawing on recent contributions, this paper reviews where we stand in tackling four challenges ahead: (i) taking fuller cognizance of the accumulating scientific evidence calling for urgent action; (ii) designing an architecture that will render effective the blend of ‘bottom-up’ and ‘top-down’ approaches; (iii) choosing policy options and tackling the slow transition to a low-carbon economy, and; (iv) raising finance and addressing burden sharing.
