F29|Motivation - Opportunity - Ability Nexus: Application to Regional Central Asian Student Mobility|This study analytically distinguishes between motivational, opportunistic and ability (MOA) factors to extract important questions on international student mobility’s decision-making process in its modern configurations. We use primary data from an online questionnaire associated with semi-structured interviews submitted to Central Asian Alumni from five different countries (Afghanistan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan), to test the hypothesis of a significant variation in the MOA to study abroad across five nationalities. Our findings show minimal cross-country differences. The main differences remain modest in scale and are threefold: firstly, Tajik respondents prioritize physical opportunity and capital mobility within the ability factor; Turkmen respondents emphasize the role of constrained educational supply and imaginary experience, while Uzbek respondents are the most intrinsically motivated while deciding to study abroad.
F29|An analysis into FDI as a contributor of growth and development in a group of a selected set of countries from Asia, Africa and South America|Both the flow and stock of FDI grew very rapidly in the first part of the twentieth century but this was no match to the growth in FDI after the 2nd World War. It is without doubt that the main mechanism of interconnectedness in the global economy has shifted from trade to FDI which has spread rapidly throughout the world dominating a wide range of industries. One of the most controversial issues is whether Foreign Direct Investment is beneficial to countries. Supporters of FDI (Rodrik, 2000) emphasize that growth is enhanced in the host country as FDI enables technology diffusion, enhances employment of human capital and allows host countries to gain access to wider global markets. On the other hand there is a substantial body of literature which emphasizes that FDI creates hardly any benefits to the host nation. It is often argued that the presence of plentiful and cheap labour is the main reason for attracting FDI. This study attempts to investigate whether FDI contributes to growth in a selected group of countries from Asia, Africa and South America using a panel data analysis. A panel data analysis is conducted for 12 countries in order to examine the effects of FDI, employment, and investment formation (lagged) on economic growth. The data for all variables are from the period from 1977 to 2016.
F29|Integration of immigrants in the EU_15: success or failure?|In 2015, the so-called migration crisis culminated in Europe. Although immigration can bring along many benefits (labor force, cultural diversification), it constitutes a challenge for fiscal policy if immigrants fail to integrate. This paper examines the level of integration in the EU_15 on the data from Eurostat in period 2009 to 2018. The results show that immigrants who were not born in the EU_28 were significantly worse off in terms of the unemployment rate and the risk-of-poverty rate than the host society. Immigrants born in the other EU_28 country were not significantly worse off on the labor market, but the at-risk-of-poverty rate was significantly higher in comparison with the host society. The data didn?t confirm that share of immigrants with tertiary education (both from the EU_28 or outside the EU_28) was significantly lower than the share of the tertiary educated population in the host society. The level of integration of immigrants did not got worse after the migration crisis. Furthermore, the results showed a considerable difference in the degree of integration between EU_15 countries.
F29|Modelo cualitativo para estudiar la internacionalización de las multilatinas Colombianas|Resumen: Este trabajo examina la internacionalización de las multilatinas colombianas en la última década y propone un modelo de estudio cualitativo de este fenómeno a partir de tres aspectos importantes: patrones de expansión, beneficios alcanzados y riesgos e incertidumbre derivados de la inversión en el exterior de las compañías colombianas. Utilizando una muestra de 14 estudios de caso correspondientes a multilatinas de diferentes sectores productivos, contrastamos con los directivos de estas compañías, la percepción que tienen frente a estos tres asuntos en particular. En general, los hallazgos sugieren un perfil de expansión influenciado por la oportunidad del entorno, el aprendizaje exportador y las mejoras en la productividad. Igualmente, como beneficios importantes se destacan las transformaciones organizativas en las empresas, la rentabilidad del negocio y el conocimiento de los mercados. Adicionalmente, a nivel de los riesgos, las ventajas competitivas que enfrentan las empresas de economías en desarrollo cuando actúan en entornos complejos y con alto riesgo. Estas particularidades permiten sugerir un modelo de estudio que comprende la expansión, los aprendizajes y la gestión de riesgo, con algunos elementos comunes de las teorías clásicas de la internacionalización, donde la adaptación, extensión e incluso combinación de teorías y modelos proporcionan bases para explicar, interpretar y analizar la expansión internacional de las multilatinas colombianas observadas. Abstract : This paper examines the colombian multilatinas internationalization in the last decade and proposes a qualitative study model of this phenomenon, based on three important aspects: Expansion patterns, Achieved benefits and Risk as uncertainty derived from investment abroad by colombian companies. Using a sample of 14 case studies, corresponding to multilatinas from different productive sectors, we contrasted with the managers of these companies, the perception they have regarding these particular three issues. In general, the findings suggest an expansion profile influenced by the environment opportunity, export learning and improvements in productivity, as well as important benefits such as organizational transformations in companies, business profitability and knowledge of the markets. In addition, at the risk level, the competitive advantages faced by companies in developing economies when they operate in complex and high-risk environments. These particularities allow us to suggest a study model that includes both expansion, learning and risk management to some common elements of classical internationalization theories, where the adaptation, extension and even combination of theories and models, provide bases to explain and interpret the international expansion of the Colombian multilatinas observed.
F29|A Re-examination of the Relationship between Foreign Capital Flows and Economic Growth in Nigeria|Abstract The study was carried out to re-examine the relationship between foreign capital flows and economic growth in Nigeria by collecting annual data over the period of 1986 to 2015 from various sources. The study employed a combination of stationary and nonstationary series. Similarly, irrespective of specifications, the study reported the absence of a long-run relationship between economic growth and its determinants in Nigeria. Furthermore, owing to absorptive capacity constraints (such as, infrastructural deficit, underdeveloped local financial market and negative and/or very weak positive spill-over effect on domestic investment), net FDI inflows exerted positive short-run influence on growth, while net portfolio flows and net foreign remittance had significant negative short-run effects on growth. Also, lower levels of net foreign aids and net external debt promote growth, while excessive levels of these flows dampen growth. All these imply that the relationship between foreign capital flows and economic growth in Nigeria is both linear and nonlinear. It is therefore recommended that policy makers in Nigeria encourage the inflow of capital that would be beneficial to the nation, in terms of stimulating domestic investment and economic growth. Putting measures in place to develop the nation’s financial sector is also suggested to attract and make efficient use of capital flows in the country.
F29|Passport, please! Travels, travails and trade| A country’s visa policies are widely assumed to have economic consequences. In this short paper, I examine the effect of the ease with which a country’s citizens can enter foreign countries on international trade. Using a specification of the gravity model that avoids the endogeneity problems that typically arise when analyzing the association between ease of travel and the extent of bilateral interactions, I find that countries which issue powerful passports experience more international trade.
F29|The knowledge spillover effects of FDI on the productivity and efficiency of research activities in China|As China is moving toward an innovation-driven economy, this paper offers new insights for both policymakers and investors to optimize the effectiveness of investment performance. This paper studies China's provincial research activities with a focus on the spillover-induced productivity and efficiency change. The results show that spillovers as a result of inflow of foreign investment contribute positively to the performance of overall research activities, however, the productivity effects vary across regions. Our analysis also indicates that highly skewed distribution of FDI leads to a less improved innovation efficiency in FDI-rich provinces. Future innovation policy should adjust the investment profiles based on the preferential innovation output on one hand, and optimize the complementary policy for FDI on the other hand to reduce inefficiency and the potential negative effects of knowledge spillovers. Inter-provincial governmental cooperation is necessary to resolve the uneven distribution of FDI and improve the innovation efficiency in both FDI-poor and rich regions.
F29|FDI-flows and reinvested earnings: measurement, perceptions and pitfalls in interpretation|The study addresses methodological and conceptual issues related to the measurement, perception and economic interpretation of foreign direct investment (FDI) flows, focusing on reinvested earnings (RE). Using Hungarian data for the period 2008–2014 as an example, we review the effects of two internationally endorsed methodological revisions affecting the interpretation and quantification of RE. The reason for relying only on Hungarian data is that other countries do not disclose information on the quantitative effects of the methodological changes. The empirical importance of the revision introduced in 2008 is attested by the fact that while the present methodology indicates a net FDI inflow of 10.5 billion euros, the one applied until 2007 would suggest a cumulative net outflow of 5.6 billion euros from Hungary in the period 2008–2014. The huge difference between the two is hidden in statistics on the international investment position (IIP) of the country, which is beyond the focus of most analysts. Although the revisions resulted in the congruence of statistical data with economic concepts of FDI income and RE, they may have become less expressive of the decisions and behaviour of foreign investors. In addition, the revisions lead to breaks in national time series and raise questions regarding the comparability of data across countries. For comparisons over time and between countries, we recommend the use of data on changes in (net) FDI stocks, unaffected by the methodological revisions.
F29|Dealing with Undocumented Immigrants: The Welfare Effects of Amnesties and Deportations|The effects on agents’ welfare of two different policies dealing with undocumented immigrants, amnesties and deportations, are assessed. I develop a two-period overlapping generations model which accounts for the ex-ante production by undocumented workers and their impact on the government budget. Additional channels, such as the discrimination on the labor market and a different productivity of regularized workers are discussed. The impact of a migration policy depends on the wage effects of the legalized/deported workers and their net fiscal contribution. The calibration of the model for the United States in 2014 allows to disentangle the channels at work. Overall, the impact of the two policies on natives’ welfare is limited (between −0.1% and +0.15%). Retired agents benefit from an amnesty and are harmed by a deportation. The effect on workers is ambiguous and depends on the wage and fiscal effects in addition to the change in the returns on savings.
F29|"Towards a new organization of society and economy (On the book by N. V. Smorodinskaya ""The globalized economy: From hierarchies to net structures"")"|"The paper overviews the basic ideas of the book by N. V. Smorodinskaya. It focuses on some definite as well as still not so definite changes in world pubic and economic structures. The main vector of the research is reorganization of today’s pubic and economic structures and establishing a net structure on this basis. The author follows these processes beginning with the first steps of forming a net structure. She examines the logic of changes of rigid hierarchical models of management and coordination of the free market for horizontal and net forms of organization. A new institutional space rests upon developed net interactions. Two main trends are in the focus of the author’s attention. First, collaboration phenomenon on all the levels of economy including so called ""triple helix"", i.e., collaboration of the state, science and business. Second, cluster nets, i.e., organization and management of collaboration. The cluster-net approach in industrial policy all over the world and topicality of such approach for modernization of Russian economy are presented in the monograph too."
F29|International knowledge flows and the administrative barriers to mobility|Face-to-face contact, even temporary one, helps researchers form personal ties and transfer tacit knowledge. The ability of researchers to colocate, including attendance at international conferences, workshops and seminars, is affected by the administrative barriers to international mobility. This paper uses a gravity-style empirical framework to examine the link between international knowledge flows and immigration policies. The results suggest that the paper walls erected by such policies reduce not just the mobility of individuals, but also the diffusion of knowledge. A moderately restrictive mobility barrier reduces incoming and outgoing knowledge flows by about 0.8–1.3% per year. The effect of knowledge-exporting country's policy persists for nearly 10 years. There is also a short-term asymmetry: diffusion of recent knowledge is affected more by the immigration policy of a knowledge-exporter rather than a knowledge-importer.
F29|Dual-use products export multipliers with the indirect effects|The micro–macro link is provided for the impact of the dual-use defence-civilian exports of products and services on the Slovenian economy. The unique firm-level data on the dual-use export is integrated in the symmetric 60 groups of activities input–output tables. The classification of the economic activities is used to integrate data on the firm-to-firm dual-use export transactions in the symmetric input–output coding system to avoid the double counting. The input–output modelling approach is used for the measuring of the direct input–output flows and the dual-use products export multipliers with the indirect effects. The direct and indirect effects are analysed by the economic activities, technological intensity of the products and services, and statistical regions in Slovenia. Comparisons with alternative non dual-use high tech are analysed by economic activities in terms of value-added and labour productivity. The dual-use export is associated with high technologically intensive suppliers and sub-suppliers of defence-civilian goods and services. The empirical estimations can serve as a guide in questions of comparing with alternative in economic policy design when investigating trade-offs between allocation of expenditures for defence equipment and their opportunity costs for non dual-use of high tech products and services.
F29|Políticas hacia el capital extranjero en América Latina 1990-2014|En este documento se sintetiza la política hacia el capital extranjero en América Latina desde 1990 a 2014, tomando una muestra de 13 países, casi todos los sudamericanos más México, Panamá y Costa Rica. Se elabora una tipología de instrumentos apoyada en clasificaciones de Dunning y de UNCTAD, en la que se disponen 4 tipos de instrumentos reguladores y 5 promocionales, cuya aplicación se examina a través de una amplia revisión bibliográfica que consta en informes de cada país. Se resumen esos informes que constan en la web del equipo de investigación y se identifican estrategias a partir de las configuraciones de instrumentos. Se constata que las estrategias se reorientan desde el predominio promocional en los 1990s hasta una mayor presencia de instrumentos regulatorios, con algunos casos de confrontación vía expropiación, pero que implican confrontaciones menores que las del pasado. Se identifican muy pocos casos que puedan caracterizarse como estrategias de desarrollo “asistidas por la IED”.
F29|Russia: A New Imperialist Power?|This paper argues the importance of using modern methodology of Marxist analysis for the study of imperialism and the so-called “empires”. This methodology allows to show the mechanisms of economic, political, ideological, and so on manipulating the “periphery” from the “center” capital and the states. On this methodological basis it is proved that capitals and state machines of semi-periphery countries in general and Russia in particular are mostly objects of imperialist subjugation and manipulation and only in some rare cases these countries and their capitals are able to be subjects of the imperialist policy. The analysis of the contradictions in the relations of the Russian Federation, Ukraine and the West is given. It is provided the system of political, economic and geo-political arguments proving that Russia as a rule does not act as a subject of the imperialist policy, and only in some cases (generally relying on the Soviet legacy) Russia is able to withstand the “rules of the game”, given by the imperialist powers. It is argued that these some cases when Russia withstands the “rules of the game” is the main reason for the imperialist powers’ diatribes against “Russian imperialism”.
F29|Culture-Laden Imports: International Market Entry and Cultural Taboos|This empirical study investigates American market responses to a Spanish product that is strongly culture-laden and may violate cultural taboos. Surveys were conducted in two contrasting US universities in Arkansas and California. Contrasting student majors were also chosen: Art and Business. The product is a life-sized baby doll, designed to be breast-fed rather than bottle-fed, which highlights the benefits and normality of breast-feeding babies. Although this product is popular in its original European market, US media accounts suggested strongly negative morality-based American reactions. This study found a strong overall non-acceptance of this product in all groups, but with significant differences between groups. Results quantify the market reaction and illuminate its cultural basis by comparing responses between two culturally different regions, two contrasting college majors, different genders, and different ethnicities. In doing so, this study helps to break new ground in the international marketing of culture-laden products.
F29|Business models along supply chain position and servitisation: An empirical investigation of European manufacturers|Competitive pressures of the world economy are continuously reshaping the global supply chains of manufacturing firms. At the same time, global competition is altering the nature of output offered by manufacturers, shifting it towards a higher share of service elements. The goal of this paper is to investigate how these two factors are combined, using a sample of manufacturing companies from 13 European countries belonging to the assembly industries of fabricated metal products, machinery and equipment. The results indicate that different business models became dominant in the less developed Eastern European and the developed Western European region. Involving measures of business performance and reasons for plant location, this study also argues that in terms of service offerings and supply chain position, other types of business models can coexist and successfully prevail in the two regions.
F29|Fire-sale FDI? The Impact of Financial Crises on Foreign Direct Investment| We analyze the evolution of foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows to developing and emerging countries around financial crises. We empirically examine the Fire-Sale FDI hypothesis and describe the pattern of FDI inflows surrounding financial crises. We also add a more granular detail about the types of financial crises and their potentially differential effects on FDI. We distinguish between mergers and acquisitions (M&A) and greenfield investment, as well as between horizontal (tariff jumping) and vertical (integrating production stages) FDI. We find that financial crises have a strong negative effect on inward FDI in our sample. Crises are also shown to reduce the value of horizontal and vertical FDI. We do not find empirical evidence of fire-sale FDI; on the contrary, financial crises are shown to affect FDI flows and M&A activity negatively.
F29|An Approach to the Analysis of Strategic Development Trend in the Electricity Production Regarding the Energy Sector Framework: The Ukrainian and Spanish Cases|This paper aims to analyse the Strategic Development Trend in production of electricity both in Ukraine and Spain. Modern approaches and innovations in energy production are identified in these two countries. Energy market establishment has been analysed retrospectively and comparative approach in analytical research of energy sectors of Ukraine and Spain has been used along with SPACE-matrix analysis. By implementing this methodology, we work out the main factors related to the relevant energy issues and the graphic SPACE-matrix model has been carried out. Finally we draw conclusions.
F29|The education networks of Latin America. Effects on trade during and after the cold war|The friendship and social networks international students tend to build during their university studies can boost trade between the home country and that of the alma mater. This paper tests the effects of Latin American students on bilateral trade between eleven home economies and nine OECD countries during 1971-2012. We find education networks to positively and significantly affect both exports and imports. Also, the democratization and liberalization of Latin American political regimes following the end of the cold war slightly weaken the influence of networks, but directly and positively affect trade. Results are robust to different specifications and regressors.
F29|The education networks of Latin America. Effects on trade during and after the cold war|The friendship and social networks international students tend to build during their university studies can boost trade between the home country and that of the alma mater. This paper tests the effects of Latin American students on bilateral trade between eleven home economies and nine OECD countries during 1971-2012. We find education networks to positively and significantly affect both exports and imports. Also, the democratization and liberalization of Latin American political regimes following the end of the cold war slightly weaken the influence of networks, but directly and positively affect trade. Results are robust to different specifications and regressors.
F29|Heterogeneous impact of traveling to Western countries on gender norms in Middle East and North Africa countries|Social gender norms shape individuals’ opportunities and actions. Traditional and gender biased norms can contribute to persistent gender disparities. However, counter-stereotypical images can shift an expected behavior for men and women. This paper investigates if traveling to Western countries relaxes gender norms in the Middle East and North Africa region using the Arab Barometer data. Preliminary empirical findings suggest that international travel to Western countries relaxes gender norms only for those individuals who spend abroad longer than one month and only for less binding gender norms not associated with changing power relationships between men and women.
F29|The Inventor Balance and the Functional Specialization in Global Inventive Activities|Inventors and organizational assets are inputs for inventive activities which are increasingly provided at a global scale. Internationalization, in turn, has created scope for countries to specialize in the provision of one or the other type of inputs. We introduce a new patent-based metric, the “inventor balance”, to quantify this type of functional specialization, which we discover to be considerable, and we propose a conceptual framework to explain it. We find a progressive “decoupling” of national sub-systems providing respectively inventors and organizational assets. Moreover, we find that countries with a high level of innovativeness relative to their economic development, high technological specialization, and strong individualistic cultural traits contribute relatively more inventors than organizations.
F29|Reverse FDI in Europe: An Analysis of Angola's FDI in Portugal|" type=""main"" xml:lang=""en""> This paper analyses foreign direct investment (FDI) of Angola in Portugal. The reverse investment of African countries in Europe is a recent economic event that needs to be analysed, theoretically explained and empirically tested. A dynamic theoretical model is presented and a Bayesian model tests the model validating it. The results reveal that imports and corruption increase Angola FDI in Portugal. Some variables affect negatively Angola FDI in Portugal such as lagged Angola FDI, signifying an autoregressive negative effect in Portugal; the Portuguese official development assistance (ODA) to Angola, which are direct transfers from Portugal to Angola; and Angola's GDP. Policy implications are discussed."
F29|Reverse FDI in Europe: An Analysis of Angola's FDI in Portugal|This paper analyses foreign direct investment (FDI) of Angola in Portugal. The reverse investment of African countries in Europe is a recent economic event that needs to be analysed, theoretically explained and empirically tested. A dynamic theoretical model is presented and a Bayesian model tests the model validating it. The results reveal that imports and corruption increase Angola FDI in Portugal. Some variables affect negatively Angola FDI in Portugal such as lagged Angola FDI, signifying an autoregressive negative effect in Portugal; the Portuguese official development assistance (ODA) to Angola, which are direct transfers from Portugal to Angola; and Angola's GDP. Policy implications are discussed.
F29|International Patenting Strategies With Heterogeneous Firms|This paper analyzes how firms decide where to patent in a heterogeneous firm model of trade with endogenous rival entry. In the model, innovating firms compete with rival firms on price, where rivals force the innovating firm to reduce markups and lower the innovating firm's probability of obtaining monopolistic profits. Patenting allows the innovating firm to reduce the number of rival rms by increasing their fixed overhead costs, thereby providing higher expected profits and increased markups from reduced competition. Countries with higher states of technology, more competition and better patent protection have a greater proportion of entrants who patent. Industries tend to follow a U-shaped pattern of patenting where industries with high heterogeneity in production and low substitution, along with industries with low heterogeneity in production and high substitution patent more frequently. Using a generalized framework of the model, I estimate market-based measures of country-level patent protection, which when compared with other IP indices, suggests that not enough international patenting is taking place. Finally, I test the predictions of the model using a newly available technology-to-industry concordance on bilateral patent flows and show that firms are increasingly sensitive to foreign IP protection. Countries that choose to maximize their IP protection can increase the number of foreign patents by almost 10%.
F29|Las pymes españolas en Latinoamérica: barreras a la exportación|El principal objetivo de este artículo es contrastar si la importancia relativa atribuida a las diversas barreras a la exportación varía en función del destino de las exportaciones de la empresa. Para ello, se analizaron las 463 respuestas obtenidas de una población de pequeñas y medianas empresas, mediante un proceso de reducción de la dimensionalidad, con el fin de proporcionar unos factores, sobre el listado de 26 barreras individuales posibles, tras una profunda revisión de la literatura. Se utilizó un análisis de componentes principales con rotación Varimax. Posteriormente, se han comparado los resultados de Latinoamérica con aquellos obtenidos en otros mercados de destino situados en la Unión Europea, África y el resto del mundo. Y los resultados nos confirman parcialmente la existencia de diferencias en la percepción de barreras en función de los mercados mayoritarios de destino de la exportación. Además, se comentan algunos resultados de barreras a nivel individual. Spanish Sme’s In Latin America: Export Barriers The main aim of this article is to check if the relative importance attributed to the different export barriers varies as a function of the firm’s export destination. To reach that goal, we analyzed 463 responses from a population of small and medium enterprises, through a dimensionality reduction procedure to composite factors, from a list of 26 possible individual barriers, obtained after reviewing the existing literature on export barriers. Factor analysis with Varimax rotation was used. Results for the region are compared with those to other destination markets in the European Union, Africa and the rest of the world. And the results confirm partially, the existence of differences of export barriers perceptions as a function of the firm’s export destination. Some results from individual barriers are also described.
F29|Competitiveness and Development of National Economy|This paper examines the relation between the two, may be the most pressing, phenomena of the world economy: competitiveness and development. Of course both can be interpreted in several ways, but the most operative way is to consider competitivenes by the methodology of the World Economic Forum's Global Competitiveness Index, and the development by the gross of domestic product per population. The intent is to determine what is the conection between these two indicators in general, and to pass the question in such a way, and to establish a methodology for further analysis of individual groups of countries considered in the report of the World Economic Forum's Global Competitiveness in the world. Therefore, we use correlation analysis between the observed indicators for the economy after 2005, since the above-mentioned study and implement competitiveness, with an accent on the last mid-term because of current events. The answer to the question: what is the relationship between these indicators in the timeline for all countries concerned is excpected. It is also important for the countries of the former Yugoslavia as a guide in the efforts to retrieve the position in the world economy.
F29|Chinese Outward Direct Investment in Central and Eastern European Countries: a Comparative Analysis|"In the present paper, we examine the larger context of China's ""going out"" approach and its policy towards CEE-16. We analyze also the distribution, structure and trends of the Chinese ODI in five CEE countries, correlated with its investment projects, motivations and constraints. In the final part of the paper we bring to the forefront Romania as a destination for Chinese ODI, providing an analysis of the Chinese investment evolution, their specific features, weaknesses, accomplishments and prospects of further development. The structure of our research is determined by its four main objectives: to generate an overview of the Chinese ODI, to underscore the new cooperation framework between China and CEE-16, to analyze the Chinese ODI in CEE-5 and appraise the untapped potential of its relationship with Romania. Consequently, the paper is structured in four main sections, preceded by an introduction and concluding with a review of the main results."
F29|Determinants of FDI: A Componentwise Analysis|For two decades, the questions of what really motivates foreign investors to invest in a certain country remains unanswered and a controversial issue. Moreover, previous studies have overwhelmingly treated FDI as unidimensional rather than multidimensional. In reality, FDI is rather multidimensional in that it is composed of components (equity capital, reinvested earnings, and other capital), each with its intrinsic characteristics in response to the same economic fundamentals, such as growth, institutional quality, exchange rate, taxes, market size, skill abundance, etc. Therefore, the main objective of this study was to seek the major determinants of each sub-component of the total FDI inflows in Turkey separately to avoid a distorted empirical prediction concerning the total FDI, which is greatly neglected in the FDI literature. Accordingly, we employed the panel corrected standard error model for annual data between 2003 and 2012. We found that reinvested earning and other capital as sub-components of FDI are responsive to the country risk indices of both Turkey and EU and to the tax measures of 2006. On the other hand, the variations in equity capital flows may be due to some other macroeconomic fundamentals. The responsiveness of the reinvested earning and other capital can be attributed to the nature of these components which are thought to be reversible in general.
F29|Syrian Crisis: Turkey, Lebanon And Jordan News Agency's Perspectives|Uprisings, which started in Tunisia, Egypt and Libya, demanding freedom and democracy against dictatorships began to affect Syria in March 2011. Soon after, this uprisings created a crisis which media have shown a lot of interest. There have been many studies examining the attitudes of European and American media. The aim of this study is to show and compare Syria?s neighbours views according to this crisis. In this study, Turkey?s, Lebanon?s and Jordan?s news agencies news about Syria are analysed. Anadolu Agency (Turkey), the Lebanese National News Agency NNA (Lebanon) and Jordan News Agency PETRA (Jordan) are examined within the framework of this study. This news agencies have different ownership structures. Anadolu Agency is autonomous, Jordanian News Agency is independent and the Lebanese National News Agency has a state-owned structure. This different ownership structures are also analysed and compared. The three neigbours of Syria will be compared with a method of content analysis. The outstanding topics, prominent actors, neglected issues are examined. The fundemental differences are revealed. At the end of the study, it was clear that all agencies were reporting news correspondingly to their foreign policies, regardless of ownership structures. While Jordan news agency neglected the Syrian crises because of a fear of similar situation in the country, Lebanon news agency reflected states complex structure. On the other hand, Turkey?s news agency represented Turkish foreign policy which shows similar attitudes with USA.
F29|The internationalization of the Spanish SME sector|As part of a wider research program, we analysed the theoretical framework and the recent developments of the process of internationalization (transnationalisation) of the small- and medium-sized enterprises in Spain. The paper highlights the main trends and barriers of this internationalization process. Methodology included document analyses, interviews, and the analyses of statistical databases.
F29|Las Exportaciones y el crecimiento económico en Colombia 1994-2010|Este trabajo examina el rol de las exportaciones en el crecimiento económico de Colombia, enmarcado en el periodo post apertura económica, que va desde mediados de la década de los noventa, del siglo pasado, hasta los últimos diez años de la presente década. Los resultados obtenidos indican ausencia de causalidad entre las distintas categorías de exportaciones que se utilizaron (exportaciones primarias e industriales) y el producto neto de exportaciones. Sin embargo, el modelo también arroja un efecto positivo entre las importaciones de bienes de capital y el producto, que aunado, igualmente a una relación positiva entre el producto y las exportaciones manufactureras, permite presumir que el crecimiento de las exportaciones, ha permitido, indirectamente, a través de las adquisición de divisas, financiar la compra de bienes de capital necesarios para la ampliación del producto.
F29|Procesos migratorios en Colombia. El caso del desplazamiento interno para el período comprendido entre 1990–2011|Resumen Los flujos migratorios a través de la historia han representado movilidad social, lo cual incide en el desarrollo social, económico, político y cultural de un país o zona geográfica. La movilidad de la población por diversas regiones de Colombia se atribuye a varios factores como el conflicto interno, que a su vez genera repercusiones en el agregado económico de un país con fuertes indicios en el crecimiento, la inversión, la generación de empleo formal y una serie de variables que dan cuenta de la situación actual socioeconómica de Colombia. Por tanto el fenómeno del desplazamiento forzado interno debe ser un tema de análisis desde la perspectiva socioeconómica, el cual aborda diversas situaciones que debe afrontar una familia al adquirir esta situación de vulnerabilidad.
F29|Competitiveness of Croatian Destinations Through Online Marketing Indicators|The purpose of this paper is to determine whether destinations in Croatia follow the trend of the modern market by ensuring first impression quality through an online campaign. The World Tourist Organisation (UNWTO: 2008) takes into consideration categories of web page quality evaluation such as: information level of the destination web site, level of accuracy, level of consistency, type and quality of interaction with visitors, value of visual identity. Web site development requires a user centered design process with permanent evaluation of the evolving design. The aim of this research is to explore web site design quality factors in order to adopt web page quality to a profile of destination visitors. This paper analyses online marketing concepts as new tools and processes that enable customer relation systems and ensure an interactive approach to potential customers. The fundamental empirical research was based on 11 Croatian destinations, both inland and coastal types, in order to analyse and identify levels of standardisation in online marketing quality. The focus was on the official local tourist board sites as destination tourism organisations. Destinations included in the research were: Zagreb, Split, Dubrovnik, Opatija, Osijek, Zadar, Šibenik, Varaždin, Plitvice, Hvar and Rijeka. It is confirmed that the Web structure did not meet the requirements of modern tourists according to the selected categories. For example, the Šibenik official page is written only in the Croatian language. Furthermore, it is found that in addition to a non-existent domain policy, there is no commonly accepted visual identity that would be followed. The platforms of the web sites do not have a common system or tool. The evaluation indicates that only Zagreb's site offers a direct booking engine which proves that the destination is in line with the modern trends of online marketing. There is a strong, positive and statistically significant connection between the quality of internet pages of chosen tourist destinations and the number of tourist arrivals in that destination. From the web designers perspective, this research should help in the future web site development process in order to define the business objectives, context and key scenarios of use.
F29|"Information Lost: Will the ""Paradise"" That Information Promises, to Both Consumer and Firm, Be ""Lost"" on Account of Data Breaches? The Epic is Playing Out"|No abstract is available for this item.
F29|Information Lost (Apologies to Milton)|Vast amounts of information result from business and consumer search, communication, and transactions. All this information can enhance market efficiency and consumer surplus as firms tailor products to buyers. But, there is increased risk of information loss. What issues should be on the Digital Agenda with regard to information loss, and what data are available to inform and generate incentives for consumer, business, and policy interactions in the information marketplace? This paper reviews the situation and points out where we need more thought and more data. Topics include: (1) Frameworks for analysis: How should we model the information marketplace, particularly with regard to the benefits and costs of information aggregation and protection? (2) Quantification and data: What is the evidence on the prevalence and nature of information loss, and what are the costs of information loss, and to whom? (3) Market and Policy Response: What do we know about the efficacy of market vs. other approaches to incentivize market participants to avoid loss or remediate after information loss? Throughout, of particular interest is the international dimension of the information marketplace. What issues arise when countries differ in their attitudes and policies toward the information marketplace?
F29|Aspects Regarding Romania's Energy Policy in an European Context|The impact that the energetic sector has had and still has on human society is of a maximum importance. The population increase on a global scale, the improvement in living standards, global warming etc. have determined not only the reduction in energetic resources but also the increase in the renewable energy utilization. The EU, which is the biggest energetic importer in the world and implicitly Romania as a member state, has seen itself being in the situation of facing the energetic sector’s challenges. I have tried to capture the measures taken by the EU and Romania regarding energy policy in this paper.
F29|Topical issues related to the formation of the Islamic financial system: at the intersection of philosophy and practice|The so-called Islamic finance is an intensively developing segment of the world finance. It puts a great amount of not so much practical but complex theoretical questions to the financial regulator and professional participants of financial markets. In search of answers financial analytics have to use some philosophical tools of scientific analysis and decision-making. Just a question to illustrate the problem: At what level (protein, cell, DNA, molecule, atom, proton, etc.) does pork cease to be meat tabooed for Muslims and become a biological material that may be used?
F29|Credit in the Structure of the Market Quotation of Financial Assets in Relation to the Islamic Financial Laws|The authors analyze the structure of the market quotation of financial assets and come to the conclusion that one of its components is a financial asset identical with a commercial credit. Hence, in terms of the Islamic financial system any financial asset is inappropriate for investment because its quotation contains elements of danism. The authors demonstrate a new approach to the structure of the Islamic infrastructure of exchange trading by financial assets, which would allow excluding elements unacceptable from the point of view of Sharia.
F29|On the welfare impacts of an immigration amnesty|This paper aims to assess the effects of an immigration amnesty on agents' welfare by using a simple two-period overlapping generations model. Given that illegal immigrants play a role in the economy even before being regularized, an amnesty differs from new immigration. In the presence of labor market discrimination, capital holders are harmed as the acquisition of legal status increases the wage bill that they pay. The net fiscal effect strongly depends on the discrimination that illegal workers face ex ante. A calibration of the model on Germany and the United Kingdom highlights overall limited economic consequences of amnesty which can be contrasted to the effects of deportation and new legal immigration. In particular, when public welfare expenditures are low, amnesty and new immigration can increase native's welfare in the long run while deportation might harm less-educated agents.
F29|The determinants of FDI in Turkey: A Markov Regime-Switching approach|This paper considers movements of Foreign Direct Investments (FDI) in Turkey, and therefore, to understand the dynamics of FDI, runs several nonlinear FDI equations in which the basic determinants of FDI in Turkey are determined through Markov Regime-Switching Models (MSMs). The statistical properties of Markov Regime-Switching time series models are more desirable than those of conventional time series or panel regression models. Through these properties of MSMs, i) one can observe structural changes, if they exist, in FDI equations through time, ii) if, in fact, the true FDI regression equation follows a nonlinear relationship, MSMs fit data better than the linear models. This paper eventually follows maximum likelihood methodology of Markov Regime-Switching Model (MSM) to search for the possible structural changes in level and/or trends and possible changes in parameters of independent variables of FDI–MSM equations through the transition probabilities. In conclusion, this paper yields the outcome that Turkish FDI growth equation has significant structural changes in level and trend and that has significant coefficient shifts in explanatory variables. These explanatory variables are Turkish GDP Growth, Labor Cost, the Electricity Price Growth, the growth in average prices of High Sulphur Fuel Oil, Cooking Coal, Steam Coal and Natural Gas, Export Growth, Import Growth, Discount Rate and Country Risk Indexes for Turkey, US and EU, respectively, within the time interval from 1988 first quarter to 2010 second quarter.
F29|International Marketing - A Conceptual Framework|The term â€˜internal marketingâ€™ has been widely used in organizations. However, the term is often used loosely to describe many different managerial initiatives aimed at improving the effectiveness and efficiency of organizational resource application. The use of the term â€˜marketingâ€™ in this context does not simply mean the application or performance of marketing activity. More specifically, it means a focus on marketing concepts and theories that can be adopted for application to manage the organization of efforts to meet the needs of the internal customer, so that they in turn can understand and value the philosophy of providing satisfaction for the external customer.
F29|Determinants of family business internationalization. Review of existing research|The article analyses the influence of several factors relevant to internationalization processes of family firms and differentiates between those factors that aid internationalization and those that hinder such process based on literature review. There are many reasons behind the international expansion of family businesses, as well as economic theories that attempt to explain them. This paper investigates how key features of family firms, such as long-term vision, entrepreneurial culture, undertaking risk-adverse strategies, fear of losing control, efficient decision-making process, family commitment influence the internationalization process of family firms.
F29|NEW PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ELEMENTS IN ROMANIA'(tm)S PUBLIC SERVICES IN THE EUROPEAN CONTEXT|"New Public Management (NPM) is considered as a global paradigm emerging in response to economic, institutional, political, and ideological changes.Many attempts to define the New Public Management have been made and there are several definitions of this notion, referring to the implementation of management ideas from business and private sector into the public services.Over the past few years, Romania has been facing a great challenge as it has to enhance its public management for achieving the European standards and values of transparency, predictability, accountability, adaptability and efficiency. The necessity of a modern administration at European standards exists both at the level of the citizen, and at the level of institutions delivering public services.According to the provisions of its last stand-by arrangement with IMF, Romania placed emphasis on restoring medium- and long-term sustainability and paved the way for future growth. Structural reforms were a large component of the program, including tax administration, pensions, public wages and employment, and social benefits, improving public sector efficiency, as well as enhancing the business environment. Since 2009 a public financial management structure was introduced for multi-year budgeting while limiting intra-year budget revisions. Fiscal rules were introduced on spending, public debt and primary deficit, and a framework for managing guarantees and other contingent liabilities was approved. Local public finance law was amended to bolster fiscal discipline and limit risks from local governments.Thus, presently, the legal framework envisages the use of new instruments and structures to support local administration authorities to increase their administrative capacity in order to perform in accordance with their new authority and thereby increases the quality of the already decentralized public services.The Common Assessment Framework (CAF) '"" the total quality management tool was introduced in Romania, public institutions acknowledging the need for change and improvement, the importance of people'(tm)s involvement within the organization'(tm)s self-assessment process, the importance of measuring the results, objectives prioritization, the need to assume responsibility for the identified improvement actions, as well as the need to share knowledge and experience.Most of the Romanian public institutions apply the diagnosis obtained through CAF implementation as a solid ground to develop and implement their Multi-annual Modernizing Strategies, thus assuring the sustainability of the results accomplished so far.Concluding, we consider that the changes incurred and the significant transformation of Romanian public services include important elements of NPM."
F29|Intangible assets as a source of competitiveness in the post-crisis economy. The role of trademarks|The post-crisis economy brings changes in the functions of the trademarks. The aim of this paper is to evidence the functions of the trademarks as part of the intellectual property and of the intangible in the post-crisis economic frame and to offer an overview of the evolution of these functions before and after economic crisis. The economic crisis was and still is a real challenge for the companies that overrated their intangible assets or which kept in their balance the intangible assets with no correct estimated market value. Hereby, some companies were gaining from crisis because of the good management of intangible assets, but some were stand to lose. The new economy needs innovation, flexibility, and competitiveness in order to face the competition between trademarks.
F29|: Balance Sheet Channel of Monetary Transmission in Pakistan: An Empirical Investigation|Using data of non-financial listed firms over a period of 1999-2010, this paper investigates the effectiveness of balance sheet channel of monetary transmission mechanism in Pakistan. By classifying firms as SME and large, it finds a strong evidence for the existence of net worth channel. A tight monetary policy worsens the net worth of both the SMEs and large firms, with SMEs getting more hit on their cash flows, short-term borrowing, and revenues.
F29|Determinants of Foreign Direct Investment to Developing Countries|In this paper we explored different factors responsible for variation in foreign direct investment to developing countries. We used macro panel data of 57 low and lower middle income countries for last ten years (2000-2009) to empirically address this question. We used instrumental variable technique to correct for reverse causation and omitted variable bias in our estimates. In addition, we also controlled for country specific and time specific fixed effects to obtain unbiased estimates. This study found that market size is the most important determinant of foreign direct investment to developing countries. Further, stable macroeconomic environment, global integration, availability of skilled labor force and developed financial sector also promote foreign direct investment in developing countries.
F29|Determinants of Foreign Direct Investment to Developing Countries|In this paper we explored different factors responsible for variation in foreign direct investment to developing countries. We used macro panel data of 57 low and lower middle income countries for last ten years (2000-2009) to empirically address this question. We used instrumental variable technique to correct for reverse causation and omitted variable bias in our estimates. In addition, we also controlled for country specific and time specific fixed effects to obtain unbiased estimates. This study found that market size is the most important determinant of foreign direct investment to developing countries. Further, stable macroeconomic environment, global integration, availability of skilled labor force and developed financial sector also promote foreign direct investment in developing countries.
F29|Coordination in Political Machinery under Dictatorship: Signals, Shirking and Repression|This paper is devoted to the explanation of selected bureaus' behavior patterns in the soviet type of totalitarian dictatorships with the command economic model. It is a proven fact that the plan figures in the soviet economy were fabricated as a consequence of intrigues and secret negotiations between different interested parties. Generally, bureaus, as rational agents that minimize risk and maximize slack, should have been interested in reducing the plan figures, nevertheless, they strived to increase them. As examples, mass repression under dictatorships and overexpenditure of an administrative leverage at elections in non-democratic and quasi- democratic countries can be observed. In the article we develop a simple model of coordination between principal (dictator) and his agents (bureaus), which explain the mentioned paradoxical situation.
F29|Using supply chain analysis to examine the costs of non-tariff measures (NTMs) and the benefits of trade facilitation|It has become increasingly common to produce goods in a number of geographically dispersed stages linked by international trade. This tendency, known by names such as production fragmentation, processing trade, and vertical specialization, has important implications for the analysis of nontariff measures (NTMs) and trade facilitation. First, different types of NTMs or trade facilitation issues are naturally associated with different stages in the movement of goods. Different price gaps can be assigned to these stages, making it possible to decompose the overall amount of distortion and to prioritize the policies with the largest potential efficiency gains. Second, NTMs may accumulate in long supply chains, implying that their trade-distorting effects are greater for goods produced in a fragmented manner than for goods with simple production processes. There is evidence that trade costs are more important for high technology goods or goods undergoing several stages of processing. Issues with product standards may be particularly important for goods with long supply chains. The link between NTMs and supply chains also has implications for economic development and for the relationship between liberalization in services and goods.
F29|Remittances and Household Consumption Instability in Developing Countries|Summary This paper analyzes the impact of remittances on household consumption instability in a large panel of developing countries. There are four main results. First, remittances significantly reduce household consumption instability. Second, remittances play an insurance role by dampening the effects of various sources of consumption instability in developing countries (natural disasters, agricultural shocks, discretionary fiscal policy, systemic financial and banking crises and exchange rate instability). Third, the stabilizing role played by remittances is stronger in less financially developed countries. Fourth, the overall stabilizing effect of remittances is mitigated when remittances exceed 6% of GDP.
F29|The linkage between relative population growth and purchasing power parity: Cross country evidence|Purpose - The aim of this paper is to examine the relationship between relative population growth and purchasing power parity (PPP) exchange rate for a panel of 80 countries. Design/methodology/approach - Panel unit root and panel cointegration tests have been used to investigate the above relationship over the period of 1951-2000. Findings - The empirical results show that there is stable relationship between PPP exchange rate and relative population growth in these selected countries in the long run. The results also show that this long-run relationship remains valid when the sample is divided on the basis of their stage of development. Practical implications - These empirical findings suggest that population growth has an important role in exchange rate determination through PPP. Originality/value - Thus, relative population growth could invalidate the PPP hypothesis in the long run. PPP is the main edifice of most of the monetary exchange rate models. Hence, the role of relative population growth should be taken into account in dealing with issues in international macroeconomics and renewed attention should be given in the theory of exchange rate determination in terms of relative population growth instead of relative price level.
F29|Absorbtia Fondurilor Structurale de Catre Universitatile Din Romania. Disfunctionalitati Institutionale - The Absorbtion Of Structural Funds By Universities In Romania. Institutional Problems (Romanian version)|"Until now universities in Romania are on the first places among the first institutions that have accessed European funding. Recently an article in the local press emphasized the fact that universities in Iasi have ""infused"" 82 million in city's economy. The entire amount approaches the annual budget of revenue of the City. Like all beneficiaries of EU funds, universities have to face the same bureaucracy that hinders the absorption of European funds. This does not preclude the continuation of projects in the partnerships established between universities from the consortium UNIVERSITARIA."
F29|Extensii etice ale bipolarismului ideologic: American Way of Life si Homo Sovieticus - Ethical Extensions of Ideological Bipolarism: the American Way of Life and Homo Sovieticus (Romanian version)|During the second part of the 20 th century, bipolarism was not reduced to the formal delimitation of two political-military blocks – the protagonists of the Cold War – but it also entailed the progressive construction of two distinct human types, which animated specific existential paradigms: the American Way of Life and Homo Sovieticus. The American way of life (somewhat extended to the entire Western civilization) has been promoting the ethics of freedom and pluralist democracy, its finality being individual prosperity in a competitive society. The Soviet man type has been structured through the promotion of collectivism, of state paternalism and of the lack of private initiatives, assisting in the consolidation of totalitarianism. After the end of the Cold War, the two ethical-anthropological brands of Western capitalism and Eastern communism have preserved their consistency, despite the axiological and behavioral syntheses brought by globalization.
F29|EXEMPTIONS FROM EUROPEAN POLICY COMPETITION RULES FOR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT -INNOVATION (English version)|Handling the legal basis of European Union policy of research, development, innovation must be seen in the context of the European Union's strong awareness of the gap with the U.S. and Japan. Principled basis to ensure compliance with this policy is “unity in diversity” of the European Union. It is well known that the most substantial provisions on competition can be found in Title VI of the Treaty of Maastricht. The provisions outlined above emphasizes the link between competition policy and common EU policy in the joint research, development, innovation, and the importance of the latter in the context of the exceptions specifically designed for this. Cooperation and agreements on research, development, innovation is the exception to the prohibitions imposed by common EU competition policy.
F29|Provocări și tendințe ale învățămantului superior în contextul globalizării (literature review)<BR>[Higher education’s challenges and trends in the context of globalization(literature review)]|This paper examines some aspects of current debates about what the XXI century’s University represents in the context of the globalized society, with particular emphasis on the concepts, perspectives and trends that occur worldwide. higher education is facing the changing society’s pressing needs, hence the need for continuous adaptation by adopting evernew methods to cope with the irreversible process of internationalization and globalization. higher education plays a major role in the transition from an industrial to a knowledge-based society. This research literature aims to study the globalization-university relationship, the higher education’s transnationalization through internationalization, as seen by the researchers in the field.
F29|What attracts foreign direct investment in China’s real estate development?|No abstract is available for this item.
F29|Emerging Multinationals: A Comparison of Chinese and Indian Outward Foreign Direct Investment|The present study deals with the origin and growth of outward foreign direct investment (OFDI) by emerging Chinese and Indian multinationals and examines the locational determinants of such investments. Both Chinese and Indian OFDI flows were observed to have surged after the adoption of economic openness policies by the home country in the late 1970s and the 1990s respectively and are now increasingly being driven by wholly-owned projects and acquisitions abroad. Indian and Chinese firms both started OFDI operations in developing countries and then they expanded into developed regions in the 1990s. Among locational factors, both Chinese and Indian OFDI projects are attracted by host country imports from the sources, greater strength of host currencies, rising host prices and host status of being offshore financial centres. While the Chinese multinationals were found to have preference for hosts with locational proximity, small size and high natural resource endowments, the Indian firms appear to choose countries with large size and that have bilateral investment treaty (BIT) with India irrespective of their physical distance from India.
F29|The role of government policies in the proliferation of multinational business|The different components of the governmental policy have a significant influence over the foreign companies` activity. The economic policies include the fiscal policy, monetary policy, commercial policy and sector policy. For transnational society, the most influential governmental actions are those regarding economic restriction like: exchange control, import restrictions, taxes control, price control, the local matters restrictions, foreign investments` restrictions. Knowing the host country’s global political climate (anticipating changes that might appear in time) and its involvement in a larger frame of the world’s political context will offer to the company the possibility of a correct underlying and adaption of its own international strategy according to the concret conditions of the political space where it will operate.
F29|Spiders and snakes: Offshoring and agglomeration in the global economy|Global production sharing is determined by international cost differences and frictions related to the costs of unbundling stages spatially. The interaction between these forces depends on engineering details of the production process with two extremes being ‘snakes’ and ‘spiders’. Snakes are processes whose sequencing is dictated by engineering; spiders involve the assembly of parts in no particular order. This paper studies spatial unbundling as frictions fall, showing that outcomes are very different for snakes and spiders, even if they share some features. Both snakes and spiders have in common a property that lower frictions produce discontinuous location changes and ‘overshooting’. Parts may move against their comparative costs because of proximity benefits, and further reductions in frictions lead these parts to be ‘reshored’. Predictions for trade volumes and the number of fragmented stages are quite different in the two cases. For spiders, a part crosses borders at most twice; the value of trade increases monotonically as frictions fall, except when the assembler relocates and the direction of parts trade is reversed. For snakes the volume of trade and number of endogenously determined stages is bounded only by the fragmentation of the underlying engineering process, and lower frictions monotonically increase trade volumes.
F29|Some Thoughts On Writing Skills|Writing is one of the central pillars of language learning and should be of major interest and concern to teachers, students and researchers. This paper is intended to be a plea for writing and explores issues regarding instruction and evaluation of writing skills of nonnative speaker students. It examines expectations of nonnative speakers writing quality and performance on writing proficiency exams, as well. Finally, it is trying to ring a bell about this skill that has been neglected in spite of its importance when it comes to foreign language acquisition
F29|Borders and distance in knowledge spillovers: Dying over time or dying with age?—Evidence from patent citations|This paper explores the effects of distance as well as subnational and national borders on international and intranational knowledge spillovers through patent citations across the 39 most patent-cited countries and 319 metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs) within the U.S. In contrast to previous findings that knowledge localization fades over time, border and distance effects increase over time for the same-age citations. This increasing effect of borders and distance is associated with strengthened knowledge agglomeration over time. Nevertheless, both border and distance effects decrease with the age of patents. Aggregate border effects are often overestimated due to various aggregation bias. Moreover, business travels and knowledge quality effectively attenuate the effect of subnational borders in knowledge flows.
F29|Testing The Modified-Combined Ppp And Uip Hypothesis In South Asian Economies|In this paper, the interrelations between PPP and UIP are modified and tested for South Asian economies using multivariate cointegration approach. The study uses monthly data and sample period varies cross-country according to floating exchange rate regime. The results obtained are highly supportive of this version of the combined PPP and UIP, which takes into account the non-traded and imperfect capital mobility phenomena. Consistent with the capital enhanced equilibrium exchange rates (CHEERs) approach, the determination of the nominal exchange rate is consistent with the UIP-PPP conditional equilibrium. The interaction between PPP and UIP has consequential implications for financial reforms, an exchange rate based stabilization program and exchange rate policy alike.
F29|The Eu Import Requirements For Medical Devices By Comparison With The Usa And The Ghtf Guidelines|Medical devices and supply companies are under enormous pressure to fulfill trade requirements dictated by current global markets, especially by the EU, although it is largely recognized that the innovative medical devices and procedures can considerably
F29|English And The Glossy Magazines. Profitable Or Not…|General language features of the written press. The study emphasizes the main features of the language used in the contemporary written press, regarding also the evolution of the journalistic language. The study case is based on the way that the language
F29|Commercially-and-socially-oriented postal services|The main goal of this paper is show how postal communication service, which has been strengthened with the technology development in the last century, is nowadays commercially-and-socially-oriented very important for human life. Furthermore, I will prove how postal service becomes overwhelming for some not communicated, far and isolated geographic areas in developing countries, to get in touch with people and businesses from around the world. Over one hundred of Postal Operators were interviewed in Peru between 2004 and 2006, around 25% of total, which said that distance and security are not longer considered as a challenge for postal services thanks to new Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) and Internet; which in turn has facilitated (i) social communication, (ii) financial services, (iii) e-commerce and (iv) international business, bolstered by postal services. This last issue can be proved with high correlation statistics between the international postal (and courier) shipments and the exportation of non traditional goods, as well as importation of goods in Peru; moreover, some international remittances from around the world are making through the postal transferences. Consequently, Peruvian authorities, especially from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, must consider the importance of postal and/or courier services in the elaboration of public policies to pursuit the socioeconomic development.
F29|Prepájanie regionálnych hospodárskych priestorov v pohraničnom regióne Centrope|Autor v článku analyzuje a porovnáva vybrané regionálne makroekonomické ukazovatele, aby dokázal, že pohraničný región Centrope sa vnútorne homogenizuje a že regionálne rozdiely v rámci neho sú menšie ako v rámci samotných národných ekonomík predmetných krajín. Využíva na to porovnania variačných koeficientov pre HDP na obyvateľa v PKS a miery nezamestnanosti v regióne a mimo neho. Na doplnenie obrazu analyzuje aj sektorovú štruktúru regionálnych hospodárstiev v pozorovanom priestore. Príspevok bol vypracovaný v rámci riešenia grantovej úlohy VEGA č. 1/0826/08 „Medzinárodné vzťahy v podmienkach postmodernej spoločnosti globalizujúceho sa sveta (sociologické a politologické aspekty sociálno-ekonomických a bezpečnostných prolémov)“.
F29|Policy Liberalization and FDI Growth, 1982 to 2006|Over the last three decades the global economy has expanded in a remarkable fashion. While nominal world GDP has increased four times, world bilateral trade flows have grown more than six-fold, and the stock of foreign direct investment (FDI) has grown by roughly 20 times since 1980. The sources of global trade and investment growth are well known—general economic expansion, policy liberalization, and better communications and technology—but the impact of each source is unclear. In this paper we attempt to uncover the contribution of policy liberalization to the rising ratios of US inward and outward FDI stocks to GDP over the last three decades. The role of policy liberalization in fostering FDI expansion since the 1980s is murky. Policies related to FDI have undoubtedly been liberalized since the 1980s, but the changes are not easily quantified, making an assessment of their impact on FDI difficult. To get around this obstacle, we rely on stylized facts about US inward and outward FDI stocks and an unorthodox calculation method to approximate the role of policy liberalization on FDI growth.
F29|The IDE geographical simulation model : predicting long-term effects of infrastructure development projects|It is important to be able to predict changes in the location of populations and industries in regions that are in the process of economic integration. The IDE Geographical Simulation Model (IDE-GSM) has been developed with two major objectives: (1) to determine the dynamics of locations of populations and industries in East Asia in the long-term, and (2) to analyze the impact of specific infrastructure projects on the regional economy at sub-national levels. The basic structure of the IDE-GSM is introduced in this article and accompanied with results of test analyses on the effects of the East West Economic Corridor on regions in Continental South East Asia. Results indicate that border costs appear to play a big role in the location choice of populations and industries, often a more important role than physical infrastructures themselves.
F29|Perceptions of the Foreign Direct Investors on the Romanian Business Environment|In Romania the foreign direct investment had a delayed beginning in comparison with other former socialist countries. To this situation many factors contributed: the political, economical and legislative instability, the sometimes hostile authorities’ attitude a.s.o. Some of the changes from the business environment are easily anticipated, but the implications of other ones are very difficult to be estimated. In this paper we study the perceptions of some Romanian foreign direct investors using an own investigation realized at more than a year from the adhesion. In the investigation we interviewed 32 executives of FDI. The subjects included different aspects of the business environment from Romania: macroeconomic stability, labor force cost, corruption, fiscal aspects, infrastructure, political situation, cooperation with local authorities a.s.o. We also took into consideration the main positive and negative aspects of the adhesion felt by the foreign direct investors. All these aspects were connected to the expectations the executives had before the adhesion. Although the sample we used is too small in order to allow generalizations, the results of our investigation may bring indices of the foreign direct investors’ perceptions about the Romanian business environment.
F29|Les droits de propriété intellectuelle : aspects théoriques et impacts économiques (intellectual property rights: theoretical aspects and economic impacts)|Bien qu’elle ne soit devenue très en vogue que depuis le milieu des années 1990, la propriété intellectuelle est une notion bien ancrée dans le temps. Après un long processus d’évolution, elle est, de nos jours, dans un stade dynamique de transformation. Avec l’accélération du progrès technique et du mouvement de libéralisation économique, la protection de la propriété intellectuelle devient de plus en plus impérative. Ceci explique bien la vague d’établissement et de renforcement des DPI dans le monde. Toutefois, cette tendance soulève maintes controverses, notamment entre les pays développés et ceux en développement, à propos des impacts économiques des DPI. Dans ce papier, nous allons, dans un premier temps, fournir un aperçu général sur l’évolution des DPI. Dans un second temps, nous mettrons le point principalement sur les droits de brevet. Enfin, l’étude se rapportera à un survol théorique des impacts du renforcement des brevets, notamment, sur l’incitation à l’innovation, le transfert technologique et la croissance économique. La littérature montre que le renforcement des brevets est certes en faveur des pays développés, mais son impact sur les économies en développement demeure ambigu. Il dépend fortement de plusieurs facteurs, en l’occurrence, liés aux firmes, aux industries et aux pays et, par conséquent, relève d’un cadre d’analyse purement empirique. Although it has become very famous only since the last 1990s, intellectual property is a deep old notion. After a long evolution process, it is nowadays at a dynamic stage of transformation. With the acceleration of technical progress and economic liberalization movement, intellectual property protection is becoming more and more imperative. This explains well the wave of establishment and improvement of IPR worldwide. Nevertheless, this tendency lifts many controversies, especially between developed and developing countries, about the economic impacts of IPR. In this paper, we are going, first, to provide a general outline on the evolution of IPR. Second, the focus is to examine particularly patent rights. Finally, the paper skims through the theoretical studies on the impacts of patent enforcement on incentive to innovation, technology transfer and economic growth. Literature shows that patent enforcement is certainly in favour of developed countries but its impact on developing economies remains ambiguous. It depends strongly on several factors, related to firms, industries and countries and, consequently, arises from a purely empirical framework.
F29|Horizontal And Vertical Spillovers From Fdi In The Italian Productive System|Foreign direct investment (FDI) from Multinational Enterprises (MNEs) can generate positive externalities to host countries, increasing domestic firms' productivity. Recently, the attention of researchers has moved from the analysis of ''horizontal'' spillovers – i.e. those benefits to local enterprises at an intra-industrial level - towards the investigation of ''vertical'' spillovers phenomenon – i.e. the diffusion of positive effects on domestic economies at an inter-industry level, as in the case of technology transfers to domestic suppliers or customers in the production chain. Using a firm-level panel data, this paper analyses spillovers from FDI in the Italian productive system both within and across industries. Our results suggest no evidence of ''horizontal'' spillover and the existence of ''vertical'' spillover whose impact on local firms seems to be very limited.
F29|The effect of import penetration on labor market outcomes in Austrian manufacturing industry|This paper estimates the effects of imports on employment, wages, and the wage share in Austria for the period of 1990-2005 using panel data of manufacturing industry. Imports are disaggregated according to their origin and as final vs. intermediate imports. There is evidence of significant negative effects of imports on employment, wages and the wage share. Particularly workers in high skilled sectors experience negative effects. Offshoring to both Eastern Europe and the developed countries have a negative impact on employment, whereas offshoring to the East has a positive effect on wages, indicating the dominance of scope effects. (author´s abstract)
F29|The effect of import penetration on labor market outcomes in Austrian manufacturing industry|This paper estimates the effects of imports on employment, wages, and the wage share in Austria for the period of 1990-2005 using panel data of manufacturing industry. Imports are disaggregated according to their origin and as final vs. intermediate imports. There is evidence of significant negative effects of imports on employment, wages and the wage share. Particularly workers in high skilled sectors experience negative effects. Offshoring to both Eastern Europe and the developed countries have a negative impact on employment, whereas offshoring to the East has a positive effect on wages, indicating the dominance of scope effects.
F29|A Response to Gradual Globalization: Regionalism|The process of the economic globalization limiting the autonomy of national subjects completed the disintegration of the Westphalian system. The rebirth of regionalism, as another phase of the world economy regionalization, is a logical defensive reaction. However, apart from the regional labour division, a new regionalism emerges, interconnecting even distant subjects. Next to the usual economic reasons, the new regionalism is motivated also by the strengthening of regional resistance. It is the strategy that plays a major role in the development of regionalism.
F29|Offshoring and Manufacturing Employment: A General Equilibrium Analysis|We study the incidence of offshoring, or trade in tasks, on firms' productivity and on manufacturing employment in a standard economic-geography model with iceberg trade costs and a continuum of tasks. In a two-countries world where one country has a Hick's neutral technological edge over the other, tasks in which the productivity edge more than offsets offshoring costs get offshored, giving rise to global disintegration of the production process. Offshoring raises firms' productivity and the number of manufacturing firms in the offshoring countries, thereby reducing costs of living. The general equilibrium incidence of offshoring on labor demand is shown to depend on offshoring costs and trade costs. For high enough offshoring costs, interior equilibria where both countries still produce manufactured goods are likely to be sustained. In this case, offshoring will boost labor demand for low enough trade costs. If, on the other hand, offshoring costs are low enough, core-periphery equilibria with all manufacturing in the offshoring country are likely to emerge. In this case, manufacturing labor demand is positively affected by offshoring as long as offshoring costs are not too low. In a three-countries extension, we show that a country would suffer welfare and employment losses from the adoption of policies that limit its firms' possibility to go offshore while similar countries allow offshoring.
F29|Offshoring and Heterogeneous Firms: One Job Offshored, One Job Lost?|Offshoring has gained a significant momentum in recent years. Firm size appears to be the leading factor differentiating firms that offshore from those that do not. We present a model that blends offshoring, or trade in tasks, with a Melitz-style model of monopolistic competition with heterogeneous firms and show that this is indeed the case. Accounting for firm heterogeneity offers new tools for analyzing the effects of offshoring on the employment dynamics within an individual firm and at the aggregate sector level. We show that offshoring unambiguously reduces per-firm labour demand in smaller firms, but has ambiguous effects in larger firms. As a result, irrespective of whether or not the number of firms operating in the offshoring nation increases, the overall sector employment may increase or decrease. Policies promoting free trade have a significant role to play in job creation. The model also permits a straightforward derivation of positive and normative effects of offshoring: trade in tasks increases productivity of active firms and improves welfare in the offshoring nation.
F29|Resource Augmentation for Meeting the Millennium Development Goals in the Asia Pacific Region|This paper examines whether the resource positions of the developing counties in the Asia Pacific region and the support they are receiving from donor countries are adequate to ensure that the MDG will be attained by 2015. It begins by examining the extant record of economic growth and emphasises the need for higher economic growth in order to accelerate the pace of poverty reduction. It argues that neither the level of economic growth nor its current structure can ensure that MDG1 is attained by 2015. The paper argues that domestic savings and investment rates in most large developing countries in the Asia Pacific region are not high enough for growth rates to rise high enough to ensure that MDG1 (halving poverty measured at $1 PPP per capita over the period 1990—2015) is attained. Further, the ICOR in most of these countries has been stagnant or rising in many of these countries so that it would be unrealistic to expect sharp enough rises in the productivity of capital to ensure that existing investment rates can ensure that MDG1 is attained by 2015. The paper then examines some of the reasons for this lacklustre performance. Tax revenues have been stagnant and public expenditures on education and health have been low whereas many developing countries in the Asia Pacific region bear substantial burdens of debt servicing. Many of these countries also face considerable capital flight, exacerbating already tentative external situations. Furthermore whereas the current outlook for FDI looks promising for some Asian countries, international aid has been stagnant and in, many cases, net financial flows into developing countries has been negative. The paper then considers avenues for increasing the resource base for these counties. It considers a variety of measures including tax reform and expenditure switching policies. It advances policies to reduce capital flight and argues that international debt reduction should accompany any policy to increase international aid to the developing countries of the Asia Pacific region. It lists a number of additional sources of multilateral aid that could replenish developing country resources but argues that measures to increase the absorptive capacity of developing countries as well as reduction in the volatility of aid must accompany to increase international aid. Further, increases in international aid should ensure that the real exchange rates of the recipient countries should not rise. If the real exchange rates were to rise, some of these countries could be exposed to Dutch disease type of phenomena.
F29|Resource Augmentation for Meeting the Millennium Development Goals in the Asia Pacific Region|This paper examines whether the resource positions of the developing counties in the Asia Pacific region and the support they are receiving from donor countries are adequate to ensure that the MDG will be attained by 2015. It begins by examining the extant record of economic growth and emphasises the need for higher economic growth in order to accelerate the pace of poverty reduction. It argues that neither the level of economic growth nor its current structure can ensure that MDG1 is attained by 2015. The paper argues that domestic savings and investment rates in most large developing countries in the Asia Pacific region are not high enough for growth rates to rise high enough to ensure that MDG1 (halving poverty measured at $1 PPP per capita over the period 1990-2015) is attained. Further, the ICOR in most of these countries has been stagnant or rising in many of these countries so that it would be unrealistic to expect sharp enough rises in the productivity of capital to ensure that existing investment rates can ensure that MDG1 is attained by 2015. The paper then examines some of the reasons for this lacklustre performance. Tax revenues have been stagnant and public expenditures on education and health have been low whereas many developing countries in the Asia Pacific region bear substantial burdens of debt servicing. Many of these countries also face considerable capital flight, exacerbating already tentative external situations. Furthermore whereas the current outlook for FDI looks promising for some Asian countries, international aid has been stagnant and in, many cases, net financial flows into developing countries has been negative. The paper then considers avenues for increasing the resource base for these counties. It considers a variety of measures including tax reform and expenditure switching policies. It advances policies to reduce capital flight and argues that international debt reduction should accompany any policy to increase international aid to the developing countries of the Asia Pacific region. It lists a number of additional sources of multilateral aid that could replenish developing country resources but argues that measures to increase the absorptive capacity of developing countries as well as reduction in the volatility of aid must accompany to increase international aid. Further, increases in international aid should ensure that the real exchange rates of the recipient countries should not rise. If the real exchange rates were to rise, some of these countries could be exposed to Dutch disease type of phenomena.
F29|Free Movement of Goods and the Czech Republic with Emphasis on Environmental Protection|After the accession to the European Union, the Czech Republic became a part of the largest market in the world, the Single European Market. The Czech Republic has to keep the single market rules as set in the Treaty and secondary legislation. The corestone of the single market is the functioning of the four freedoms – free movement of goods, services, capital and persons. The article is focused on the functioning of the single market in the Czech Republic – the aim is to analyze two particular cases of breach of the principle of free movement of goods – the case of waste imports and the case of second hand cars imports. Both cases deal with the conflict between environmental protection and free movement of goods.
F29|A New Nexus Between Foreign Direct Investment, Industrial and Innovation Policies|This paper deals with the interplay between foreign direct investment (FDI) and the industrial and innovation policies of host developing economies. It aims to redefine the nexus between these different, though yet strongly interconnected policy areas, by bringing the affiliates of multinational corporations already established in a host economy to the first level of analysis. It argues that host country governments should concentrate on enhancing innovativeness and development of existing foreign-owned affiliates, instead of striving to attract higher volumes of FDI inflows.
F29|Foreign-owned firms and technological capabilities in the Argentinean manufacturing industry|This deals with the technological development implications of the substantial and long-dated presence of foreign-owned affiliates in the Argentinean manufacturing industry. It put forward the argument that the learning process of foreign-owned firms should be central in the analysis of the technological impacts of inward FDI. In other words, FDI impacts to host economies are dependent not exclusively on the technology and knowledge that multinational corporations are willing to transfer to their overseas affiliates, nor on the absorptive capacity of domestic firms. Instead, the technological learning that takes place within the foreign-owned firms is crucial. In order to shed some light on the level of learning reached by foreignowned firms integrating the Argentinean economy, this paper analyses the technological profiles of MNC affiliates in the manufacturing industry, and compares them with those of domestically-owned firms. This analysis is based on proxies for different levels of technological capabilities, calculated by means of the second Argentinean innovation survey, which was carried out by INDEC, the Argentinean National Council of Statistics, for the period 1998-2001. The analysis suggests that foreign-owned affiliates seem to play an important role in terms of diffusion of technologies generated elsewhere. Yet, the results are not so clear when the local generation of knowledge and technology is considered. In general terms, the analytical exercise made here suggests reasonable development of operational capabilities, coupled with shallow interaction, monitoring, improvement and generation capabilities both by foreign affiliates and domestics firms. In other words, the findings suggest the accumulation of substantial capabilities for using existing technologies, but only meagre capabilities for locally-generated new ones.
F29|Statistics On Modern Private International Cartels, 1990-2005|This report explains the principal economic and legal features of a unique set of data on 283 modern private international cartels discovered anywhere in the world from January 1990 to the end of 2005. Measured in real 2005 money, aggregate cartel sales and overcharges totaled about $1.2 trillion and $500 billion, respectively. In the early 2000s, about 35 such cartels were discovered each year. We find that global cartels comprise more than half of the sample’s affected sales and are larger, longer lasting, and more injurious than other types. In the early 2000s world-wide corporate penalties stabilized at or above $2 billion per year, one-thousand times penalties in the early 1990s. More than 40% of those penalties were from settlements in private suits, and most of the rest are fines imposed by U.S. and EU antitrust authorities. Median penalties are low: from 1.4% to 4.9% of affected sales, depending on the type of prosecution. As a proportion of damages, median fines ranged from less than 1% for EU-wide cartels to 17.6% for Canada. Private plaintiffs obtained 38% of damages from international cartelists. World wide, median real cartel penalties of all types amounted to less than 5% of overcharges. [See Summary next page for more details]
F29|Effectiveness of Antitrust Sanctions on Modern International Cartels|This paper assesses the antitrust fines and private penalties imposed on the participants of 260 international cartels discovered during 1990–2005, using four indicators of enforcement effectiveness. First, the United States is almost always the first to investigate and sanction international cartels, and its investigations are about seven times faster than EU probes. Second, US investigations were more likely to be kept confidential than those in Europe, but the gap nearly disappeared since 2000. Third, median government antitrust fines average less than 10% of affected commerce, but rises to about 35% in the case of multi-continental conspiracies. Civil settlements in jurisdictions where they are permitted are typically 6 to 12% of sales. Canadian and US fines and settlements imposed higher penalties than other jurisdictions. Fourth, fines on cartels that operated in Europe averaged a bit more than half of their estimated overcharges; those prosecuted only in North America paid civil and criminal sanctions of roughly single damages; and global cartels prosecuted in both jurisdictions typically paid less than single damages. Copyright Springer Science + Business Media, LLC 2006
F29|Statistics On Modern Private International Cartels, 1990-2005| This report explains the principal economic and legal features of a unique set of data on 283 modern private international cartels discovered anywhere in the world from January 1990 to the end of 2005. Measured in real 2005 money, aggregate cartel sales and overcharges totaled about $1.2 trillion and $500 billion, respectively. In the early 2000s, about 35 such cartels were discovered each year. We find that global cartels comprise more than half of the sample's affected sales and are larger, longer lasting, and more injurious than other types. In the early 2000s world-wide corporate penalties stabilized at or above $2 billion per year, one-thousand times penalties in the early 1990s. More than 40% of those penalties were from settlements in private suits, and most of the rest are fines imposed by U.S. and EU antitrust authorities. Median penalties are low: from 1.4% to 4.9% of affected sales, depending on the type of prosecution. As a proportion of damages, median fines ranged from less than 1% for EU-wide cartels to 17.6% for Canada. Private plaintiffs obtained 38% of damages from international cartelists. World wide, median real cartel penalties of all types amounted to less than 5% of overcharges. [See Summary next page for more details]
F29|The impact of Mode 4 liberalization on bilateral trade flows|This paper gives insights into the possible trade creating effects of service trade liberalization via Mode 4. In particular we expect that temporary movements of persons, like permanent movements, have the potential to reduce transaction costs for merchandise trade between home and host country. Exploiting data on H-1B beneficiaries from different origins in the United States and using a gravity model of trade, we find significantly positive effects of temporary movements of persons on bilateral merchandise trade. In addition to this, the paper provides insights into the determinants of temporary movements of persons.
F29|Barriers to network-specific innovation|We consider an environment in which participants make payments over a network and can invest in a technology that reduces the marginal cost of using the network. A network effect results in multiple equilibria; either all agents invest and usage of the network is high or no agents invest and usage of the network is low. The high-usage equilibrium can be implemented through introduction of a coordinator. Under monopoly network ownership, however, fixed costs associated with use of the network-specific technology result in a hold-up problem that implements the low-investment equilibrium. And even where subsidies can avoid such hold-up, optimal monopoly pricing of network usage may avoid investment in the network-specific technology if demand for on-network transactions is sufficiently inelastic.
F29|Multicriterial evaluations of the competitiveness of new EU member- states and the real competitiveness of the Czech republic in international comparison|"Each year we are informed in the ""World Competitiveness Yearbook"" , which is published by the International Institute for Management Development in Lausanne, about the bad and/or deteriorating competitiveness of Centraleuropean transition countries, although their export performance, as well as their market shares, are increasing permanently at an above-average pace. We ascertained, that the contradiction between this evaluation and reality is caused mainly by the fact, that among the huge number of criteria, on which the conclusions of this Institute are based, are missing most of the classical, theoretically founded, criteria of competitiveness. This contradiction is also due to the fact, that conditions established in the economically most developed countries of the world, are regarded by this Institute as the main ""etalon"" for its evaluations, so that any deviation from these ""norms"", even those which are caused merely by the fact, that new EU member-states are still transition countries, are interpreted as a proof of their weak competitiveness. This biased vision of the competitiveness of these countries has numerous negative consequences, beginning with the worsening of conditions under which they can achieve access to foreign fi nancial resources, upto the weakening of the confi dence of foreign investors in their competitiveness and technological capabilities, (which negatively infl uences the choice of productions these investors are willing to establish here). Thus it is of utmost importance to make the economic public aware of the good competitiveness of the Czech republic and of other new EU member-states from among Centraleuropean transition countries, which is revealed among others also by convincing data, presented in the above mentioned article."
F29|Will industrial districts exploit B2B? A local experience and a general assessment|When production is carried out by many geographically clustered small firms specialised in particular production phases that subcontract one another, what are the prospects of B2B electronic commerce? Prato, Italy, is home to thousands of textile firms as well as the locus of an early and innovative experiment of a local electronic network in the mid-1980s. This experience suggests that, since they fear to be imitated by their geographical proximates, geographically clustered firms may lag behind in the the exploitation of information and communication technologies. An analysis of the Web sites of Pratese firms confirms this intuition. A similar investigation is carried out on Web sites of fabrics producers worldwide. Contrary to Europe, in Asian countries geographically clustered firms exhibit little fear of information leakages. Differences in the organization of production may explain this puzzle. Copyright Springer 2004
F29|The Impact of Mode 4 Liberalization on Bilateral Trade Flows|This paper gives insights into the possible trade creating effects of service trade liberalization via Mode 4. In particular we expect that temporary movements of persons, like permanent movements, have the potential to reduce transaction costs for merchandise trade between home and host country. Exploiting data on H-1B beneficiaries from different origins in the United States and using a gravity model of trade, we find significantly positive effects of temporary movements of persons on bilateral merchandise trade. In addition to this, the paper provides insights into the determinants of temporary movements of persons.
F29|Measuring Competition For Textiles: Does The U.S. Make The Grade?| U.S. textile manufacturing is coming under increasing pressure from foreign competition. This paper evaluates the U.S. competitive position in the yarn segment using established quantifiable measures and provides an overall competitive assessment. The study found the industry in a relatively weak competitive position but that U.S. competitive position is improving.
F29|The impact of mode 4 on trade in goods and services|This paper estimates the impact of liberalization of temporary movements of individual service suppliers on trade in goods and services. In particular, the paper looks at the impact of the so-called forth mode to provide a service on trade in services under the other three modes: cross-border service supply (Mode 1), consumption abroad (Mode 2) and commercial presence abroad (Mode 3). Estimates are obtained using a gravity model of trade augmented for a measure of temporary movements of service suppliers. Estimates of the size of a country's Mode 4 trade in services are based on specific information regarding the number of temporary foreign workers occupied in the service sector and their estimated average earnings, thus overcoming the limitations of traditional measures of Mode 4 based on remittances or compensation for employees. We find a positive and significant effect of temporary movements of service providers on merchandise trade and services trade under Mode 1 and 3. No significant relationship is found between services trade under Mode 2 and Mode 4.
F29|Explaining the Diversification Discount| This paper argues that the documented discount on diversified firms is not per se evidence that diversification destroys value. Firms choose to diversify. We use three alternative econometric techniques to control for the endogeneity of the diversification decision, and find evidence supporting the self-selection of diversifying firms. We find a strong negative correlation between a firm's choice to diversify and firm value. The diversification discount always drops, and sometimes turns into a premium. There also exists evidence of self-selection by refocusing firms. These results point to the importance of explicitly modeling the endogeneity of the diversification status in analyzing its effect on firm value. Copyright The American Finance Association 2002.
F29|Explaining the Diversification Discount|Diversified firms trade at a discount relative to similar single-segment firms. We argue in this paper that this observed discount is not per se evidence that diversification destroys value. Firms choose to diversify. Firm characteristics, which make firms diversify might also cause them to be discounted. Not taking into account these firm characteristics might wrongly attribute the observed discount to diversification. Data from the Compustat Industry Segment File from 1978 to 1996 are used to select a sample of single segment and diversifying firms. We use three alternative econometric techniques to control for the endogeneity of the diversification decision. All three methods suggest the presence of self-selection in the decision to diversify and a negative correlation between firm's choice to diversify and firm value. The diversification discount always drops, and sometimes turns into a premium, when we control for the endogeneity of the diversification decision. We do a similar analysis in a sample of refocusing firms. Again, some evidence of self-selection by firms exists and we now find a positive correlation between firm's choice to refocus and firm value. These results consistently suggest the importance of taking the endogeneity of the diversification status into account, in analyzing its effects on firm value.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F29|Open windows of Europe| The future of the transport sector is fraught with uncertainties, as the system is influenced by many factors. The aim of this paper is to offer insight into the future of this sector, seen from a European perspective, by applying a scenario approach and designing four possible paths of development. These future developments are presented here by a sketch of four contrasting European images based on the results of earlier research. The outcome for the transport sector, expressed in volumes for both passenger and freight, are qualitatively described and based on expected developments of several relevant indicators. Subsequently, the results are presented in terms of CO2 emissions, with major focus on the EU. With these results in mind, it is interesting to confront the EU’s objectives and current policies. Creating sustainable mobility appeared to be a key element in EU transport policy. Nevertheless, the achievement of sustainable mobility based on the results presented in this paper may seem problematic and will face several hurdles. But policy changes and (unexpected) technology developments may offer new possibilities to achieve a steadier development of the transport sector.
F29|Empirical strategies in labor economics|This chapter provides an overview of the methodological and practical issues that arise when estimating causal relationships that are of interest to labor economists. The subject matter includes identification, data collection, and measurement problems. Four identification strategies are discussed, and five empirical examples -- the effects of schooling, unions, immigration, military service, and class size -- illustrate the methodological points. In discussing each example, we adopt an experimentalist perspective that emphasizes the distinction between variables that have causal effects, control variables, and outcome variables. The chapter also discusses secondary datasets, primary data collection strategies, and administrative data. The section on measurement issues focuses on recent empirical examples, presents a summary of empirical findings on the reliability of key labor market data, and briefly reviews the role of survey sampling weights and the allocation of missing values in empirical research.
F29|How Troublesome Are Sterotypes in International Business?|No abstract is available for this item.
