F32|Capital Inflows, Equity Issuance Activity, and Corporate Investment|This paper uses issuance-level data to study how equity capital inflows that enter emerging market economies affect equity issuance and corporate investment. It shows that foreign inflows are strongly correlated with country-level issuance. The relation especially reflects the behavior of large firms. To identify supply-side shocks, capital inflows into each country are instrumented with exogenous changes in other countriesâ€™ attractiveness to foreign investors. Shifts in the supply of foreign capital are important drivers of increased equity inflows. Instrumented contemporaneous and lagged capital inflows lead large firms to raise new equity, which they use to fund investment.
F32|Estimating the Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Total Exports|This paper shows that real effective exchange rate (REER) regressions, the standard approach for estimating the response of aggregate exports to exchange rate changes, imply biased estimates of the underlying elasticities. We provide a new aggregate regression specification that is consistent with bilateral trade flows micro-founded by the gravity equation. This theory-consistent aggregation leads to unbiased estimates when prices are set in an international currency as postulated by the dominant currency paradigm. We use Monte-Carlo simulations to compare elasticity estimates based on this new “ideal-REER” regression against typical regression specifications found in the REER literature. The results show that the biases are small (around 1 percent) for the exchange rate and large (around 10 percent) for the demand elasticity. We find empirical support for this prediction from annual trade flow data. The difference between elasticities estimated on the bilateral and aggregate levels reduces significantly when applying an ideal-REER regression rather than a standard REER approach.
F32|Episodios de deterioro de la cuenta corriente en Colombia: factores externos, cíclicos y estructurales|Se estiman regresiones cointegradas para detectar los principales determinantes de la cuenta corriente en Colombia, en el periodo 1986-2017, a partir de un conjunto de 17 indicadores macroeconómicos externos e internos. El modelo estimado se utiliza para analizar dos episodios de deterioro gradual y persistente del balance externo: 1987-1998 y 2000-2015. Este ejercicio permite estudiar comparativamente ambos periodos considerando sus diferentes coyunturas e institucionalidad de política económica. Los resultados indican que, en ambos episodios, los determinantes cíclicos fueron los que tuvieron una mayor contribución al aumento del déficit. El factor más importante en el primer periodo es el mayor acceso del sector privado al financiamiento externo. En el periodo más reciente, los determinantes más relevantes son el ciclo de crédito bancario y precio real de la vivienda los cuales son indicadores del ciclo financiero. Por su parte, la brecha del producto, como indicador del ciclo económico, tuvo un rol modesto en ambos episodios de deterioro. Cabe destacar que las mejoras de factores estructurales de Colombia desde el año 2000, evitaron un deterioro más pronunciado de la cuenta corriente en 2015. **** ABSTRACT: We estimate cointegrating regressions to detect the main determinants of the current account in Colombia, during the period 1986-2017, starting with a set of 17 external and internal macroeconomic indicators. We use the estimated model to analyze two episodes of gradual and persistent deterioration of the external balance: 1987-1998 and 2000-2015. This exercise allows a comparative study of both periods considering their different macroeconomic outlooks and policy institutions. Our results show that, in both episodes, cyclical determinants have the largest contribution to the increased deficit. The most important factor in the first period is the improved access to international finance by the private sector. In the most recent period, the most relevant determinants are banking credit and real house prices, both of which are financial cycle indicators. On the other hand, the output gap, the business cycle indicator, had a modest role during both deterioration episodes. It is worth highlighting that the improvement of structural factors since 2000, prevented a more pronounced current account deterioration in 2015.
F32|Estimating the Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Total Exports|This paper shows that real effective exchange rate (REER) regressions, the standard approach for estimating the response of aggregate exports to exchange rate changes, imply biased estimates of the underlying elasticities. We provide a new aggregate regression specification that is consistent with bilateral trade flows micro-founded by the gravity equation. This theory-consistent aggregation leads to unbiased estimates when prices are set in an international currency as postulated by the dominant currency paradigm. We use Monte-Carlo simulations to compare elasticity estimates based on this new “ideal-REER” regression against typical regression specifications found in the REER literature. The results show that the biases are small (around 1 percent) for the exchange rate and large (around 10 percent) for the demand elasticity. We find empirical support for this prediction from annual trade flow data. The difference between elasticities estimated on the bilateral and aggregate levels reduces significantly when applying an ideal-REER regression rather than a standard REER approach.
F32|A disaster under-(re)insurance puzzle: Home bias in disaster risk-bearing|The losses from the 2011 earthquakes in Japan remained in Japan, while reinsurance spread the losses from that year’s New Zealand earthquake to the rest of the world.This paper finds that the Japanese case is more typical: losses from natural disasters are shared internationally to a generally very limited extent. This finding of home bias in disaster risk-bearing poses a puzzle of international risk-sharing. We decompose international risk-sharing into the portion of losses insured and the portion ofinsurance that is internationally re-insured. We find that the failure of international risk-sharing begins at home with low participation in insurance. Regression analysis points to economic development and institutional/legal quality as important determinants of insurance participation. We propose a new method to measure international reinsurance payments with balance of payments data. This method identifies for the first time the cross-border flow of reinsurance payments to 88 economies that experienced insured disasters in the 1985–2017 period. Regression analysis of these data points to small size and de facto financial integration as positively related to the reinsurance share, as one might expect. However, we also find that more internationally wealthy economies reinsure less, suggesting that net foreign assets substitute for international sharing of disaster risk. For advanced economies, a lack of international risk-sharing is correlated with a lack of fiscal space. Thus, the governments under more pressure to provide ex post government insurance through the budget have less room to manoeuvre to do so. At high levels of public debt, a lack of ex ante insurance can turn disaster risk into financial risk.
F32|Measuring financial cycle time|Motivated by the traditional business cycle approach of Burns and Mitchell (1946), we explore cyclical similarities in financial conditions over time in order to improve our understanding of financial cycles. Looking back at 120 years of data, we find that financial cycles exhibit behaviour characterised by recurrent, endogenous swings in financial conditions, which result in costly booms and busts. Yet the recurrent nature of such swings may not appear so obvious when looking at conventionally plotted time-series data (that is, observed in calendar time). Using the pioneering framework developed by Stock (1987), we offer a new statistical characterisation of the financial cycle using a continuous-time autoregressive model subject to time deformation, and test for systematic differences between calendar and a new notion of financial cycle time. We find the time deformation to be statistically significant, and associated with levels of long-term real interest rates, inflation volatility and the perceived riskiness of the macro-financial environment. Implications for statistical modelling, endogenous risk-taking economic behaviour and policy are highlighted.
F32|Tracking foreign capital: the effect of capital inflows on bank lending in the UK|This paper examines how UK banks channel capital inflows to the individual sectors of the domestic economy and to overseas residents. Information on the source country of foreign capital deposited with UK banks allows us to construct a novel Bartik instrument for capital inflows. Our results suggest that foreign funds boost bank lending to the domestic economy. This result is due to the positive effect of capital inflows on bank lending to non-financial firms and to other domestic financial institutions. Banks do not channel capital inflows directly to households or the public sector. Much of the foreign capital is also channelled back abroad, reflecting the role of the UK as a global financial centre.
F32|A Tale of Two Surplus Countries: China and Germany|We analyze current account imbalances through the lens of the two largest surplus countries; China and Germany. We observe two striking patterns visible since the 2007/8 Global Financial Crisis. First, while China has been gradually reducing its current account surplus, Germany’s surplus has continued to increase throughout and after the crisis. Second, for these two countries, there is a remarkable reversal in the patterns of exchange rate misalignment: China’s currency has turned from being undervalued to overvalued, Germany’s currency has erased its level of overvaluation and become undervalued. Our empirical analyses show that the current account balances of these two countries are quite well explained by currency misalignment, common economic factors, and country-specific factors. Furthermore, we highlight the global financial crisis effects and, for Germany, the importance of differentiating balances against euro and non-euro countries.
F32|The Euro Crisis and Economic Growth: A Novel Counterfactual Approach|Macroeconomic adjustment in the euro area periphery was more recessionary than pre-crisis imbalances would have warranted. To make this claim, this paper uses a Propensity Score Matching Model to produce counterfactuals for the Eurozone crisis countries (Greece, Portugal, Ireland, Cyprus, Spain) based on over 200 past macroeconomic adjustment episodes between 1960-2010 worldwide. At its trough, between 2010 and 2015 per capita GDP had contracted on average 11 percentage points more in the Eurozone periphery than in the standard counterfactual scenario. These results are not dictated by any specific country experience, are robust to a battery of alternative counterfactual definitions, and stand confirmed when using a parametric dynamic panel regression model to account more thoroughly for the business cycle. Zooming in on the potential causes, the lack of an independent monetary policy, while having contributed to a deeper recession, does not fully explain the Eurozone’s specificity, which is instead to be traced back to a sharper-than-expected contraction in investment and fiscal austerity due to high funding costs.
F32|What Do We Really Know about the Transatlantic Current Account?|Do the U.S. have a current account surplus or a deficit with the EU? Since 2009, official sources disagree: The U.S. Department of Commerce claims a consistent U.S. surplus while Eurostat reports the opposite. International transactions are notoriously difficult to measure accurately, but the size of the transatlantic discrepancy is extremely substantial: over the last ten years, it has grown to a cumulated 1 Trillion USD. In times of severe trade policy disagreements across the Atlantic, this gap is obviously problematic. This paper tries to dissect the transatlantic reporting gap. Two country-pairs – U.S.-UK and U.S.-Netherlands – account for almost the entire transatlantic discrepancy, which, in 2017, stood at about 180 billion USD. In the former case, national statistics on net services trade disagree by as much as 55 billion USD; in the latter case, there is a reporting difference in net primary income of about 60 billion USD. In contrast, data provided by the Bundesbank for the German-U.S. current account closely mirror U.S. data. Non-random measurement error and, possibly, deliberate manipulation seem to cause the observed discrepancies.
F32|Bilateral Trade Imbalances|In standard quantitative models, bilateral trade imbalances are determined by aggregate trade imbalances, expenditure and production patterns, and trade wedges. We calibrate such a model using recent data on incomes, factor endowments, and sector-level expenditures, outputs and bilateral trade flows for 40 economies and the rest of the world. Large pairwise asymmetries in trade wedges are needed for the model’s bilateral-trade predictions to match the data. They account for 21-35% of the standard deviation of bilateral trade imbalances. Aggregate imbalances play a minor role, while more than 50% of the variation is explained by international differences in production and expenditure patterns.
F32|Centralized versus Decentralized Banking: Bank-level evidence from U.S. Call Reports|This paper demonstrates that decentralized banking has been the primary model of banking in the US since the mid-90s. This evidence is obtained by using a large number of bank-level observations from US Call Reports. The ownership structure that I infer from these data allow me to use a unique identification strategy to determine the independent effects of subsidiary-specific and owner-specific financial conditions (decentralized and centralized effects, respectively) on subsidiaries’ lending. The results show that subsidiaries financial conditions were, in general, more important for lending decisions than those of its owners. In other words, decentralized banking is more pronounced than centralized banking. Considering a broad set of factors that have a systematic effect on financial markets, I also find that the effects of these push factors on subsidiary lending mainly feed through the financial conditions of the subsidiaries and not their owners.
F32|How ETFs Amplify the Global Financial Cycle in Emerging Markets| Since the early 2000s exchange-traded funds (ETFs) have grown to become an important in- vestment vehicle worldwide. In this paper, we study how their growth affects the sensitivity of international capital flows to the global financial cycle. We combine comprehensive fund- level data on investor flows with a novel identification strategy that controls for unobservable time-varying economic conditions at the investment destination. For dedicated emerging mar- ket funds, we find that the sensitivity of investor flows to global risk factors for equity (bond) ETFs is 1.5 (1.25) times higher than for equity (bond) mutual funds. In turn, we show that in countries where ETFs hold a larger share of financial assets, total cross-border equity flows and prices are significantly more sensitive to global risk factors. We conclude that the growing role of ETFs as a channel for international capital flows amplifies the incidence of the global financial cycle in emerging markets.
F32|After the Panic: Are Financial Crises Demand or Supply Shocks? Evidence from International Trade|Are financial crises a negative shock to demand or a negative shock to supply? This is a fundamental question for both macroeconomics researchers and those involved in real-time policymaking, and in both cases the question has become much more urgent in the aftermath of the recent financial crisis. Arguments for monetary and fiscal stimulus usually interpret such events as demand-side shortfalls. Conversely, arguments for tax cuts and structural reform often proceed from supply-side frictions. Resolving the question requires models capable of admitting both mechanisms, and empirical tests that can tell them apart. We develop a simple small open economy model, where a country is subject to deleveraging shocks that impose binding credit constraints on households and/or firms. These financial crisis events leave distinct statistical signatures in the empirical time series record, and they divide sharply between each type of shock. Household deleveraging shocks are mainly demand shocks, contract imports, leave exports largely unchanged, and depreciate the real exchange rate. Firm deleveraging shocks are mainly supply shocks, contract exports, leave imports largely unchanged, and appreciate the real exchange rate. To test these predictions, we compile the largest possible crossed dataset of 200+ years of trade flow data and event dates for almost 200 financial crises in a wide sample of countries. Empirical analysis reveals a clear picture: after a financial crisis event we find the dominant pattern to be that imports contract, exports hold steady or even rise, and the real exchange rate depreciates. History shows that, on average, financial crises are very clearly a negative shock to demand.
F32|Optimal Monetary Policy when Information is Market-Generated|In this paper we study how the endogenous nature of the signals ob- served by the private sector affects optimal monetary policy. Agents learn from sources of information that are not market-determined, such as news, but also from variables that are endogenously determined on the markets, such as prices or production. In that case, how can the central optimally condition its monetary instrument on its information? When signals re- ceived by private agents are purely exogenous, it is optimal for the central bank to directly steer the economy towards the efficient allocation. This can be achieved through a price stabilization objective. In this case the public does not need to infer the state of the economy and the central bank is in charge of all the action. When information is endogenous, the policy of the central bank is aimed at maximizing the information content of the market-determined variables that agents use as sources of information. This is achieved by exacerbating the natural response of prices to shocks. This result holds independently of the possibility of the central bank to directly communicate its information through public announcements.
F32|Exchange Rate Reconnect|The failure to find fundamentals that co-move with exchange rates or forecasting models with even mild predictive power – facts broadly referred to as “exchange rate disconnect” – stands among the most disappointing, but robust, facts in all of international macroeconomics. In this paper, we demonstrate that U.S. purchases of foreign bonds, which did not co-move with exchange rates prior to 2007, have provided significant in-sample, and even some out-of-sample, explanatory power for currencies since then. We show that several proxies for global risk factors also start to co-move strongly with the dollar and with U.S. purchases of foreign bonds around 2007, suggesting that risk plays a key role in this finding. We use security-level data on U.S. portfolios to demonstrate that the reconnect of U.S. foreign bond purchases to exchange rates is largely driven by investment in dollar-denominated assets rather than by foreign currency exposure alone. Our results support the narrative emerging from an active recent literature that the US dollar’s role as an international and safe-haven currency has surged since the global financial crisis.
F32|Foreign currency loan conversions and currency mismatches|This paper examines the effect of currency conversion programs from Swiss franc-denominated loans to other currency loans on currency risk for banks in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE). Swiss franc mortgage loans proliferated in CEE countries prior to the financial crisis and contributed to the volume of non-performing loans as the Swiss franc strongly appreciated during the post-crisis period. Empirical findings suggest that Swiss franc loan conversion programs reduced currency mismatches in Swiss francs but increased currency mismatches in other foreign currencies in individual countries. This asymmetric effect of conversion programs arises from the loan restructuring from Swiss francs to a non-local currency and the high level of euro mismatches in the CEE banking system.
F32|Macroprudential Policy with Leakages|The outreach of macroprudential policies is likely limited in practice by imperfect regulation enforcement, whether due to shadow banking, regulatory arbitrage, or other regulation circumvention schemes. We study how such concerns affect the design of optimal regulatory policy in a workhorse model in which pecuniary externalities call for macroprudential taxes on debt, but with the addition of a novel constraint that financial regulators lack the ability to enforce taxes on a subset of agents. While regulated agents reduce risk taking in response to debt taxes, unregulated agents react to the safer environment by taking on more risk. These leakages do undermine the effectiveness of macruprudential taxes, yet they do not necessarily call for weaker interventions. Quantitatively, we find that a well-designed macroprudential policy that accounts for leakages remains successful at mitigating the vulnerability to financial crises.
F32|A Crash Course on the Euro Crisis|The financial crises of the last twenty years brought new economic concepts into classroom discussions. This article introduces undergraduate students and teachers to seven of these models: (i) misallocation of capital inflows, (ii) modern and shadow banks, (iii) strategic complementarities and amplification, (iv) debt contracts and the distinction between solvency and liquidity, (v) the diabolic loop, (vi) regional flights to safety, and (vii) unconventional monetary policy. We apply each of them to provide a full account of the euro crisis of 2010-12.
F32|The risk-taking channel of international financial flows|From the second half of the 1990s, the high saving propensity in emerging economies triggered massive inflows towards safe assets in the United States; then, from the early 2000s, global banks also increased investment in US markets targeting riskier securities. We investigate to what extent the global saving glut and the global banking glut have stimulated risk taking, and find significant effects on credit spreads, market volatility and bank leverage. In a VAR framework, we also detect linkages between foreign inflows, US household indebtedness and house prices, suggesting a substan- tial risk-taking channel. Our findings provide evidence of the autonomous role of foreign financial flows during the run-up to the global financial crisis.
F32|International Bank Lending Channel of Monetary Policy|How does domestic monetary policy in systemic countries spillover to the rest of the world? This paper examines the transmission channel of domestic monetary policy in the cross-border context. We use exogenous shocks to monetary policy in systemically important economies, including the U.S., and local projections to estimate the dynamic effect of monetary policy shocks on bilateral cross-border bank lending. We find robust evidence that an increase in funding costs following an exogenous monetary tightening leads to a statistically and economically significant decline in cross-border bank lending. The effect is weakened during periods of high uncertainty. In contrast, the effect is found to not vary according to the degree of borrower country riskiness, further weakening support for the international portfolio rebalancing channel.
F32|Post-Crisis Changes in the Pattern of Capital Flows - The Case of Korea|This paper investigates pattern changes in international capital flows after the Global Financial Crisis using the Korean case. It follows capital flows of Korea during the last couple of decades to characterize three significant changes after the crisis. First, after the introduction of macroprudential policies, the bank external borrowing was curbed while the bank external lending started an increasing trend. Second, the resident’s outward portfolio investments outpaced foreign portfolio investments on domestic assets after the crisis. The net outflow is closely associated with changes in return differentials between domestic and foreign assets. Third, the continued current account surpluses were saved as private assets held abroad, while it was saved as FX reserves before the crisis. The precautionary role of reserves is now complemented by currency swap arrangements with major countries. Simple VAR results confirm the increased resilience of the bank’s foreign borrowing to external shocks, and the increased association of net portfolio inflows with the interest rate differential after the crisis.
F32|Currency Collapses and Output Dynamics in Commodity Dependent Countries|This paper provides new empirical evidence on the relationship between currency collapses (i.e. large nominal depreciations or devaluations) and real output by paying a specific attention to commodity exporting countries. Using a dataset including 108 emerging and developing economies for the period 1970-2016, we document and estimate what happens to output growth during episodes of currency collapses for commodity-dependent and non commodity-dependent countries. One particular feature of our analysis is to control for war events. We find that currency crises occur more frequently in commodity-dependent countries (one crisis every 17 years versus 30 years for non commodity-dependent countries) and with a larger magnitude (median depreciation about 12 percent points larger for commodity-dependent countries). In both groups of countries, output growth declines in response to the currency collapse. It appears however that output growth starts to slowdown earlier in commodity-dependent countries while the impact is more persistent in non commodity-dependent countries. The magnitude of the output growth slowdown is very close between the two groups of countries. Finally, we find that the output growth-currency collapse relationship differs among commodity-dependent countries according to the category of their main exported commodity.
F32|Complexity in large U.S. banks|While both size and complexity are important for the largest U.S. bank holding companies (BHCs), specific types of complexity and their patterns across banks are not well understood. We introduce a range of measures of organizational, business, and geographic complexity. Comparing 2007 with 2017, we show that large U.S. BHCs remain very complex, with some declines along organizational and geographical complexity dimensions. The numbers of legal entities within some large BHCs have fallen. By contrast, the multiple industries spanned by legal entities within the BHCs have shifted more than they have declined, especially within the financial sector. Nonfinancial entities within U.S. BHCs still tilt heavily toward real-estate-related businesses and span numerous other industries. Fewer large BHCs have global affiliates, and the geographic span of the most complex has declined. Favorable tax treatment locations still attract a significant share of the foreign bank and nonbank entities, while fewer legal entities are present in informationally opaque locations.
F32|Tracking Foreign Capital: The Effect of Capital Inflows on Bank Lending in the UK|This paper examines how UK banks channel capital inflows to the individual sectors of the domestic economy and to overseas residents. Information on the source country of foreign capital deposited with UK banks allows us to construct a novel Bartik instrument for capital inflows. Our results suggest that foreign funds boost bank lending to the domestic economy. This result is due to the positive effect of capital inflows on bank lending to non-financial firms and to other domestic financial institutions. Banks do not channel capital inflows directly to households or the public sector. Much of the foreign capital is also channeled back abroad, reflecting the role of the UK as a global financial center.
F32|Current Account and International Networks|This paper explores the impact of international financial and trade networks on current account balances in a large sample of developing and developed countries. The financial and trade inter-country networks centrality measures are computed based on the quantity and strength of the financial assets flows (for financial network) or export flows (for trade network) among the countries. I rely on a panel data and employ the fundamental characteristics of a country’s trading partners as instruments for the position of a given country in the international networks. I find that a more central position in the international trade or financial network improves the current account balance in developed and developing countries. Besides, the impact of international financial network on current account has become stronger over the past two decades and a better position in this network helped improve the current account balances during the Great Recession.
F32|Quantification and Revolution: An Investigation of German Capital Flight after the First|It is well known that after the First World War there was a massive flight of capital from the major European countries to foreign financial centres. It is surprising, however, to note that no historian to date has actually taken the trouble to make a detailed study of the phenomenon. The aim of this article is to go beyond the impressionism that characterises the historical approach to the study of capital flight following the First World War. In order to show what can and cannot be established, the subject of study will be Germany. After presenting the main difficulties encountered in quantifying the flight of German capital, the article will go on to provide a new estimate of it. A wide range of sources were referred to for the survey: national archives, expert reports, bank statistics, and balances of payments. The application of rigorous historical method, with crosschecking and critical analysis of documents, have made it possible to establish new relevant facts regarding the flight of German capital following the First World War. The final figure obtained is greater than those generally accepted.
F32|A Tale of Two Surplus Countries: China and Germany|We analyze current account imbalances through the lens of the two largest surplus countries; China and Germany. We observe two striking patterns visible since the 2007/8 Global Financial Crisis. First, while China has been gradually reducing its current account surplus, Germany’s surplus has continued to increase throughout and after the crisis. Second, for these two countries, there is a remarkable reversal in the patterns of exchange rate misalignment: China’s currency has turned from being undervalued to overvalued, Germany’s currency has erased its level of overvaluation and become undervalued. Our empirical analyses show that the current account balances of these two countries are quite well explained by currency misalignment, common economic factors, and country-specific factors. Furthermore, we highlight the global financial crisis effects and, for Germany, the importance of differentiating balances against euro and non-euro countries.
F32|Capital Flight to Germany: Two Alternative Measures|We use two measures to study two capital flight channels for Germany. One measure is based on the concept of trade misinvoicing and one on net claims and liabilities in the Eurosystem of central banks. For both measures, we propose refinements to enhance the assessment of capital flight. We find that capital flight towards Germany via these two channels has been quite sizable in the recent decade and can tally to about 2% of GDP annually. Regarding their determinants, we show that the two capital flight measures are driven by both common and measure-specific factors. Traditional determinants such as covered interest differentials only play a limited role, while crisis-specific factors such as economic policy uncertainty, the ECB collateral policy, as well as currency misalignment are driving factors of the investors’ apparent flight-to-safety behavior.
F32|The Problem of US Labor Force Participation|Despite more robust growth than many advanced economies in Europe and Asia, labor force participation in the United States between 1995 and 2017 was weak. In other countries, job loss has manifested itself as increased unemployment as opposed to labor force exit. For men, the decline in labor force participation appears to be partly structural, as it is common across countries, and partly related to disability. For women, disability was an even more important contributor to the decline in their labor force participation, explaining nearly two-thirds of the decline in labor force participation of prime-aged workers.
F32|Global Dimensions of US Monetary Policy|This paper is a partial exploration of mechanisms through which global factors influence the tradeoffs that US monetary policy faces. It considers three main channels. The first is the determination of domestic inflation in a context where international prices and global competition play a role, alongside domestic slack and inflation expectations. The second channel is the determination of asset returns (including the natural real safe rate of interest, r*) and financial conditions, given integration with global financial markets. The third channel, which is particular to the United States, is the potential spillback onto the US economy from the disproportionate impact of US monetary policy on the outside world. In themselves, global factors need not undermine a central bank's ability to control the price level over the long term--after all, it is the monopoly issuer of the numeraire in which domestic prices are measured. Over shorter horizons, however, global factors do change the tradeoff between price-level control and other goals such as low unemployment and financial stability, thereby affecting the policy cost of attaining a given price path.
F32|Foreign Reserve Accumulation, Foreign Direct Investment, and Economic Growth|This paper develops a quantitative small-open-economy model to assess the optimal pace of foreign reserve accumulation by emerging and developing countries. In the model, reserve accumulation depreciates the real exchange rate and attracts foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows, which promotes productivity growth through endogenous firm dynamics. The economy is also subject to sudden stops in the form of an occasionally binding constraint on foreign borrowing, and accumulated reserves are used to prevent severe economic downturns. The model shows that two factors are the key determinants of the optimal pace of reserve accumulation: the elasticity of the foreign borrowing spread with respect to foreign debt, and the entry cost for FDI entry. The model suggests that these two factors can explain a substantial amount of the cross-country variation in the observed pace of reserve accumulation.
F32|Policy Uncertainty and FDI Flows: The Role of Institutional Quality and Financial Development|While foreign direct investment is known to be the most stable type of capital flows, it may be particularly susceptible to heightened uncertainty due to its higher fixed costs than that of other types of capital flows. We investigate the effect of higher policy uncertainty on FDI inflows in 16 host countries using the OECD bilateral FDI panel dataset and the economic policy uncertainty index from 1985 to 2013. The bilateral structure of these data enables us to disentangle the host country factors affecting FDI inflows from the source country factors, thereby obtains a cleaner causal identification of the higher domestic policy uncertainty effect largely immune to endogeneity issues. To alleviate further endogeneity problems, we use the election timing data as an instrument. We find that domestic policy uncertainty in a host country robustly reduces the FDI inflows. As regards the channel through which policy uncertainty affects FDI inflows, the institutional quality and financial development of the host country are key to mitigating this adverse impact of policy uncertainty.
F32|International Bank Lending Channel of Monetary Policy|How does domestic monetary policy in systemic countries spillover to the rest of the world? This paper examines the transmission channel of domestic monetary policy in the cross-border context. We use exogenous shocks to monetary policy in systemically important economies, including the U.S., and local projections to estimate the dynamic effect of monetary policy shocks on bilateral cross-border bank lending. We find robust evidence that an increase in funding costs following an exogenous monetary tightening leads to a statistically and economically significant decline in cross-border bank lending. The effect is weakened during periods of high uncertainty. In contrast, the effect is found to not vary according to the degree of borrower country riskiness, further weakening support for the international portfolio rebalancing channel.
F32|Capital Flows in the Euro Area and TARGET2 Balances|We estimate a panel VAR model for the euro area to quantitatively asses the contribution of the TARGET2 system to the propagation of different types of structural economic shocks as well as to the historical evolution of aggregate economic activity in euro area member countries. Our results suggest that TARGET2 has significantly affected the transmission of capital ow shocks while leaving the macroeconomic responses to other aggregate shocks virtually unaltered. Furthermore, on basis of counterfactual analyses, we find that TARGET2 has contributed substantially to avoid deeper recessions in distressed periphery member countries like Spain, Italy, Ireland and Portugal, while to a smaller degree depressing aggregate economic activity in core member states, such as Germany, the Netherlands and Finland.
F32|What do we really know about the transatlantic current account?|Do the U.S. have a current account surplus or a deficit with the EU? Since 2009, official sources disagree: The U.S. Department of Commerce claims a consistent U.S. surplus while Eurostat reports the opposite. International transactions are notoriously difficult to measure accurately, but the size of the transatlantic discrepancy is extremely substantial: over the last ten years, it has grown to accumulated 1 Trillion USD. In times of severe trade policy disagreements across the Atlantic, this gap is obviously problematic. This paper tries to dissect the transatlantic reporting gap. Two country-pairs - U.S.-UK and U.S.-Netherlands - account for almost the entire transatlantic discrepancy, which, in 2017, stood at about 180 billion USD. In the former case, national statistics on net services trade disagree by as much as 55 billion USD; in the latter case, there is a reporting difference in net primary income of about 60 billion USD. In contrast, data provided by the Bundesbank for the German-U.S. current account closely mirror U.S. data. Non-random measurement error and, possibly, deliberate manipulation seem to cause the observed discrepancies.
F32|The Corporate Saving Glut and the Current Account in Germany|We investigate for Germany the positive correlation between the corporate savings glut in the non-financial corporate sector and the current account surplus from a capital account perspective. By employing sign restrictions our findings suggest that mostly labor market, world demand and financial friction shocks can account for the joint dynamics of excess corporate savings and the current account surplus. Private savings shocks, in contrast, cannot explain the correlation. We conclude that a corporate savings glut is a main driver of the current account surplus.
F32|Tracking foreign capital: the effect of capital inflows on bank lending in the UK|This paper examines how UK banks channel capital inflows to the individual sectors of the domestic economy and to overseas residents. Information on the source country of foreign capital deposited with UK banks allows us to construct a novel Bartik instrument for capital inflows. Our results suggest that foreign funds boost bank lending to the domestic economy. This result is due to the positive effect of capital inflows on bank lending to non-financial firms and to other domestic financial institutions. Banks do not channel capital inflows directly to households or the public sector. Much of the foreign capital is also channeled back abroad, reflecting the role of the UK as a global financial center.
F32|The euro at twenty: Follies of youth?|This paper overviews the early history of the euro and argues that the euro was suboptimally designed, without monetary sovereignty of Eurozone (EZ) Member States, in order to comply with political goals set by wealthier Member States. Given this constraint, the euro architects designed a single currency in which its irreversibility is achieved through the EZ banking system, with recourse to the TARGET2 payment system. This allowed the banking systems of deficit Member States to fund large cumulative current account deficits in the first decade of the euro. The euro crisis led EZ policy makers to define new far more demanding fiscal rules and a new Banking Union to constrain the ability of EZ banking systems to fund sovereigns and current account deficits. Thus, the euro at twenty has become more fragile.
F32|Stock Flow Adjustments in Sovereign Debt Dynamics: The Role of Fiscal Frameworks|We assess, via system GMM, how Stock Flow Adjustments (SFA) affect the debt-to-GDP ratio in 65 countries (covering developed and emerging and low-income countries) between1985-2014. We find that SFAs positively contribute to the change in the debt-to-GDP ratio with a coefficient close to one. The existence of fiscal rules with monitor compliance contributes to lower the debt level. The fall in the debt ratio due to fiscal rules before the crisis was between 1.7%-4.2% of GDP while after the crisis, revenue and debt-based rules did not contribute to the reduction of debt, which was reinforced with large SFAs.
F32|Producer Services and the Current Account|In this paper, we present evidence that countries with a higher share of services in GDP exhibit lower current account balances. We argue that this relationship is compatible with the notion that producer services raise aggregate productivity by enhancing increasing returns to specialization, and we develop a model in which the deregulation of the services industry results in higher GDP growth, a reallocation of resources into the services industry, and a temporary current account deficit. We demonstrate that our theoretical argument is supported by the data, even if we control for a multitude of other factors that potentially affect the current account. Finally, we relate our study to the IMF’s external balance assessment (EBA) exercise and demonstrate that, for several countries, the “current account gap” shrinks if we account for producer services.
F32|Gains from Policy Cooperation in Capital Controls and Financial Market Incompleteness|We examine how the degree of financial market incompleteness affects welfare gains from policy cooperation in capital controls. When financial markets are incomplete, international risk sharing is disturbed. However, the optimal global policy significantly reverses the welfare deterioration due to inefficient risk-sharing. We find that when financial markets are more incomplete, the welfare gap between the optimal global policy and the Nash equilibrium increases, and the welfare gains from policy cooperation in capital controls then become larger.
F32|The Economic Correlation between China and Southeast Asian Countries: derivative market and real sector analysis|This paper attempts to analyse the economic integration of China and Southeast Asian countries. This paper adopts several methods: One, stationarity for correlation, Error Correction Model (ECM) for short-run relation and Cointegration for long-run relationships. Two, Structural Vector Autoregression (SVAR) analysis to identify the cause and impact. As stock market index follows real sector performance this paper utilizes: One, elasticity analysis of economic growth between China and these countries as a proxy for real sector economic relations between them and two, descriptive statistical analysis on real effective exchange rate as well as Current Account Balance as a proxy of external economic performance between them. In correlation analysis, this paper found that one, stationarity of each country is the difference at level; two, short-run economic relations (ECM) between China and these Southeast Asian countries and three, they have long-run economic relations. In causality, this paper found that China affects all of these Southeast Asian countries and no causality between Singapore and the Philippines. In term of real sector analysis, this paper found that one, economic growth in China significantly affects all of these countries’ economic growth. Two, the external economic performance of these countries are the difference with special finding on Indonesia’s current account.
F32|Globalisation And Governance: Thresholds For The Impacts Of The Main Determinants Of Capital Inflows?|This paper investigates whether the impacts of the main push (global financial conditions, GFC) and pull (growth) factors on capital inflows are invariant to endogenously estimated threshold levels for structural domestic conditions (SDC) represented by governance/institutional quality, trade openness, de facto international financial integration and de jure financial openness in emerging market and developing economies. Our results strongly suggest that, for all the components of capital inflows, the impact of the domestic pull factor is substantially much higher for the episodes of better governance, higher trade and de jure financial openness and de facto international financial integration. The sensitivity of non-FDI and aggregate inflows to GFC is highly significant and tends to be considerably higher for countries with better SDC. FDI inflows are found to be basically determined by the domestic pull factor across all these regimes. The impact of GFC on FDI inflows appears not to considerably change across the SDC.
F32|Global Capital Flows Cycle: Impact on Gross and Net Flows|While prior to the global financial crisis the empirical international capital flow literature has focused on net capital flows (the current account), since the crisis there has been an increased focus on gross flows. In this paper we jointly analyze global drivers of gross flows (outflows plus inflows) and net flows (outflows minus inflows) by estimating a latent factor model. We find evidence of two global factors, which we call the GFC (global financial cycle) factor and commodity price factor as they closely track respectively the Miranda-Agrippino and Rey asset price factor and an average of oil and gas prices. These factors together account for half the variance of gross flows in advanced countries and forty percent of the variance of gross flows in emerging markets. But remarkably, they also account for forty percent of the variance of net capital flows in both groups of countries. We also analyze the heterogeneity across countries in the impact of the two factors. One of the key findings is that the impact of the GFC factor on both gross and net capital flows is stronger in countries that have larger net debt liabilities. Other asset classes (FDI and portfolio equity) do not significantly impact the exposure to the GFC factor.
F32|After the Panic: Are Financial Crises Demand or Supply Shocks? Evidence from International Trade|Are financial crises a negative shock to demand or a negative shock to supply? This is a fundamental question for both macroeconomics researchers and those involved in real-time policymaking, and in both cases the question has become much more urgent in the aftermath of the recent financial crisis. Arguments for monetary and fiscal stimulus usually interpret such events as demand-side shortfalls. Conversely, arguments for tax cuts and structural reform often proceed from supply-side frictions. Resolving the question requires models capable of admitting both mechanisms, and empirical tests that can tell them apart. We develop a simple small open economy model, where a country is subject to deleveraging shocks that impose binding credit constraints on households and/or firms. These financial crisis events leave distinct statistical signatures in the empirical time series record, and they divide sharply between each type of shock. Household deleveraging shocks are mainly demand shocks, contract imports, leave exports largely unchanged, and depreciate the real exchange rate. Firm deleveraging shocks are mainly supply shocks, contract exports, leave imports largely unchanged, and appreciate the real exchange rate. To test these predictions, we compile the largest possible crossed dataset of 200+ years of trade flow data and event dates for almost 200 financial crises in a wide sample of countries. Empirical analysis reveals a clear picture: after a financial crisis event we find the dominant pattern to be that imports contract, exports hold steady or even rise, and the real exchange rate depreciates. History shows that, on average, financial crises are very clearly a negative shock to demand.
F32|Search for Yield in Large International Corporate Bonds : Investor Behavior and Firm Responses|"Emerging market corporations have significantly increased their borrowing in international markets since 2008. This paper shows that this increase was driven by large-denomination bond issuances, most of them with face value of US$500 million. Large issuances are eligible for inclusion in international market indexes, which attract institutional investors. Emerging market firms were able to cut their cost of funds by roughly 100 basis points by issuing large-denomination bonds. Firms face a tradeoff: issue large, index-eligible bonds to borrow at a lower cost (about 100 basis points) but pay the expense of hoarding cash. Because of the""size yield discount,""many companies issued index-eligible bonds, increasing their cash holdings. The willingness to issue large bonds and hoard cash was greater for firms in countries with high carry trade opportunities. These post-2008 behaviors reflected a search for yield by institutional investors into higher-risk securities and are not apparent in developed economies."
F32|Exchange Rate Reconnect|"The failure to find fundamentals that co-move with exchange rates or forecasting models with even mild predictive power â?? facts broadly referred to as ""exchange rate disconnect"" â?? stands among the most disappointing, but robust, facts in all of international macroeconomics. In this paper, we demonstrate that U.S. purchases of foreign bonds, which did not co-move with exchange rates prior to 2007, have provided significant in-sample, and even some out-of-sample, explanatory power for currencies since then. We show that several proxies for global risk factors also start to co-move strongly with the dollar and with U.S. purchases of foreign bonds around 2007, suggesting that risk plays a key role in this finding. We use security-level data on U.S. portfolios to demonstrate that the reconnect of U.S. foreign bond purchases to exchange rates is largely driven by investment in dollar-denominated assets rather than by foreign currency exposure alone. Our results support the narrative emerging from an active recent literature that the US dollar's role as an international and safe-haven currency has surged since the global financial crisis."
F32|A Requiem for “Blame It on Beijing”: Interpreting Rotating Global Current Account Surpluses|Global current account imbalances have reappeared, although the extent and distribution of these imbalances are noticeably different from those experienced in the middle of the last decade. What does that recurrence mean for our understanding of the origin and nature of such imbalances? Will imbalances persist over time? Informed by empirical estimates of the determinants of current account imbalances encompassing the period after the global recession, we find that – as before – the observable manifestations of the factors driving the global saving glut have limited explanatory power for the time series variation in imbalances. Fiscal factors determine imbalances, and have accounted for a noticeable share of the recent variation in imbalances, including in the U.S. and Germany. For advanced economies, the financial component of the current account has been playing an increasing role to determine the movements of the account. Examining observable policy actions, it is clear that net official flows have been associated with some share of imbalances, although tracing out the motivations for intervention is difficult. Looking forward, it is clear that policy can influence global imbalances, although some component of the U.S. deficit will likely remain given the U.S. role in generating safe assets.
F32|Fiscal multipliers and foreign holdings of public debt|This paper explores a natural connection between fiscal multipliers and foreign holdings of public debt. Although fiscal expansions can raise domestic economic activity through various channels, they can also have crowding-out effects if the resources used to acquire public debt reduce domestic consumption and investment. Thus, these crowding-out effects are likely to be weaker when public debt is purchased by foreigners. We test this hypothesis on (i) post-war US data and (ii) data for a panel of 17 advanced economies from the 1980’s to the present. To do so, we assemble a novel database of public debt holdings by domestic and foreign creditors for a large set of advanced economies. We combine this data with standard measures of fiscal policy shocks and show that, indeed, the size of fiscal multipliers is increasing in the share of public debt held by foreigners. In particular, the fiscal multiplier is smaller than one when the foreign share is low, such as in the U.S. in the 1950’s and 1960’s and Japan today, and larger than one when the foreign share is high, such as in the U.S. and Ireland today
F32|Current account dynamics and exchange rate regimes in Central and Eastern Europe|The paper seeks to determine the factors that drive the current account dynamics of the 11 EU members from Central and Eastern Europe (CEE). Panel data models are estimated on annual data for the period 1997â€“2017 and both domestic pull factors and external push factors are included. The models are, as a key innovation, estimated separately for floating and fixed exchange rate regimes. The current account exhibits substantial persistence in both cases. For the floaters, the current account has been driven by domestic factors while external factors appear unimportant. For the fixers, the current account has mainly been driven by external factors, suggesting there is substantial vulnerability to external developments. The analysis underscores the importance of the exchange rate regime for the drivers of the current account balance in the CEE countries.
F32|How Would a Slowdown in the People’s Republic of China Affect its Trading Partners?|The PRC has become an important importer for many countries. We investigate how turbulence in the PRC can spill over to trading partners through the trade channel. Exports from several East Asian and Southeast Asian countries to the PRC exceed 10% of their gross domestic products. To shed light on economies’ exposures to the PRC, this paper estimates a gravity model. The results indicate that Taipei,China and members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations are exposed to the PRC because they produce goods for the PRC market and are exposed to advanced economies because they ship parts and components to the PRC for processing and reexport to the West. The Republic of Korea is more exposed to a slowdown in advanced economies that purchase processed exports from the PRC than to a slowdown in the PRC. Major commodity exporters such as Australia, Brazil, Indonesia, and Saudi Arabia, and exporters of sophisticated consumption and capital goods such as Germany and Switzerland are exposed to a slowdown in the PRC domestic market. This paper also estimates import elasticities for the PRC. The results indicate that imports for processing into the PRC are closely linked to processed exports from the PRC to the rest of the world and that ordinary imports are closely linked to PRC gross domestic product. The renminbi exerts only a weak impact on imports, however. The paper concludes by recommending that firms and countries diversify their export base and their trading partners to reduce their exposures to the PRC and to advanced economies.
F32|Benchmarks for Net International Investment Positions|Applied analysis aimed at assessing which value of the NIIP is appropriate for a given country is relatively scarce, and the few existing papers on the topic estimate one-size-fits-all NIIP benchmarks (e.g., Catão and Milesi-Ferretti, 2014). This paper estimates country-specific NIIP benchmarks on a sample of 65 advanced and emerging economies according to two different criteria: consistency with economic fundamentals (NIIP norms, obtained as cumulated current account norms) and prudence against the risk of external crises (NIIP prudential thresholds, obtained as the threshold of the NIIP variable interacted with relative income per capita that maximises signal power in predicting external crises). The median for the country-specific NIIP norms is around -17% of GDP, while the median for prudential threshold is about -44%. The two benchmarks are negatively correlated across countries, highlighting a tension between factors underpinning the scope for external borrowing and debt tolerance. Gaps between actual and NIIP benchmarks are highly persistent, but help predicting subsequent medium-term NIIP changes better than the NIIP level, thus confirming the usefulness of country-specific reference values. The adjustment of the NIIP in response to NIIP gaps is asymmetric, with a significant adjustment limited to negative gaps, with the exception of countries with a positive net position in foreign currency.
F32|The broad policy toolkit for financial stability: Foundations, fences, and fire doors|The post financial crisis period has been associated with increased countercyclical use of various financial policies, including residency-based measures. This paper analyses in a single analytical framework the relative effectiveness of three types of financial policies – macroprudential (foundations), currency-based (fences), and residency-based measures (fire doors). The findings in this paper are based on a granular quarterly database of adjustments in these policies that covers both advanced and emerging economies from 2000 to 2015. The results show that residency-based measures on bonds and credit reduce capital inflows but provide limited support for a credit-mitigation role. While no evidence emerges that macroprudential measures alter capital inflows, most appear effective in reducing credit growth. Currency-based measures may reduce both inflows and credit growth (particularly FX reserve requirements and FX lending regulations). These results indicate that the impact of policies needs to be analysed at a granular level and that policy makers should adopt an integrated view of the financial policy toolkit.
F32|Macroeconomic Shocks and Trade Balance Adjustments in Papua New Guinea|Previous studies have mostly focused on the relationship between macroeconomic shocks and trade balance adjustments of resource-rich countries while largely overlooked countries with trade composition of high resource-export and strong import-dependence such as Papua New Guinea. Utilising a Bayesian Vector Autoregressive (BVAR) model, we quantify the relative importance of macroeconomic shocks on the country's trade balance adjustments and examine how they evolve over time. Our identification strategy takes advantage of the fact that shocks generated from the resource sector and non-resource sector would have heterogeneous impacts on trade activity. We document that at a different point in time, all identified shocks except inflation contributed significantly to the fluctuations in trade balance with varying magnitude. The impulse responses show that one standard deviation of devaluation in the real exchange rate and resource boom lead to an immediate improvement in the trade balance. Shocks in the non-resource sector and inflation are found to have a positive impact on the trade balance, but they are mostly statistically insignificant.
F32|Current Account and Credit Growth: The Role of Household Credit and Financial Depth|Understanding the impact of financial variables on the current account balance is one of the priorities of academic literature and policy makers. Evidence from a broad panel of countries shows that an increase in the credit growth causes a significant deterioration in the current account balance. We find that this result is driven by household credit. Furthermore, we show that total and household credit growth rates have a stronger negative effect on the current account balance for lower levels of financial depth. In other words, the demand boom associated with the credit expansion gets weaker for higher levels of financial depth. Thus, our findings are in line with the ``too much finance'' hypothesis which states that positive impact of financial development on economic growth vanishes as the level of financial depth increases. Our results suggest that targeted policy measures which curb the excessive household credit growth might be more effective to reduce the external imbalances particularly at the early stages of financial deepening.
F32|Public Debt Sustainability Assessment: A Stochastic Approach for Tunisia|To assess to which extent public debt in Tunisia is sustainable in the medium term, we apply a stochastic debt sustainability analysis (SDSA), developped by Celasun, Debrun and Ostry in 2006. In contrast with the conventional debt sustainability analysis (DSA), this methodology explicitly takes into account the uncertainty characterizing the emerging markets, i.e the risks stemming from the interaction of the endogenous fiscal and macroeconomic shocks (related to growth rates, interest rates and exchange rates). Fan Charts are then derived from the projected debt paths, under a baseline and alternative policy scenarios. Our baseline projections suggest that Tunisian public debt will be unsustainable, in average, over the whole period (2018- 2022). When comparing the baseline projections with alternative policy scenarios, we can ascertain the high importance of a timely and continuous fiscal policy response to debt accumulation; otherwise, Tunisian public debt will get out of control.
F32|Determinants of global capital volatility in the BRICS grouping|This paper assesses the determinants of capital flow volatility in the BRICS economies by differentiating between foreign direct investment (FDI) and portfolio capital flow volatilities. Moreover, the paper distinguishes between external variables, policy variables and control variables among the important drivers of capital flow volatiltiy in these economies. Use is made of the general method of moment (GMM) estimation in panel regression for this end. The findings of the empirical analysis show, among other things, the importance of global volatility spillover in driving capital flow volatility in the BRICS countries.
F32|"Foreign Asset Accumulation among Emerging Market Economies: a Case for Coordination"""|We develop a two-sector, core-periphery country general equilibrium framework with endogenous financial crises to study foreign asset accumulation coordination among emerging market economies. Consistent with the policy prescription described by Bianchi (2011), we show that a national planner in each peripheral country prefers a higher asset position than the decentralized agents but may reduce welfare. A coordinator for all peripheral countries, who considers the general equilibrium effect of aggregate peripheral savings on the world interest rate, prefers a different asset position than the national planner. When we calibrate our model to a group of emerging Asian economies, the quantitative analysis shows that in the absence of coordination, national regulation leads to a 3.7% higher average net foreign asset position and a welfare loss relative to the laissez-faire. In contrast, the coordinated level of net foreign assets is 59% of the uncoordinated level and results in a sizable welfare gain. (Copyright: Elsevier)
F32|Oil price shocks, monetary policy and current account imbalances within a currency union|For more than two decades now, current-account imbalances are a crucial issue in the international policy debate as they threaten the stability of the world economy. More recently, the government debt crisis of the European Union shows that internal current account imbalances inside a currency union may also add to these risks. Oil price fluctuations and a contracting monetary policy that reacts on oil prices, previously discussed to affect the current account may also be a threat to the currency union by changing internal imbalances. Therefore, in this paper, we analyze the impact of oil price shocks on current account imbalances within a currency union. Differences in institutions, especially labor market institutions and trade result in an asymmetric reaction to an otherwise symmetric shock. In this context, we show that oil price shocks can have a long-lasting impact on internal balances, as the exchange rate adjustment mechanism is not available. The common monetary policy authority, however, can reduce such effects by specifying an optimum monetary policy target. Nevertheless, we also show that there is no single best solution. CPI, core CPI or an asymmetric CPI target all come at a cost either regarding an increase in unemployment or increasing imbalances.
F32|Foreign currency loan conversions and currency mismatches|This paper examines the effect of currency conversion programs from Swiss franc-denominated loans to other currency loans on currency risk for banks in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE). Swiss franc mortgage loans proliferated in CEE countries prior to the financial crisis and contributed to the volume of non-performing loans as the Swiss franc strongly appreciated during the post-crisis period. Empirical findings suggest that Swiss franc loan conversion programs reduced currency mismatches in Swiss francs but increased bank exposure in other foreign currencies in individual countries. This asymmetric effect of conversion programs arises from the loan restructuring from Swiss francs to a non-local currency and the high level of euro mismatches in the CEE banking system.
F32|Global Spillover Effects of US Uncertainty|Spillover effects of US uncertainty shocks are studied in a panel VAR of ?fteen emerging market economies (EMEs). A US uncertainty shock negatively affects EME stock prices and exchange rates, raises EME country spreads, and decreases capital inflows into them. It decreases EME output and consumer prices while increasing net exports. Negative effects on output and asset prices are weaker, but effects on external balance stronger, for Latin American EMEs. We attribute such heterogeneity to di?erential EME monetary policy response to US uncertainty shocks. Analysis of central bank minutes shows Latin American EMEs pay less attention to smoothing capital ?ows.
F32|Global Spillover Effects of US Uncertainty|We study spillover effects of US uncertainty fluctuations using panel data from fifteen emerging market economies (EMEs). A US uncertainty shock negatively affects EME stock prices and exchange rates, raises EME country spreads, and leads to capital outflows from them. Moreover, it decreases EME output, while increasing their consumer prices and net exports. The negative effects on output, exchange rates, and stock prices are weaker, but the effects on capital and trade flows stronger, for South American countries compared to other EMEs. We present a model of a small open economy that faces an external shock to interpret our findings.
F32|Revisiting external imbalances: Insights from sectoral accounts|This paper revisits the period of substantial widening of external imbalances in advanced economies in the run-up to the global financial crisis and their adjustment since then. We take a granular look at these imbalances through the lens of their domestic counterpart: the net financial balance of the household sector, the government, non-financial corporations, and financial corporations. Our findings challenge the often-claimed view that the household sector lies behind most of the dynamics of the current account. In fact, we show that it is non-financial corporations and the government that account for the bulk of: (i) the co-movement with the standard set of fundamental covariates of the current account; (ii) the external adjustment and expenditure reduction in the aftermath of the global financial crisis; and (iii) the diverging dynamics during large and persistent current account imbalances. These results emphasize that analyzing domestic sectoral balances can lead to a better empirical and theoretical understanding of global imbalances.
F32|Competing Gains From Trade|Differences in growth rates across countries imply a strong relation between factor-proportions-based trade and key aggregate economic outcomes. We construct two macro-trade datasets and illustrate that this relation is rather weak empirically. Employing a dynamic two-country model, we propose a simple explanation for this finding. By limiting the substitutability between domestic and foreign tradable varieties, the presence of intra-industry trade implies that pronounced trade specialization patterns culminate in a loss of varieties. Accordingly, intra-industry trade acts to suppress inter-industry trade dynamics, thus realigning the behavior of standard models with the empirical evidence.
F32|Sudden Stops and Reserve Accumulation in the Presence of International Liquidity Risk|We propose a small open economy model where agents borrow internationally and invest in liquid foreign assets to insure against liquidity shocks, which tem-porarily shut out the economy of short-term credit markets. Due to the presence of a pecuniary externality individual agents borrow too much and hold too little liquid assets relative to a social planner. This ine?ciency rationalizes macropru-dential policy interventions in the form of reserve accumulation at the central bank coupled with a tax on foreign borrowing. Unless combined with other measures, a tax on foreign borrowing is detrimental to welfare; it reduces agents’ incentives to invest in liquid assets and thereby increases ?nancial instability. Our model can quantitatively match the simultaneous depreciation of the exchange rate and con-tractions in output, gross trade ?ows, foreign liabilities and liquid reserves during Sudden Stop episodes.
F32|Search for Yield in Large International Corporate Bonds: Investor Behavior and Firm Responses|Emerging market corporations have significantly increased their borrowing in international markets since 2008. We show that this increase was driven by large-denomination bond issuances, most of them with face value of exactly US$500 million. Large issuances are eligible for inclusion in important international market indexes. These bonds appeal to institutional investors because they are more liquid and facilitate targeting market benchmarks. We find that the rewards of issuing index-eligible bonds rose drastically after 2008. Emerging market firms were able to cut their cost of funds by roughly 100 basis points by issuing bonds with a face value equal to or greater than US$500 million relative to smaller bonds. Firms contemplating whether to take advantage of this cost saving face a tradeoff: they can benefit from the lower yields associated with large, index-eligible bonds, but they pay the potential cost of having to hoard low-yielding cash assets if their investment opportunities are less than US$500 million. Because of the post-2008 “size yield discount,” many companies issued index-eligible bonds, while substantially increasing their cash holdings. The willingness to issue large bonds and hoard cash was greater for firms in countries with high carry trade opportunities that reduced the cost of holding cash. We present evidence suggesting that these post-2008 behaviors reflected a search for yield by institutional investors into higher-risk securities. These patterns are not apparent in the issuance of investment grade bonds by firms in developed economies.
F32|Moving Into the Slow Lane|Growth in much of CESEE will remain healthy by post-crisis standards, but has passed its peak. We expect most economies to slow from here, reflecting weaker external demand and domestic capacity constraints. Global trade tensions, structural weakness in the eurozone and Brexit all pose downside risks to our forecasts.
F32|Dynamic Interactions Between Financial and Macroeconomic Imbalances: A Panel VAR Analysis|We use Bayesian and GMM panel VAR frameworks to study interactions between financial cycles and macroeconomic imbalances based on a global sample of 24 countries spanning the period 1998‑2012. We find that financial cycles play an important role in shaping macroeconomic imbalances with expansions inducing economic overheating and a downward pressure on public debt-to-GDP ratios, and vice versa. Bank-based economies exhibit a deeper and faster response of business cycles to financial misalignments, while the impact in market-based economies is milder, but more persistent, as well as more significant for current account and public debt dynamics. Financial cycles invoke a particularly strong reaction of current account balances and especially public debt ratios in the euro area.
F32|Effects of US quantitative easing on emerging market economies|We estimate international spillover effects of US Quantitative Easing (QE) on emerging market economies. Using a Bayesian VAR on monthly US macroeconomic and financial data, we first identify the US QE shock with non-recursive identifying restrictions. We estimate strong and robust macroeconomic and financial impacts of the US QE shock on US output, consumer prices, long-term yields, and asset prices. The identified US QE shock is then used in a monthly Bayesian panel VAR for emerging market economies to infer the spillover effects on these countries. We find that an expansionary US QE shock has significant effects on financial variables in emerging market economies. It leads to an exchange rate appreciation, a reduction in long-term bond yields, a stock market boom, and an increase in capital inflows to these countries. These effects on financial variables are stronger for the “Fragile Five” countries compared to other emerging market economies. We however do not find significant effects of the US QE shock on output and consumer prices of emerging markets.
F32|How Important are Global Factors for Understanding the Dynamics of International Capital Flows?|We propose a dynamic factor model with time-varying parameters and stochastic volatility to analyze the relationship between global factors and country-specific capital flow dynamics. Studying a global sample of 43 countries from 1994 until 2015, we show that global co-movement of macroeconomic, financial and capital flow variables can explain a major share of country-specific capital flow volatility and that the impact of these variables has become even more important since the 2008–2009 global financial crisis. Our results indicate that country-specific changes in capital flows are strongly affected by fluctuations in global financial cycles and - to some extent - by global real business cycles. There is some evidence that countries with higher foreign exchange reserves, flexible exchange rates, lower public indebtedness or more developed domestic stock markets may better shield themselves from the global financial cycle.
F32|International monetary policy transmission through banks in small open economies|This paper studies the international transmission of monetary policy through banks in small open economies using the examples of Switzerland and Canada. We assess the inward transmission of foreign monetary policy for Switzerland and the outward transmission of domestic monetary policy for Canada. In both country cases, we focus on the international bank lending and the international portfolio channel, which make opposing predictions about how monetary policy transmits internationally through banks. Our results on the inward transmission of foreign monetary policy through banks in Switzerland are consistent with a role for the international portfolio channel, but we find no evidence for the traditional international bank lending channel. The results on the outward transmission of domestic monetary policy in Canada suggest that foreign lending by Canadian banks is affected through both channels, which work as predicted and largely balance each other.
F32|Current account adjustment and retained earnings|This paper develops a formal strategy to calculate current accounts with retained earnings (RE) on equity investment and analyzes their adjustment during the global financial crisis. RE are the part of companies’ profits which is reinvested and not distributed to shareholders as dividends. International statistical standards treat RE on foreign direct investment and RE on portfolio investment differently: while the former enter the current and financial account, the latter do not. We show that this differential treatment strongly affects current accounts of several advanced economies, frequently referred to as financial centers, with large positions in equity (portfolio) investment. Our empirical analysis finds that the differential treatment of RE alters the interpretation of current account adjustment for the global financial crisis.
F32|The Effect of Fed’s Future Policy Expectations on Country Shares in Emerging Market Portfolio Flows|We analyze how changes in market expectations about the Federal Reserve’s future monetary policy stance affect an emerging country’s share in total portfolio flows to emerging markets. We estimate a seemingly unrelated regression model for a panel of 19 emerging countries, using monthly data from January 2010 to October 2017. Our findings suggest that the effect of Fed’s policy expectations on the country share is asymmetric. The expectations of Fed’s monetary policy is found to reduce an emerging country’s share in total emerging market portfolio flows when expectations imply a policy tightening, while easing expectations do not have a significant effect on the share. A country with stronger financial conditions and safer business environment for international investors tend to downsize the negative effect of Fed’s policy tightening on its share in total portfolio flows, with respect to its counterparts.
F32|The role of internal devaluation on the correction of the Spanish external deficit|The Spanish economy has been one of the EU’s most affected by the Great Recession of 2008, recording a rate of unemployment of 26.2% in 2013. However, since 2014 Spain is growing faster than most Euro Area countries, reaching an annual growth rate over 3% during the period 2015- 2017. Moreover, it has turned its historical current account deficit, which peaked in 2007, into a surplus of 2 % of GDP in 2017. International and Spanish institutions, as well as some scholars, have rooted this readjustment of the current account in the “internal devaluation strategy”. Consisting in the reduction of wages, this strategy is supposed to have boosted exports and therefore Spanish economic activity, through the reversion of the accumulated loss of price-competitiveness since the creation of the European Monetary Union. Nevertheless, empirical evidence shows that changes in demand (and some exceptional factors as the recent evolution of oil prices) are much more important to explain the evolution of Spanish net exports than changes in price competitiveness. Based on an extended version of the Bhaduri-Marglin model, which enables the disentangling of the price effect from the demand effect, this paper sheds light on the true influence of internal devaluation on the deficit correction occurred in the Spanish external sector. It reveals that wage restraint has meant only limited gains in price-competitiveness, having affected external balance mainly through a “demand effect” on imports, although to a limited extent. The estimations carried out show that the internal devaluation strategy readjusted the Spanish external sector by 1.74 p.p. during the period of 2010-2017. Of all this correction, 98% is induced by a change in the demand of the economy, and only 2% is due to the effect on prices. It makes also clear that although exports performance has been remarkable during last years in Spain, it does not differ much from the previous decade, and it cannot be explained by internal devaluation.
F32|The Impact of Illicit Financial Flow on Economic Growth of Ethiopia|The objective of this study was to investigate the impact of Illicit Financial Flow (IIF) on economic growth of Ethiopia. The study used secondary data, particularly from 2000 to 2015 years. It has also employed varies internationally recognized estimation models (Hot Money Narrow and Trade miss-invoicing) to get the magnitude of Illicit Financial Flow in Ethiopia. Moreover, it employed error correction model to get a short and long run velocity and magnitudinal effect of IFF on Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The study found that IFF has significant and negative impact on GDP. Based on research findings, establishing controlling and auditing mechanisms for trans-boundary trade activities in Ethiopia, creating effective institution and building collaborative approach are recommended to curb the magnitude of IFF and its impact on economic growth.
F32|The tale of two international phenomena: International migration and global imbalances|Following the dynamics of globalization, international migration has increased dramatically since the 1990s. Given that these migrations may obscure the natural demographic structure of nations, they are likely to explain a signifcant part of global imbalances. This paper tackles this issue by investigating the role played by international migration in the dynamics of global imbalances. To this end, we rely on an overlapping generations model to derive the theoretical relationship between international migration and current account position. Through a series of robust estimates, we empirically investigate this relationship by relying on a panel of 157 developed and developing countries over the period 1990-2014. Our results point to substantial effects of international migration. Specifcally, we show that an increase in migration improves national savings and the current account balance in the destination country, while it has opposite impacts in the origin country. These effects are particularly pronounced in developing economies, and attenuated by migrants' remittances.
F32|Gross Capital Flows by Banks, Corporates and Sovereigns|We construct a new dataset of quarterly international capital flows by sector, with an emphasis on debt flows. Using our new dataset, we establish four facts. First, the comovement of capital inflows and outflows is driven by inflows and outflows vis-á-vis the domestic banking sector. Second, procyclicality of capital inflows is driven by banks and corporates, whereas sovereigns’ external liabilities move acyclically in advanced and countercyclically in emerging countries. Third, procyclicality of capital outflows is driven by advanced countries’ banks and emerging countries’ sovereigns (reserves). Fourth, capital inflows and outflows decline for banks and corporates when global risk aversion (VIX) increases, whereas sovereigns’ flows show no response. These facts are inconsistent with a large class of theoretical models.
F32|Media Sentiment and International Asset Prices|We assess the impact of media sentiment on international equity prices using more than 4.5 million Reuters articles published across the globe between 1991 and 2015. News sentiment robustly predicts daily returns in both advanced and emerging markets, even after controlling for known determinants of stock prices. But not all news-sentiment is alike. A local (country-specific) increase in news optimism (pessimism) predicts a small and transitory increase (decrease) in local returns. By contrast, changes in global news sentiment have a larger impact on equity returns around the world, which does not reverse in the short run. We also find evidence that news sentiment affects mainly foreign – rather than local – investors: although local news optimism attracts international equity flows for a few days, global news optimism generates a permanent foreign equity inflow. Our results confirm the value of media content in capturing investor sentiment.
F32|Strong Growth Amid Increased Negative Risks|The outlook for growth in CESEE remains generally positive, but downside risks have increased significantly since our last forecast. The main areas of concern are the developing US-China trade war and the potential for a renewed outbreak of the eurozone crisis.
F32|Trade Balance Dynamics and Exchange Rates: In Search of the J-Curve Using a Structural Gravity Approach|"This paper uses a structural gravity approach, specifying currency movements as trade cost component to derive an empirical trade balance model, which incorporates multilateral resistance terms and accounts for the cross-country variation in the exchange rate pass-through into import and export prices. The model is estimated using quarterly bilateral trade flows between 47 countries over the period 2010Q1-2017Q2, disaggregated into 97 commodity groups. Our results support the existence of an ""aggregate"" J-curve, pooled over commodity groups; at the same time they point to considerable heterogeneity in the trade balance dynamics across industries below the surface of aggregate data."
F32|Trade Balance Dynamics and Exchange Rates: In Search of the J-Curve Using a Structural Gravity Approach|This paper uses a structural gravity approach, specifying currency movements as trade cost component to derive an empirical trade balance model, which incorporates multilateral resistance terms and accounts for the cross-country variation in the exchange rate pass-through into import and export prices. The model is estimated using quarterly bilateral trade flows between 47 countries over the period 2010Q1-2017Q2, disaggregated into 97 commodity groups. Our results support the existence of an ``aggregate'' J-curve, pooled over commodity groups; at the same time they point to considerable heterogeneity in the trade balance dynamics across industries below the surface of aggregate data.
F32|Uncertainty and cross-border banking flows|While global uncertainty—measured by the VIX—has proven to be a robust global “push” factor of international capital flows, there has been no systematic study assessing the role of uncertainty in driving bilateral capital flows. This paper examines the effects of higher country-specific uncertainty on cross-border banking flows using data from the Bank for International Settlements Locational Banking Statistics. The bilateral structure of this data allows disentangling supply factors from demand factors, thereby helping identify the effect of higher uncertainty on cross-border banking flows from other confounding factors. The results of this analysis suggest that: (i) uncertainty in a source country (domestic economy) is both a lender-specific push and pull factor that robustly predicts a decrease in outflows (cross-border lending) and inflows (cross-border borrowing); (ii) the decline in cross-border borrowing is larger than the decline in cross-border lending—that is, the net cross-border position of the banking sector increases; (iii) despite a decline in cross-border bank lending in the absolute sense, the share of cross-border bank lending in total bank lending increases, suggesting a portfolio rebalancing; (iv) this rebalancing occurs only when banks are lending to borrowers in advanced economies, but not to those in emerging market economies.
F32|Current account imbalances: Possibilities for Trade Policy Action under the Auspices of the WTO – a German Perspective|Since 2011, Germany has consistently been the country posting the largest current account surpluses in the world. In recent years, this has led to a number of calls from economists and policy-makers in and outside Germany, and from international institutions and organisations, asking the Federal Government to take action to reduce the surplus. These calls have tended to focus on recommendations for action to strengthen private and public-sector investment and real wage growth in Germany. As current account imbalances have long become a global phenomenon, we would like to open a discussion on how this issue could be dealt with under multilateral trade policy.
F32|Foreign Currency Bank Funding and Global Factors|The literature on drivers of capital flows stresses the prominent role of global financial factors. Recent empirical work, however, highlights how this role varies across countries and time, and this heterogeneity is not well understood. We revisit this question by focusing on financial intermediaries' funding flows in different currencies. A portfolio model shows that the sign and magnitude of the response of foreign currency funding flows to global risk factors depend on the financial intermediary's pre-existing currency exposure. Analysis of data on European banks' aggregate balance sheets lends support to the model predictions, especially in countries outside the euro area.
F32|Capital Flows in the Euro Area and TARGET2 Balances|We estimate a panel VAR model for the euro area to quantitatively assess the contribution of the TARGET2 system to the propagation of different types of structural economic shocks as well as to the historical evolution of aggregate economic activity in euro area member countries. Our results suggest that TARGET2 has significantly affected the transmission of capital flow shocks while leaving the macroeconomic responses to other aggregate shocks virtually unaltered. Furthermore, on basis of counterfactual analyses, we find that TARGET2 has contributed substantially to avoid deeper recessions in distressed periphery member countries like Spain, Italy, Ireland and Portugal, while to a smaller degree depressing aggregate economic activity in core member states, such as Germany, the Netherlands and Finland.
F32|STIGMA? WHAT STIGMA? A Contribution to the Debate on the Effectiveness of IMF Lending|There is a perception that IMF programmes are not catalytic and instead associated with large capital outflows, higher refinancing costs for sovereigns and adverse movements in stock markets. This has led to concerns that an expectation of adverse effects of IMF programmes may deter countries from asking for an IMF programme when they need one, a form of ‘IMF stigma’. We address these questions using monthly data by estimating how and to which extent adverse market reactions to a programme materialise and how past experience with adverse market reactions affects subsequent IMF programme participation. Our results, derived with a propensity score matching approach, indicate no role for ‘IMF stigma’ stemming from the fear of adverse market movements.
F32|Current Account Balance in Emerging Asia|The current account balance is an important indicator which reveals information on a country’s economic situation such as investments, capital flows, and indebtedness. The main purpose of this study is to examine the current account balance conditions in emerging Asian countries. In this respect, the long-run and causality relationship between current account balance, economic growth, government expenditure, real interest rates, and foreign direct investment was examined. The panel data analysis was applied using the data dated 1986 to 2015. Our results revealed a causal effect from economic growth and government expenditure to current account balance mainly dependent on saving tendency.
F32|The tale of two international phenomena: International migration and global imbalances|Following the dynamics of globalization, international migration has increased dramatically since the 1990s. Given that these migrations may obscure the natural demographic structure of nations, they are likely to explain a significant part of global imbalances. This paper tackles this issue by investigating the role played by international migration in the dynamics of global imbalances. To this end, we rely on an overlapping generations model to derive the theoretical relationship between international migration and current account position. Through a series of robust estimates, we empirically investigate this relationship by relying on a panel of 157 developed and developing countries over the period 1990-2014. Our results point to substantial effects of international migration. Specifically, we show that an increase in migration improves national savings and the current account balance in the destination country, while it has opposite impacts in the origin country. These effects are particularly pronounced in developing economies, explaining the structural current account deficits that most of them face.
F32|Do global value chains amplify global imbalances?|This paper addresses the impact of countries' participation in global value chains (GVCs) on their current account balances. Relying on a panel of 57 advanced and emerging countries, we do not find evidence that GVC participation directly raises economies' current account positions. On the contrary, we show that backward participation makes a negative contribution to current account balances: our results contradict the speculation that current account imbalances of downstream countries are likely to benefit more from GVC participation than economies which are located further upstream. Moreover, we show that there is no significant indirect effect of GVC on the current account operating through the exchange rate. Finally, our findings indicate that whereas GVC participation boosts exports, this increase is not accompanied by improvements in price competitiveness, nor by higher levels of saving rates.
F32|Some Unpleasant Euro Arithmetic|Current estimates of misalignments in real effective exchange rates show that euro area imbalances are still large: Germany exhibits a 20 percentage point undervaluation compared to the rest of the euro area (EA). Within a monetary union, rebalancing requires price adjustments through differentials in inflation rates. The rebalancing process therefore involves a 2 percentage point higher inflation in Germany than in the rest of the EA over a decade, or a 1 pp over two decades. It also requires above 2% inflation in surplus countries to meet the 2% ECB inflation target. At the current pace, rebalancing is a 20 year process and requires sustained very low inflation rates in the rest of the euro area.
F32|Desbalances en cuenta corriente: sus determinantes y efectos sobre las crisis bancarias|Este documento relaciona los factores que determinan los desbalances en cuenta corriente y su efecto en la probabilidad de crisis bancarias. Para este fin, se usa un panel de 50 países para el periodo 1980-2013, en el cual se aplican cuatro métodos de estimación para encontrar los determinantes tanto de largo como de corto plazo de la cuenta corriente, con el objetivo de incluir aquellos que tengan consistencia estadística y teórica en un modelo Logit cuya variable dependiente es la probabilidad de crisis bancaria. Los resultados muestran que países con balances primarios superavitarios, mejor Posición de Activos Externos Netos y mayor apertura comercial, enfrentan una menor probabilidad de experimentar una crisis bancaria. En contraste, países con mayor participación del crédito privado, incrementan la probabilidad de crisis bancaria.
F32|Macroprudential FX regulations: shifting the snowbanks of FX vulnerability?|Can macroprudential foreign exchange (FX) regulations on banks reduce the financial and macroeconomic vulnerabilities created by borrowing in foreign currency? To evaluate the effectiveness and unintended consequences of macroprudential FX regulations, we develop a parsimonious model of bank and market lending in domestic and foreign currency and derive four predictions. We confirm these predictions using a rich dataset of macroprudential FX regulations. These empirical tests show that FX regulations: (1) are effective in terms of reducing borrowing in foreign currency by banks; (2) have the unintended consequence of simultaneously causing firms to increase FX debt issuance; (3) reduce the sensitivity of banks to exchange rate movements, but (4) are less effective at reducing the sensitivity of corporates and the broader financial market to exchange rate movements. As a result, FX regulations on banks appear to be successful in mitigating the vulnerability of banks to exchange rate movements and the global financial cycle, but partially shift the snowbank of FX vulnerability to other sectors.
F32|Real Interest Rates and Productivity in Small Open Economies|In emerging market economies (EMEs), capital inflows are associated to productivity booms. However, the experience of advanced small open economies (AEs), like the ones of the Euro Area periphery, points to the opposite, i.e., capital inflows lead to lower productivity, possibly because of entry of less productive firms. We measure capital flow shocks as exogenous variations in world real interest rates. We show that, in the data, lower real interest rates lead to lower productivity only in AEs, whereas the opposite holds for EMEs. We build a business cycle model with firms' heterogeneity, financial imperfections and endogenous productivity. The model combines a cleansing effect, stemming from capital outflows (inflows), with an original sin effect, whereby capital outflows (inflows), via a real exchange rate depreciation (appreciation), decreases (increases) the opportunity cost of producing for less productive firms and the borrowing ability of the incumbent, marginally more productive firms. The estimation of the model reveals that a low trade elasticity combined with high (low) firms' productivity dispersion in EMEs (AEs) are crucial ingredients to account for the different effects of capital flows across groups of countries. The relative balance of the cleansing and the original sin effect is able to simultaneously rationalize the evidence in both EMEs and AEs.
F32|Corporate Foreign Bond Issuance and Interfirm Loans in China|This paper uses firm-level data to document and analyze international bond issuance by Chinese non-financial corporations and the use of the proceeds of issuance. We find that dollar issuance is positively correlated with the differential between domestic and foreign interest rates. This interest rate differential increases the likelihood of dollar bond issuance by risky firms and decreases the likelihood of dollar bond issuance of exporters and profitable firms. Moreover, and most strikingly, we find that risky firms do more inter-firm lending than non-risky firms and that this lending rose significantly after the regulatory shock of 2008-09, when the authorities sought to restrict the financial activities of risky firms. Risky firms try to boost profitability by engaging in speculative activities that mimic the behavior of financial institutions while escaping prudential regulation that limits risk-taking by financial firms.
F32|Foreign currency bank funding and global factors|The literature on drivers of capital flows stresses the prominent role of global financial factors. Recent empirical work, however, highlights how this role varies across countries and time, and this heterogeneity is not well understood. We revisit this question by focusing on financial intermediaries' funding flows in different currencies. A portfolio model shows that the sign and magnitude of the response of foreign currency funding flows to global risk factors depend on the financial intermediary's pre-existing currency exposure. Analysis of data on European banks' aggregate balance sheets lends support to the model predictions, especially in countries outside the euro area.
F32|The effect of exchange rate shocks on firm-level exports: evidence from the Brexit vote|This paper exploits the abrupt and sharp depreciation of the British Pound after the Brexit referendum as a quasi-natural experiment to investigate the effect of exchange rate shocks on export quantity, price, entry and exit. We use transaction-level export data for the universe of exporters in Portugal. Using monthly observations on export quantity and price for the same firm exporting the same product to buyers in the UK and in other countries, allows us to cleanly identify the differential response to the shock for the UK market, relative to other markets. We find that exporters reduced their mark-up in the UK market after the referendum shock. Our estimates imply a large pricing-to-market coefficient and exchange rate pass-through. Exporters that are more productive adjust their mark-ups by more after the exchange rate shock, and have lower pass-through. There is more pricing-to-market for consumer goods than for intermediate inputs. Within the same firm-product, export quantity to the UK also decreased after the shock. The referendum shock reduced the rate of export entry to the UK market by Portuguese firms and the probability of their continuing to export in the UK.
F32|A Global Safe Asset for and from Emerging Market Economies|This paper examines how a newly designed global safe asset can mitigate international capital flows induced by flight-to-safety. In the model domestic investors have to co-invest in a safe asset along with their physical capital. At times of crisis, investors replace the initially safe domestic government bonds with safe US Treasuries and re-sell part of their capital. The reduction in physical capital lowers GDP and tax revenue, leading to increased default risk justifying the loss of the government bond's safe-asset status. We compare two ways to mitigate this self-fulfilling scenario. In the “buffer approach” international reserve holding reduces the severity of a crisis. In the “rechannelling approach” flight-to-safety capital flows are rechannelled from international cross-border flows to flows across two EME asset classes. The two asset classes are the senior and junior bond of tranched portfolio of EME sovereign bonds.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F32|Foreign Capital in 19th Century Spain's Investment Boom|Spain experienced an investment boom over 1850-1874. Historians attributed a significant role to foreign capital inflow. Sudrià (2018) challenged the consensus on the basis of Moro, Nuño, and Tedde (2015) capital balance account estimates that imply a much lower capital inflow. Dishoarding of bullion and previous savings would have catered for an increasing investment demand providing the means to meet the current account deficit without causing deflation. It is argued here that the empirical basis for Sudrià's claim is flawed. Moro et al. (2015) direct appraisal of the capital balance account resulted in an underestimate of the net capital inflow and a substantial upward bias of the change in reserves. The current account deficit resulted from an inflow of capital that allowed investment to raise facilitating imports of capital goods and raw materials. Foreign capital made a significant contribution to the investment boom of 19th century and boosted Spanish performance.
F32|Current account dynamics under information rigidity and imperfect capital mobility|The current account in developed countries is highly persistent and volatile in comparison to their output growth. The standard intertemporal current account model with rational expectations (RE) fails to explain the observed current account and consumption dynamics. The RE model extended with imperfect capital mobility by Shibata and Shintani (1998) can account for the consumption dynamics, but only at the cost of the explanatory power for the volatility of the current account. This paper replaces RE in the intertemporal current account model with sticky information (SI) in which consumers are inattentive to shocks to their income. The SI model can better explain a persistent and volatile current account than the RE model but it overpredicts the persistence of changes in consumption. The SI model extended with imperfect capital mobility explains both the current account and consumption, provided that sufficiently high degrees of information rigidity and imperfect capital mobility are considered.
F32|Term structure of bank flows to emerging countries: what effects of short- vs. long-term regulatory arbitrage are?|Considering the literature of economic stability, the need to analyze short-term external bank flows is particularly obvious to prevent the contagion crisis. Moreover, the context of crisis has put prudential regulation at the center of the current debate in this literature. In this paper, we offer a new perspective on the role of regulation as a determinant of banking flows maturity, with a focus on the issue of short-term vs. long-term regulatory arbitrage. Indeed, regulatory arbitrage that favors short-term bank flows is a destabilizing factor of the financing of these countries as they have experienced major crises due to the external financing volatility. We adopt a macroeconomic approach to study the importance of bank regulation adjustments as a determinant of bank flows maturity from 12 developed countries to 37 emerging countries for the period 1990-2014. The results confirm the significant effect of risk-based regulation on the term structure of bank flows to emerging countries, especially to speculative countries.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F32|Do Global Value Chains Amplify Global Imbalances?|This paper addresses the impact of countries' participation in global value chains (GVCs) on their current account balances. Relying on a panel of 57 advanced and emerging countries, we do not fi nd evidence that GVC participation directly raises economies' current account positions. On the contrary, we show that backward participation makes a negative contribution to current account balances: our results contradict the speculation that current account imbalances of downstream countries are likely to benefi t more from GVC participation than economies which are located further upstream. Moreover, we show that there is no signifi cant indirect effect of GVC on the current account operating through the exchange rate. Finally, our fi ndings indicate that whereas GVC participation boosts exports, this increase is not accompanied by improvements in price competitiveness, nor by higher levels of saving rates.
F32|On the impact of the launch of the euro on EMU macroeconomic vulnerability|This paper aims at investigating the role played by the euro’s inception on external imbalances and macroeconomic vulnerability of the eurozone. To this end, we estimate a panel VAR model over the pre-euro (1980-1998) and EMU (1999-2016) periods for eleven eurozone members. Our ﬁndings show that with the adoption of the single currency, current account vulnerability to demand and currency misalignments shocks increases signiﬁcantly. The correction of external imbalances within the euro area also becomes more difﬁcult because of the disparition of a slow-growth process and devaluations as adjustment tools.
F32|A quantitative analysis of the size of IMF resources|In this report, three methodological approaches are applied to assess the size of the International Monetary Fund: benchmarking Fund resources against a number of relevant global economic and financial indicators; an extrapolation of past and current IMF programme characteristics; and a shock scenario analysis. Overall, while the results of the different approaches depend on the assumptions and the timeframe considered, the quantitative analysis indicates that a prudent approach would call for maintaining Fund total resources at their current levels. Yet, the quantitative analysis of the size of the Fund made in this report should be seen only as one element to assess the adequacy of Fund resources. It does not take into account qualitative considerations, such as the increased resilience of the global economy and the efforts made to strengthen regulation and supervision since the financial crisis, which should complement the quantitative analysis to complete the analytical basis for decision makers. Moreover, the final decision on the appropriate size of Fund resources will need to include political judgement. Therefore, this report does not provide recommendations on the appropriate level of IMF resources after the expiration of borrowed resources. JEL Classification: F3, F32, F38, F42, F65, G28
F32|The Size and Destination of China's Portfolio Outflows|The size of China's financial system raises the possibility that the liberalization of its capital account could have a large effect on the global financial system. This paper provides a counterfactual scenario analysis that estimates what the size and direction of China's overseas portfolio investments would have been in 2015 if China had had no restrictions on these outflows. In such a scenario, China's holdings of overseas portfolio assets would have been between US$1.5 trillion and US$3.2 trillion (13 to 29 per cent of Chinese GDP), or 5 to 12 times its actual holdings of US$281 billion. Our model estimates that these additional holdings would have been predominantly directed to the world's deepest financial markets, especially the United States, while emerging-market economies would have received little additional portfolio investment. These results suggest that the liberalization of Chinese portfolio outflows may not prove disruptive to the global financial system, although it could have important implications for China.
F32|Unwinding external stock imbalances? The case of Italy’s net international investment position|This paper is a case study of an (almost complete) adjustment of Italy’s external stock imbalance. After reaching a peak of around 25 per cent of GDP in early 2014, Italy’s net external debtor position has steadily decreased, reaching less than 7 per cent of GDP at the end of 2017. The contribution of this work is twofold. First, it reviews the main developments in Italy’s net international investment position (NIIP) since 1999. Second, it reports a baseline projection of Italy’s NIIP over a medium-term horizon, as implied by current account balance forecasts. Since this projection ignores the role of valuation adjustments, the study also provides an analysis of their sensitivity to a set of potential movements in exchange rates and equity or bond markets.
F32|The effectiveness of capital controls|The goal of this work is a systematic analysis of the effectiveness of capital controls in reducing the volume of capital flows and the probability of extreme events (surges and flights), strengthening financial stability and affecting the exchange rate. We find that controls significantly reduce capital flows, even though the effectiveness varies across economies and types of investment. Moreover capital controls tend to reduce the probability of extreme episodes. With regard to financial stability objectives, controls on banking inflows reduce domestic credit growth, but this effect is mainly driven by advanced economies. Controls on capital inflows reduce the share of domestic loans denominated in foreign currency. Finally, our estimates suggest that capital controls on inflows tend to be associated with an undervalued exchange rate only in emerging market economies.
F32|Impact of the ECB Quantitative Easing on the French International Investment Position|This paper aims at estimating the impact of the recent Asset Purchase Programs implemented by the ECB - known as Quantitative easing (QE) - on external assets and liabilities recorded in one economy’s International Investment Position (IIP). Our analysis focused on the case of France. We start by describing the recent evolution of the four main items constituting the French IIP; namely Portfolio Investments, Other Investments, Derivatives and Direct Investments. We observe ample, albeit temporary, variations of these items surrounding QE programs. This analysis is complemented by an econometric approach in which we consider as QE variables both the announcements of the programs and their actual implementation. QE measures do impact all the items of the French IIP. Announcements –and particularly the one of January 2015– play a stronger role compared to the amounts purchased. We also decompose changes in the IIP into flows and valuation effects and show that the latter is the most reactive to QE measures. Finally, we establish counterfactual scenarios to quantify what France’s IIP would have been in the absence of QE. The strong impact observed following the announcement of January 2015 is rapidly counterbalanced; which suggests an over-adjustment phenomenon at the beginning of the program. This analysis allows estimating the outcome of the policy on the net IIP and thus on international wealth transfer. Consistently with our previous findings, we observe a robust impact at the beginning of the program which is then partly offset.
F32|Real Interest Rates and Productivity in Small Open Economies|In emerging market economies (EMEs), capital inflows are associated to productivity booms. However, the experience of advanced small open economies (AEs), like the ones of the Euro Area periphery, points to the opposite, i.e., capital inflows lead to lower productivity, possibly due to capital misallocation. We measure capital flow shocks as (exogenous) variations in (world) real interest rates. We show that, in the data, the misallocation narrative fits the evidence only for AEs: lower real interest rates lead to lower productivity in AEs, whereas the opposite holds for EMEs. We build a business cycle model with firms' heterogeneity, financial imperfections and endogenous productivity. The model combines a misallocation effect, stemming from capital inflows, with an original sin effect, whereby capital inflows, via a real exchange rate appreciation, affect the borrowing ability of the incumbent, marginally more productive firms. The estimation of the model reveals that a low trade elasticity combined with high (low) firms' productivity dispersion in EMEs (AEs) are crucial ingredients to account for the different effects of capital inflows across groups of countries. The relative balance of the misallocation and the original sin effect is able to simultaneously rationalize the evidence in both EMEs and AEs.
F32|The Dollar Exchange Rate as a Global Risk Factor: Evidence from Investment|Abstract Exchange rate fluctuations could influence economic activity not only via the standard trade channel, but also through a financial channel, which operates through the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on borrowers’ balance sheets and lenders’ risk-taking capacity. This paper explores the “triangular” relationship between (1) the strength of the US dollar, (2) cross-border bank flows and (3) real investment. We conduct two sets of empirical exercises—a macro (country-level) study and a micro (firm-level) study. We find that a stronger dollar is associated with lower growth in dollar-denominated cross-border bank flows and lower real investment in emerging market economies. An important policy implication of our findings is that a stronger US dollar has real macroeconomic effects that go in the opposite direction to the standard trade channel.
F32|Cross-stock market spillovers through variance risk premiums and equity flows|We estimate variance risk premiums (VRPs) in the stock markets of major advanced economies (AEs) and emerging market economies (EMEs) over 2007–15 and decompose the VRP into variance-diffusive risk premium (DRP) and variance-jump risk premium (JRP). Daily VAR analysis reveals significant spillovers from the VRPs of the United States and eurozone’s AEs to the VRPs of other economic areas, especially during the post-Global Financial Crisis (GFC) period. We also find that during the post-GFC period, shocks to the DRPs of the United States and the eurozone’s AEs have relatively strong and long-lived positive effects on the VRPs of other economic areas whereas shocks to their JRPs have relatively weak and short-lived positive effects. In addition, we show that increases in the size of US VRP, DRP and JRP tend to significantly reduce weekly equity fund flows to all other AEs and some EMEs during the post-GFC period. Finally, US DRP plays a more important role than US JRP in the determination of equity fund flows to all other AEs and some EMEs after the GFC, while the opposite holds true for equity fund flows to all other AEs during the GFC. Such results indicate the possibility of equity fund flows working as a channel of cross-market VRP spillovers.
F32|Global imbalances from a stock perspective. The asymmetry between creditors and debtors|After the recent crisis, a reduction was observed in global current account (flow imbalances). Still, global disequilibria as measured in terms of countries' net foreign assets (stock imbalances), kept increasing. This paper studies whether stock imbalances have a stabilizing or destabilizing impact on countries' accumulation of external wealth and why. Our results show that in debtor economies the existing stock of net debt is stabilising as it helps to reduce trade imbalances, limit current account deficits and halt future debt accumulation. In creditor countries, instead, the positive stock of net foreign assets contributes - everything else equal - to increase future current account surpluses, as trade balances do not adjust, potentially leading to destabilizing dynamics in wealth accumulation. The asymmetry may have relevant implications for global trade and growth.
F32|Financial and price stability in emerging markets: the role of the interest rate|"The Global Financial Crisis opened a heated debate on whether inflation target regimes must be relaxed and allow for monetary policy to address financial stability concerns. Nonetheless, this debate has focused on the ability of the interest rate to ""lean against the wind"" and, more generally, on the accumulation of systemic risk arising from the macro-financial challenges faced by advanced economies. This paper extends the debate to emerging markets by developing micro-foundations that allow extending a simplified version of the New-Keynesian credit augmented model of Curdia and Woodford (2016) to a small-open economy scenario, and by subsequently using the same empirical strategy as Ajello et al. (2015) to calibrate the model for Mexico. The results suggest that openness in the capital account, and in particular a strong dependence of domestic financial conditions on capital flows, diminishes the effectiveness of monetary policy to lean against the wind. Indeed, in the open-economy with endogenous financial crises, the optimal policy rate is even below the level that would prevail in the absence of endogenous financial crisis and systemic risk."
F32|U.S. monetary policy and fluctuations of international bank lending|There is no consensus in the empirical literature on the direction in which U.S. monetary policy affects cross-border bank lending. We find robust evidence that the impact of the U.S. federal funds rate on cross-border bank lending in a given period depends on the prevailing international capital flows regime and on the level of the two main components of the federal funds rate: macroeconomic fundamentals and the monetary policy stance. During episodes in which bank lending from advanced to emerging economies is booming, the relationship between the federal funds rate and cross-border bank lending is positive and mostly driven by the macroeconomic fundamentals component, which is consistent with a search-for-yield behavior by internationally-active banks. In contrast, during episodes of stagnant growth in bank lending from advanced to emerging economies, the relationship between the federal funds rate and bank lending is negative, mainly due to the monetary policy stance component of the federal funds rate. The latter set of results is most pronounced for lending to emerging markets, which is consistent with the international bank-lending channel and flight-to-quality behavior by internationally-active banks.
F32|Gauging procyclicality and financial vulnerability in Asia through the BIS banking and financial statistics|We look back at past episodes of financial stress in Asia with a forward-looking perspective. We put ourselves in the shoes of a contemporary observer with the data at hand and ask what evidence was available on the systematic build-up of vulnerabilities. We reconstruct a graphical narrative of banking and financial developments at the time. Our exercise showcases the usefulness of the BIS international banking and financial statistics as a window on the financial system's procyclicality. We conclude with a real-time forward-looking survey of current financial vulnerabilities, focusing on the implications of the shift in the pattern of credit intermediation from banks to bond markets.
F32|What drives local lending by global banks?|We find that the lending behavior of global banks’ subsidiaries throughout the world is more closely related to local macroeconomic conditions and their financial conditions than to those of their owner-specific counterparts. This inference is drawn from a panel dataset populated with bank-level observations from the Bankscope database. Using this database, we identify ownership structures and incorporate them into a unique methodology that identifies and compares the owner and subsidiary-specific determinants of lending. A distinctive feature of our analysis is that we use multi-dimensional country-level data from the BIS international banking statistics to account for exchange rate fluctuations and cross-border lending.
F32|A key currency view of global imbalances|This study divides the world into currency zones according to the co-movement of each currency with the key currencies. The dollar zone groups economies that produce well over half of global GDP. The euro zone now includes almost all of Europe and some commodity producers, but remains less than half the size of the dollar zone. The dollar zone share has shown striking stability despite big shifts across zones over time. These include the demise of the sterling zone and the expansion of the DM/euro from northwestern Europe to Europe and beyond.
F32|The global financial cycle, bank capital flows and monetary policy. Evidence from Norway|We investigate the importance of a global financial cycle for gross capital inflows based on monthly balance sheet data for Norwegian banks. The VIX index has been interpreted as an “investor fear gauge” and associated with a global financial cycle. This index has also been found to impact real activity. We include both a global activity variable and the VIX index in our structural VAR model of capital inflows. We find that when global activity falls, banks’ foreign funding share falls. Our results suggest that global real activity rather than a global financial cycle is a main driver behind the volume of bank capital inflows. We also study domestic monetary policy and implications for capital flows. Domestic monetary policy helps absorb VIX shocks and there is no indication of procyclical (“carry trade”) effects on funding. Monetary policy affects activity and inflation in a standard fashion, and the exchange rate acts as a buffer when shocks hit the economy.
F32|Macroprudential FX Regulations: Shifting the Snowbanks of FX Vulnerability?|Can macroprudential foreign exchange (FX) regulations on banks reduce the financial and macroeconomic vulnerabilities created by borrowing in foreign currency? To evaluate the effectiveness and unintended consequences of macroprudential FX regulations, we develop a parsimonious model of bank and market lending in domestic and foreign currency and derive four predictions. We confirm these predictions using a rich dataset of macroprudential FX regulations. These empirical tests show that FX regulations: (1) are effective in terms of reducing borrowing in foreign currency by banks; (2) have the unintended consequence of simultaneously causing firms to increase FX debt issuance; (3) reduce the sensitivity of banks to exchange rate movements, but (4) are less effective at reducing the sensitivity of corporates and the broader financial market to exchange rate movements. As a result, FX regulations on banks appear to be successful in mitigating the vulnerability of banks to exchange rate movements and the global financial cycle, but partially shift the snowbank of FX vulnerability to other sectors.
F32|Mind the (current account) gap|There is substantial evidence that openness to trade raises economic growth and boosts living standards. But trade liberalisation has been asymmetric, focused on goods rather than services trade. The decline in goods trade barriers may have favoured countries specialising in goods, like China, Germany and Japan, allowing them to increase exports relative to imports, and contributing to their persistent current account surpluses. By contrast, countries like the United States and the United Kingdom, who specialise in the services sector where trade is more restricted, have been running persistent deficits. This pattern of persistent surpluses and deficits in these key countries has proven hard to explain in the International Monetary Fund’s External Balance Assessment methodology. This paper suggests that asymmetric trade liberalisation is one overlooked explanation. We demonstrate how realistic additions to textbook economic models allow trade policy to have persistent effects on current account imbalances. We also find empirical support for significant quantitative effects. These results suggest that liberalising services trade, levelling up to the liberalisation seen in goods trade, could reduce excess global imbalances by around 40%. Moreover it could contribute to higher and more inclusive global growth.
F32|Central Bank Reputation and Inflation-Unemployment Performance: Empirical Evidence from an Executive Survey of 62 Countries|Although there is a well-established theoretical literature that links central bank (CB) reputation with inflation performance following Barro and Gordon, there is little empirical work testing the relationship rigorously. This paper empirically tests the impact of reputation on inflation-unemployment performance using a novel set of data on CB reputation--an annual local business manager survey on central bank policy covering 62 countries during 1995-2016. This paper finds that CB reputation is a significant determinant of inflation: the results of an FE panel and Arellano-Bond difference GMM model show that high-reputation CBs have achieved better inflation performances over the past 20 years with lower levels of inflation than others, holding the output gap and unemployment rate constant. This result remains robust to various control variables including money growth, past inflation levels, exchange rates, and financial crisis dummies. This paper also finds that high CB reputation is associated with a tight anchoring of inflation expectations to inflation targets in inflation-targeting countries. The effects of reputation on the volatility of inflation and unemployment rates are found to be not robust. This paper offers evidence of the opposite-direction causality as well that goes from high inflation to decreased CB reputation.
F32|Which External Shock Matters in Small Open Economies? US Economic Policy Uncertainty vs. Global Risk Aversion|We investigate the relative roles of US economic policy uncertainty and global risk aversion in contributing to financial and macroeconomic fluctuations in small open economies (SOEs) using a panel of forty SOEs that includes both advanced economies (AEs) and emerging markets economies (EMEs). We find that SOEs¡¯ financial and real economic activities respond smoothly and persistently to US policy uncertainty shocks, consistent with Bloom et al. (2018), while exhibiting relatively short-lived and robust reactions to US risk aversion shocks. A novel finding of this paper is that the responses of AEs and EMEs are asymmetric: AEs react more strongly to US policy uncertainty shocks while EMEs are more sensitive to risk aversion shocks. These results suggest that the channels through which each shock is transmitted to SOEs may vary.
F32|Nonlinear Effects of Monetary Policy on International Capital Flows (in Korean)|This paper investigates whether monetary policy has nonlinear effects on the flows of international capital. After estimating a behavioral equation for international capital flows, we find that tightening monetary policy shocks cause international capital inflows to increase by raising the returns on investment, and that easing monetary policy shocks also lead to increased inflows of international capital by affecting investors¡¯ expectations of future economic conditions. We also find that the effects of monetary policy on international capital flows are not large during periods of low interest rates, and that in the low interest rate conditions since the global financial crisis its effects have weakened. This implies that, as the level of the Base Rate is increased in the future, the policy effects on international capital flows could be strengthened. The contribution of this paper is that, using our behavioral equation for international capital flows, we decompose the direct and indirect effects of monetary policy and check the nonlinear channel of monetary policy transmission to international capital flows. Although there are methodological limits in estimating the behavioral equation, the finding that monetary policy has statistically significant nonlinear effects on international capital flows implies that the monetary policy analysis should closely consider nonlinear effects as well.
F32|Financial Dollarization in Emerging Markets: An Insurance Arrangement|Households in emerging markets hold significant amounts of dollar deposits while firms have significant amounts of dollar debt. Motivated by the perceived dangers, policymakers often develop regulations to limit dollarization. In this paper, I draw attention to an important benefit of dollarization, which should be taken into account when crafting regulations. I argue that dollarization repre- sents an insurance arrangement in which the entrepreneurs that own firms pro- vide income insurance to households. Emerging market exchange rates tend to depreciate in a recession so that dollar deposits in effect provide households with income insurance. With their preference for holding deposits denominated in dol- lars, households effectively starve local financial markets of local currency, which raises local interest rates. By raising local currency interest rates, they cause entrepreneurs to borrow in dollars. Consistent with my argument, countries in which the exchange depreciates in a recession have a higher level of deposit and credit dollarization. In those countries, I verify that the premium of the local interest rate over the dollar interest rate is higher. This premium is the price paid by households for insurance.
F32|What Macroeconomic Conditions Lead Financial Crises?|Research has suggested that a rapid pace of nonfinancial borrowing reliably precedes financial crises, placing the pace of debt growth at the center of frameworks for the deployment of macroprudential policies. I reconsider the role of asset-prices and current account deficits as leading indicators of financial crises. Run-ups in equity and house prices and a widening of the current account deficit have substantially larger (and more statistically-significant) effects than debt growth on the probability of a financial crisis in standard crisis-prediction models. The analysis highlights the value of graphs of predicted crisis probabilities in an assessment of predictors.
F32|Macroprudential Policy with Leakages|The outreach of macroprudential policies is likely limited in practice by imperfect regulation enforcement, whether due to shadow banking, regulatory arbitrage, or other regulation circumvention schemes. We study how such concerns affect the design of optimal regulatory policy in a workhorse model in which pecuniary externalities call for macroprudential taxes on debt, but with the addition of a novel constraint that financial regulators lack the ability to enforce taxes on a subset of agents. While regulated agents reduce risk taking in response to debt taxes, unregulated agents react to the safer environment by taking on more risk. These leakages undermine the effectiveness of macruprudential taxes but do not necessarily call for weaker interventions. A quantitative analysis of the model suggests that aggregate welfare gains and reductions in the severity and frequency of financial crises remain, on average, largely unaffected by even significant leakages.
F32|International Capital Flow Pressures|This paper presents a new measure of capital flow pressures in the form of a recast Exchange Market Pressure index. The measure captures pressures that materialize in actual international capital flows as well as pressures that result in exchange rate adjustments. The formulation is theory-based, relying on balance of payments equilibrium conditions and international asset portfolio considerations. Based on the modified exchange market pressure index, the paper also proposes the Global Risk Response Index, which reflects the country-specific sensitivity of capital flow pressures to measures of global risk aversion. For a large sample of countries over time, we demonstrate time variation in the effects of global risk on exchange market pressures, the evolving importance of the global factor across types of countries, and the changing risk-on or risk-off status of currencies.
F32|Asset Bubbles and Global Imbalances|We analyze the relationships between bubbles, capital flows, and economic activities in a rational bubble model with two large open economies. We establish a reinforcing relationship between global imbalances and bubbles. Capital flows from South to North facilitate the emergence and the size of bubbles in the North. Bubbles in the north in turn facilitate South-to-North capital flows. The model can simultaneously explain several stylized features of recent bubble episodes.
F32|FX Trading and Exchange Rate Disconnect Puzzle|This paper examines how trading in the FX market carries the information that drives movements in currency prices over minutes, days and weeks; and now those movements are connected to interest rates. The paper first presents a model of FX trading in a Limit Order Book (LOB) that identifies how information from outside the market is reflected in FX prices and trading patterns. I then empirically examine this transmission process with the aid of a structural VAR estimated on 13 years of LOB trading data for the EURUSD, the world's most heavily traded currency pair. The VAR estimates reveal several new findings: first, they show that shocks from outside the LOB affect FX prices through both liquidity and information channel; and that the importance of these channels varies according to the source of the shock. Liquidity effects on FX prices are temporary, lasting between two and ten minutes, while information effects of shocks on prices are permanent. Second, the contemporaneous correlation between price changes and order flows varies across the shocks. Some shocks produce a positive correlation (as in standard trading models), while others produce a negative correlation. Third, the model estimates imply that intraday variations in FX prices are overwhelmingly driven by one type of shock, it accounts for 87% of hour-by-hour changes in the FX prices. The second part of the paper examines the connection between the shocks in the trading model and the macroeconomy. For this purpose, I use the VAR estimates to decompose intraday FX price changes and order flows into separate components driven by different shocks. I then aggregate these components into daily and weekly series. I find that one component of daily order flow is strongly correlated with changes in the long-term interest differentials between US and EUR rates. This suggests that the intraday shocks driving this order flow component carry news about future short-term interest rates which is embedded into FX prices. I find that intraday shocks carrying interest-rate information account for on average 56% of the variance in daily EURUSD depreciation rate between 2003 and 2015, but their variance contributions before 2007 and after 2011 are over 80%. These findings indicate that the EURUSD depreciation rate is relatively well-connected to macro fundamentals via a particular component of order flow. Finally, I show that flows embedding liquidity risk have forecasting power for daily and weekly EURUSD depreciation rates.
F32|On the origin of current account deficits in the Euro area periphery: A DSGE perspective| This paper studies the sources of current account deficits in Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain after the introduction of the Euro. I lay out a DSGE model with a rich structure of the external sector and estimate it separately on each periphery country. I show that the model exhibits a solid in-sample-fit across periphery countries and use it to quantitatively assess different explanations concerning the origin of the deficits. The focus thereby lies on the role of interest convergence in the early years of EMU as well as of the nominal appreciation of the Euro after 2001 together with the ECB's capability to prevent the build-up of the deficits and smoothen future current account adjustment processes via a nominal depreciation.
F32|Optimal Renminbi Exchange Rate Policy under Depreciation Anticipation|We establish formal models to study optimal foreign exchange intervention policy for a currency under depreciation pressure when a central bank aims both to discourage speculative capital flows and to reduce exchange rate misalignment. In particular, we study two cases where speculators have complete and incomplete information about the central bank’s long-run equilibrium exchange rate target and arrive at the following results: (1) With complete information, the central bank is better off pre-committing to a specific exchange rate level than deciding it discretionarily. (2) With incomplete information, the central bank cannot credibly reveal its exchange rate target to speculators through “cheap talk”. (3) With incomplete information, any action taken by the central bank will send a signal to speculators about the central bank’s preferences, causing a change in the speculators’ beliefs and subsequently in capital flows.
F32|On the current account - biofuels link in emerging and developing countries: do oil price fluctuations matter?|Many developed countries promote the use of biofuels for environmental concerns, leading to a rise in the price of agricultural commodities utilized in their production. Such environmental policies have major effects on the economy of emerging and developing countries whose activity is highly dependent on agricultural commodities involved in biofuel production. This paper tackles this issue by examining the price impact of biofuels on the current account for a panel of 16 developing and emerging countries, and the potential nonlinear effect exerted by the price of oil on this relationship. Relying on the estimation of panel smooth-transition regression models, we show that positive shocks in the price of biofuels lead to a current-account improvement for agricultural commodity exporters (resp. producers) only when the price of oil is below 45 (resp. 56) US dollars per barrel. When the price of oil exceeds these thresholds, the effect of fluctuations in the price of biofuels on the current account tends to weaken and become non significant. Under these conditions, our findings indicate that, for agricultural commodity exporters which are also oil importers, the current account is pulled by two opposite forces, making its overall reaction modest or even nil.
F32|Trilemma, dilemma and global players|This paper investigates the debate between the Mundellian trilemma and the dilemma. Overall, the global financial cycle magnifies the binding effect of financial openness on monetary policy autonomy, and reduces the effectiveness of the floating exchange rate regime in isolating the domestic economy against financial pressures. I provide empirical evidence that the trilemma does not morph into a dilemma. Furthermore, the sensitivity to the global financial cycle depends more on the presence of global investors and global players than on the fluctuations of these financial forces.
F32|Term structure of bank flows to emerging countries: what effects of short- vs. long-term regulatory arbitrage are?|Considering the literature of economic stability, the need to analyze short-term external bank flows is particularly obvious to prevent the contagion crisis. Moreover, the context of crisis has put prudential regulation at the center of the current debate in this literature. In this paper, we offer a new perspective on the role of regulation as a determinant of banking flows maturity, with a focus on the issue of short-term vs. long-term regulatory arbitrage. Indeed, regulatory arbitrage that favors short-term bank flows is a destabilizing factor of the financing of these countries as they have experienced major crises due to the external financing volatility. We adopt a macroeconomic approach to study the importance of bank regulation adjustments as a determinant of bank flows maturity from 12 developed countries to 37 emerging countries for the period 1990-2014. The results confirm the significant effect of risk-based regulation on the term structure of bank flows to emerging countries, especially to speculative countries.
F32|Assessing the sustainability of external imbalances in the European Union|We assess the sustainability of the current account (CA) balance, net international investment position (NIIP) and net external debt (NED) in a sample of 22 EU countries using two complementary approaches. First, we employ time‐series stationarity tests of current account balance‐to‐GDP ratios as well as cointegration tests of exports and imports of goods and services. Second, we assess the level of trade balance that stabilises the NIIP and the NED. We find that there is sustainability of the CA balance in eight countries, NIIP in five countries and NED in 10 countries, whereas there is evidence of a lack of sustainability in five debtor nations and three creditor nations. Both approaches are consistent with each other given the relationship between flows and stocks, the existence of structural breaks, and valuation effects via exchange rate and interest rate changes.
F32|Internal Devaluations and Equilibrium Exchange Rates: New Evidences and Perspectives for the EMU|From the onset of the euro crisis to the Brexit vote, we have witnessed impressive reductions of current account imbalances in peripheral countries of the euro area. These reductions can be the result of either a compression of internal demand or an improvement in external competitiveness. In this paper, we compute exchange rate misalignments within the euro area to assess whether peripheral countries have managed to improve their external competitiveness. After controlling for the reduction of business cycle synchronization within the EMU, we find that peripheral countries have managed to reduce their exchange rate misalignments thanks to internal devaluations. To some extent, these favourable evolutions reflect improvements in external competitiveness. Nevertheless, these gains could only be temporary if peripheral countries do not improve their non-price competitiveness, their trade structures and their international specializations in the long run.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F32|External liabilities, domestic institutions and banking crises in developing economies|We investigate the impact of foreign equity and debt on the occurrence of banking crises in 61 lower income and middle income economies during the 1984 to 2010 period. We also focus on the effects of domestic institutions on banking crises and whether they mitigate or exacerbate the impact of the external liabilities. We find that FDI liabilities lower the probability of a crisis, while debt liabilities increase their incidence. However, institutions that lower financial or political risk partially offset the impact of debt liabilities, as does government stability. A decrease in investment risk directly reduces the incidence of banking crises.
F32|Long-Run Determinants of Japanese Import Flows from USA and China : A Sectoral Approach|We analyze the determinants of the sectoral Japanese imports from her two main partners, China and the USA over the period 1971-2007. We estimate cointegration relationships with breaks, using the Saikkonen-Lütkepohl method. For six sectors: foods, raw materials, textile, mineral fuel, chemicals and machinery and equipment, we show that if the domestic demand affects positively the imports, the impact of prices changes can be different whether we retain the relative prices (homogeneity hypothesis) or we consider both domestic and import, while when we decompose the relative prices between imports prices and domestic (corporate) prices, except in one case (textile imports from the USA), we can reject the homogeneity hypothesis. A possible explanation is the greater volatility of import prices compared to domestic prices which leads importers to wait when import prices change, insofar as they don't if these changes are temporary or permanent.
F32|Long‐Run Determinants Of Japanese Exports To China And The United States: A Sectoral Analysis|We show that during the period 1971–2007, Japanese sectoral exports to China and the United States have depended on real exchange rate fluctuations and external demand (gross domestic product of the country of destination). This result holds for six sectors: foods, textile, metal products, chemicals, non-metal products, and machinery and equipment, as well as for both geographical destinations. Generally, the real exchange rate fluctuations and GDP have had the expected effects. In particular, a real appreciation of the yen and a bigger uncertainty has reduced the Japanese exports. But there is an important exception, as we find a price inelasticity of the principal Japanese exports to USA, i.e. Machinery and Equipment, which represent 80 percent of total exports to USA. So, a real depreciation of the yen may constitute an inappropriate policy to favor a process of growth export-led.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F32|Des insuffisances de la PPA à l’apport du NATREX : une revue critique des théories du taux de change réel d’équilibre|L’analyse des mésalignements des taux de change, c’est-à-dire des sur ou sous-évaluations des monnaies, reste au coeur des débats de la finance internationale. Or, ces mésalignements ne peuvent être définis et mesurés qu’en référence à un taux de change d’équilibre, considéré comme la « norme ». Face à une littérature abondante, comment sélectionner le « bon » modèle ? On considère que le modèle pertinent doit répondre à certaines exigences, qui relèvent à la fois du contenu théorique et du caractère opérationnel pour procéder à des applications empiriques. Au niveau théorique ce modèle devra s’attacher à: d’une part expliquer la dynamique des taux de change réels, en distinguant notamment les équilibres de moyen et long terme ; d’autre part rendre compte de l’interaction taux de change-dette externe. Au niveau empirique, la possibilité d’estimer sous forme structurelle un modèle complet qui permette la prise en compte de manière explicite des conditions d’équilibre de moyen terme et de long terme, pourra renforcer ce choix. On montre que les modèles standard de la littérature que sont la PPA, le modèle FEER et le modèle BEER, ne répondent que partiellement à ces exigences, et qu’a contrario, le NATREX constitue à ce jour l’approche la plus élaborée. Pour ces raisons, cet article revient en détail sur les principales caractéristiques du (des) modèle(s) NATREX.
F32|Linking Net Foreign Portfolio Debt and Equity to Exchange Rate Movements|Many currencies, especially those of countries with negative net foreign assets, tend to depreciate during times of financial turbulence. Using a panel of 26 currencies over the period 1/1997 – 6/2016, I show that the composition of net foreign assets matter for the exchange rate sensitivity to changes in global financial market risk tolerance, where debt financing increases it and equity financing reduces it. Thus, currencies of countries with large negative net external portfolio debt are more vulnerable to changes in financial market uncertainty than currencies with the equivalent net external equity. Ownership matters too, private net foreign debt liabilities heighten the exchange rate sensitivity much more than public. The relationship between banking sector risk intolerance, net external asset positions and exchange rates has, moreover, become stronger since the credit crisis.
F32|Cross-stock market spillovers through variance risk premiums and equity flows|We estimate variance risk premiums (VRPs) in the stock markets of major advanced economies (AEs) and emerging market economies (EMEs) over 2007-15 and decompose the VRP into variance-diffusive risk premium (DRP) and variance-jump risk premium (JRP). Daily VAR analysis reveals significant spillovers from the VRPs of the United States and eurozone's AEs to the VRPs of other economic areas, especially during the post-Global Financial Crisis (GFC) period. We also find that during the post-GFC period, shocks to the DRPs of the United States and the eurozone's AEs have relatively strong and long-lived positive effects on the VRPs of other economic areas whereas shocks to their JRPs have relatively weak and short-lived positive effects. In addition, we show that increases in the size of US VRP, DRP and JRP tend to significantly reduce weekly equity fund flows to all other AEs and some EMEs during the post-GFC period. Finally, US DRP plays a more important role than US JRP in the determination of equity fund flows to all other AEs and some EMEs after the GFC, while the opposite holds true for equity fund flows to all other AEs during the GFC. Such results indicate the possibility of equity fund flows working as a channel of cross-market VRP spillovers.
F32|Global Imbalances and the Trade Slowdown|From the mid-1990s until the financial crisis, global trade grew twice as fast as global income, far faster than in previous or subsequent periods. During this period of rapid trade growth, global current account imbalances also expanded rapidly. If excess savings in some countries financed more consumption and investment in other countries, then trade and trade imbalances would move together. Greater capital mobility thus may help to explain why trade surged in the period before 2007 and why it slowed more sharply in later years when demand stalled. Consistent with this explanation, the countries that contributed most to global trade growth during the period of rapid trade growth also experienced large imbalances. Constraining trade deficits to historical norms, this paper shows that trade growth would have been more moderate in the late 1990s and early 2000s and stronger in subsequent years. Going forward, assuming global imbalances remain relatively unconstrained, the relationship between trade growth and income growth will likely be less stable than before the 1990s.
F32|Media Sentiment and International Asset Prices|This paper assesses the impact of media sentiment on international equity prices using a dataset of more than 4.5 million Reuters articles published across the globe between 1991 and 2015. Media sentiment robustly predicts daily returns in both advanced and emerging markets, even after controlling for known determinants of stock prices. But not all news sentiment is alike. A local (country-specific) increase in news optimism (pessimism) predicts a small and transitory increase (decrease) in local returns. By contrast, changes in global news sentiment have a larger impact on equity returns around the world, which does not reverse in the short run. Media sentiment affects mainly foreign - rather than local - investors: although local news optimism attracts international equity flows for a few days, global news optimism generates a permanent foreign equity inflow. Our results confirm the value of media content in capturing investor sentiment.
F32|International capital flow pressures|This paper presents a new measure of capital flow pressures in the form of a recast exchange market pressure index. The measure captures pressures that materialize in actual international capital flows as well as pressures that result in exchange rate adjustments. The formulation is theory-based, relying on balance of payments equilibrium conditions and international asset portfolio considerations. Based on the modified exchange market pressure index, the paper also proposes a global risk response index, which reflects the country-specific sensitivity of capital flow pressures to measures of global risk aversion. For a large sample of countries over time, we demonstrate time variation in the effects of global risk on exchange market pressures, the evolving importance of the global factor across types of countries, and the changing risk-on or risk-off status of currencies.
F32|The U.S.-China Trade Balance and the Theory of Free Trade: Debunking the Currency Manipulation Argument|The U.S.-China trade imbalance is commonly attributed to a Chinese policy of currency manipulation. However, empirical studies failed to reach consensus on the degree and kind of RMB misalignment. We argue that this is not a consequence of poor measurement but of theory. The conventional principle of comparative advantage suggests real exchange rates will adjust so as to balance trade. Therefore, the persistence of trade imbalances tend to be interpreted as arising from currency manipulation. In contrast, the Smithian-Harrodian theory explains trade imbalances as the outcome of free trade and sees unequal real competitiveness as the root cause of the U.S.-China trade imbalance.
F32|Exchange rate hysteresis in the UK imports from the South Asian Countries|We investigate and find evidence for the hysteresis hypothesis in UK imports from South Asian countries, using a monthly sample of data that covers 1999 to 2012. This paper finds evidence of the asymmetric effect of exchange rate volatility that ‘large’ depreciations significantly reduce UK imports from Bangladesh; however, ‘large’ appreciations do not increase the imports significantly. We also find a partial support for the hysteresis hypothesis in UK imports from India, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. We find that hysteresis can be both country- and commodity-dependent, which is largely consistent with previous empirical studies. Theoretical literature suggests that hysteresis occurs due to the presence of sunk costs, however, we find that hysteresis occurs even beyond the sunk costs.
F32|Miracle or Mirage: What role can trade policies play in tackling global trade imbalances?|Global trade imbalances narrowed in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. They have remained at a lower level but are still of concern to policy makers because of the risks they pose to individual economies, as well as globally. However, the ultimate causes of these imbalances are not fully clear. Current account positions reflect the gap between national saving and investment, which are in turn affected by policy distortions, including in trade policy. Simulations of the OECD’s METRO model show liberalisation of existing trade distortions would modestly narrow aggregate trade imbalances in the medium term for some countries. Reducing tariffs, non-tariff measures and the combined market access and productivity-enhancing effects of pro-competitive measures in services all have some rebalancing potential. Liberalisation would also offer economically significant income gains for all countries. By contrast, narrowing trade imbalances using trade restrictions would come at disproportionately high economic costs for all countries.
F32|Trade misinvoicing in OECD countries: what can we learn from bilateral trade intensity indices?|This paper aims to explore the extend of trade misinvoicing among OECD countries over the period 2006-2016. Following the standard approach developed by Morgenstern (1950), four categories of misreported bilateral transactions are estimated to highlight two channels used to shift illicit financial flows. The study is reinforced by an analysis in terms of bilateral intensity indices proposed by Kojima (1964) and extended by Kunimoto (1977) to determine trends and patterns in trade misinvoicing among bilateral relations for selected OECD countries. Some interesting findings can be pointed out: (i) the assessment of intra-OECD misinvoicing trade shows that the accumulated amount reaches more than 12 trillion US dollars over the period and is characterised by illicit inflows, although outflows tend to increase during the last years; (ii) significant amounts of illicit financial flows occur in the most advanced countries despite the quality of their statistical recording services; (iii) arguing against explanation based on tax evasion and capital flight, it is shown that countries with high GDP per capita are senders and recipients of illicit financial flows, while lower GDP per capita countries are also receivers of illicit inflows; (iv) the share of misreported imports in countries´ total imports is larger than for total exports, which seems to indicate that imports are the principal vehicle sustaining bilateral misinvoicing trade; and (v) geographical proximity appears to be an important factor in determining the channel used and the direction of illicit financial flows as well as in describing intense relations relative to bilateral misinvoicing trade.
F32|Adjustment to negative price shocks by a commodity exporting economy: Does exchange rate flexibility resolve a balance of payments crisis?|Negative commodity price shocks can induce balance of payments crises in resource dependent economies. Governments often react by intervening against currency depreciation as, for example, in the case of Papua New Guinea in response to the commodity price shocks of 2014. We develop an original theoretical model to analyze the balance of payments impact of a commodity price shock under alternative exchange rate regimes: a flexible rate regime and a fixed rate regime with foreign exchange rationing. The balance of payments consequences are shown to depend on the elasticity of exports and imports with respect to the exchange rate. For the Papua New Guinea case, we estimate export elasticities for a variety of commodities (gold, silver, copper, oil, coffee, cocoa, copra, copra oil, palm oil, rubber, tea, logs, and marine products) as well as for imports. The results indicate that the Marshall-Lerner condition is satisfied for this resource-rich economy, implying that exchange rate flexibility may be practicable. We implement our calibrated model to conduct a counter-factual simulation and find that with a flexible exchange rate, foreign reserves would have been 20 percent higher three years after the shock than they were under the actual policy of exchange rate stabilization. In light of this, we argue the merits of greater exchange rate flexibility.
F32|Time-varying relationship between oil price and exchange rate|This paper contributes to better understand the dynamic interaction between U.S. effective exchange rate (EER) and oil price by considering a Time-Varying Parameter VAR model with the use of monthly data from 1974 to 2017. Our findings show a depreciation after an oil price shock in the short-run for any period of time, although the pattern of long-run responses of U.S. EER is diverse across different period of time, with an appreciation being observed before the mid-2000s and a depreciation afterwards. This diversity of response should lead policy makers to react differently in order to counteract such shocks. Furthermore, the reaction of oil price to an appreciation of U.S. EER is negative, with the response being similar in the short-run but different in the long-run for each period of time. Thus, the different responses may generate different adverse effects on investment and the knowledge of such effects may help financial investors to diversify their investments in order to optimize the risk-return profile of their portfolios.
F32|Macroeconomic Policies and Transmission Dynamics in India|Against the backdrop of the move to an inflation targeting monetary policy framework beginning 2014 with consumer price index (CPI) inflation as the nominal anchor, this paper revisits monetary transmission dynamics. Rather than confining to the typical three equation New Keynesian model, this paper assesses transmission in a broader, disaggregated model incorporating external sector, fiscal policy, banking sector and financial market variables to capture the interactions among key macroeconomic policies and macroeconomic aggregates. The empirical analysis confirms the role of monetary policy in containing demand and inflationary pressures. In view of the ongoing structural reforms, deregulation and opening up of the Indian economy, as well as ongoing initiatives in the monetary policy operating framework to improve the efficacy of monetary transmission, the transmission dynamics can be expected to evolve over time.
F32|Macroeconomic variables and current account balance in Namibia|This paper investigates macroeconomic determinants of the current account balance in Namibia. The results show that there is evidence of twin deficit hypothesis in Namibia. Evidence of twin deficit hypothesis suggest that it is important for Namibia to have fiscal discipline in order to improve its current account. Increase in capital flows, real GDP or per capita, results in a deterioration of the current account. Increase in interest rate, commodity prices and population cause the current account balance to improve. This suggest that contractionary monetary policy contributed to reduction of unproductive imports and improved the current account balance.
F32|The predictive relationship between exchange rate expectations and base metal prices|In this paper we show that survey-based-expectations about the future evolution of the Chilean exchange rate have the ability to predict the returns of the six primary non-ferrous metals: aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc. Predictability is also found for returns of the London Metal Exchange Index. Previous studies have shown that the Chilean exchange rate has the ability to predict copper returns, a world commodity index and base metal prices. Nevertheless, our results indicate that expectations about the Chilean peso have stronger predictive ability relative to the Chilean currency. This is shown both in-sample and out-of-sample. By focusing on expectations of a commodity currency, and not on the currency itself, our paper provides indirect but new and strong evidence of the ability that commodity currencies have to forecast commodity prices. Our results are also consistent with the present-value-model for exchange rate determination.
F32|Efectos de desbordamiento sobre los mercados financieros de Colombia. Identificación a través de la heterocedasticidad<BR>[Spillovers effects on financial markets of Colombia. Identification through heteroskedasticity]|La investigación cuantifica y analiza los efectos de los choques originados en los mercados estadounidenses sobre los principales mercados financieros colombianos. Para cumplir con este objetivo se emplea la información diaria de los mercados de dinero, bonos, acciones y tipo de cambio entre Colombia y EE.UU. durante el periodo de Enero 2003 y Enero 2015. La metodología utilizada es un modelo VAR estructural que emplea la heterocedasticidad que existe en los datos para la identificación y la estimación de los coeficientes de transmisión financiera. Se encuentra que los mercados estadounidenses generan efectos overall spillovers significativos sobre el mercado accionario colombiano. A su vez, los resultados reflejan la posición dominante del mercado de bonos estadounidenses como el motor de los efectos de desbordamiento.
F32|Can we beat the Random Walk? The case of survey-based exchange rate forecasts in Chile|We examine the accuracy of survey-based expectations of the Chilean exchange rate relative to the US dollar. Our out-of-sample analysis reveals that survey-based forecasts outperform the Driftless Random Walk (DRW) in terms of Mean Squared Prediction Error at several forecasting horizons. This result holds true even when comparing the survey to a more competitive benchmark based on a refined information set. A similar result is found when precision is measured in terms of Directional Accuracy: survey-based forecasts outperform a “pure luck” benchmark at several forecasting horizons. Differing from the traditional “no predictability” result reported in the literature for many exchange rates, our findings suggest that the Chilean peso is indeed predictable.
F32|Bank shocks and firm performance: New evidence from the sovereign debt crisis|Prior empirical investigations of corporate failures consider the effects of macroeconomic conditions and financial health, but the literature contains limited evidence of the real effects of the bank shocks caused by the sovereign debt crisis. Using a rich source of high-quality firm-bank matched data for 2005-2014, this study examines the real effects of bank shocks on firms’ survival prospects in Portugal. We first present evidence that a funding outflow is associated with a reduction in the credit supply. Furthermore, firms borrowing from banks exposed to the funding outflow are more likely to fail. We also uncover significant heterogeneity in firms’ financial positions and show that the negative effect of a funding shock is stronger for younger, higher-risk firms, and those that used their potential lines of bank credit.
F32|The Valuation Channel of External Adjustment in Small Open Economies|A common problem in international finance consists of the indeterminacy of the equilibrium asset portfolio in small open economy models. This paper develops a simple approach to compute this portfolio under the assumption of incomplete financial markets. The procedure involves the limiting allocation of a class of two-country world economies where the relative size of one of them tends to zero. Such approach allows to identify the effect of portfolio decisions on the dynamics of the net foreign asset position of a small open economy in a structural fashion. As an illustration, an approximated closed-form solution is obtained for a highly stylized model that is isomorphic to the class of Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium (DSGE) models typically used in the literature. JEL Classification: F32. Keywords: net foreign assets, endogenous portfolios, small open economies, DSGE models.
F32|On the Source of U.S. Trade Deficits: Global Saving Glut or Domestic Saving Drought?|Are U.S. trade deficits caused by high foreign savingâ€”a global saving glutâ€”or low domestic savingâ€”a domestic saving drought? To answer this question, I conduct a wedge accounting analysis of U.S. trade balance dynamics during 1995-2011 using a dynamic general equilibrium model. I find that a global saving glut explains 96 percent of U.S. trade deficits in excess of those that would have occurred naturally as a result of productivity growth and demographic change. Contrary to widespread belief, however, investment distortions, not a global saving glut, account for much of the decline in real interest rates that has accompanied U.S. trade deficits. (Copyright: Elsevier)
F32|Alternate instruments to manage the capital flow conundrum: A study of selected Asian economies|Capital inflows to and outflows from emerging market economies (EME) have increased significantly since 2000. This rapid increase, accompanied by a sharp rise in volatility, has amplified the complexity of macroeconomic management in EME. While foreign capital provides additional financing for productive investment and offers avenues for risk diversification, unbridled flows exacerbate financial and macroeconomic instability. In this paper, we focus on the experience of six emerging Asian economies (EAE) in dealing with capital flows. Using quarterly data, we identify the waves of capital flows experienced by these EAE and the efficacy of the various policy measures taken. The policy choices include negotiating the trilemma (i.e. balancing the need for monetary policy autonomy, exchange rate flexibility and capital account openness), as per the demands of the macroeconomic situation. The paper also analyses the extent to which intervention in the foreign exchange market and imposition of short‐term capital flow management measures have aided countries to negotiate the trilemma. The efficacy of these responses have been varied across countries, implying that a judicious mix of these measures, along with improvement in financial and institutional development, is required to effectively counter the vagaries of capital flows.
F32|Twin Deficits Revisited: a role for fiscal institutions?|We revisit the twin deficit relationship for a sample of 193 countries over the period 1980-2016, using a panel fixed effect (within-group) estimator, bias-corrected least-squares dummy variable, system GMM, and common correlated effects pooled estimation procedures. The analysis accounts also for the existence of fiscal rules in place, their features, and their interaction with the budget balance. In the absence of fiscal rules, the twin deficit hypothesis is confirmed. The size of the estimated coefficient on the budget balance is between 0.68 and 0.79. However, the existence of fiscal rules strongly reduces the effect of budget balance on the current account balance (the coefficient is reduced to 0.1). In fact, the twin deficits relationship does not hold with some specific kinds of rules: debt rules, rules with monitoring of compliance, as well as budget balance rules and debt rules in emerging market economies and lowest income countries, and in the post-crisis period.
F32|Decomposing and Analysing the Determinants of Current Accounts’ Cyclicality: Evidence from the Euro Area|Abstract In this paper, we decompose the current account (CA) balance in 19 Euro area countries into cyclical and non-cyclical components. For the period 1999:Q1 to 2015:Q4, we compute income elasticities of imports and of exports via an alternative novel and improved approach by running time-varying coefficient models country-by-country. Then, in a panel set-up (and controlling for country-invariant characteristics), we uncover that terms of trade have a positive effect on both the cyclical and non-cyclical components of the CA, while the Global Financial Crisis, compensation of employees and the employment level have a negative effect on the cyclical component. Moreover, the crisis had a greater impact on the cyclical component of the CA due to movements in the real effective exchange rate. In addition, we find a negative effect of the crisis on the cyclical component of the CA for countries that received financial assistance from the European Union, notably Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Latvia.
F32|Capital Account Liberalization and the Composition of Bank Liabilities|Using a sample of almost 600 banks in Latin America, we show that capital account liberalization lowers the share of equity and raises the share of interbank funding in total liabilities of the consolidated banking system. These shifts are mostly due to large banks; smaller banks, instead, increase their resort to retail funding by offering higher average de- posit interest rates than larger banks. We also find significant differences in the behavior of foreign banks and of banks with seemingly greater information opacity. These findings have positive implications for macro-prudential regulation.
F32|Relative Productivity and Search Unemployment in an Open Economy|This paper develops a tractable version of a two-sector open economy model with search frictions to disentangle the implications of workers' mobility costs and labor market institutions following higher relative productivity of tradables. Using a panel of eighteen OECD countries, our estimates show that higher productivity in tradables relative to non tradables causes a decline in non traded relative to traded wages. The fall in the relative wage reveals the presence of labor mobility costs which mitigate the appreciation in the relative price of non tradables and lower the relative unemployment rate of tradables following higher relative productivity of tradables. Whilst our evidence suggests that such responses have increased over time as the result of decreasing labor mobility costs, our estimates also reveal that the magnitude of the effects vary considerably across countries. Using a set of indicators capturing the heterogeneity of labor market frictions across economies, we find that both the relative wage and the relative unemployment rate of tradables decline significantly more and the relative price appreciates less in countries where labor market regulation is more pronounced. We show that these empirical findings can be rationalized in a two-sector open economy model with search in the labor market as long as we allow for an endogenous sectoral labor force participation decision. When we calibrate the model to country-specific data, numerical results reveal that the responses of the relative wage, the relative price, and to a lesser extent the relative unemployment rate display a wide dispersion across countries. Importantly, all variables display a significant negative relationship with labor market regulation.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F32|Relative Productivity and Search Unemployment in an Open Economy|This paper develops a tractable version of a two-sector open economy model with search frictions to disentangle the implications of workers' mobility costs and labor market institutions following higher relative productivity of tradables. Using a panel of eighteen OECD countries, our estimates show that higher productivity in tradables relative to non tradables causes a decline in non traded relative to traded wages. The fall in the relative wage reveals the presence of labor mobility costs which mitigate the appreciation in the relative price of non tradables and lower the relative unemployment rate of tradables following higher relative productivity of tradables. Whilst our evidence suggests that such responses have increased over time as the result of decreasing labor mobility costs, our estimates also reveal that the magnitude of the effects vary considerably across countries. Using a set of indicators capturing the heterogeneity of labor market frictions across economies, we find that both the relative wage and the relative unemployment rate of tradables decline significantly more and the relative price appreciates less in countries where labor market regulation is more pronounced. We show that these empirical findings can be rationalized in a two-sector open economy model with search in the labor market as long as we allow for an endogenous sectoral labor force participation decision. When we calibrate the model to country-specific data, numerical results reveal that the responses of the relative wage, the relative price, and to a lesser extent the relative unemployment rate display a wide dispersion across countries. Importantly, all variables display a significant negative relationship with labor market regulation.
F32|Sectoral FDI and the Real Exchange Rate: The Role of Financial Development|Increasing FDI inflows into a booming sector resulting in an appreciation of the real exchange rate may entail further capital inflows and greater appreciation pressure on the real exchange rate up to an abrupt reversal of the capital (Botta, 2015). The macroeconomic instability of such boom-and-bust cycles is detrimental to economic growth, as is the appreciated real exchange rate. This paper applies dynamic system generalized methods of moments (GMM) estimation techniques to empirically find different effects of foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows into the main economic sectors on the real exchange rate in a panel of 66 developing and developed economies. While the effect of FDI in the primary sector appears to be insignificant, FDI in the manufacturing and in the service sector lead to a real depreciation and a real appreciation respectively. Furthermore, evidence suggests that financial sector development may help in dampening the real exchange rate movements induced by FDI in the latter two sectors, as well as distinctly attenuates the real appreciation effect of other capital inflows. Hence, deep financial markets seem to contribute to the mitigation of macroeconomic instability in consequence of capital inflows.
F32|Gross Capital Inflows And Outflows: Twins Or Distant Cousins?|We investigate the long-run relations and equilibrium correction mechanisms between gross capital inflows, outflows and global financial conditions for advanced and emerging market economies. According to our results, the findings of the recent empirical literature, suggesting that twin behaviour of capital inflows and outflows resulting from domestic and foreign investors to behave as distant cousins tend to be the case for the long-run. The short-run relations, however, often appear to be consistent with the conventional theory suggesting that the behaviours of residents and non-residents do not systematically diverge from each other. Consistent with the flight to safety concerns, capital outflows from EME and capital inflows to AE tend to increase in the long-run in response to worsening global financial conditions. We find that, these results essentially hold also for the main components of capital flows.
F32|A Tale of Three Crises in Turkey: 1994, 2001 and 2008–09|Developing countries have encountered many economic crises since the 1980s, due mainly to structural problems related to their integration into the global economy. The Turkish economy is by no means an exception, and suffered significantly from the crises of 1994, 2001 and 2008–09. This paper investigates the tales of these three crises to shed light on the propagation mechanisms of crises and their implications for developing countries, given the Turkish experience. Our study is aiming at complementing existing studies by giving a very broad comparative picture of the main macroeconomic trends before and after the crises at the expense of ignoring many important details explained in other studies. This comparison can be also useful for understanding possible (and under current conditions highly unavoidable) implications of current developments in Turkish economy. Although there are many differences in the emergence of recent crises in Turkey, significant similarities can be found between the 1994 and 2001 crises. The crisis of 2008–09 can be considered exceptional in many aspects. The first two episodes were deemed to be mostly finance-led and finance-driven, with repercussions on the real sectors thereafter; but the 2008–09 crisis was a fully-fledged real sector crisis from the beginning, amid a direct collapse in employment and real economic productivity.
F32|Exchange Rate Regimes As Thresholds: The Main Determinants Of Capital Inflows In Emerging Market Economies|This study investigates whether the impacts of the main common push (global financial conditions, GFC) and country-specific pull (growth) factors on capital inflows are invariant to the prevailing exchange rate regimes (ERRs) in emerging market economies. Our results suggest that endogenously estimated ERR thresholds do matter especially for the impact of GFC. The impact of GFC is substantially high under more flexible ERRs for all capital inflow types except FDI. FDI inflows are basically determined by the pull factor across all ERRs. Portfolio inflows are mainly determined by GFC. The sensitivity of aggregate and other investment inflows to the pull factor seems to be much higher under more rigid ERRs. Our results are broadly in line with the literature suggesting that credible managed ERRs encourage capital inflows by allowing countries to import monetary policy credibility of the center country and to provide exchange rate guarantee.
F32|International spillovers of monetary policy: Lessons from Chile, Korea, and Poland|In this paper, we assess evidence on international monetary policy spillovers to domestic bank lending in Chile, Korea, and Poland, using confidential bank-level data and different measures of monetary policy shocks in relevant currency areas. These three emerging market economies are small and open, their banking systems do not have significant presence overseas, and they can be considered as price takers in the world economy. Such features allow for better identification of binding financial constraints and foreign monetary policy shocks. We find that the monetary policy shocks spill over into domestic bank lending, modifying the degree to which financial frictions tighten or relax, and this evidence is consistent with international bank lending and portfolio channels.
F32|Triffin: dilemma or myth?|Triffin gained enormous influence by reviving the interwar story that gold scarcity threatened deflation. In particular, he held that central banks needed to accumulate claims on the United States to back money growth. But the claims would eventually surpass the US gold stock and then central banks would inevitably stage a run on it. He feared that the resulting high US interest rates would cause global deflation. However, we show that the US gold position after WWII was no worse than the UK position in 1900. Yet it took WWI to break sterling's gold link. And better and feasible US policies could have kept Bretton Woods going. This history serves as a backdrop to our critical review of two later extensions of Triffin. One holds that the dollar's reserve role required US current account deficits. This current account Triffin is popular, but anachronistic, and flawed in logic and fact. Nevertheless, it pops up in debates over the euro's and the renminbi's reserve roles. A fiscal Triffin holds that global demand for safe assets will either remain dangerously unsatisfied, or force excessive US fiscal debt. Less flawed, this story posits implausibly inflexible demand for and supply of safe assets. Thus, these stories do not convince in their own terms. Moreover, each lacks Triffin's clear cross-over point from a stable system to an unstable one. Triffin's seeming predictive success leads economists to wrap his brand around dissimilar stories. Yet Triffin's dilemma in its most general form correctly points to the conflicts and difficulties that arise when a national currency plays a role as an international public good.
F32|Global Portfolio Rebalancing and Exchange Rates|We examine international equity allocations at the fund level and show how different returns on the foreign and domestic proportion of portfolios determine rebalancing behavior and trigger capital flows. We document the heterogeneity of rebalancing across fund types, its greater intensity under higher exchange rate volatility, and the exchange rate effect of such rebalancing. The observed dynamics of equity returns, exchange rates, and fund-level capital flows are compatible with a model of incomplete FX risk trading in which exchange rate risk partially segments international equity markets.
F32|Corporate foreign bond issuance and interfirm loans in China|This paper uses firm-level data to document and analyse international bond issuance by Chinese non-financial corporations and the use of the proceeds of issuance. We find that dollar issuance is positively correlated with the differential between domestic and foreign interest rates. This interest rate differential increases the likelihood of dollar bond issuance by risky firms and decreases the likelihood of dollar bond issuance of exporters and profitable firms. Moreover, and most strikingly, we find that risky firms do more inter-firm lending than non-risky firms and that this lending rose significantly after the regulatory shock of 2008-09, when the authorities sought to restrict the financial activities of risky firms. Risky firms try to boost profitability by engaging in speculative activities that mimic the behaviour of financial institutions while escaping prudential regulation that limits risk-taking by financial firms.
F32|Macroprudential Policy with Leakages|The outreach of macroprudential policies is likely limited in practice by imperfect regulation enforcement, whether due to shadow banking, regulatory arbitrage, or other regulation circumvention schemes. We study how such concerns affect the design of optimal regulatory policy in a workhorse model in which pecuniary externalities call for macroprudential taxes on debt, but with the addition of a novel constraint that financial regulators lack the ability to enforce taxes on a subset of agents. While regulated agents reduce risk taking in response to debt taxes, unregulated agents react to the safer environment by taking on more risk. These leakages undermine the effectiveness of macroprudential taxes but do not necessarily call for weaker interventions. A quantitative analysis of the model suggests that aggregate welfare gains and reductions in the severity and frequency of financial crises remain, on average, largely unaffected by even significant leakages.
F32|Monetary policy and cross-border interbank market fragmentation: lessons from the crisis|We present a two-country model with an enhanced banking sector featuring risky lending and cross-border interbank market frictions. We find that (i) the strength of the financial accelerator, when applied to banks operating under uncertainty in an interbank market, will critically depend on the economic and financial structure of the economy; (ii) adverse shocks to the real economy can be the source of banking crisis, causing an increase in interbank funding costs, aggravating the initial shock; and (iii) asset purchases and central bank long-term refinancing operations can be effective substitutes for, or supplements to, conventional monetary policy.
F32|Stigma? What stigma? A contribution to the debate on financial market effects of IMF lending|In the policy debate on the effectiveness of the Global Financial Safety Net, concerns have been raised that expectations of adverse effects of IMF programmes may deter countries from asking for an IMF programme when they need one, a form of ‘IMF stigma’. We explore the existence of IMF financial market stigma using monthly data by estimating how and to which extent adverse market reactions to a programme materialise and how past experience with adverse market reactions affects subsequent IMF programme participation. Our results, derived with event history techniques and propensity score matching, indicate no role for ‘IMF stigma’ stemming from the fear of adverse market movements. Instead, we find evidence of ‘IMF recidivism’ driven by adverse selection and IMF conditionality. JEL Classification: E02, F32, F33, F34
F32|FH Puzzle in the Eurozone: A time-varying analysis Preliminary Draft|The aim of this paper is to reexamine the Feldstein-Horioka puzzle in a dynamic framework. We estimate a time-varying saving-investment relationship for a group of 17 countries panel, paying special attention to Eurozone members but including some relevant OECD countries as well for the period 1970-2016. The main advantage of our empirical approach is that it captures the dynamics of the FH coe_cient, highly consistent with increased _nancial integration. Global risk and country size are relevant elements to unpuzzle the savings-investment correlation. The inclusion of time-varying estimates reveal certain heterogeneity among EMU countries on the way and the circumstances under which their domestic investment would be constrained by savings retention.
F32|What Explains Current Account Surplus in Korea?|Since the currency crisis in 1998, Korea has experienced continuous current account surpluses. Recently, the current account surplus increased more rapidlyamounting to 7.7 percent of GDP in 2015. In this paper, we investigate the underlying reasons for the widening of Korea's current account surpluses. We find that the upward trend in Korea's current account surpluses is largely explained by its demographical changes. Other economic variables are only helpful when explaining short run fluctuations in current account balances. Moreover, we show that Korea's current account surplus is expected to disappear by 2042 as it becomes one of the most aged economies in the world. Demographic changes are so powerful that they explain, quite successfully, the current account balance trends of other economies with highly aged populations such as Japan, Germany, Italy, Finland, and Greece. When we add the real exchange rate as an additional explanatory variable, it is statistically significant with the right sign, but the magnitude explained by it is quite limited. For example, to reduce the current account surplus by 1 percentage point, a 12 percent depreciation is needed. If Korea's current exchange rate is undervalued 4 to 12 percent less than the level consistent with fundamentals, it is impossible to reduce Korea's current account surplus to a reasonable level by adjusting the exchange rate alone. Another way to reduce current account surplus is to expand fiscal policies. We find, however, that the impact of fiscal adjustments in reducing current account surplus is even more limited. According to our estimates, reducing the current account surplus by 1 percentage point requires an increase in budget deficits (as a ratio to GDP) of 5 to 6 percentage points. If we allow endogenous movements of exchange rate and fiscal policy, the impact of exchange rate adjustment increases by 1.6 times but that of fiscal policy decreases that it is no longer statistically significant.
F32|Alternate instruments to manage the capital flow conundrum: A Study of selected Asian economies|Gross capital inflows and outflows to and from emerging market economies (EMEs) have witnessed a significant increase since early 2000s. This rapid increase in these flows accompanied by sharp rise in volatility has amplified the complexity of macroeconomic management in EMEs. While capital inflows provide additional financing for productive investment and offer avenues for risk diversification, unbridled flows could exacerbate financial and macroeconomic instability. In this paper, we focus on the experience of 6 large emerging Asian economies (EAEs) in dealing with capital flows. Using quarterly data, we identify the waves of capital flows experienced by these economies and the efficacy of the alternative policy measures taken by these economies in response to such flows. The policy measures encompass negotiating the trilemma, intervention in the foreign exchange market, and imposition of capital flow management measures. The efficacy of these responses have been varied across countries implying that a judicious mix of these measures, along with improvement in financial and institutional development is required to effectively counter the vagaries of capital flows.
F32|Methodologies for the Assessment of Current Account Benchmarks|This paper describes two methodologies to compute benchmarks for current account balances. The first benchmark helps to assess the implications of current account balances for the Net International Investment Position (NIIP). These NIIP-stabilising benchmarks are the current account/GDP ratios required to stabilise the stock of net external liabilities at their current levels, or for the NIIP to reach a pre-specified prudential target. The second benchmark computes current account norms which represent current account balances that are in line with economic fundamentals. This benchmark is obtained from the estimation of an empirical model for current accounts based on annual data from a panel of 65 advanced and emerging economies following a methodology akin to Phillips et al. (2013). Current account norms are computed as the prediction from the model restricted to explanatory factors that can be considered as fundamentals, i.e. non-temporary economic factors and policy-related variables at ‘normal’ (world-average) level. The first two benchmarks provide complementary information in assessing current account positions: the NIIPstabilising current account permits the implications of stock imbalances to be assessed from a prudential perspective; while current account norms allow deviations from economic fundamentals over the mediumto-long term to be evaluated.
F32|A panel VAR analysis of macro-financial imbalances in the EU|We investigate the interactions across current account misalignments, Real Effective Exchange Rate misalignments and financial (or output) gaps within EU countries. We apply panel techniques, including a Bayesian panel VAR, to 27 EU members over the period 1994-2012. We find that, for the euro area, the reaction of current account misalignments to a shock in the Real Effective Exchange Rate misalignments is the largest and the financial gap can influence the current account misalignments more than the output gap. In non-euro area countries and euro periphery an increase in current account misalignments leads to a temporary increase in the Real Effective Exchange Rate misalignments, lowering competitiveness and thus amplifying current account fluctuations. For the core, a raise in the rate or an expansion of the financial gap may help in rebalancing the current account. In the CEE members, an increase in the Real Effective Exchange Rate misalignments may bring larger current account deficits in the medium-long run.
F32|The implications of global and domestic credit cycles for emerging market economies: measures of finance-adjusted output gaps|We present estimates of finance-adjusted output gaps which incorporate the information on the domestic and global credit cycles for a sample of emerging market economies (EMEs). Following recent BIS research, we use a state-space representation of an HP filter augmented with a measure of the credit gap to estimate finance-adjusted output gaps. We measure the domestic and global credit gaps as the deviation of private-sector real credit growth and net capital flows to EMEs from long-term trends, using the asymmetric Band-Pass filter. Overall, we find that financial cycle information is associated with cyclical movements in output. In the current circumstances, the estimates suggest that if financing and credit conditions were to tighten, it would be associated with a moderation in activity in some EMEs. JEL Classification: C32, E32, F32
F32|Internal devaluation in currency unions: the role of trade costs and taxes|This paper studies export adjustment to negative shocks in currency unions. I consider the hitherto ignored role of trade costs and taxes in internal devaluations, which have been brought to the fore of international policy during the recent euro periphery crisis. Trade costs can limit the pass-through of internal devaluation on export prices. Using data on export prices ”on the dock”, I document that higher trade costs are associated with a lower reduction of export prices relative to domestic prices in the euro periphery. Furthermore, VAT (in theory trade neutral, but in practice much higher on tradables) hikes prevent the required shift of resources towards tradables. I show that the real exchange rate (RER) adjustment was heavily affected by indirect tax hikes, by comparing headline RER and tax-adjusted RER. I then build a standard New Keynesian small open economy model with sticky wages and prices, incorporating trade costs and indirect taxes (allowing for VAT imperfections), and show that both these frictions, but especially trade costs, can be quantitatively crucial in affecting export growth, more so than either product markups or wage rigidity. I apply the model to data for Greece, the least successful of the euro periphery ﬁscal devaluation programs, and show that it can account for the most salient features of the data; trade costs explain the failure to substantially raise exports, and taxes the initial small fall in exports. JEL Classification: F32, F33, F41, F45
F32|Reducing large net foreign liabilities|In light of persistently large net foreign liability (NFL) positions in several euro area countries, we analyze 138 episodes of sizeable NFL reductions for a broad sample of advanced and emerging economies. We provide stylized facts on the channels through which NFLs were reduced and estimate factors that make episodes “stable”, that is, sustained over the medium term. Our findings show that while GDP growth and valuation effects contribute most to NFL reductions overall, stable reduction episodes also require positive transaction effects (i.e., current account surpluses), in particular in advanced economies. Considering the different components of a country's external balance sheet, we observe that reduction episodes were almost exclusively driven by a decline in gross external liabilities in emerging economies, while in advanced economies also gross external asset accumulation contributed significantly, in particular in stable episodes. Our econometric analysis shows that NFL reductions are more likely to be sustained if a country records strong average real GDP growth during an episode and exits the episode with a larger current account surplus that consists of a combination of relatively high exports, low imports and low net factor income payments. Moreover, we find evidence that nominal effective exchange rate depreciation during an episode is helpful for achieving episode stability in the short run, while IMF programs and sovereign debt restructurings also contribute to longer term stability.
F32|Structural asymmetries and financial imbalances in the eurozone|Almost two decades after the introduction of the common currency diﬀerences in institutional frameworks remain a major source of cross-country heterogeneity in the eurozone. We develop a two-country model with incomplete international markets in which the availability of credit depends on the country’s institutional environment. Our main ﬁnding is that structural diﬀerences in domestic credit environments provide an explanation for the procyclicality of net capital inﬂows observed in the South of Europe. We show that frictions in domestic credit markets generate asymmetries in the transmission mechanism of shocks that are common to both regions. JEL Classification: F32, F20, G17
F32|Stock Prices and Real Exchange Rate Movements in the Gulf Cooperation Council|In this paper, we examine the interaction between stock prices and the real and nominal exchange rates in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) economies (including only Kuwait (KW) and Saudi Arabia (SA). We consider the real and the nominal exchange rates of US dollar in terms of the Saudi Riyal and Kuwait Dinar and the values of Saudi and Kuwait exchange stock exchange indexes. The purpose is to investigate relationship between the volatility in stock prices in these markets and the large swings in global currencies given their alternative exchange rate arrangements. Real exchange rate appears to be insignificant in the case of Kuwait but significant in the case of Saudi Arabia.
F32|Arbitrage, Covered Interest Parity and Cointegration Analysis on the New Taiwan Dollar/US Dollar FOREX Market Revisited|This study applies interest parity theory including covered interest parity (CIP) to examine the 30-, 60-, 90-, and 180-day maturities for the new Taiwan dollar/US dollar (NTD/USD) foreign exchange (FX) market. In the empirical unit root tests, we find that NTD/USD forward premium and interest rate spread present I(0) property. Empirical results are provided that interest rate differential appears stationary component; imply the stable relationship between Taiwan and USA on monetary policy. Using Taylor (1989)’s covered interest arbitrage model, the empirical results exhibit the absence of excess profit opportunities on new Taiwan dollar (NTD) or US dollar (USD) returns. Additionally, theoretical innovation approach of the cost-of-carry model is considered to evaluate the arbitrage opportunities in FX study. Accordingly, the CIP condition generally continue to hold that almost zero-arbitrage results support FX market efficiency although the Federal Reserve implemented several rounds of quantitative easing after the peak of the 2008 financial crisis. Ultimately, Taiwanese FX market emerges to have been little affected by the increased crisis risks during the turbulent times because of the its limited development and market integration.
F32|Current Account Imbalances and Cost Competitiveness: The Role of the Euro|The changing environment that the Euro has brought to its member countries could have fuelled the deteriorating effect that net capital in ows have on cost competitiveness. This paper uses a di erence-in-di erences (DID) approach to assess the e ect of the Euro on the relationship between net capital infl ows, as measured by current account imbalances, and cost competitiveness over the period 1980-2014. The sample consists of annual data for 26 developed economies and comprises the EA12 countries as well as non-Euro countries, which are used as the comparison group in the analysis. First, we find evidence that positive capital in ows may negatively impact cost competitiveness levels in recipient countries. Second, and this is the main contribution of our paper, we find that the Euro seems to have amplified the deteriorating effect of net capital in ows on cost competitiveness. Therefore, although the policy debate is focused on constraining unit labour cost growth through structural reforms, additional macroprudential policies should be implemented to mitigate the detrimental e ect that capital in ows may have in an economy.
F32|Optimality of the current account of the Spanish economy, 1850-2015|We analyse the possible optimality of the path followed by the current account of the Spanish economy over the period 1850-2015, according to the intertemporal approach to the current account and using a present-value model. In particular, from the estimation of a bivariate VAR model for the current account, we try to assess to which extent the latter has been used to smooth private consumption along time in the presence of temporary shocks that the economy might suffer. In general, the evidence does not seem to be particularly favourable to the validity of the model over the period of analysis.
F32|Corruption, costs, and family: Chinese capital flight, 1984–2014|Since 1984, the foreign debt of the Peoples' Republic of China has increased at a greater rate than would be explained by changes in the country's current account, foreign direct investment and reserve holdings. This pattern is consistent with large-scale outflow of financial capital, commonly referred to as capital flight. Since 2005, capital flight has accelerated reaching $425 billion (plus or minus $60 billion) in 2014 alone. This study provides three estimates for capital flight from China for the period 1984 through 2014 using both Cuddington's balance of payments and more inclusive residual measures. These measures are adjusted to reflect the legitimate assets of the Chinese banking industry, mis-invoicing of China's trade with its major trading partners (especially Hong Kong), exchange rate changes, and the failure of official debt data to capture certain bank transactions. Based on these estimates, it is concluded that capital controls have little long-term effect on the volume of capital flight, Hong Kong is increasingly a pipeline for capital flight from the mainland, and that ‘traditional’ explanations do not apply to China's capital flight over the last decade. Finally, corruption, transaction costs, and facilitating migration are considered as possible explanations of the recent acceleration of Chinese capital flight.
F32|Trade creation, trade diversion and imbalances in the EMU|The aim of this paper is to provide a unified explanation for the mixed evidence on the euro effect on trade and the development of imbalances in the European Monetary Union (EMU). It is argued that the two phenomena are the result of trade creation and trade diversion effects generated by the euro introduction and by globalisation-induced changes in trade patterns. Trade creation and trade diversion effects are estimated as structural changes in the relation between trade flows and financial opening, growth, prices, and measures of globalization. While most of these effects point to the increase in imbalances, financial opening is found to positively affect intra-EMU trade. On the other hand, GDP growth and global changes in production technology reduced intra-EMU trade. The results suggest that policies aimed at rebalancing the EMU should be strengthened and supported by measures aimed at improving the competitiveness of the single market as a whole.
F32|Managing external macroeconomic imbalances in the EU: the welfare cost of scoreboard-based constraints|This paper investigates the consequences of introducing a new economic governance tool in the European Union - Macroeconomic Imbalance Procedure. We focus on the external imbalances and especially on the lower limit of −4% imposed on the current account deficit to GDP ratio. Using a 2-region, 2-sector New Keynesian DSGE model and Woodford's technique to operationalise inequality constraints, we demonstrate that it is possible to accordingly adjust monetary and fiscal policy. The utility-based welfare loss remains very limited as compared to optimum unconstrained policy, as measured for Poland on the basis of Bayesian estimation, and this result is robust over a wide range of parameter values. The cost is slightly lower i.a. when (i) the monetary policy is autonomous (outside the euro area), (ii) for non-converging economies, (iii) when the limit is relaxed by incorporating positive capital account to GDP ratio. The procedure also envisages lower limits on REER and ULC dynamics, but the latter can be in conflict with the CA constraint, especially in the monetary union. Therefore, the scoreboard-based evaluation of external imbalances - while not very costly - has definitely some room for fine-tuning in the course of future MIP reforms.
F32|Corporate failures and the denomination of corporate bonds: Evidence from emerging Asian economies over two financial crises|Using a novel financial data-set which covers an extensive time period between 1995 to 2012, we test for the impact of currency denomination of bonds on Asian firms’ survival probabilities. Our data span two financial crises: the 1997–98 Asian crisis and the 2007–09 global financial crisis. We find that during the former crisis firms with foreign currency denominated bonds face a higher probability of failure compared to firms with domestic bonds. On the other extreme, we find no notable differences between the 2007–09 financial crisis and tranquil times for both domestic and foreign issuers.
F32|Is the Feldstein-Horioka puzzle still with us? National saving-investment dynamics and international capital mobility: A panel data analysis across EU member countries|This paper investigates the degree of financial integration and international capital mobility by analysing the dynamics of national saving-investment relationships. We interpret the relationship between national saving and investment in the long run as reflecting a solvency constraint and focus on the short-term saving-investment relationship to assess the degree of capital mobility. We apply the Panel Autoregressive Distributed Lag (PARDL) model proposed by Pesaran et al. (1999) using data for 14 EU member countries from 1970 to 2013. Our empirical results suggest that there exists a close relationship between saving and investment in the long run that is consistent with the existence of a solvency constraint that is binding for each country in the long run. We also find that the parameter for the error-correction term is always highly significant, which supports the choice of an error-correction formulation. Moreover, we show that the parameter estimated for the error-correction term, i.e. the speed of adjustment to the long-run equilibrium, varies with the sample period considered. The estimated speed of adjustment becomes smaller in absolute terms as more recent data are included in the sample, which indicates that deviations from long- run equilibrium current accounts have become more persistent over time, signalling some degree of capital mobility.
F32|Stockpiling cash when it takes time to build: Exploring price differentials in a commodity boom|Some projects take time to build or are slow to yield cash flows. This may impact the dynamics of investment and liquidity management, although few studies test their financial implications. We exploit the peculiar advantages of copper mines as a laboratory to identify cash-flow sensitivities. In this context, investment decisions depend on the expectations of the long run price of the commodity, while the spread between the spot price and this long run expectations shifts current cash-flows. For this study we compiled a sample of copper firms between 2002 and 2012. We do not find significant effects of cash flow on current capital expenditures, but we do observe a systematic cash flow sensitivity of cash holdings, meaning that some of these transitory earnings are retained as liquidity. This cash stockpiling is stronger among financially constrained firms. In a context of time-to-build, our findings support financial theories emphasizing the salience of cash as buffer stock for liquidity in preparation for future investment opportunities.
F32|Joining the club? Procyclicality of private capital inflows in lower income developing economies|Using a newly developed dataset this paper examines the cyclicality of private capital inflows to low-income developing countries (LIDCs). The empirical analysis shows that capital inflows to LIDCs are procyclical, yet considerably less procyclical than flows to more advanced economies. The analysis also suggests that flows to LIDCs are more persistent than flows to emerging markets (EMs). There is also evidence that changes in risk aversion are a significant correlate of private capital inflows with the expected sign, but LIDCs seem to be less sensitive to changes in global risk aversion than EMs. A host of robustness checks to alternative estimation methods and control variables confirm the baseline results. In terms of policy implications, these findings suggest that private capital inflows are likely to become more procyclical as LIDCs move along the development path, which could render the conduct of countercyclical monetary and fiscal policies more challenging in these economies.
F32|The great moderation in international capital flows: A global phenomenon?|This paper highlights a recent ‘great moderation’ in global capital flows, characterised by smaller volumes and lower volatility of cross-border transactions. However, there are substantial differences across countries and regions which we analyse by comparing the level of international capital flows observed in 2005–06, immediately prior to the onset of the global financial crisis, to the post-crisis period of 2013–14, when global flows arguably settled at a ‘new normal’. We find that since the pre-crisis period, gross capital inflows recovered more for economies with smaller pre-crisis external and internal imbalances, lower per capita income, improving growth expectations, a less severe impact of the global financial crisis and less stringent macroprudential policy. On the asset side, countries with a more accommodative monetary policy, a milder impact of the crisis and oil exporters managed to increase gross capital outflows in the post-crisis period.
F32|An exchange market pressure measure for cross country analysis|EMP measures in the existing literature are oriented towards applications in crisis dating and prediction. We propose a modified EMP measure where cross-country comparisons are possible. This is the sum of the observed change in the exchange rate with an estimated counterfactual of the magnitude of the change in the exchange rate associated with the observed currency intervention. We construct a multi-country dataset for EMP in each month. This opens up many new research possibilities.
F32|Asymmetric credit growth and current account imbalances in the euro area|The euro-area crisis is often linked to the emergence of current account imbalances. As most of the deficit countries experienced pronounced credit booms at the same time that these imbalances were building up, this paper investigates the link between domestic credit developments and the current account balance. Using a panel error correction specification, the estimation results show that flows of bank loans to the non-financial private sector are a significant determinant of the current account and that they – together with changes in competitiveness – constituted the most important factor driving the build-up of current account imbalances in the deficit countries. Accordingly, impeding an increase in private sector indebtedness seems to be a promising way to dampen the formation of unsustainable current account imbalances.
