F44|Do Fixers Perform Worse than Non-Fixers during Global Recessions and Recoveries?|There is an important debate about how economies with different exchange rate regimes performed during the Great Recession and its ensuing recovery. While economic theory suggests that economies with fixed exchange rates are more affected and recover more slowly from global shocks than economies with non-fixed exchange rates, the empirical evidence on the most recent global recession has been mixed. This paper examines the exchange rate and economic growth nexus and assesses how this relationship is affected by the four global recessions and recoveries the world economy has experienced post-Bretton Woods. While there is no robust long-term relationship between exchange rate regimes and growth, there is evidence that fixers recover from global recessions at a weaker pace than non-fixers.
F44|Fluctuations in Global Macro Volatility|We rely on a hierarchical volatility factor approach to estimate and decompose timevarying second moments of output growth into global, regional and idiosyncratic contributions. We document a “global moderation” of international business cycles, defined as a persistent decline in macroeconomic volatility across the main world economies. This decline in volatility was induced by a reduction in the underlying global component, uncovering a new level of interconnection of the world economy. After assessing the importance of different economic factors, we find that the reduction in overall countries macroeconomic volatility can be mainly explained by the increasing trade openness exhibited in recent decades. Likewise, the idiosyncratic component of countries volatility is also influenced by domestic monetary policies.
F44|On the Global Impact of Risk-off Shocks and Policy-put Frameworks|Global risk-off shocks can be highly destabilizing for financial markets and, absent an adequate policy response, may trigger severe recessions. Policy responses were more complex for developed economies with very low interest rates after the Global Financial Crisis (GFC). We document, however, that the unconventional policies adopted by the main central banks were effective in containing asset price declines. These policies impacted long rates and inspired confidence in a policy-put framework that reduced the persistence of risk-off shocks. We also show that domestic macroeconomic and financial conditions play a key role in benefiting from the spillovers of these policies during risk-off episodes. Countries like Japan, which already had very low long rates, benefited less. However, Japan still benefitted from the reduced persistence of risk-off shocks. In contrast, since one of the main channels through which emerging markets are historically affected by global risk-off shocks is through a sharp rise in long rates, the unconventional monetary policy phase has been relatively benign to emerging markets during these episodes, especially for those economies with solid macroeconomic fundamentals and deep domestic financial markets. We also show that unconventional monetary policy in the US had strong effects on long interest rates in most economies in the Asia-Pacific region (which helps during risk-off events but may be destabilizing otherwise—we do not take a stand on this tradeoff).
F44|Dominant currency debt|"We propose a ""debt view"" to explain the dominant international role of the dollar. We develop an international general equilibrium model in which firms optimally choose the currency composition of their nominal debt. Expansionary monetary policy in downturns prevents Fisherian debt deflation through its effects on inflation and exchange rates, and alleviates financial distress. Theoretically, the dominant currency is the one that depreciates in global downturns over horizons of corporate debt maturity. Empirically, the dollar fits this description, despite being a short-run safe-haven currency. We provide broad empirical support for the debt view. We also study the globally optimal monetary policy."
F44|The internationalization of domestic banks and the credit channel: an empirical assessment|This paper analyses the extent to which the strength of the credit channel is affected by the expansion of domestic banks abroad, widely considered the most important structural change of Colombia banking system in recent years. Using loan-level quarterly data for the period between 2007 and 2016, we estimate panel specifications that relate changes in the loan amount and the loan interest rates to variations on the domestic policy rate, the number of foreign subordinates of the lender bank and the interaction between the two. The results suggest that the response of international banks (i.e., those that have significantly expanded abroad) in the face of changes to the domestic policy rate is not statistically different to that of purely local banks, while the cost of credit is found to be slightly higher. Even though in principle this could be interpreted to the effect that internationalization has had no significant effect on the potency of the credit channel, the results tend towards a more subtle conclusion. Specifically, in the face of increases in the domestic policy rate, international banks tend to switch more strongly from domestic to foreign sources of funding. Purely local banks are able thus to capture relatively more domestic funding under these conditions, which allows their credit activity to respond to monetary policy on a similar scale to that of international banks. This result supports the idea that banks switch funding activities between their operating jurisdictions depending on monetary policy conditions, and that the internationalization of domestic banks plays a cushioning role for the economy at times when the monetary policy stance changes significantly.
F44|Towards a new monetary theory of exchange rate determination|We study exchange rate determination in a 2-country model where domestic banks create each economy’s supply of domestic and foreign currency. The model combines the UIP-based and monetary theories of exchange rate determination, but the latter with a focus on private rather than public money creation. The model features an endogenous monetary spread or excess return in the UIP condition. This spread experiences sizeable changes when shocks affect the relative supplies (of bank loans) or demands (for bank deposits) of the two currencies. Under such shocks, monetary effects dominate traditional UIP effects in the determination of exchange rates and allocations, and this becomes stronger as domestic and foreign currencies become more imperfect substitutes. With these shocks, the model successfully addresses the UIP puzzle, and it is also consistent with the Meese-Rogoff and PPP puzzles.
F44|In the face of spillovers: prudential policies in emerging economies|We examine whether emerging market prudential policies offset the macro-financial spillover effects of US monetary policy. We find that emerging markets with tighter overall prudential policy face significantly smaller, and less negative, spillovers to total credit from US monetary policy tightening shocks. Loan-to-value ratio limits and reserve requirements appear to be particularly effective prudential tools at mitigating the spillover effects of US monetary policy. Our findings indicate that prudential policies can dampen emerging markets’ exposure to US monetary policy and the associated global financial cycle, suggesting they may be a useful tool in the face of international macroeconomic policy trade-offs.
F44|The evolution of US and UK GDP components in the time-frequency domain : A continuous wavelet analysis|Understanding the relationship between national income GDP components is an essential part of macroeconomics. This study investigates quarterly real GDP component data for the U.S. and the U.K. and applies continuous wavelet analysis on cross comparisons of the data, from both within and between the two datasets. The results show that the cyclical interactions between consumption and investment are the most complex and most substantial at several different frequencies. The relationship of exports with other macroeconomic variables has also developed over time, likely due to the evolution of an international business cycle.
F44|Does the Number of Countries in an International Business Cycle Model Matter?|Until the 1990s, standard models with two large open economies (i.e. the U.S. and Europe) provided plausible representations of the world economy. However, with the emergence of many countries such as China since then, this approach no longer seems reasonable. In line with this change to the global economic environment, there also have been changes in cross-country correlations: the output correlation between the U.S. and Europe has risen, and their consumption correlation has slightly fallen. Accordingly, this paper adds many countries to a standard model to show that doing so can capture the transition in the cross-country correlations. By analytical investigation, I first show that as the number of countries in a simple model increases, the output correlation rises and the consumption correlation falls. A quantitative analysis with a more general model also shows that when the model has more countries, it yields a higher output correlation and a smaller consumption correlation.
F44|Foreign Direct Investment as a Determinant of Cross-Country Stock~Market Comovement|We develop a theoretical framework in order to investigate the link between two recent trends: (i) the rise in cross-country stock market correlations over the past three decades, and (ii) the increase in global foreign direct investment (FDI) positions over the same period. Our objective is twofold: first, we investigate empirically the channel through which the rise in global stock market correlations is associated with the observed increase in global FDI. Second, we develop a two-country stochastic asset pricing model with multinational firms that allows us to quantify the extent to which the recent rise in global FDI can account for the observed increase in cross-country stock market comovement. Calibrating three versions of the model (finnancial autarky, incomplete markets and complete markets) to the US and the rest-of-the-world, we find that a permanent inrcease in FDI positions, as observed from mid 1990s to mid 2000s, leads to substantial increase in cross-country stock market comovements. Increases in FDI alone can account for approximately one third of the observed increase in stock market correlations. We also discuss the role of portfolio diversification and, more generally, asset market integration.
F44|Foreign Direct Investment as a Determinant of Cross-Country Stock Market Comovement|We develop a theoretical framework in order to investigate the link between two recent trends: (i) the rise in cross-country stock market correlations over the past three decades, and (ii) the increase in global foreign direct investment (FDI) positions over the same period. Our objective is twofold: first, we investigate empirically the channel through which the rise in global stock market correlations is associated with the observed increase in global FDI. Second, we develop a two-country stochastic asset pricing model with multinational firms that allows us to quantify the extent to which the recent rise in global FDI can account for the observed increase in cross-country stock market comovement. Calibrating three versions of the model (financial autarky, incomplete markets and complete markets) to the US and the rest-of-the-world, we find that a permanent inrcease in FDI positions, as observed from mid 1990s to mid 2000s, leads to substantial increase in cross-country stock market comovements. Increases in FDI alone can account for approximately one third of the observed increase in stock market correlations. We also discuss the role of portfolio diversification and, more generally, asset market integration.
F44|Fundamental Moments|Global trade can give rise to global hubs, centers of activity whose influence on the global economy is large enough that local disturbances have consequences in the aggregate. This paper investigates the nature, existence, and rise of such hubs using the World Input-Output Tables (WIOT) to evaluate the importance of vertical trade in creating global hubs that significantly affect countries volatility and their co-movement. Our results suggest that the world has become more granular since 1995, with significant consequences on GDP volatility and co-movements especially in developed countries. These consequences are well explained by international trade.
F44|After the Panic: Are Financial Crises Demand or Supply Shocks? Evidence from International Trade|Are financial crises a negative shock to demand or a negative shock to supply? This is a fundamental question for both macroeconomics researchers and those involved in real-time policymaking, and in both cases the question has become much more urgent in the aftermath of the recent financial crisis. Arguments for monetary and fiscal stimulus usually interpret such events as demand-side shortfalls. Conversely, arguments for tax cuts and structural reform often proceed from supply-side frictions. Resolving the question requires models capable of admitting both mechanisms, and empirical tests that can tell them apart. We develop a simple small open economy model, where a country is subject to deleveraging shocks that impose binding credit constraints on households and/or firms. These financial crisis events leave distinct statistical signatures in the empirical time series record, and they divide sharply between each type of shock. Household deleveraging shocks are mainly demand shocks, contract imports, leave exports largely unchanged, and depreciate the real exchange rate. Firm deleveraging shocks are mainly supply shocks, contract exports, leave imports largely unchanged, and appreciate the real exchange rate. To test these predictions, we compile the largest possible crossed dataset of 200+ years of trade flow data and event dates for almost 200 financial crises in a wide sample of countries. Empirical analysis reveals a clear picture: after a financial crisis event we find the dominant pattern to be that imports contract, exports hold steady or even rise, and the real exchange rate depreciates. History shows that, on average, financial crises are very clearly a negative shock to demand.
F44|The Global Business Cycle: Measurement and Transmission|This paper uses sector-level data for 30 countries and up to 28 years to provide a quantitative account of the sources of international GDP comovement. We propose an accounting framework to decompose comovement into the components due to correlated shocks, and to the transmission of shocks across countries. We apply this decomposition in a multi-country multi-sector DSGE model. We provide an analytical solution to the global influence matrix that characterizes every countryÕs general equilibrium GDP elasticities with respect to various shocks anywhere in the world. We then provide novel estimates of country-sector-level technology and non-technology shocks to assess their correlation and quantify their contribution to comovement. We find that TFP shocks are virtually uncorrelated across countries, whereas non-technology shocks are positively correlated. These positively correlated shocks account for two thirds of the observed GDP comovement, with international transmission through trade accounting for the remaining one third. However, trade opening does not necessarily increase GDP correlations relative to autarky, because the contribution of trade openness to comovement depends on whether sectors with more or less correlated shocks grow in influence as countries increase input linkages. Finally, while the dynamic model features rich intertemporal propagation of shocks, quantitatively these components contribute little to the overall GDP comovement as impact effects dominate.
F44|Taming the Global Financial Cycle: Central Banks and the Sterilization of Capital Flows in the First Era of Globalization (1891-1913)|"Are central banks able to isolate their domestic economy by offsetting the effects of foreign capital flows? We provide an answer for the First Age of Globalisation based on an exceptionally detailed and standardized database of monthly balance sheets of all central banks in the world (i.e. 21) over 1891-1913. Investigating the impact of a global interest rate shock on the exchange-rate, the interest rate and the central bank balance sheet, we find that not a single country played by the ""rules of the game."" Core countries fully sterilized capital flows, while peripheral countries also relied on convertibility restrictions to avoid reserve losses. In line with the predictions of the trilemma, the exchange rate absorbed the shock fully in countries off the gold standard (floating exchange rate): the central bank's balance sheet and interest rate were not affected. In contrast, in the United States, a gold standard country without a central bank, the reaction of the money market rate was three times stronger than that of interest rates in countries with a central bank. Central banks' balance sheets stood as a buffer between domestic economy and global financial markets."
F44|Assessing International Commonality in Macroeconomic Uncertainty and Its Effects|This paper uses a large vector autoregression to measure international macroeconomic uncertainty and its effects on major economies. We provide evidence of signi cant commonality in macroeconomic volatility, with one common factor driving strong comovement across economies and variables. We measure uncertainty and its effects with a large model in which the error volatilities feature a factor structure containing time-varying global components and idiosyncratic components. Global uncertainty contemporaneously affects both the levels and volatilities of the included variables. Our new estimates of international macroeconomic uncertainty indicate that surprise increases in uncertainty reduce output and stock prices, adversely affect labor market conditions, and in some economies lead to an easing of monetary policy.
F44|Measuring the fiscal multiplier when plans take time to implement|The paper describes how to measure the fiscal multiplier using budget statements on planned government spending in the current and following years alongside the data on actual outcomes. The multiplier effects can be decomposed to distinguish the effects of ‘policy reactions’ versus ‘policy initiatives’, with the latter shown to be substantially larger than the former in a study of annual US data over 1957-2016. It is noted that the fiscal initiatives undertaken following the events of 2007/8 played an important role in mitigating the recessionary effects of the global financial crisis in the US.
F44|Fiscal multipliers in advanced and developing countries: evidence from military spending|Using novel data on military spending for 129 countries in the period 1988–2013, this paper provides new evidence on the effects of government spending on output in advanced and developing countries. Identifying government-spending shocks with an exogenous variation in military spending, we estimate one-year fiscal multipliers in the range 0.75-0.85. The cumulative multipliers remain significantly different from zero within three years after the shock. We find substantial heterogeneity in the multipliers across groups of countries. We then explore three potential sources leading to heterogeneous effects of fiscal policy: the state of the economy, openness to trade, and the exchange-rate regime. We find that the multipliers are especially large in recessions, in closed economies, and under a fixed exchange rate. We also discuss other potential reasons for heterogeneous effects of fiscal policy, such as its implementation and coordination with the monetary authority. This paper is a significantly revised and extended version of Federal Reserve Bank of Boston Working Papers No. 15-9, circulated under the title “Output Response to Government Spending: Evidence from New International Military Spending Data.”
F44|Some International Evidence for Keynesian Economics Without the Phillips Curve|Farmer and Nicolò (2018) show that the Farmer Monetary (FM)-Model outperforms the threeequation New-Keynesian (NK)-model in post war U.S. data. In this paper, we compare the marginal data density of the FM-model with marginal data densities for determinate and indeterminate versions of the NK-model for three separate samples using U.S., U.K. and Canadian data. We estimate versions of both models that restrict the parameters of the private sector equations to be the same for all three countries. Our preferred specification is the constrained version of the FMmodel which has a marginal data density that is more than 30 log points higher than the NK alternative. Our findings also demonstrate that cross-country macroeconomic differences are well explained by the different shocks that hit each economy and by differences in the ways in which national central banks reacted to those shocks.
F44|Fiscal Stimulus Under Sovereign Risk|"The excess procyclicality of fiscal policy is commonly viewed as a central malaise in emerging economies. We document that procyclicality is more pervasive in countries with higher sovereign risk and provide a model of optimal fiscal policy with nominal rigidities and endogenous sovereign default that can account for this empirical pattern. Financing a fiscal stimulus is costly for risky countries and can render countercyclical policies undesirable, even in the presence of large Keynesian stabilization gains. We also show that imposing austerity can backfire by exacerbating the exposure to default, but a well-designed ""fiscal forward guidance"" can help reduce the excess procyclicality."
F44|The Limits of Forward Guidance|"The viability of forward guidance as a monetary policy tool depends on the horizon over which it can be communicated and its influence on expectations over that horizon. We develop and estimate a model of imperfect central bank communications and use it to measure how effectively the Fed has managed expectations about future interest rates and the influence of its communications on macroeconomic outcomes. Standard models assume central banks have perfect control over expectations about the policy rate up to an arbitrarily long horizon and this is the source of the so-called ""forward guidance puzzle.'' Our estimated model suggests that the Fed's ability to affect expectations at horizons that are sufficiently long to give rise to the forward guidance puzzle is substantially limited. We also find that imperfect communication has a significant impact on the propagation of forward guidance. Finally, we develop a novel decomposition of the response of the economy to forward guidance and use it to show that empirically plausible imperfect forward guidance has a quantitatively important role bringing forward the effects of future rate changes and that poor communications have been a source of macroeconomic volatility."
F44|Business Cycles Across Space and Time|We study the comovement of international business cycles in a time series clustering model with regime-switching. We extend the framework of Hamilton and Owyang (2012) to include time-varying transition probabilities to determine what drives similarities in business cycle turning points. We find four groups, or “clusters”, of countries which experience idiosyncratic recessions relative to the global cycle. Additionally, we find the primary indicators of international recessions to be fluctuations in equity markets and geopolitical uncertainty. In out-of-sample forecasting exercises, we find that our model is an improvement over standard benchmark models for forecasting both aggregate output growth and country-level recessions.
F44|Fiscal Stimulus under Sovereign Risk|"The excess procyclicality of fiscal policy is commonly viewed as a central malaise in emerging economies. We document that procyclicality is more pervasive in countries with higher sovereign risk and provide a model of optimal fiscal policy with nominal rigidities and endogenous sovereign default that can account for this empirical pattern. Financing a fiscal stimulus is costly for risky countries and can render countercyclical policies undesirable, even in the presence of large Keynesian stabilization gains. We also show that imposing austerity can backfire by exacerbating the exposure to default, but a well-designed ""fiscal forward guidance"" can help reduce the excess procyclicality."
F44|Efficient Computation with Taste Shocks|Taste shocks result in nondegenerate choice probabilities, smooth policy functions, continuous demand correspondences, and reduced computational errors. They also cause significant computational cost when the number of choices is large. However, I show that, in many economic models, a numerically equivalent approximation may be obtained extremely efficiently. If the objective function has increasing differences (a condition closely tied to policy function monotonicity) or is concave in a discrete sense, the proposed algorithms are O(n log n) for n states and n choice--a drastic improvement over the naive algorithm's O(n2) cost. If both hold, the cost can be further reduced to O(n). Additionally, with increasing differences in two state variables, I propose an algorithm that in some cases is O(n2) even without concavity (in contrast to the O(n3) naive algorithm). I illustrate the usefulness of the proposed approach in an incomplete markets economy and a long-term sovereign debt model, the latter requiring taste shocks for convergence. For grid sizes of 500 points, the algorithms are up to 200 times faster than the naive approach.
F44|The Spectral envelope: An Application to the decoupling problem in economics|In this paper we introduce the technique of spectral envelope into the analysis of decoupling problem in Economics. Decoupling refers to the phenomenon that the business cycles in emerging market economies are de-synchronized from cyclical movements in the advanced economies. The analysis shows that all the countries in the sample have a common cycle of approximately 42 months. The results point to a strong possibility of a common global cycle of a periodicity between 3 to 4 years.
F44|Global Uncertainty and Firm Investment: Empirical Assessment|Using firm-level data from 36 countries, we estimate the effect of global uncertainty on corporate investment and financial decisions. Eleven global uncertainty measures that encompass macro, micro, and higher-order dimensions of uncertainty are employed. We find that while Economic Policy Uncertainty (EPU) measures negatively affect investment, non-EPU measures have positive effects. In 2010s, EPU and non-EPU measures exhibit notably different behaviors which appear to considerably influence our results. We also explore how firm- and country-specific characteristics affect the relationship between uncertainty and investment. The negative effects of EPU measures on investment are stronger for firms with high investment irreversibility and high leverage, but no such effect is observed from non-EPU measures. In countries with deeper credit markets, investment decisions are less sensitive to uncertainty. Regarding financial decisions, (1) increased EPU measures lead to increased cash holdings, while an increase in most other uncertainty measures reduces them and (2) except for Global EPU, most uncertainty measures are negatively associated with dividend payouts. Overall, our results reveal that contrary to a substantial body of recent scholarly work, the uncertainty-investment relation is sensitive to uncertainty measures and sample periods and different uncertainty measures have differential effects on cash holdings and dividend payouts.
F44|Golden Age of Capitalism: The effect of education on growth and inequality|This study explores the effect of education on the balance between income per capita and income distribution using the TEVECON model in which growth and development are driven by innovation, giving rise to new sectors. Our results can explain the Golden Age of Capitalism (1950 -1973), characterized by high growth rates and low inequality. Our experiments varying investment in education and its allocation to two social classes define a range of education policies that can lead to many combinations of income per capita and income distribution. We find that education can affect both the creation of high income per capita and income distribution, but it does not always guarantee ``positive'' economic outcomes in terms of the variables we investigate. Thus, of the development paths, our results include both scenarios similar to that described by the Kuznets curve and less ``virtuous'' ones similar to that detected by Piketty and Saez, in which economic progress is accompanied by increasingly inegalitarian income distribution. Moreover, our model predicts that even in highly developed economic systems, different education policies can give rise to combinations of high income per capita and low inequality or low income per capita and low inequality. In this context, a shift from a regime of high growth and falling income inequality, similar to the one observed in the 1950s to 1980s (P1), to a regime of lower growth and increasing income inequality, similar to the one observed in the 1980s to 2000s (P2), could have been produced by a transition from falling inequality in the distribution of education in P1 to rising inequality in the distribution of education in P2. Education alone cannot be considered to be the cause of the transition over P1-P2. Other factors such as liberalization and deregulation that began in the 1980s and increasing globalization, which has been greatly accelerated by the emergence of China, help transform the economic system in the same broad direction. In a general sense, our study shows that while education can greatly contribute to economic development, it is not an intrinsically beneficial force leading automatically to a richer and fairer society.
F44|Monetary policy, trade, and endogenous growth under different international financial market structures|This study develops a symmetric two-country New-Keynesian general equilibrium model with endogenous growth, Calvo-style price and wage rigidities, and international trade of final consumption goods and intermediate goods. The equilibrium implications of two financial market structures are compared: financial autarky and complete markets. In the case of financial autarky, no international bond is traded. In the case of complete markets, the households have access to a full set of international nominal state-contingent bonds. We find that assuming complete markets instead of financial autarky leads to higher co-movement of most macroeconomic growth rates across countries, higher co-movement of inflation rates across countries, lower uncovered interest rate parity regression coefficients, and a lower correlation between exchange rate growth and consumption growth differentials. These results are mostly in line with US and UK data from 1950-2015, which are split into two samples, 1950-1970 and 1971-2015, in order to be compared to the model with financial autarky and the model with complete markets, respectively.
F44|Emerging Economy Business Cycles: Interest Rate Shocks vs Trend Shocks|The recent literature studying the source of business cycles in emerging market economies (EMEs) has debated the relative importance of productivity trend shocks versus interest rate shocks coupled with financial frictions. Importantly, the papers where an important role was assigned to interest rate shocks did not force their models to match the historical paths of the world or country interest rate. This could have led to poorly identified interest rate shocks and inaccurate measures of contributions of shocks to EME business cycles. To address this issue, we estimate a small open economy model for Argentina and Mexico using Bayesian methods where world and country interest rate series are included as observables. This estimation strategy brings quantitative accuracy by imposing discipline on the estimated shocks. Although we find evidence in favour of both shocks, including interest rates as observables, shifts explanatory power away from trend shocks towards interest rate shocks.
F44|Austerity in the Aftermath of the Great Recession|Cross-country differences in austerity, defined as government purchases below forecast, account for 75 percent of the observed cross-sectional variation in GDP in advanced economies during 2010-2014. Statistically, austerity is associated with lower GDP, lower inflation and higher net exports. A multi-country DSGE model calibrated to 29 advanced economies generates effects of austerity consistent with the data. Counterfactuals suggest that eliminating austerity would have substantially reduced output losses in Europe. Austerity was so contractionary that debt-to-GDP ratios in some countries increased as a result of endogenous reductions in GDP and tax revenue.
F44|A portfolio-choice model to analyze the recent gross capital flows between Canada and the US|We calibrate a two-country New Keynesian model with endogenous portfolio choice and valuation effects to discuss the determinants of the increase in Canadian Net Foreign Assets with the US observed after 2012. Furthermore, we discuss the shocks that may explain the “reversed two-way” capital flows pattern recently characterizing the Canada-US asset trading: Canada has a negative position on bond holdings owned by US investors while a positive balance emerges on its equity holdings from US firms. The combination of a global technology shock, the US fiscal contraction, an adverse wage-push shock in the US and the greater monetary stimulus in the US than in Canada (QE) provide insights to describe the recent capital flows between Canada and the US. Both the QE and the negative wage-push shock in the US play a crucial role as explanatory factors through substantial valuation effects.
F44|On the global Impact of risk-off shocks and policy-put frameworks|Global risk-off shocks can be highly destabilizing for financial markets and, absent an adequate policy response, may trigger severe recessions. Policy responses were more complex for developed economies with very low interest rates after the GFC. We document, however, that the unconventional policies adopted by the main central banks were effective in containing asset price declines. These policies impacted long rates and inspired confidence in a policy-put framework that reduced the persistence of risk-off shocks. We also show that domestic macroeconomic and financial conditions play a key role in benefiting from the spillovers of these policies during risk-off episodes. Countries like Japan, which already had very low long rates, benefited less. However, Japan still benefited from the reduced persistence of risk-off shocks. In contrast, since one of the main channels through which emerging markets are historically affected by global risk-off shocks is through a sharp rise in long rates, the unconventional monetary policy phase has been relatively benign to emerging markets during these episodes, especially for those economies with solid macroeconomic fundamentals and deep domestic financial markets. We also show that unconventional monetary policy in the US had strong effects on long interest rates in most economies in the Asia-Pacific region (which helps during risk-off events but may be destabilizing otherwise -we do not take a stand on this tradeoff).
F44|Do Fixers Perform Worse than Non-Fixers during Global Recessions and Recoveries?|There is an important debate about how economies with different exchange rate regimes performed during the Great Recession and its ensuing recovery. While economic theory suggests that economies with fixed exchange rates are more affected and recover more slowly from global shocks than economies with non-fixed exchange rates, the empirical evidence on the most recent global recession has been mixed. This paper examines the exchange rate and economic growth nexus and assesses how this relationship is affected by the four global recessions and recoveries the world economy has experienced post-Bretton Woods. While there is no robust long-term relationship between exchange rate regimes and growth, there is evidence that fixers recover from global recessions at a weaker pace than non-fixers.
F44|Determinants of Foreign Direct Investment in Ghana: A Sectoral Analysis|This study assesses the determinants of foreign direct investment (FDI) at sector level in Ghana taking into consideration the agriculture sector, services sector, and manufacturing sector. Using sector level data spanning 2000-2014, findings from the Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) regression analysis show that market size (measured by GDP) and labour cost have a significant impact on the inflows of agriculture sector FDI. The results also confirm trade openness and exchange rate to significantly influence services sector FDI. Unexpectedly, none of the variables are found to have significant effect on manufacturing sector FDI. The study recommends that the government should implement strategies that will enhance the growth of Ghana’s GDP, and deregulate the economy to allow more foreign investors into the country.
F44|Fluctuations de prix des matières premières et économie congolaise : manne d’espoir ou de malédiction ?<BR>[Fluctuations in commodity price and the congolese economy: hope or curse manna?]|With the recent fall in commodity prices, the super-dependent economies of commodities, including the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) have been shaken, especially as these countries consider commodity as manna falling from the sky. Movements in commodity prices have led to significant fluctuations. This article analyzes the short and long-term sensitivity of the Congolese economy to fluctuations in commodity prices and verifies the resource curse hypothesis in the DRC. Using the fully modified least squares method (FM-OLS), we estimated the error correction model. Our conclusions suggest that the Congolese economy suffers adverse effects on short and long-term commodity price shocks. The readjustment of the economy is slow and long. The national economy does not enjoy the benefits of commodity prices, but is only suffering the devastating effects. Hence the commodity do not seem like a manna of hope and the economy remains in an eternal whirlwind of curse. As the DRC does not have a solid fiscal space, the challenge is to find pragmatic, cost-effective solutions. Economic procyclicality weighs on political strategies, and ambitious processes of structural reforms are beneficial.
F44|Monetary policy in a Model with Commodity and Financial Markets|This paper builds a small open economy model for a net commodity exporter to consider financial frictions and monetary policies in order to investigate the main determinants of business cycles. Since we make a distinction to the access of financial markets between the commodity and non-commodity sectors, we notice that as usual, a commodity price shock benefits the competitiveness of the economy and its borrowing terms. We outline a novel effect in this paper which we dub the “financial market effect” following a positive commodity price shock that decreases the credit premium and hence exacerbate the commodity price boom. However, the negative sectoral downturn affects entrepreneur credit together with disinflationary pressures of a real exchange rate appreciation. This opens the role for stabilization policies which we analyze comparing three types of monetary regimes. Estimating the model on South Africa, a major commodity exporting economy with inflation targeting regime, we find as conventional wisdom suggests that a hypothetical Taylor rule targeting the price-level allows for adjustment in inflation expectations that can dampen disinflationary pressures. Furthermore, due to smoother change in nominal rate of interest, there is lesser variability in financial markets.
F44|The Relationship between Economic Uncertainty and Corporate Tax Rates|This paper investigates the relationship between economic uncertainty and corporate tax rates in the panel dataset of 126 countries over the period 2003–2018. We use the new index so-called the “World Uncertainty Index” to measure the level of economic uncertainty. We utilise various estimation techniques and find that a one-way causality that runs from economic uncertainty to corporate tax rates. Specifically, a rise in economic uncertainty leads to higher corporate tax rates. We also discuss potential implications.
F44|Real exchange rates and international co-movement: News-shocks and non-tradable goods with complete markets|We propose a fully flexible, complete-market model of the international business cycle that is consistent with a negative correlation between the real exchange rate and relative consumption (the Backus-Smith puzzle). We allow for imperfect substitutability of capital which significantly reinforces Harrold-Balassa-Samuelson effects, producing more empirically relevant movements in real exchange rates. Most importantly, we introduce changes in expectations (news-shocks) as an explanation to the Backus-Smith puzzle, through shifts in relative demand. However, news-shocks also contribute to lower cross-country correlations of economic aggregates, deteriorating international co-movement. (Copyright: Elsevier)
F44|Investment Specific Technology Shocks and Emerging Market Business Cycle Dynamics|This article explores the role played by investment-specific technology (IST) shocks in emerging market business cycle fluctuations. The analysis is motivated by two key empirical facts; the presence of IST change in the post-war US economy combined with the importance of US investment goods in the emerging market imports. The goal is to quantify the contribution of US IST change for the business cycles of an emerging country in the context of a two-country, two-sector international real business cycle framework with investment and consumption goods sectors. Specifically, I estimate the model using Mexican and US data and find that a permanent US-originating IST shock is important in explaining Mexican business cycle dynamics. Shocks to investment sector technology explain around 60% of the investment, 44% of the consumption and 52% of the output variability. I argue that both a shock that captures financial frictions and a permanent US-originating IST shock are necessary to account for the key business cycle features in the data. (Copyright: Elsevier)
F44|2013 – The Finnish Divergence|Abstract In this paper, we use the synthetic control method to analyze the Finnish economic performance after the onset of the Great Recession. Our main interest is to study the slow recovery from the global downturn that began in 2008. We identify the synthetic control with pre-crisis data (1996–2007). It provides the counterfactual response of the Finnish economy to the crisis in the absence of idiosyncratic shocks that affected Finland but not the synthetic control unit. We find that the Finnish GDP growth closely follows the synthetic control until 2013. After that there is a striking divergence in the economic growth of Finland and the expected economic behavior, as represented by the counterfactual. The divergence between the Finnish GDP and its synthetic control is mainly due to underperforming of the Finnish net exports. The consumption expenditures, on the other hand, outperform the synthetic control unit right after the financial crisis, but starting from 2013, they underperform as well. We find that our results are relatively robust to alternative methodological specifications.
F44|The Impact of Food Prices on Conflict Revisited|Studies that examine the impact of food prices on conflict usually assume that (all) changes in international food prices are exogenous shocks for individual countries or local areas. By isolating strictly exogenous shifts in global food commodity prices, we show that this assumption could seriously distort estimations of the impact on conflict in African regions. Specifically, we show that increases in food prices that are caused by harvest shocks outside Africa raise conflict significantly, whereas a “naive” regression of conflict on international food prices uncovers an inverse relationship. We also find that higher food prices lead to more conflict in regions with more agricultural production. Again, we document that failing to account for exogenous price changes exhibits a considerable bias in the impact. In addition, we show that the conventional approach to evaluate such effects; that is, estimations that include time fixed effects, ignores an important positive baseline effect that is common for all regions.
F44|Fundamental Moments|Global trade can give rise to global hubs, centers of activity whose influence on the global economy is large enough that local disturbances have consequences in the aggregate. This paper investigates the nature, existence, and rise of such hubs using the World Input-Output Tables (WIOT) to evaluate the importance of vertical trade in creating global hubs that significantly affect countries volatility and their co-movement. Our results suggest that the world has become more granular since 1995, with significant consequences on GDP volatility and co-movements especially in developed countries. These consequences are well explained by international trade.
F44|Global financial cycles since 1880|The authors analyze cyclical co-movement in credit, house prices, equity prices, and long-term interest rates across 17 advanced economies. Using a time-varying multi-level dynamic factor model and more than 130 years of data, they analyze the dynamics of co-movement and compare recent developments to earlier episodes such as the early era of financial globalization from 1880 to 1913 and the Great Depression. They find that joint global dynamics across various financial quantities and prices as well as variable-specific global co-movements are important to explain fluctuations in the data. From a historical perspective, global co-movement in financial variables is not a new phenomenon. For equity prices, however, global cycles play currently a historically unprecedented role, explaining more than half of the fluctuations in the data. Global cycles in credit and housing have become much more pronounced and longer, but their importance in explaining dynamics has only increased for some economies including the US, the UK and Nordic European countries. Regarding GDP, the authors also find an increasing role for a global business cycle.
F44|Global financial cycles since 1880|We analyze cyclical co-movement in credit, house prices, equity prices, and long-term interest rates across 17 advanced economies. Using a time-varying multi-level dynamic factor model and more than 130 years of data, we analyze the dynamics of co-movement at different levels of aggregation and compare recent developments to earlier episodes such as the early era of financial globalization from 1880 to 1913 and the Great Depression. We find that joint global dynamics across various financial quantities and prices as well as variable-specific global co-movements are important to explain fluctuations in the data. From a historical perspective, global co-movement in financial variables is not a new phenomenon, but its importance has increased for some variables since the 1980s. For equity prices, global cycles play currently a historically unprecedented role, explaining more than half of the fluctuations in the data. Global cycles in credit and housing have become much more pronounced and longer, but their importance in explaining dynamics has only increased for some economies including the US, the UK and Nordic European countries. We also include GDP in the analysis and find an increasing role for a global business cycle.
F44|Uncertainty and economic activity: a multi-country perspective|Measures of economic uncertainty are countercyclical, but economic theory does not provide definite guidance on the direction of causation between uncertainty and the business cycle. This paper takes a common-factor approach to the analysis of the interaction between uncertainty and economic activity in a multi-country model without a priori restricting the direction of causality at the level of individual countries. Motivated by the observation that cross-country correlations of volatility series are much higher than cross-country correlations of GDP growth series, we set up a multi-country version of the Lucas tree model with time-varying volatility consistent with this stylized fact and use it to identify two common factors, a real and a financial one. We then quantify the absolute and the relative importance of the common shocks as well as country-specific volatility and GDP growth shocks. The paper highlights three main empirical findings. First, it is shown that most of the unconditional correlation between volatility and growth can be accounted for by shocks to the real common factor, which is extracted from world growth in our empirical model and linked to the risk-free rate in the theoretical model and in the data. Second, the share of volatility forecast error variance explained by the real common shock and by country-specific growth shocks amounts to less than 5%. Third, common financial shocks explain about 10% of the growth forecast error variance, but when such shocks occur, their negative impact on growth is large and persistent. In contrast, country-specific volatility shocks account for less than 1%-2% of the forecast error variance decomposition of country-specific growth rates.
F44|Global Financial Cycles and Risk Premiums|Abstract This paper studies the synchronization of financial cycles across 17 advanced economies over the past 150 years. The comovement in credit, house prices, and equity prices has reached historical highs in the past three decades. While comovement of credit and house prices increased in line with growing real sector integration, comovement of equity prices has increased above and beyond growing real sector integration. The sharp increase in the comovement of global equity markets is particularly notable. We demonstrate that fluctuations in risk premiums, and not risk-free rates and dividends, account for a large part of the observed equity price synchronization after 1990. We also show that US monetary policy has come to play an important role as a source of fluctuations in risk appetite across global equity markets. These fluctuations are transmitted across both fixed and floating exchange rate regimes, but the effects are more muted in floating rate regimes.
F44|International Spillovers and ‘Ex-ante’ Efficient Bailouts|We study how cross-country macroeconomic spillovers caused by sovereign default affect equilibrium bailouts. Because of portfolio diversification, the default of one country causes a macroeconomic contraction also in other countries. This generates a self-interest for these other countries to bailout the defaulting country. A novel insight of the paper is that bailouts could be efficient not only ex-post (after the debt has been issued) but also ex-ante (before the issuance of the debt). Although anticipated bailouts create the typical moral hazard problem leading countries to issue more debt, this may correct for the under issuance of public debt that would result from the lack of cross-country policy coordination.
F44|Household Debt and Recession in Brazil|Brazil experienced one of the most severe recessions in its history from 2014 to 2016. Following a pattern shown for previous economic downturns in other countries, the Brazilian recession was preceded by a substantial increase in household debt from 2003 to 2014. This study utilizes a novel individual level data set on household borrowing in order to provide details of the household debt boom. The data set allows for a decomposition of the rise in household debt by the type of debt and by the source of debt, and it allows for an analysis of the income of individuals taking on more debt during the boom. We conclude with an exploration of potential causes of the rise in household debt.
F44|U. S. monetary policy and emerging market credit cycles|Foreign banks’ lending to firms in emerging market economies (EMEs) is large and denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. This creates a direct connection between U.S. monetary policy and EME credit cycles. We estimate that over a typical U.S. monetary easing cycle, EME borrowers face a 32-percentage-point greater increase in the volume of loans issued by foreign banks than borrowers from developed markets face, with a similarly large effect upon reversal of the U.S. monetary policy stance. This result is robust across different geographical regions and industries, and holds for non-U.S. lenders, including those with little direct exposure to the U.S. economy. Local EME lenders do not offset the foreign bank capital flows; thus, U.S. monetary policy affects credit conditions for EME firms. We show that the spillover is stronger in higher-yielding and more financially open markets, and for firms with a higher reliance on foreign bank credit.
F44|Changes in Economic and Financial Synchronisation: A Global Factor Analysis|We estimate dynamic factor models for two sub-samples between 1995 and 2017 for up to 42 advanced and emerging-market economies to investigate changes in the contribution of global and regional factors to fluctuations in real GDP per capita growth, inflation, 10-year government bond yields and equity prices. The combined average contribution of global and regional factors in explaining fluctuations of GDP growth and inflation increased between 1995-2006 and 2007-17. In contrast, for financial variables, the role of country-specific factors strengthened between these two periods. The general findings are robust to alternative specifications of the lag structure, data frequency and the country composition of the largest region. Country-specific factors explain a higher share of variation of financial variables in emerging-market economies compared with advanced economies. For all variables, there is large cross-country heterogeneity regarding the level of contributions of specific factors and their evolution over time.
F44|The Business Cycle Model Beyond General Equilibrium|This paper presents the business cycle model without using assumptions of general equilibrium. We use agent-based models, risk assessments and economic space as ground for modelling business cycles. All economic agents are at risk but not for all agents risk assessments are performed. We propose that for each agent risk assessment can be performed and suggest treat risk ratings x of agents as their coordinate x on economic space. Agents fill economic domain bounded by most secure and most risky agents. Economic processes, exogenous or endogenous shocks induce evolution of agent’s risk coordinates. We show how risk motions of agents on the bounded economic domain induce the business cycle. We derive the system of economic equations that describe macroeconomic evolution and the business cycle on economic space. As example, we study simple model that describe relations between macro Assets A(t,x) and Revenue-on-Assets B(t,x). To show how economic equations describe the business cycle we obtain from them the system of ordinary differential equations that describes business cycle time fluctuations of macroeconomic Assets A(t) and Revenue-on-Assets B(t).
F44|Economic Transactions Govern Business Cycles|This paper presents the business cycle model based on treatment of economic agents as simple units of macroeconomics. Agents (banks, corporations, households, etc.) have numerous economic and financial variables like Assets, Credits, Debts, Consumption, etc. Agents perform economic and financial transactions with other agents. All agents are at risk but not for all agents risk assessments are performed now. Let’s propose that risk assessment can be made for all agents and let’s use agents risk ratings x as their coordinates. Agents coordinates for n risks define n-dimensional economic space. Economic and financial transactions between agents describe evolution of their economic and financial variables. Aggregations of economic or financial variables of agents in a unit volume at point x determine macro variables as functions of x. Aggregations of transactions between agents in unit volumes at points x and y determine macro transactions as functions of x and y. Macro transactions describe rate of change of macro variables at points x and y. We derive economic equations that describe evolution of macro transactions. We show that business cycle fluctuations are consequence of these equations. We argue that business cycle fluctuations of particular macro variable can be treated as oscillations of “mean risk coordinates” of this economic variable. As example we study the business cycle determined by model interactions between transactions CL(t,x,y) that provide Loans from Creditors at point x to Borrowers at point y and transactions LR(t,x,y) that describe repayments from Borrowers at point y to Creditors at point x. Starting with economic equations we derive the system of ordinary differential equations that describe the business cycle fluctuations of macro Credits C(t) and macro Loan-Repayments LR(t) of the entire economics.
F44|Economic Transactions Govern Business Cycles|This paper presents the business cycle model without using assumptions of general equilibrium. All economic agents are at risk but not for all agents risk assessments are performed. We propose that risk assessment can be completed for all agents and suggest use agents risk ratings as their coordinates x. We show that macroeconomics as ABM is described on bounded economic domain of economic space. Transactions between agents describe evolution of their economic and financial variables. Aggregations of economic or financial variables of agents in a unit volume near point x determine macro variables as functions of x. Aggregations of transactions between agents in unit volumes near points x and y determine macro transactions as functions of x and y. Macro transactions describe change of macro variables near points x and y. We explain how evolution of macro transactions can be described by economic equations on economic space. We show that business cycle fluctuations are consequence of these equations. We treat the nature of the business cycle fluctuations of particular macro variable as oscillations of “mean risk” of this economic variable on bounded economic domain. As example we describe interactions between transactions CL(t,x,y) that provide Loans from Creditors at point x to Borrowers at point y and transactions LR(t,x,y) that describe repayments from Borrowers at point y to Creditors at point x. Starting with economic equations we derive the system of ordinary differential equations that describe the business cycle fluctuations of macro Credits C(t) and macro Loan-Repayments LR(t) of the entire economics.
F44|The predictive relationship between exchange rate expectations and base metal prices|In this paper we show that survey-based-expectations about the future evolution of the Chilean exchange rate have the ability to predict the returns of the six primary non-ferrous metals: aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc. Predictability is also found for returns of the London Metal Exchange Index. Previous studies have shown that the Chilean exchange rate has the ability to predict copper returns, a world commodity index and base metal prices. Nevertheless, our results indicate that expectations about the Chilean peso have stronger predictive ability relative to the Chilean currency. This is shown both in-sample and out-of-sample. By focusing on expectations of a commodity currency, and not on the currency itself, our paper provides indirect but new and strong evidence of the ability that commodity currencies have to forecast commodity prices. Our results are also consistent with the present-value-model for exchange rate determination.
F44|Compás Empresarial y de Competitividad No. 2 Somos lo que hacemos El valor agregado de las exportaciones de Colombia y el Valle del Cauca 2016<BR>[Business and Competitiveness Compass No. 2 We are what we do The added value of exports of Colombia and the Valle del Cauca 2016 ]|This paper presents the calculation of the added value of Colombia's exports and Valle del Cauca in 2016. Through the use of product input matrices, it was found that the added value of Colombian exports, measured as a percentage of the value Total exports was 86.5%. For Valle del Cauca, this indicator was 60.9%, reflecting a greater industrial vocation that demands more inputs, both domestic and imported. The exports of the productive sector that contributed more value added to the economy of Valle del Cauca were those of food products. The different indicators used to analyze the national export structure show that Valle del Cauca stands out as one of the departments with the most diversified and sophisticated export offer in the country. Likewise, it is one of the departments that, in greater proportion, imports and exports raw materials and high-tech intermediate goods. Among the main challenges in terms of public policy and business development that stem from this study, are the consolidation of more integrated regional economies, and the attraction of foreign direct investment in sectors that stimulate the production of intermediate goods in the region.
F44|Economic and Financial Transactions Govern Business Cycles|Problem/Relevance - This paper presents new description of the business cycles that for decades remain as relevant and important economic problem. Research Objective/Questions - We propose that econometrics can provide sufficient data for assessments of risk ratings for almost all economic agents. We use risk ratings as coordinates of agents and show that the business cycles are consequences of collective change of risk coordinates of agents and their financial variables. Methodology - We aggregate similar financial variables of agents and define macro variables as functions on economic space. Economic and financial transactions between agents are the only tools that change their extensive variables. We aggregate similar transactions between agents with risk coordinates x and y and define macro transactions as functions of x and y. We derive economic equations that describe evolution of macro transactions and hence describe evolution of macro variables. Major Findings - As example we study simple model that describes interactions between Credits transactions from Creditors at x to Borrowers at y and Loan-Repayment transactions that describe refunds from Borrowers at y to Creditors at x. We show that collective motions of Creditors and Borrowers from safer to risky area and back on economic space induce frequencies of macroeconomic Credit cycles. Implications – Our model can improve forecasting of the business cycles and help increase economic sustainability and financial policy-making. That requires development of risk ratings methodologies and corporate accounting procedures that should correspond each other to enable risk assessments of economic agents
F44|Informality, Labor Regulation, and the Business Cycle|We analyze the joint impact of employment protection and informality on macroeconomic volatility and the propagation of shocks in emerging economies. For this, we propose a small open economy business cycle model with frictional labor markets, labor regulation, and an informal sector, modeled as self-employment. The model is calibrated to the Mexican economy, in particular to business cycle moments for employment and informality obtained from our own calculations with the ENOE survey for the period 2005-2016. We show that international interest rate shocks, which affect specifically job creation in the formal sector, are key to obtain a counter-cyclical informality rate. In our model both the economy without an informal sector and the economy with informality but a lower burden of labor regulation feature higher volatility in employment but smaller fluctuations in TFP and output.
F44|The extensive margin of trade and monetary policy|This paper studies the effects of monetary policy shocks on firms’ participation in exporting. The VAR analysis shows that the extensive margin of exports declines in response to domestic expansionary monetary shocks. We develop a two-country dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model in which heterogeneous firms make forward-looking decisions on whether to participate in the export market and prices are staggered across firms and time. We show that while lower interest rates and a currency depreciation associated with an expansionary monetary policy help to increase the value of exporting, the inflationary effects of the policy stimulus weaken the competitiveness of some firms, resulting in a contraction in firms’ export participation. In contrast, positive productivity shocks lead to a currency depreciation and an expansion in export participation at the same time. We show that, overall, the extensive margin is more sensitive to firms’ price competitiveness with other firms in the export market than to exchange rate movements or interest rates.
F44|How Important are Global Factors for Understanding the Dynamics of International Capital Flows?|We propose a dynamic factor model with time-varying parameters and stochastic volatility to analyze the relationship between global factors and country-specific capital flow dynamics. Studying a global sample of 43 countries from 1994 until 2015, we show that global co-movement of macroeconomic, financial and capital flow variables can explain a major share of country-specific capital flow volatility and that the impact of these variables has become even more important since the 2008–2009 global financial crisis. Our results indicate that country-specific changes in capital flows are strongly affected by fluctuations in global financial cycles and - to some extent - by global real business cycles. There is some evidence that countries with higher foreign exchange reserves, flexible exchange rates, lower public indebtedness or more developed domestic stock markets may better shield themselves from the global financial cycle.
F44|Agricultural Price Shocks and Business Cycles - A Global Warning for Advanced Economies|For a panel of 75 countries, we find that increases in global agricultural commodity prices that are caused by unfavorable harvest shocks in other regions of the world significantly curtail domestic economic activity. The effects are much larger than for average global agricultural price shifts. The impact is also considerably stronger in high-income countries, despite the lower shares of food in household expenditures these countries have compared to low-income countries. On the other hand, we find weaker effects in countries that are net exporters of agricultural products, have higher shares of agriculture in GDP or lower shares of non-agricultural trade in GDP; that is, characteristics that typically apply to low-income countries. When we control for these country characteristics, we find indeed that the effects on economic activity become smaller when income per capita is higher. Overall, our findings imply that the consequences of climate change on advanced economies are likely larger than previously thought.
F44|Fiscal multipliers and foreign holdings of public debt|This paper explores a natural connection between fiscal multipliers and foreign holdings of public debt. Although fiscal expansions can raise domestic economic activity through various channels, they can also have crowding-out effects if the resources used to acquire public debt reduce domestic consumption and investment. Thus, these crowding-out effects are likely to be weaker when public debt is purchased by foreigners. We test this hypothesis on (i) post-war US data and (ii) data for a panel of 17 advanced economies from the 1980’s to the present. To do so, we assemble a novel database of public debt holdings by domestic and foreign creditors for a large set of advanced economies. We combine this data with standard measures of fiscal policy shocks and show that, indeed, the size of fiscal multipliers is increasing in the share of public debt held by foreigners. In particular, the fiscal multiplier is smaller than one when the foreign share is low, such as in the U.S. in the 1950’s and 1960’s and Japan today, and larger than one when the foreign share is high, such as in the U.S. and Ireland today
F44|The effects of firing costs on employment and hours per employee|We explore the role of firing costs on labor market outcomes in a search and matching framework with distinct decisions on the intensive (hours per employee) and extensive (employment) margins of labor supply. We show that allowing for two distinct labor supply margins matters for assessing firing costs. When the intensive margin is kept fixed (as is typically done in empirical work on firing costs), the dampening effect of firing costs on employment fluctuations is strongly understated. Further, in a quantitative exercise, we calibrate firing costs to represent the different employment protection regulations across OECD countries. We find that with firing costs of a similar size as in France, the drop in US employment during the Great Recession would have been a third its size.
F44|Endogenous Time-Varying Volatility and Emerging Market Business Cycles|Time-varying volatility plays a crucial role in understanding business cycles in emerging market economies. However, the literature treats volatility as an exogenous process. This paper endogenizes time-varying volatility in the debt premium and total factor productivity into a standard small open economy model and assesses the quality of the model by comparing it to emerging market data. An additional volatility channel that operates through the debt premium on the interest rate faced by a small open economy can generate countercyclical net exports and excess volatility in consumption as observed in data on emerging market business cycles.
F44|Labor Market Dynamics in Developing Economies: the Role of Subsistence Consumption|Motivated by the recent empirical evidence on a strong negative relationship between the income level and hours worked across countries (Bick, Fuchs-Schundeln, and Lagakos (2018)), this paper establishes new stylized facts on labor market dynamics in developing economies. First, the response of hours worked (and employment) to a permanent technology shock- identified by a structural VAR model with long-run restrictions- is smaller in developing economies than in advanced economies. Second, the level of income per capita is strongly and robustly associated with the relative variability of hours worked and consumption to output across countries. We build a simple RBC model augmented with subsistence consumption to explain the set of new empirical findings. The minimal departure from a standard RBC model allows us to account for the salient features of business cycle fluctuations in developing economies, including their distinct labor market dynamics.
F44|Global vs. group-specific business cycles: The importance of defining the groups|The literature on international business cycles has employed dynamic factor models to disentangle global from group-specific and national factors in countries' macroeconomic aggregates. Therefore, the countries have simply been classified ex ante as belonging to the same region or the same level of development. This paper estimates a DFM for a sample of 106 countries and three variables (output, consumption, investment) over the period 1960 to 2014, in which the countries are classified according to the outcome of a cluster analysis. By comparing the results with those obtained by the previous grouping approaches, we show substantial deviations in the importance of global and group-specific factors. Remarkably, when the groups are defined properly, the 'global business cycle' accounts for only a very small fraction of macroeconomic fluctuations, most evidently in the industrialized world. The group-specific factors, on the other hand, play a much greater role for national business cycles than previously thought - also in the pre-globalization period.
F44|"The economic expansion in the US since 2009 and Donald Trump's ambitions to ""drain the swamp"""|"Since the prolonged recession in 1980-82 which laid the basis for the emergence of financeled capitalism in the US there have been four phases of economic expansion. The first three ended with increasingly severe recessions in 1990-91, 2001 and 2007-09. The most recent expansion, which began in mid-2009, has been characterised by relatively low growth and investment has been weaker than in previous expansions. While unemployment has fallen sharply, many of the new jobs have been in low-paid services and the employed rate is below the peak in 2007, with several million workers vanishing from official statistics. While banks have been forced to hold more capital, five giant banks now account for some 50 per cent of the sector's assets. They also run large swathes of the so-called ""shadow banking system"" that would have collapsed in 2008 without massive state intervention, but which continues to operate as before. The Trump government's much touted investment programme is dependent on mobilising private funding but this has not yet been very forthcoming. And moves to relax the new banking regulations introduced in 2010, while strongly welcomed by the big banks, have been widely criticised. Key indicators of financial tensions are unusually low, but profitability and investment, which usually serve as leading indicators of the business cycle, have begun to decline and this suggests that the current expansion could be approaching an end."
F44|International spillover effects of U.S. tax reforms: Evidence from Germany|This paper explores the international transmission of U.S. tax shocks and provides evidence for the German economy. Using structural vector autoregressions, we find that after a U.S. tax cut, German GDP increases moderately. While higher U.S. demand stimulates German exports, a deterioration of price competitiveness lowers this positive growth impulse. The current account increases significantly. Surprisingly, German prices fall as domestic companies reduce unit labor costs. The resulting increase of the real interest rate dampens domestic demand. German tax policy shows an opposite reaction to U.S. tax policy. The latter result, however, is driven by the decade of the 1970s. We find that significant changes in the transmission channels arise by distinguishing between different types of U.S. tax reforms. In particular, in contrast to U.S. personal income tax reforms, changes in the corporate income tax cause a depreciation of the German real effective exchange rate.
F44|Recent trade dynamics in Asia: Examples from specific industries|"This paper looks at the extent to which the shift in the lower value added production to countries in the following development ""tier"" is actually becoming a reality. Several countries in East Asia have been upgrading production patterns and moving up the value chain, this paper looks at how this helps and offers new opportunities to less advanced countries to integrate in world trade. The paper uses a combination of techniques, from an analysis of disaggregated trade flows by country and sectors, to the calculation of trade intensity indices by country and sector, and value-added trade by sector. It finds combined evidence of forward and backward trade increasing between several neighbouring Asian economies and China, in the most labour-intensive industries in particular. Econometric analysis shows that relative unit labour costs are an explanatory factor of increased trade links. In cases, the intensification of trade links on the export side can relate to a strongly expanding local market (for example India for electronic products such as smartphones), but mostly the intensification of trade links takes place both on the import and export sides with markets which are much smaller than China (Vietnam, Bangladesh, etc.), and which experienced increased outward-processing activities as a result of China's production upgrade."
F44|Secular Stagnation: New Challenges for the Industrialized Countries in the 21st Century|This paper attempts to provide an overview of the main challenges facing industrialized in a context of secular stagnation. There is no consensus on the meaning of this concept and various alternative views coexist. We present the key issues in the debates today, accounting for phenomena like the slowdown in factor productivity, liquidity and safety traps, the decline of natural interest rates, the historical downward trend of potential growths and low inflation rates. We provide a bird's eye survey of the available literature on the causes of secular stagnation from a historical perspective, the symptoms, the main causes as well as some policies proposed to overcome it. We give some illustrations for the United Kingdom, the United States, the euro area and Japan.
F44|International co-movements in recessions|Business cycle correlations are state-dependent and higher in recessions than in expansions. In this paper, I suggest a mechanism to explain why this is the case. For this purpose, I build an international real business cycle model with occasionally binding constraints on capacity utilization which can account for state-dependent cross-country correlations in GDP growth rates. The intuition is that firms can only use their machines up to a capacity ceiling. Therefore, in booms the growth of an individual economy can be dampened when the economy hits its capacity constraint. This creates an asymmetry that can spill-over to other economies, thereby creating state-dependent cross-country correlations in GDP growth rates. Empirically, I successfully test for the presence of capacity constraints using data from the G7 advanced economies in a Bayesian threshold autoregressive (T-VAR) model. This finding supports capacity constraints as a prominent transmission channel of cross-country GDP asymmetries in recessions compared to expansions.
F44|Faraway, so close! technology diffusion and firm heterogeneity in the medium term cycle of advanced economies|Large US firms, by diffusing embodied technology through trade in intermediates, appear to drive Europe’s output over the medium term. We develop a two-country model of endogenous growth in varieties, cross-country firm heterogeneity and trade to match this evidence. A US TFP slowdown generates a pronounced recession in Europe, while a negative investment-specific shock also imparts a protracted recession in the US, since GDP and firm productivity stay below trend beyond a decade. Heterogeneous firms, with endogenously changing productivity cut-offs, and the responses of innovators and adopters determine medium-term adjustment, as import switching processes unfold.
F44|Capital controls spillovers|I built a three-country business cycle model with one AE and two EMEs to analyze the spillover effects arising from capital controls. I find that, following a push-factor shock from the AE, if one EME tightens capital controls, the other EME experiences an additional wave of foreign investments. In addition, the spillover effects are economically meaningful and can be sizable under specific conditions. Moreover, my findings point out that, in the presence of international financial frictions, moderate capital controls may be useful to EMEs to affect the interest rate at which they trade international bonds. Finally, based on my results, coordination among EMEs in setting capital controls seems to deliver relatively small welfare gains compared with the Nash equilibrium.
F44|Informality, Labor Regulation, and the Business Cycle|We analyze the joint impact of employment protection and informality on macroeconomic volatility and the propagation of shocks in emerging economies. For this, we propose a small open economy business cycle model with frictional labor markets, employment protection and an informal sector, modeled as self-employment. The model is calibrated to the Mexican economy, in particular to business cycle moments for employment and informality obtained from our own calculations with the ENOE survey. We show that interest shocks, which affect specifically job creation in the formal sector, are key to obtain a counter-cyclical informality rate. In our model, confronted with similar shocks, the economy without an informal sector features higher macroeconomic volatility. However, an economy with low levels of employment protection would experience larger volatility in employment but smaller TFP and output fluctuations.
F44|The cross-border credit channel and lending standards surveys|This paper argues that a measure of lending conditions - Senior Loan Officer (SLO) surveys - offers important insights into the monetary transmission mechanism. Using a Global VAR (GVAR) and SLO survey data from 16 countries, we document bank lending standards' significant role in explaining the dynamics of domestic credit conditions. Changes in lending attitudes lead to spillovers of financial conditions to other advanced and emerging market economies. We also examine the interaction of unconventional monetary policies (UMPs) and lending attitudes by using an external high frequency instrument. Looking through this lens of UMPs, we see that expansionary monetary policy led to a lowering of domestic credit standards which amplified the impact of the initial monetary stimulus. However, we also find evidence that the need to resort to UMPs also brought about a decline in lending demand, raising questions about whether the signaling channel of monetary policy unintentionally worked at cross purposes by sapping the full effectiveness of these policies. The varied experiences in the United States and euro area draw attention to the relative importance of bank intermediation in determining the strength of the bank lending channel of monetary policy.
F44|Residential investment and economic activity: evidence from the past five decades|We analyse the evolution and main drivers of residential investment, using a panel with quarterly data for 15 advanced economies since the 1970s. Residential investment is a notably volatile component of real GDP in all countries in the sample. We find real house price growth, net migration inflows and the size of the existing housing stock to be significant drivers of residential investment across various model specifications. We also detect important asymmetries: interest rate increases affect residential investment more than interest rate cuts, and interest rate changes have larger effects on residential investment when its share in overall GDP is rising. Finally, we show that adding information on residential investment significantly improves the performance of standard recession prediction models.
F44|Foreign currency borrowing, balance sheet shocks and real outcomes|Emerging market firms frequently borrow in foreign currency (FX), but their assets are often denominated in domestic currency. This behavior leads to an FX mismatch on firms balance sheets, which can harm their net worth in the event of a depreciation. I use a large, unanticipated, and exogenous depreciation episode and a unique dataset to identify the real and financial effects of firm balance sheet shocks. I construct a new dataset of all listed non-financial firms, matched to their banks, in Mexico over 2008q1-2015q2. This dataset combines firm-level balance sheets and real outcomes, currency composition of both assets and liabilities, and firms' loan-level borrowing from banks in peso and FX. This data allows me to control for shocks to firms' credit supply to identify the balance sheet shock and examine its real consequences. I find that non-exporting firms that have a larger FX mismatch experience greater negative balance sheet effects following the depreciation. Among these, smaller firms see a decrease in loan growth, resulting in stagnant employment growth and decreased growth in physical capital relative to firms with smaller FX mismatch. Larger firms with a large FX mismatch also have lower growth in FX loans following the shock, but are able to increase borrowing in peso loans, resulting in relatively higher growth in employment and physical capital. My results imply that firms are subject to net worth based borrowing constraints, and that these constraints are more binding on smaller firms and for loans in FX.
F44|Monetary policy spillovers in the first age of financial globalisation: a narrative VAR approach 1884–1913|This paper investigates whether movements in the Bank of England’s interest rate hindered the development of the United States by transmitting or amplifying crises during the first age of financial globalisation. Evidence that US monetary and financial developments entered into the Bank’s reaction function implies that a Bank Rate series must include some endogenous rate changes. In order to clean Bank Rate of such movements the narrative approach is applied to a previously unexploited source in the Bank’s archives, ‘The Record of Outstanding Events’. The Bank also followed a known rule of adjusting Bank Rate to preserve its reserves to liabilities ratio. Bank Rate is also cleaned of the contemporaneous impact of this ratio in order to control for any reflex policy movements that could have been anticipated. This ensures that only true monetary policy shocks to the United States are identified. Estimates derived from this new measure indicate that although the Bank was able, via abrupt rate rises, to attract gold to the United Kingdom and replenish its reserves ratio, it was not responsible for causing or aggravating US crises. This result runs counter to conventional wisdom in the literature and contradicts the hypothesis that many US financial crises extended directly back to Threadneedle Street.
F44|Uncertainty and Economic Activity: A Multi-Country Perspective|Measures of economic uncertainty are countercyclical, but economic theory does not provide definite guidance on the direction of causation between uncertainty and the business cycle. This paper proposes a new multi-country approach to the analysis of the interaction between uncertainty and economic activity, without a priori restricting the direction of causality. We develop a multi-country version of the Lucas tree model with time-varying volatility and show that in addition to common technology shocks that affect output growth, higher-order moments of technology shocks are also required to explain the cross country variations of the realized volatility of equity returns. Using this theoretical insight, two common factors, a ‘real’ and a ‘financial’ one, are identified in the empirical analysis assuming different patterns of cross-country correlations of country-specific innovations to real GDP growth and realized stock market volatility. We then quantify the absolute and the relative importance of the common factor shocks as well as country-specific volatility and GDP growth shocks. The paper highlights three main empirical findings. First, it is shown that most of the unconditional correlation between volatility and growth can be accounted for by the real common factor, which is proportional to world growth in our empirical model and linked to the risk-free rate. Second, the share of volatility forecast error variance explained by the real common factor and by country-specific growth shocks amounts to less than 5 percent. Third, shocks to the common financial factor explain about 10 percent of the growth forecast error variance, but when such shocks occur, their negative impact on growth is large and persistent. In contrast, country-specific volatility shocks account for less than 1-2 percent of the growth forecast error variance.
F44|Central Bank Reputation and Inflation-Unemployment Performance: Empirical Evidence from an Executive Survey of 62 Countries|Although there is a well-established theoretical literature that links central bank (CB) reputation with inflation performance following Barro and Gordon, there is little empirical work testing the relationship rigorously. This paper empirically tests the impact of reputation on inflation-unemployment performance using a novel set of data on CB reputation--an annual local business manager survey on central bank policy covering 62 countries during 1995-2016. This paper finds that CB reputation is a significant determinant of inflation: the results of an FE panel and Arellano-Bond difference GMM model show that high-reputation CBs have achieved better inflation performances over the past 20 years with lower levels of inflation than others, holding the output gap and unemployment rate constant. This result remains robust to various control variables including money growth, past inflation levels, exchange rates, and financial crisis dummies. This paper also finds that high CB reputation is associated with a tight anchoring of inflation expectations to inflation targets in inflation-targeting countries. The effects of reputation on the volatility of inflation and unemployment rates are found to be not robust. This paper offers evidence of the opposite-direction causality as well that goes from high inflation to decreased CB reputation.
F44|Import Demand of Advanced Countries and Korea¡¯s Exports (in Korean)|This paper investigates the effects of demand for imports in advanced countries on Korea¡¯s exports to them, and how these effects have changed since the global financial crisis. As a measure of import demand, we use import intensity-adjusted demand to take into account heterogenous import intensities across components of aggregate demand. Our estimation of a dynamic panel regression model reveals that Korea¡¯s exports to G7 countries were elastic with respect to the import demand of these countries until the period of the global financial crisis, but have shifted to become inelastic since the crisis. Furthermore, we separately estimate the effects of the different components of G7 countries¡¯ aggregate demand (private consumption, public consumption, investment and exports). The results show that the decrease in private consumption in G7 countries during the crisis had a significant impact in causing the decline in Korea¡¯s exports to them, but that the increase in their public consumption since the crisis has had a significant effect in driving the increased Korean exports to them. The effects of G7 countries¡¯ exports on Korea¡¯s exports to them remain positive and significant during both the pre- and the post-crisis periods. The effects of G7 countries¡¯ investment on Korea¡¯s exports are also positive and significant, but the positive effect has weakened since the crisis. Our findings suggest that the overall effect of changes in G7 countries¡¯ import demand on Korea¡¯s exports to them has weakened compared to the pre-crisis period.
F44|Commodities and International Business Cycles|I introduce commodities and countries¡¯ different commodity trade structures into an otherwise standard two-country model to analyze international business cycles between the U.S. and commodity-exporting countries. In the model, only the foreign country (the commodity-exporting country) produces commodities and exports them to the home country (the U.S., the commodity-importing country). The model produces international business cycle statistics that are closer to the data than a standard model. In particular, the output correlation between the two countries increases and the consumption correlation falls compared to the standard model. Notably, unlike standard models, this model yields an output correlation that exceeds the consumption correlation, which mitigates the ¡°quantity anomaly¡± that was previously noted in the literature. Commodity consumption and the complementarity between commodities and noncommodity goods in consumption play key roles in generating this result.
F44|One money, many markets: a factor model approach to monetary policy in the Euro Area with high-frequency identification|We reconsider the effects of common monetary policy shocks across countries in the euro area, using a data-rich factor model and identifying shocks with high-frequency surprises around policy announcements. We show that the degree of heterogeneity in the response to shocks, while being low in financial variables and output, is significant in consumption, consumer prices and macro variables related to the labour and housing markets. Mirroring country-specific institutional and market differences, we find that home ownership rates are significantly correlated with the strength of the housing channel in monetary policy transmission. We document a high dispersion in the response to shocks of house prices and rents and show that, similar to responses in the US, these variables tend to move in different directions.
F44|"A Comment on Oulton, ""The UK Productivity Puzzle: Does Arthur Lewis Hold the Key?"""|"In Version One of his new paper, Oulton merges supply-side and demand-side theoretical models as a means better to understand why, since the financial crisis that broke in 2007, the UK’s productivity growth has not only been negligible but also a very poor outlier judged by international experience. Drawing on Arthur Lewis’s famous model of development, Oulton concludes, ""rapid rates of immigration in conjunction with low rates of growth of export demand in the aftermath of the Great Recession can explain the UK productivity puzzle"". According to Oulton, the UK's relatively poor productivity performance is attributable to a combination of the export demand constraint and of the continued growth of labour supply, which led to capital shallowing - a reduction in the rate of growth of capital services per hour worked. Bill Martin concludes, alas, that Arthur Lewis does not hold the key. The dominant, proximate ""explanation"" of the UK's relatively poor performance is relatively weak Total Factor Productivity (TFP), not relatively weak capital intensity. Moreover, the UK was not relatively more exposed to export demand shocks but delivered relatively worse output growth outcomes. Oulton nevertheless articulates the profound idea that full-employment capacity has adjusted to weak effective demand arising from adverse global developments. If this deep insight is correct, TFP would be a ""measure of our ignorance"" of the mechanisms that drove productive capacity to align with low aggregate demand."
F44|Understanding International Long-Term Interest Rate Comovement|Long-term interest rates of small open economies correlate strongly with the US long-term rate. Can central banks in those countries decouple from the US? An estimated DSGE model for the UK (vis-`a-vis the US) establishes three structural empirical results. (1) Comovement arises due to nominal fluctuations, not through real rates or term premia. (2) The cause of comovement is the central bank of the small open economy accommodating foreign inflation trends, rather than systematically curbing them. (3) Small open economies may find themselves much more affected by changes in US inflation trends than the US itself.
F44|Global Banking, Trade, and the International Transmission of the Great Recession|The global financial crisis of 2007-2009 spread through different channels from its origin in the United States to large parts of the world. In this paper we explore the financial and the trade channels in a unified framework and quantify their relative importance for this transmission. Specifically, we employ a DSGE model of an open economy with an internationally operating banking sector. We investigate the transmission of the crisis via the collapse of export demand and through losses in the value of cross-border asset holdings. Calibrated to German and UK data, the model attributes around half of the observed maximum output decline in Germany to these channels, and 87% for the UK. While the trade channel explains 30% of the empirical output decline in both countries, the financial channel plays a much larger role in the UK than in Germany. The UK's larger vulnerability to financial shocks is due to higher foreign-asset holdings, which simultaneously serve as an automatic stabilizer in case of plummeting foreign demand. The transmission via the financial channel triggers a much longer-lasting recession relative to the trade channel, resulting in larger cumulated output losses and a prolonged crisis particularly in the UK. Stricter bank capital regulations would have deepened the initial slump while simultaneously speeding up the recovery.
F44|Agricultural Price Shocks And Business Cycles: A Global Warning For Advanced Economies|For a panel of 75 countries, we find that increases in global agricultural commodity prices that are caused by unfavorable harvest shocks in other regions of the world significantly curtail domestic economic activity. The effects are much larger than for average global agricultural price shifts. The impact is also considerably stronger in high-income countries, despite the lower shares of food in household expenditures these countries have compared to low-income countries. On the other hand, we find weaker effects in countries that are net exporters of agricultural products, have higher shares of agriculture in GDP or lower shares of non-agricultural trade in GDP; that is, characteristics that typically apply to low-income countries. When we control for these country characteristics, we find indeed that the effects on economic activity become smaller when income per capita is higher. Overall, our findings imply that the consequences of climate change on advanced economies are likely larger than previously thought.
F44|Recent Trade Dynamics in Asia: Examples from Specific Industries|This paper looks at the extent to which the shift in the lower value added production to countries in the following development “tier” is actually becoming a reality. Several countries in East Asia have been upgrading production patterns and moving up the value chain, this paper looks at how this helps and offers new opportunities to less advanced countries to integrate in world trade. The paper uses a combination of techniques, from an analysis of disaggregated trade flows by country and sectors, to the calculation of trade intensity indices by country and sector, and value-added trade by sector. It finds combined evidence of forward and backward trade increasing between several neighbouring Asian economies and China, in the most labour-intensive industries in particular. Econometric analysis shows that relative unit labour costs are an explanatory factor of increased trade links. In cases, the intensification of trade links on the export side can relate to a strongly expanding local market (for example India for electronic products such as smartphones), but mostly the intensification of trade links takes place both on the import and export sides with markets which are much smaller than China (Vietnam, Bangladesh, etc.), and which experienced increased outward-processing activities as a result of China's production upgrade.
F44|The Falling Elasticity of Global Trade to Economic Activity: Testing the Demand Channel|Since the recovery from the great financial crisis in 2010, global real trade flows grew much slower than pre-crisis, in both absolute terms (growth rates) and relative terms (relative to GDP, from 2:1 in the great 1990’s to 1:1 since 2012) A debate has arisen as to whether this global trade slowdown, and related falling trade-to-income elasticity, was structural or cyclical. Some papers emphasized the slowing pace of international vertical specialization. Other works emphasized the prominent role of aggregate demand, notably when weighted by its trade component. Our paper goes in this latter direction. We estimated the standard import equation for 38 advanced and developing countries over the period 1995-2015, using an import intensity-adjusted measure of aggregate demand (IAD), calculated from input-output tables at country level, and compared results with regressions using GDP. The integration of IAD allows us to predict 76% to 86% of the changes in global imports, a better performance than if using GDP. The use of IAD also enabled us to measure the relative importance of each component of demand, according to their trade intensity. The model is able to account for over 90% of the recent trade slowdown (2012-2015), with IAD alone explaining 80% of it. The slowdown in global value chains explains more than half of the remaining share of the global trade slowdown, not explained by demand factors. Protectionism does not come up as statistically significant.
F44|The UK (and Western) productivity puzzle: does Arthur Lewis hold the key?|I propose a new explanation for the UK productivity puzzle. I graft the Lewis (1954) model onto a standard Solow growth model. What I call the neo-Lewis model is identical to the Solow model in good times. But in bad times foreign demand for a country’s exports is constrained below potential supply. This makes labour productivity growth depend negatively on the growth of labour input. I also argue that the neo-Lewis model can explain the fall in TFP growth, in the UK and elsewhere, after 2007. The predictions of the neoLewis model are tested on data for 23 advanced countries and also on a larger sample of 52 countries and find support.
F44|Financial Intermediation, Capital Accumulation and Crisis Recovery|This paper integrates banks into a two-sector neoclassical growth model to account for the fact that a fraction of firms relies on banks to finance their investments. There are four major contributions to the literature. First, although banks’ leverage amplifies shocks, the endogenous response of leverage to shocks is an automatic stabilizer that improves the resilience of the economy. In particular, financial and labor market institutions are essential factors that determine the strength of this automatic stabilization. Second, there is a mix of publicly financed bank re-capitalization, dividend payout restrictions, and consumption taxes that stimulates a Pareto-improving rapid build-up of bank equity and accelerates economic recovery after a slump in the banking sector. Third, the model replicates typical patterns of financing over the business cycle: procyclical bank leverage, procyclical bank lending, and countercyclical bond financing. Fourth, the framework preserves its analytical tractability wherefore it can serve as a macro-banking module that can be easily integrated into more complex economic environments.
F44|Dominant Currency Debt|Why is the dollar the dominant currency for debt contracts and what are its macroeconomic implications? We develop an international general equilibrium model where firms optimally choose the currency composition of their debt. We show that there always exists a dominant currency debt equilibrium, in which all firms borrow in a single dominant currency. It is the currency of the country that effectively pursues aggressive expansionary monetary policy in global downturns, lowering real debt burdens of firms. We show that the dollar empirically fits this description, despite its short term safe haven properties. We provide further modern and historical empirical support for our mechanism across time and currencies. We use our model to study how the optimal monetary policy differs if the Federal Reserve reacts to global versus domestic conditions.
F44|Sovereign risk and asset market dynamics in the euro area|This paper studies the behaviour of euro area asset market comovements during the period 2010- 2014, through the lens of a DSGE model. The economy is a two-country world consisting of a core and a periphery and featuring an international banking sector, home bias in bond holdings, and default. The periphery is buffeted by a sovereign risk shock, whose process is estimated from the data. The model successfully accounts for the divergence in core-periphery correlations between stock and bond returns. Simulation results indicate that the sovereign risk shock explains 50% of the increase in sovereign and loan-deposit spreads and 7% of the decrease in global output during the sovereign debt crisis.
F44|Dominant Currency Debt|Why is the dollar the dominant currency for debt contracts and what are its macroeconomic implications? We develop an international general equilibrium model where firms optimally choose the currency composition of their debt. We show that there always exists a dominant currency debt equilibrium, in which all firms borrow in a single dominant currency. It is the currency of the country that effectively pursues aggressive expansionary monetary policy in global downturns, lowering real debt burdens of firms. We show that the dollar empirically fits this description, despite its short term safe haven properties. We provide further modern and historical empirical support for our mechanism across time and currencies. We use our model to study how the optimal monetary policy differs if the Federal Reserve reacts to global versus domestic conditions.
F44|International Lending of Dutch Insurers and Pension Funds: the Impact of ECB Monetary Policy and Prudential Policies in the Host Country|Abstract We analyze the relationship between ECB monetary policy and prudential policies in the host country and international lending by Dutch insurers and pension funds, using confidential institution-specific data. Our results suggest that insurers and pension funds do not significantly change their foreign lending in response to ECB policy changes, proxied by a shadow rate capturing both conventional and unconventional monetary policies. However, our findings suggest that these financial institutions do increase foreign lending when banks in the host country are more constrained by prudential regulation, pointing to a substitution effect from banks to non-banks.
F44|Sovereign Risk and Asset Market Dynamics in the Euro Area|This paper studies the behavior of euro area asset market co-movements during the period 2010-2014, through the lens of a DSGE model. The economy is a two-country world consisting of a core and a periphery and featuring an international banking sector, international equity markets, home bias in sovereign bond holdings, and sovereign default. The periphery is buffeted by a sovereign risk shock, whose process is estimated from the data. The model accounts successfully for the divergence in core-periphery correlations between stock and sovereign bond returns. The simulation results indicate that the sovereign risk shock explains 50% of the increase in sovereign and loandeposit spreads, and 8% of the decrease in global output during the sovereign debt crisis.
F44|Assessing International Commonality in Macroeconomic Uncertainty and Its Effects|This paper uses a large vector autoregression (VAR) to measure international macroeconomic uncertainty and its effects on major economies, using two datasets, one with GDP growth rates for 19 industrialized countries and the other with a larger set of macroeconomic indicators for the U.S., euro area, and U.K. Using basic factor model diagnostics, we first provide evidence of significant commonality in international macroeconomic volatility, with one common factor accounting for strong comovement across economies and variables. We then turn to measuring uncertainty and its effects with a large VAR in which the error volatilities evolve over time according to a factor structure. The volatility of each variable in the system reflects time-varying common (global) components and idiosyncratic components. In this model, global uncertainty is allowed to contemporaneously affect the macroeconomies of the included nations—both the levels and volatilities of the included variables. In this setup, uncertainty and its effects are estimated in a single step within the same model. Our estimates yield new measures of international macroeconomic uncertainty, and indicate that uncertainty shocks (surprise increases) lower GDP and many of its components, adversely affect labor market conditions, lower stock prices, and in some economies lead to an easing of monetary policy.
F44|Can Trend Inflation Solve the Delayed Overshooting Puzzle?|We develop an open economy New Keynesian model with heterogeneity in price stickiness and positive trend inflation. The main insight of our analysis is that, in the presence of heterogeneity in price stickiness, there is a strong link between trend inflation and the timing of the peak response of the real exchange rate to a monetary policy shock. Without trend inflation, the real exchange rate peaks almost immediately. With trend inflation set at historical values, the peak occurs at around 2 years. Delayed overshooting is a consequence of the interaction between heterogeneity in price stickiness and trend inflation.
F44|Modeling time-variation over the business cycle (1960–2017): an international perspective|In this paper, I explore the changes in international business cycles with quarterly data for the eight largest advanced economies (US, UK, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Japan, and Canada) since the 1960s. Using a time-varying parameter model with stochastic volatility for real GDP growth and inflation allows their dynamics to change over time, approximating nonlinearities in the data that otherwise would not be adequately accounted for with linear models [Granger, Clive W.J., Timo Teräsvirta, and Heather M. Anderson. 1991. “Modeling Nonlinearity over the Business Cycle.” In NBER book Business Cycles, Indicators and Forecasting (1993), edited by James H. Stock and Mark W. Watson, University of Chicago Press.; Granger, Clive W.J. 2008. “Non-Linear Models: Where Do We Go Next – Time Varying Parameter Models?” Studies in Nonlinear Dynamics and Econometrics 12 (3): 1–11.]. With that empirical model, I document a period of declining macro volatility since the 1980s, followed by increasing (and diverging) inflation volatility since the mid-1990s. I also find significant shifts in inflation persistence and cyclicality, as well as in macro synchronization and even forecastability. The 2008 global recession appears to have had an impact on some of this. I ground my empirical strategy on the reduced-form solution of the workhorse New Keynesian model and, motivated by theory, explore the relationship between greater trade openness (globalization) and the reported shifts in international business cycle. I show that globalization has sizeable (yet nonlinear) effects in the data consistent with the implications of the model – yet globalization’s contribution is not a foregone conclusion, depending crucially on more than the degree of openness of the international economy.
F44|Inflation Globally|The Phillips curve remains central to stabilization policy. Increasing financial linkages, international supply chains, and managed exchange rate policy have given core currencies an outsized influence on the domestic affairs of world economies. We exploit such influence as a source of exogenous variation to examine the effects of the recent financial crisis on the Phillips curve mechanism. Using a difference-in-differences approach, and comparing countries before and after the 2008 financial crisis sorted by whether they endured or escaped the crisis, we are able to assess the evolution of the Phillips curve globally.
F44|Financial Heterogeneity and Monetary Union|In this paper, we analyze the business cycle and welfare consequences of monetary union among countries that face heterogeneous financial market frictions. We show that facing financial distress in the absence of devaluation, the firms in financially weak countries countries have an incentive to raise their prices to cope with liquidity shortfalls. At the same time, firms in countries with greater financial slack poach from the customer base of the former countries by undercutting their prices, without internalizing the detrimental effects on union-wide aggregate demand. Thus, a monetary union among countries with heterogeneous degrees of financial frictions may create a tendency toward internal devaluation for core countries with greater financial resources, leading to chronic current account deficits of the peripheral countries. A risk-sharing arrangement between the core and the periphery can potentially undo the distortion brought about by the currency union. However, such risk sharing requires unrealistic amounts of wealth transfers from the core to the periphery. We show that unilateral fiscal devaluation carried out by the peripheral countries can substantially improve the situation not only for themselves but also for the core countries if there exists an important degree of pecuniary externality not internalized by the predatory pricing strategies of individual firms.
F44|Trade in Commodities and Emerging Market Business Cycles|This paper studies the role of the sectoral composition of production and trade in accounting for emerging market business cycles. We document that in emerging economies the production of commodities is a larger share of total production than in developed ones, and that they run larger sectoral and aggregate trade imbalances. We set up a small open economy model that produces commodities and manufactures and trades them with the rest of the world. We contrast the implied business cycle dynamics of two economies that are respectively calibrated to match the observed differences between developed and emerging countries. In the model, shocks to the relative price of commodities lead to much larger fluctuations in output, net exports and TFP in the emerging economy, accounting for the higher volatility that we observe in the data. A key driver of these effects is that emerging economies consume relatively more manufactures than they produce.
F44|Asset Bubbles and Global Imbalances|We analyze the relationships between bubbles, capital flows, and economic activities in a rational bubble model with two large open economies. We establish a reinforcing relationship between global imbalances and bubbles. Capital flows from South to North facilitate the emergence and the size of bubbles in the North. Bubbles in the north in turn facilitate South-to-North capital flows. The model can simultaneously explain several stylized features of recent bubble episodes.
F44|The Micro Origins of International Business-Cycle Comovement|This paper investigates the role of individual firms in international business-cycle comovement using data covering the universe of French firm-level value added and international linkages over the period 1993–2007. At the micro level, trade and multinational linkages with a particular foreign country are associated with a significantly higher correlation between a firm and that foreign country. The impact of direct linkages on comovement at the micro level has significant macro implications. Without those linkages the correlation between France and foreign countries would fall by about 0.098, or one-third of the observed average correlation of 0.291 in our sample of partner countries.
F44|Internal Devaluations and Equilibrium Exchange Rates: New Evidences and Perspectives for the EMU|From the onset of the euro crisis to the Brexit vote, we have witnessed impressive reductions of current account imbalances in peripheral countries of the euro area. These reductions can be the result of either a compression of internal demand or an improvement in external competitiveness. In this paper, we compute exchange rate misalignments within the euro area to assess whether peripheral countries have managed to improve their external competitiveness. After controlling for the reduction of business cycle synchronization within the EMU, we find that peripheral countries have managed to reduce their exchange rate misalignments thanks to internal devaluations. To some extent, these favourable evolutions reflect improvements in external competitiveness. Nevertheless, these gains could only be temporary if peripheral countries do not improve their non-price competitiveness, their trade structures and their international specializations in the long run.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F44|Secular Stagnation: New Challenges for the Industrialized Countries in the 21st Century|This paper attempts to provide an overview of the main challenges facing industrialized in a context of secular stagnation. There is no consensus on the meaning of this concept and various alternative views coexist. We present the key issues in the debates today, accounting for phenomena like the slowdown in factor productivity, liquidity and safety traps, the decline of natural interest rates, the historical downward trend of potential growths and low inflation rates. We provide a bird’s eye survey of the available literature on the causes of secular stagnation from a historical perspective, the symptoms, the main causes as well as some policies proposed to overcome it. We give some illustrations for the United Kingdom, the United States, the euro area and Japan.
F44|Sovereign External Borrowing and Multilateral Lending: Dynamics and Crises|Fiscal policy is procyclical in developing countries. An ample literature has explained this fact and explored its consequences for aggregate cyclical fluctuations. Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs) are an important source of finance for governments and therefore play a role in the execution of fiscal policy. In this paper, we assess whether MDB disbursements to the sovereign commove with government expenditure and with private sovereign lending, during different stances of fiscal policy and during fiscal crises. We find that multilateral lending to the sovereign is correlated with government expenditure and this correlation does not change if the government is running a surplus or a deficit. However, when the sovereign is having a fiscal crisis associated with unsustainable fiscal policy, this relationship disappears for Regional Development Banks (RDBs) and the World Bank (WB). Finally, we find evidence of synchronization between MDBs and IMF during fiscal crises.
F44|Government Spending during Sudden Stop Crises|This paper studies the effect of government spending policy during sudden stop crises. Using a quarterly dataset of 30 small open economies, I find that government spending is more effective in stimulating consumption and appreciating the real exchange rate during sudden stops than during normal times. To rationalize this, I build a two-sector model with a collateral constraint on external debt. During a recession, an adverse international shock reduces consumption and undermines the value of collateral. The collapsing asset price in turn tightens the financial constraint, deteriorates the real absorption, and sets-in a fully-blown debt-deflation mechanism. In this context, an increase in government purchases exerts a counteracting force by raising asset prices and stimulating real activities. More importantly, if the government can commit to certain paths of spending in the future, the expected real appreciation will further relax the financial constraint today. I use a calibrated model to explore the multiplier effect under different exchange rate regimes, the asymmetric multipliers, and the multipliers under different levels of shock persistence.
F44|Adjustment dynamics and business cycle heterogeneity in the EMU: Evidence from estimated DSGE models|The paper reviews adjustment dynamics in the EMU on the basis of estimated DSGE models for four large EA Member States (DE, FR, IT, ES). We compare the response of the four countries to identical shocks and find a particularly strong response of employment and wages in ES, a high sensitivity of IT to investment-related shocks, and a comparatively strong impact of global shocks on the DE economy. We also perform counterfactual exercises that apply the estimated shocks and parameters for ES to DE, FR, and IT. The counterfactual simulations suggest that differences in shocks have been important for GDP growth differentials, and together with structural differences also contributed to differences in employment fluctuations across the four countries considered.
F44|Banks, debt and risk: assessing the spillovers of corporate taxes|Using bank balance sheet data, we find evidence that leverage and asset risk of European multinational banks in the crisis and post-crisis period is affected by corporate taxes in their host country as well as by the tax rates in all the jurisdictions where the banking group operates. Then, we evaluate the effects that establishing tax neutrality between debt and equity finance has on systemic risk. We show that the degree of coordination in implementing the hypothetical tax reform matters. In particular, a coordinated elimination of the tax advantage of debt would significantly reduce systemic losses in the event of a severe banking crisis. By contrast, uncoordinated tax reforms are not equally beneficial. This is because national tax policies generate spillovers through cross-border bank activities and tax-driven strategic allocation of debt and asset risk across group affiliates.
F44|Spillovers from Euro Area Monetary Policy: A Focus on Emerging Europe|This paper investigates the international effects of a euro area monetary policy shock, focusing on countries from Central, Eastern, and Southeastern Europe (CESEE). To that end, we use a global vector autoregressive (GVAR) model and employ shadow rates as a proxy for the monetary policy stance during normal and zero-lower-bound periods. We propose a new way of modeling euro area countries in a multi-country framework, accounting for joint monetary policy, and a novel approach to simultaneously identifying shocks. Our results show that in most euro area and CESEE countries, prices adjust and output falls in response to a euro area monetary tightening, but with a substantial degree of heterogeneity.
F44|Financial friction sources in emerging economies: Structural estimation of sovereign default models|There are two literature strands that explain stylized facts in emerging economies: the stochastic productivity trend or financial frictions. However, financial frictions are driven by both trend and stationary productivity shocks, thus distinguishing their impact from the direct role of output fluctuations is essential. We estimate sovereign default models, full-nonlinear dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) with micro-founded financial imperfections, applying a particle filter, and evaluate the source of financial frictions. The main finding is that stationary shocks rather than trend shocks account for financial frictions and the resulting countercyclicality, except for the post-1977 period in Mexico; however, the exception disappears for 1902?2005 as long-run data. The sources of financial frictions are determined by the persistence and volatility of shocks, asymmetric domestic cost of sovereign default, and mismatch between sovereign default and business cycles.
F44|Alexandre Lamfalussy and the monetary policy debates among central bankers during the Great Inflation|"The 1970s were a turbulent period in postwar monetary history. This paper focuses on how central bankers at the Bank for International Settlements (BIS), especially Alexandre Lamfalussy, the BIS’s Economic Adviser, responded to the Great Inflation. The breakdown of Bretton Woods forced central bankers to look for new monetary policy strategies as the exchange rate lost its central role. Lamfalussy, in his early years a Keynesian in favour of discretionary policies, moved to a ""conservative Keynesian"" position, acknowledging that a medium term orientation and the credibility of monetary policy were important to break inflationary expectations. However, Lamfalussy never moved to “monetarist” positions. Lamfalussy certainly acknowledged that monetary targets could reinforce the credibility and independence of monetary policy. However, he rejected mechanical rules. In essence he aimed for a middle position: rules applied with a pragmatic sense of discretion. In the early 1980s, with the rise of financial innovations, Lamfalussy would stress even more the limitations of monetary targeting. His focus turned increasingly to systemic financial stability risks, preparing the ground for the macroprudential approach of the BIS. In Lamfalussy's view, central banking remained an art, not a science."
F44|International confidence spillovers and business cycles in small open economies|This paper draws from two observations in the literature. First, that shocks to entrepreneur or household confidence matter for economic outcomes. Second, that it is hard to explain the extent of cyclical comovement between economies taking into account their trade links only. We check empirically to what extent confidence fluctuations matter for business cycles and in particular for their comovement between economies. We focus on a large (euro area) and a small, nearby economy (Poland). Our results show that confidence fluctuations account for approximately 40% of business cycle fluctuations in the euro area. Spillovers of confidence shocks are also large. Our main finding is that the their direct impact (i.e. not via trade but through the cross-border spread of news and business sentiment) accounts for almost 40% of business cycle fluctuations in Poland.
F44|Liquidity Traps and Jobless Recoveries|This paper proposes a model that explains the joint occurrence of liquidity traps and jobless growth recoveries. Its key elements are downward nominal wage rigidity, a Taylor-type interest rate feedback rule, the zero lower bound on nominal interest rates, and a confidence shock. Absent a change in policy, the model predicts that low inflation and high unemployment become chronic. With capital accumulation, the model predicts, in addition, an investment slump. The paper identifies a New Fisherian effect, whereby raising the nominal interest rate to its intended target for an extended period of time can boost inflationary expectations and thereby foster employment.
F44|Understanding the cross-country effects of U.S. technology shocks|Business cycles are substantially correlated across countries. Yet, most existing models are not able to generate substantial transmission through international trade. We show that the nature of such transmission depends fundamentally on the features determining the responsiveness of labor supply and labor demand to international relative prices. We augment a standard international macroeconomic model to incorporate three key features: a weak short-run wealth effect on labor supply, variable capital utilization, and imported intermediate inputs for production. This model can generate large and significant endogenous transmission of technology shocks through international trade. We demonstrate this by estimating the model using data for Canada and the United States with limited-information Bayesian methods. We find that this model can account for the substantial transmission of permanent U.S. technology shocks to Canadian aggregate variables such as output and hours, documented in a structural vector autoregression. Transmission through international trade is found to explain the majority of the business cycle comovement between the United States and Canada.
F44|Commodity price risk management and fiscal policy in a sovereign default model|Commodity prices are an important driver of fiscal policy and the business cycle in many developing and emerging market economies. We analyze a dynamic stochastic small-open-economy model of sovereign default, featuring endogenous fiscal policy and stochastic commodity revenues. The model accounts for a positive correlation of commodity revenues with government expenditures and a negative correlation with tax rates. We quantitatively document the extent to which the utilization of different financial hedging instruments by the government contributes to lowering the volatility of different macroeconomic variables and their correlation with commodity revenues. An event analysis illustrates how financial hedging instruments moderate fiscal adjustment in response to significant falls in the price of commodities. We evaluate the conditional and unconditional welfare gains for the representative household, generated by financial derivatives and commodity-indexed bonds.
F44|Subjective interest rate uncertainty and the macroeconomy: A cross-country analysis|We ask whether uncertainty about interest rates is important for economic activity. The effects of interest rate uncertainty on the economy are examined through the lens of a small VAR where the assumption that uncertainty can affect real activity contemporaneously but not vice versa is indeed in line with the data. Our measure of uncertainty stems from professional forecasts of short- and long-term interest rates and accounts for both disagreement among forecasters and the perceived variability of future aggregate shocks. Studying a panel of countries we find that subjective interest rate uncertainty has large, negative and persistent effects on the economy.
F44|Subjective interest rate uncertainty and the macroeconomy : a cross-country analysis|We present a measure of subjective interest rate uncertainty and explore its effects on the economy for G7 countries and Spain, during the period 1993-2015. This measure is a summary of uncertainty among professional forecasters over the future level of interest rates. We find that subjective interest rate uncertainty is harmful to the economy, with both recessionary and deflationary effects. These effects vary across countries in terms of magnitude and persistence. Differences in economic structures and institutional frameworks can explain this heterogeneity. Central banks can play an important role in mitigating interest rate uncertainty by designing strategies to enhance transparency and communication.
F44|Exchange Rate Regimes And Sudden Stops|No abstract is available for this item.
F44|Risk sharing and real exchange rates: The role of non-tradable sector and trend shocks|In this paper, we show that the tradable and non-tradable total factor productivity (TFP) processes of the US and Europe have unit roots and can be modeled by a vector error correction model (VECM). Then, we develop a standard two-country and two-good (tradable and non-tradable) DSGE model. Our model implies that using cointegrated TFP processes and including non-tradables help solve the real exchange rate (RER) volatility and risk sharing puzzles. Cointegrated TFP shocks, or trend shocks, generate significant income effects and amplify the mechanisms that produce high RER volatility. Moreover, trend shocks can break the tight link between relative consumption and RER for low and high values of trade elasticity parameters. The non-tradable sector in the model improves the results for the risk sharing significantly.
F44|Business cycles in an oil economy|The recent oil price fall has created concern among policy makers regarding the consequences of terms of trade shocks for resource-rich countries. This concern is not a minor one – the world’s commodity exporters combined are responsible for 15–20% of global value added. We develop and estimate a two-country New Keynesian model in order to quantify the importance of oil price shocks for Norway – a large, prototype petroleum exporter. Domestic supply chains link mainland (non-oil) Norway to the off-shore oil industry, while fiscal authorities accumulate income in a sovereign wealth fund. Oil prices and the international business cycle are jointly determined abroad. These features allow us to disentangle the structural sources of oil price fluctuations, and how they affect mainland Norway. The estimated model provides three key results. First, oil price movements represent an important source of macroeconomic volatility in mainland Norway. Second, while no two shocks cause the same dynamics, conventional trade channels make an economically less significant difference for the transmission of global shocks to the oil exporter than to oil importers. Third, the domestic oil industry’s supply chain is an important transmission mechanism for oil price movements, while the prevailing fiscal regime provides substantial protection against external shocks.
F44|Commodity Price Risk Management and Fiscal Policy in a Sovereign Default Model|Commodity prices are an important driver of fiscal policy and the business cycle in many developing economies. We analyze a dynamic stochastic small-open-economy model of sovereign default, featuring endogenous fiscal policy and stochastic commodity revenues. The model accounts for a positive correlation of commodity revenues with government expenditures and a negative correlation with tax rates. We quantitatively document the extent to which the utilization of different financial hedging instruments by the government contributes to lowering the volatility of different macroeconomic variables and their correlation with commodity revenues. An event analysis illustrates how financial hedging instruments moderate fiscal adjustment in response to significant falls in the price of commodities.
F44|Asset prices and macroeconomic outcomes: A survey|This paper surveys the literature on the linkages between asset prices and macroeconomic outcomes. It focuses on three major questions. First, what are the basic theoretical linkages between asset prices and macroeconomic outcomes? Second, what is the empirical evidence supporting these linkages? And third, what are the main challenges to the theoretical and empirical findings? The survey addresses these questions in the context of four major asset price categories: equity prices, house prices, exchange rates and interest rates, with a particular focus on their international dimensions. It also puts into perspective the evolution of the literature on the determinants of asset prices and their linkages with macroeconomic outcomes, and discusses possible future research directions.
F44|Macroeconomic Implications of Financial Imperfections: A Survey|This paper surveys the theoretical and empirical literature on the macroeconomic implications of financial imperfections. It focuses on two major channels through which financial imperfections can affect macroeconomic outcomes. The first channel, which operates through the demand side of finance and is captured by financial accelerator-type mechanisms, describes how changes in borrowers’ balance sheets can affect their access to finance and thereby amplify and propagate economic and financial shocks. The second channel, which is associated with the supply side of finance, emphasizes the implications of changes in financial intermediaries’ balance sheets for the supply of credit, liquidity and asset prices, and, consequently, for macroeconomic outcomes. These channels have been shown to be important in explaining the linkages between the real economy and the financial sector. That said, many questions remain.
F44|International credit supply shocks|House prices and exchange rates can potentially amplify the expansionary effect of capital inflows. We first set up a model of collateralized borrowing in domestic and foreign currency with international financial intermediation in which a change in leverage of global intermediaries leads to an international credit supply increase. In this environment, we illustrate how house price increases and exchange rates appreciations contribute to fueling the boom by inflating the value of collateral. We then document empirically, in a Panel VAR model for 50 advanced and emerging countries estimated with quarterly data from 1985 to 2012, that an increase in the leverage of US Broker-Dealers also leads to an increase in cross-border credit flows, a house price and consumption boom, a real exchange rate appreciation and a current account deterioration consistent with the transmission in the model. Finally, we study the sensitivity of the consumption and asset price response to such a shock, and show that country differences are associated with the level of the maximum loan-to-value ratio and the share of foreign currency denominated credit.
F44|International Credit Supply Shocks|House prices and exchange rates can potentially amplify the expansionary effect of capital inflows by inflating the value of collateral. We first set up a model of collateralized borrowing in domestic and foreign currency with international financial intermediation in which a change in leverage of global intermediaries leads to an international credit supply increase. In this environment, we illustrate how house price increases and exchange rates appreciations contribute to fuelling the boom by inflating the value of collateral. We then document empirically, in a Panel VAR model for 50 advanced and emerging countries estimated with quarterly data from 1985 to 2012, that an increase in the leverage of US Broker-Dealers also leads to an increase in cross-border credit flows, a house price and consumption boom, a real exchange rate appreciation and a current account deterioration consistent with the transmission in the model. Finally, we study the sensitivity of the consumption and asset price response to such a shock and show that country differences are associated with the level of the maximum loan-to-value ratio and the share of foreign currency denominated credit.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F44|Financial shocks, credit spreads and the international credit channel|Recent empirical evidence on the cross-country synchronization of credit spreads in response to US monetary policy shocks has led to the notion of an ‘international credit channel’ of US monetary policy. This paper provides novel evidence on the existence of an international credit channel for the transmission of US financial shocks across borders, and compares their impact to US monetary policy shocks. We identify monetary policy and financial shocks by combining the external instruments approach with sign restrictions in a two-country SVAR for the United States and the United Kingdom. Adverse US financial shocks trigger a sharp and persistent contraction in the US economy, and an increase in US credit spreads. Crucially, this tightening in US credit conditions is quickly transmitted internationally, leading to an increase in credit spreads and a slowdown in economic activity in the United Kingdom. Unlike financial shocks, monetary policy shocks do not seem to induce as much international co-movement. Our results are in line with general equilibrium open economy models with credit market imperfections and a high degree of financial integration.
F44|Advanced economies and emerging markets: Dissecting the drivers of business cycle synchronization|What are the divers of business cycle synchronization within and between advanced and emerging economies at the sector level? This question is addressed by analysing international co-movements of value added growth in a multi-sector dynamic factor model. The model contains a world factor, region factors, sector factors, country factors, and idiosyncratic components. The model is estimated using Bayesian methods for 9 disaggregated sectors in 5 developed economies (G5) and 19 emerging economies for the 1972–2009 period. The results suggest that, while there exists a common ‘regional business cycle’ in the G5, fluctuations in sectoral value added growth are dominated by country-specific factors in the emerging markets. Despite that, the international factor (the sum of world and sector factors) is more important than the region factor, suggesting that the emerging markets are more synchronized with the G5. A simple regression shows that (i) the world factor would be more important the larger the share of agriculture in output; (ii) in more open economies the sector factor is more important in explaining sectoral value added growth fluctuations; (iii) the region factors is more important the richer and the less volatile the economy. Finally, a comparison of the variance of sectoral value added growth accounted for by each factor from the pre- to the post-globalization period shows convergence of the business cycles within the G5 and EM, respectively. The changes in the contribution of the world, sector and region factor are due to changes in the importance of those factors within sectors. However, for the emerging markets, the fall in the importance of the country factors is dominated by changes in the structural composition of the economies. Therefore, the evolution of the structural composition in the emerging markets could be an important driver for more synchronized business cycles at the regional and international level.
F44|Modeling fluctuations in the global demand for commodities|It is widely understood that the real price of globally traded commodities is determined by the forces of demand and supply. One of the main determinants of the real price of commodities is shifts in the demand for commodities associated with unexpected fluctuations in global real economic activity. There have been numerous proposals for quantifying global real economic activity. We discuss which criteria a measure of global real activity must satisfy to be useful for modeling industrial commodity prices, we examine which of the many alternative measures in the literature are most suitable for applied work, and we explain why some popular measures are inappropriate for modeling industrial commodity prices. Given these insights, we examine the question of whether there has been a slowdown in global real economic activity between 2011 and 2016 and by how much. Drawing on a range of new evidence, we show that the global commodity price boom of the 2000s appears to have been largely transitory and that the partial recovery after 2016 has been fueled by the strength of advanced economies rather than China. Our analysis has important implications for the design of structural models of commodity markets, for the analysis of the transmission of commodity price shocks to commodity-importing and -exporting economies, and for commodity price forecasting.
F44|Five Essays on International Trade, Factor Flows and the Gains from Globalization|Diese Arbeit wurde von Inga Heiland während ihrer Tätigkeit am ifo Institut verfasst. Sie wurde 2016 abgeschlossen und von der volkswirtschaftlichen Fakultät der Universität München als Dissertation angenommen. Sie besteht aus fünf Kapiteln die sich mit einem oder mehreren Aspekten des internationalen Handels und der Bewegungen von Produktionsfaktoren beschäftigen, einschließlich des Handels mit Gütern und ihren Wertschöpfungsanteilen, internationaler Kapital- und Migrationsbewegungen und des Handels von Risiken. Alle Kapitel haben zum Ziel ein vertieftes Verständnis der ökonomischen Gewinne von unterschiedlichen Formen der Globalisierung zu schaffen. Dabei werden mehr oder weniger explizit die Determinanten internationaler Handelsströme, Faktorbewegungen und Produktionsstrukturen betrachtet, sowie die Rolle von Barrieren, die den internationalen Austausch von Gütern und Produktionsfaktoren hemmen. In methodischer Hinsicht haben alle Kapitel den Fokus auf allgemeine Gleichgewichtsanalyse gemeinsam. Empirische Analysen beruhen überwiegend auf dem Konzept struktureller Schätzung.
F44|Diffusion von Politikinnovationen im Mehrebenensystem der Energiewende – Erkenntnisse aus drei kommunalen Fallstudien|Im Rahmen der deutschen Energiewende gibt es auf lokaler und regionaler Ebene verschiedene Ansätze neue Formen der Energieversorgung zu etablieren und Energieeffizienz und Energieeinsparung zu fördern. Unklar ist, inwiefern diese Ansätze Ähnlichkeiten aufweisen und ggf. für die Erreichung energie- und klimapolitischer Ziele übergeordneter föderaler Ebenen nutzbar gemacht werden können. Zentral für diese Studie ist daher die Frage, inwiefern und (wenn ja) aus welchen Gründen und auf welche Weise sich innovative Politikmaßnahmen und –konzepte oder bestimmte Teile davon im Energiebereich unter den Kommunen und ihren Stadtwerken ausbreiten (Diffusion). In Form von Fallstudien werden dazu explizit München, Regensburg und Schönau im Schwarzwald untersucht. Die Fallstudien zeigen, dass die Energie- und Klimapolitik beträchtlich zwischen den Kommunen variiert und die Diffusion innovativer Politiken institutionell und faktisch relativ stark beschränkt ist. Dennoch geben alle drei Fallstudien verschiedene Anhaltspunkte, dass Politikinnovationen diffundieren. Dies erfolgt zum Teil über Städtenetzwerke und Verbände/ Bündnisse, vielfach aber auch ad-hoc, in einem informellen Rahmen und über persönliche Verbindungen auf administrativer oder politischer Ebene zwischen den Kommunen.
F44|The common sources of business cycles in Trans‐Pacific countries and the US? A comparison with NAFTA|This paper uses both a non‐structural and a structural approach to investigate the drivers of the business cycles in the US and 15 Trans‐Pacific (TP) countries. Our non‐structural analysis, based on a principal component methodology, reveals the shares of variation in macroeconomic variables that are due to factors common to both the US and the TP region, and factors that are region‐specific. We obtain similar measures by using a structural model (an estimated two‐country dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model) that allows for common and correlated shocks across the two regions. The clear and common finding from our analyses is that common shocks explain a substantial amount of macroeconomic variation. Comparison with the NAFTA region, along this dimension, reveals that the US economy is more similar to the TP region (a wider region that also includes Mexico and Canada) than its two neighbours.
F44|Corruption for sales|This paper investigates the impact of corruption on foreign affiliates’ sales of German multinationals that differ in their level of experience in the foreign market. We exploit the panel dimension of a detailed firm-level dataset to show that more experienced firms are less likely to suffer from the costs related to corruption. Controlling for persistent and unobserved factors at the country and firm levels, we show that corruption reduces unambiguously the sales of new entering firms, while having no impact on the sales of incumbents.
F44|The effects of quasi-random monetary experiments|The trilemma of international finance explains why interest rates in countries that fix their exchange rates and allow unfettered cross-border capital flows are largely outside the monetary authority’s control. Using historical panel-data since 1870 and using the trilemma mechanism to construct an external instrument for exogenous monetary policy fluctuations, we show that monetary interventions have very different causal impacts, and hence implied inflation-output trade-offs, according to whether: (1) the economy is operating above or below potential; (2) inflation is low, thereby bringing nominal rates closer to the zero lower bound; and (3) there is a credit boom in mortgage markets. We use several adjustments to account for potential spillover effects including a novel control function approach. The results have important implications for monetary policy.
F44|Some International Aspects Of Business Cycles: Neisser, Haberler, And Modern Open Economy Macroeconomics|Despite the transnational character of the Great Depression of the years 1929-33, there are few works in the inter-war literature that deal in depth with the propagation of business cycles across national borders and systemic risks of depression in the world economy. Two notable exceptions are Hans Neisser’s monograph on Some International Aspects of the Business Cycle (1936) and chapter 12 in Gottfried Haberler’s Prosperity and Depression (1937), which carries the heading “International Aspects of Business Cycles”. Both works differ substantially from each other and from the modern way of thinking about international business cycles in Open Economy Macroeconomics. This paper argues that Neisser’s and Haberler’s approaches provide more straightforward routes to capturing some of the transnational aspects of the recent Great Recession (of 2008/09) than the modern standard approach. At the first stage, the two older approaches are presented and compared with each other. At the second stage, they are contrasted with the current state of open-economy macroeconomics, as represented by Uribe & Schmitt-Grohé (2014), a textbook in the making that puts international macro in a business cycle framework. Since Haberler’s account accentuates the role of transport costs, imperfections of capital markets and monetary policies, it can be used as a catalogue of criteria for checking what modern attempts to connect international trade, international finance and economic growth have got (back) in sight. More importantly, both Haberler’s and Neisser’s approach also serve to identify what has been lost out of sight.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F44|Home biased expectations and macroeconomic imbalances in a monetary union|Under monetary union, economic dynamics may diverge across countries due to regional inflation differentials and a pro-cyclical real interest rate channel, yet stability is generally ensured through endogenous adjustment of the real exchange rate. The speed of adjustment depends, inter alia, on the way agents’ form expectations. We propose a model in which agents expectations are largely based on domestic variables, and less so on foreign variables. We show that such home bias in expectations strengthens the real interest rate channel and causes country-specific shocks to generate larger and more prolonged macroeconomic imbalances.
F44|Missing disinflation and missing inflation|Recent inflation “puzzles” disappear in a model that properly accounts for domestic and global factors and captures their changing importance over time. While global factors are often important, domestic factors explain much of the inflation dynamics in the recent missing inflation episode in the euro area. JEL Classification: E31, E32, F44
F44|Trade, finance or policies: What drives the cross-border spill-over of business cycles?|In this paper we investigate how income growth rates in one country are affected by growth rates in partner countries, testing for the importance of pairwise country links as well as characteristics of the receiving country (trade and financial openness, exchange rate regime, fiscal variables). We find that trade integration fosters the spill-over of business cycles, both bilaterally and as a country characteristic (trade openness). Results for financial integration are mixed; financial links as pairwise country characteristic are either insignificant or negatively signed (indicating a dampening of cross country spill-overs), but financial openness as characteristic of the receiving country amplifies spill-overs. We find no evidence for a role of the exchange rate regime. Finally, we find that higher government spending and debt reduces countries’ vulnerability to foreign business cycles, presumably through the effect of automatic stabilizers.
F44|Missing Disinflation and Missing Inflation: A VAR Perspective|In the immediate wake of the Great Recession we didn't see the disinflation that most models predicted and, subsequently, we didn't see the inflation they predicted. We show that these puzzles disappear in a vector autoregressive model that properly accounts for domestic and external factors. This model reveals strong spillovers from U.S. to euro-area inflation in the Great Recession. By contrast, domestic factors explain much of the euro-area inflation dynamics during the 2012-14 missing inflation episode. Consequently, euro-area economists and models that excessively focused on the global nature of inflation were liable to miss the contribution of deflationary domestic shocks in this period.
F44|Sectoral interlinkages in global value chains: spillovers and network effects|This paper studies the role of global input-output linkages in transmitting economic disturbances in the international economy. Our empirical results suggest that these sectoral spillovers are both statistically significant and of economic importance. We also provide evidence that it is not the interlinkages per se that matter for the international transmission but rather the presence of global hub sectors that are either large suppliers or purchasers of other sectors' inputs. When the links between these sectors and the rest of the global value chain are severed, the spillovers diminish strongly and eventually become statistically insignificant. This highlights the importance of the structure of the network for enabling spillovers and the prominent role played by hub sectors in the global economy. JEL Classification: E30, E32, F44, F62
F44|Why should the world care? Analysis, mechanisms and spillovers of the destination based border adjusted tax|Members of the US House of Representatives have proposed a major overhaul of the US corporate tax system, the so-called “destination-based border-adjusted cash-flow tax” (DBCFT). The literature on the economic implications and spillovers of such a DBCFT is scarce. This paper aims to provide a comprehensive analysis of the mechanics of such a tax, its macroeconomic implications as well as its global spillovers using a fully structural global multi-country model. Our results suggest that the short term macroeconomic impact of the reform would depend primarily on how permanent agents perceive the policy to be. Robustness scenarios show that the magnitude of the short term impact will also depend on the extent to which exporters are reimbursed by their domestic costs; what categories of goods are excluded from the reform; how the government uses the revenues generated by the border adjusted tax; and the pricing system used by exporters. Moreover, global spillovers will depend on how easy it is to replace imported goods by domestic production; whether US trading partners retaliate, and how financial markets in emerging economies react. If there is disequilibrium in relative prices in the short term, global economic activity spillovers could be strongly negative and world trade could decline substantially. JEL Classification: C68, E47, F41, F44, F62, O41
F44|More than a feeling: confidence, uncertainty and macroeconomic fluctuations|Economists, observers and policy-makers often emphasize the role of sentiment as a potential driver of the business cycle. In this paper we provide three contributions to this debate. First, we give a concise overview of the recent literature on sentiment (considering both confidence and uncertainty) and economic activity. Second, we review existing empirical measures of sentiment, in particular consumer confidence, stock market volatility (SMV) and Economic Policy Uncertainty (EPU), on monthly data for 27 countries, 1985-2016. Third, we identify some new stylized facts based on international evidence. While different measures are surprisingly lowly correlated on average in each country, they are typically highly positively correlated across countries, suggesting the existence of a global factor. Consumer confidence has the closest co-movement with economic and financial variables, and most of the correlations are contemporaneous or forward-looking, consistent with the view that economic sentiment is indeed a driver of activity. JEL Classification: E32, E71, F44, G15, G41
F44|Which market integration measure?|This paper compares the dynamics of the financial integration process as described by different empirical approaches. To this end, a wide range of measures accounting for several dimensions of integration is employed. In addition, we evaluate the performance of each measure by relying on an established international finance result, i.e., increasing financial integration leads to declining international portfolio diversification benefits. Using monthly equity market data for three different country groups (i.e., developed markets, emerging markets, developed plus emerging markets) and a dynamic indicator of international portfolio diversification benefits, we find that (i) all measures give rise to a very similar long-run integration pattern; (ii) the standard correlation explains variations in diversification benefits as well or better than more sophisticated measures. These findings are robust to a battery of robustness checks.
F44|International spillovers from Euro area and US credit and demand shocks: A focus on emerging Europe|In this paper, we examine the international effects of contractions in loan supply, loan demand and aggregate demand in the euro area and the USA. All three shocks have been at the forefront in spreading stress during the period of the global financial crisis and in particular so to countries that are strongly integrated with the euro area. We find that these shocks decrease international output and total credit to a varying degree. Loan demand and aggregate demand shocks in the euro area trigger significant negative spillovers on output in most other regions. Evidence for global negative output effects of euro area loan supply shocks is fraught with considerable estimation uncertainty. When these three types of shocks emanate from the USA, we find significant negative spillovers on output also for loan supply shocks. In general, international effects on total credit are an order of magnitude larger than those on output, with again more evidence that is significant for US than euro area shocks. Last, and taking a regional stance, our results indicate that economies from emerging Europe are most vulnerable to all shocks considered. Through their strong economic integration with the euro area, these economies are likewise exposed to euro area and US shocks, and spillover effects are often larger than the domestic response in the country of shock-origin.
F44|The G7 business cycle in a globalized world|Using a factor structural VAR for 14 countries out of the G20 group, we document that output innovations originating outside the G7 account for shares of 10 to almost 25 percent in the business cycle fluctuations of G7 GDP growth. Using auxiliary regressions, we additionally find that these innovations contribute noticeably, relative to G7 output innovations, to short-term fluctuations in important other national G7 variables such as employment, the current account balance, inflation, and inflation volatility, and in global macroeconomic indicators like the oil price, world stock market returns and exchange rate volatility. The results indicate that in a globalized world spillovers from emerging markets and industrial countries other than the G7 play a relevant role for major aspects of the G7 and world business cycle.
F44|The growth of multinational firms in the Great Recession|Using a large firm-level dataset, this paper studies multinational firms׳ performance during the Great Recession. Foreign multinationals grew faster than local firms outside of the crisis, but slower during the crisis. Industry and size differences between domestic and foreign-owned firms account for much of this slowdown. However, multinationals from different countries performed differently during the crisis. The paper then assesses the role of multinationals in the global recession using a quantitative model. Had multinationals׳ relative performance remained unchanged during the crisis, the median country׳s aggregate growth would have been 0.12% higher, with a range of −0.13 to 0.5% across countries.
F44|Secular Stagnation: Determinants and Consequences for Australia|Slack OECD economic performance and weaker macroeconomic policy support Summers's reuse of the phrase â€˜secular stagnationâ€™. Globalisation has redirected growth towards emerging economies, and anticipated rates of return on investment are impaired by perceived risk, institutionalised risk aversion, ageing and dependency, declining commitments to public investment and research and development with rising shares directed to health, retained trade distortions, industrial concentration and slower human capital accumulation, not to mention unexpected global abundance of fossil fuels and a slower Chinese economy. The information and literature supporting these concerns is reviewed and implications for global and Australian policy are inferred.
F44|Asset prices and macroeconomic outcomes: a survey|This paper surveys the literature on the linkages between asset prices and macroeconomic outcomes. It focuses on three major questions. First, what are the basic theoretical linkages between asset prices and macroeconomic outcomes? Second, what is the empirical evidence supporting these linkages? And third, what are the main challenges to the theoretical and empirical findings? The survey addresses these questions in the context of four major asset price categories: equity prices, house prices, exchange rates and interest rates, with a particular focus on their international dimensions. It also puts into perspective the evolution of the literature on the determinants of asset prices and their linkages with macroeconomic outcomes, and discusses possible future research directions.
F44|The U.S. Oil Supply Revolution and the Global Economy|This paper investigates the global macroeconomic consequences of falling oil prices due to the oil revolution in the United States, using a Global VAR model estimated for 38 countries/regions over the period 1979Q2 to 2011Q2. Set-identification of the U.S. oil supply shock is achieved through imposing dynamic sign restrictions on the impulse responses of the model. The results show that there are considerable heterogeneities in the responses of different countries to a U.S. supply-driven oil price shock, with real GDP increasing in both advanced and emerging market oil-importing economies, output declining in commodity exporters, inflation falling in most countries, and equity prices rising worldwide. Overall, our results suggest that following the U.S. oil revolution, with oil prices falling by 51 percent in the first year, global growth increases by 0.16 to 0.37 percentage points. This is mainly due to an increase in spending by oil importing countries, which exceeds the decline in expenditure by oil exporters.
F44|Large and State-Dependent Effects of Quasi-Random Monetary Experiments|Fixing the exchange rate constrains monetary policy. Along with unfettered cross-border capital flows, the trilemma implies that arbitrage, not the central bank, determines how interest rates fluctuate. The annals of international finance thus provide quasi-natural experiments with which to measure how macroeconomic outcomes respond to policy rates. Based on historical data since 1870, we estimate the local average treatment effect (LATE) of monetary policy interventions and examine its implications for the population ATE with a trilemma instrument. Using a novel control function approach we evaluate the robustness of our findings to possible spillovers via alternative channels. Our results prove to be robust. We find that the effects of monetary policy are much larger than previously estimated, and that these effects are state-dependent.
F44|Innovation, Productivity, and Monetary Policy|To what extent can monetary policy impact business innovation and productivity growth? We use a New Keynesian model with endogenous total factor productivity (TFP) to quantify the TFP losses due to the constraints on monetary policy imposed by the zero lower bound (ZLB) and the TFP benefits of tightening monetary policy more slowly than currently anticipated. In the model, monetary policy influences firms incentives to develop and implement innovations. We use evidence on the dynamic effects of R&D and monetary shocks to estimate key parameters and assess model performance. The model suggests significant TFP losses due to the ZLB.
F44|The response of multinationals’ foreign exchange rate exposure to macroeconomic news|We use intraday data to estimate the daily foreign exchange exposure of U.S. multinationals and show that macroeconomic news affects these firms’ foreign exchange exposure. News creates a substantial shift in the joint distribution of stock and exchange rate returns that has both a transitory and a persistent component. For example, a positive domestic demand surprise, as reflected in higher-than-expected nonfarm payroll, increases the value of the low-exposure domestic activities and results in a persistent decrease in foreign exchange exposure.
F44|Internal Devaluations and Equilibrium Exchange Rates: new evidences and perspectives for the EMU| From the onset of the euro crisis to the Brexit vote, we have witnessed impressive reductions of current account imbalances in peripheral countries of the euro area. These reductions can be the result of either a compression of internal demand or an improvement in external competitiveness. In this paper, we compute exchange rate misalignments within the euro area to assess whether peripheral countries have managed to improve their external competitiveness. After controlling for the reduction of business cycle synchronization within the EMU, we find that peripheral countries have managed to reduce their exchange rate misalignments thanks to internal devaluations. To some extent, these favourable evolutions reflect improvements in external competitiveness. Nevertheless, these gains could only be temporary if peripheral countries do not improve their non-price competitiveness, their trade structures and their international specializations in the long run.Abbreviations: EMU, European Monetary Union; FEER, Fundamental Equilibrium Exchange Rate; SMIM, Symmetric Matrix Inversion Method; BEER, Behavioural Equilibrium Exchange Rate; PPP, Purchasing Parity Power; OCI, Own Country Included; IMF, International Monetary Fund; OECD, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development; NIESR, National Institute of Economic and Social Research.
F44|Are all cycles alike? An empirical investigation of regional and global factors in developed and emerging economies|Business cycles are significantly more volatile in emerging economies than in developed ones, as has been extensively documented in the macroeconomic literature. There is also consensus that a substantial share of output volatility in emerging economies can be accounted for by domestic and idiosyncratic factors. As a result, the policy implications of these findings tend to predict that substantial welfare gains can be made from domestic policies that smooth business cycles. This paper argues the opposite view and asserts that there are no significant differences between emerging and developed economies in terms of the global and regional factors shaping macroeconomic fluctuations. Our results show that global factors account for 37%–48% of the de-trended output variance in emerging economies, substantially more than the 5%–15% range reported in the literature. By comparison, approximately half of output variance in developed economies is accounted for by global factors. We conclude that global and regional factors account for the bulk of output fluctuations in all economies, and that domestic factors are marginally more important in emerging economies than in developed ones. Therefore, cycle-smoothing domestic policies in emerging economies may not be as effective as the literature suggests.
F44|L’impact de la crise financière sur la performance de la politique monétaire conventionnelle de la zone euro|Cet article évalue dans quelle mesure la crise financière de 2007 a affecté la mise en œuvre d'une politique monétaire conventionnelle dans la zone euro. Cette question est abordée dans un cadre théorique reprenant le modèle de synthèse de la nouvelle économie keynésienne qui prévalait avant la crise de 2007. On observe que la crise a fortement réduit la performance de la politique conventionnelle après la détérioration de l'arbitrage entre la variance de l'inflation et celle de l'activité (telle que définie par la courbe de Taylor), et après la dégradation de son efficacité (telle que mesurée à partir de l'écart à la courbe de Taylor provenant d'une forte augmentation de la contribution de l'output gap). Les valeurs de taux d'intérêt simulées par notre modèle montrent que la BCE aurait dû fixer des taux d'intérêt inférieurs à ceux observés, qui plus est négatifs en fin de période. De nouveaux instruments non conventionnels s'avèrent de fait nécessaires afin de suppléer à une pratique de la politique monétaire qui était centrée prioritairement sur la stabilité des prix, dans un environnement macroéconomique calme.
F44|L’impact de la crise financière sur la performance de la politique monétaire conventionnelle de la zone Euro|This paper analyses the consequences of the financial crisis on the implementation of ECB conventional policy decisions.We use the three equation new Keynesian model that was widely adopted before the 2007 financial crisis as the benchmark of the analysis.Our main results underline a decrease in conventional monetary policy efficiency, following two main factors.On the one side, we observe a worsening of the arbitrage between the variance of activity and that of inflation (namely the Taylor curve).On the other side, our analysis underlines a clear departure from the efficiency frontier (as measured by the Taylor curve) coming from a high increase in the output gap.We find that to overcome part of this inefficiency the ECB should have set lower interest rates than observed, even negative by the end of the period of our analysis.This result provides a simple rationale for the adoption of new unconventional policy practices to overcome the consequences of the financial crisis.
F44|Identification and Estimation issues in Exponential Smooth Transition Autoregressive Models|Exponential smooth transition autoregressive (ESTAR) models are widely used in the international finance literature, particularly for the modelling of real exchange rates. We show that the exponential function is ill-suited as a regime weighting function because of two undesirable properties. Firstly, it can be well approximated by a quadratic function in the threshold variable whenever the transition function parameter , which governs the shape of the function, is ‘small’. This leads to an identification problem with respect to the transition function parameter and the slope vector, as both enter as a product into the conditional mean of the model. Secondly, the exponential regime weighting function can behave like an indicator function (or dummy variable) for very large values of the transition function parameter . This has the effect of ‘spuriously overfitting’ a small number of observations around the location parameter µ. We show that both of these effects lead to estimation problems in ESTAR models. We illustrate this by means of an empirical replication of a widely cited study, as well as a simulation exercise.
F44|Coherence of Business Cycles and Economic Shocks between Croatia and Euro Area Member States|The paper analyses the coherence of business cycles and supply and demand shocks between Croatia and euro area core countries. The results obtained point to several basic conclusions. Firstly, the coherence of business cycles and the correlation of supply and demand shocks between Croatia and euro area core countries are relatively high. Secondly, symmetric (common) shocks are dominant for explaining the dynamics in domestic GDP, while the contributions of asymmetric shocks are significantly smaller. Thirdly, the results point to the convergence of supply and demand shocks and business cycles between Croatia and euro area core countries. Based on all of the above, we may conclude that the introduction of the euro and the related adoption of the common countercyclical monetary policy should not result in significant costs for the Croatian economy.
F44|International Banking and Cross-Border Effects of Regulation: Lessons from the Netherlands|The large and concentrated international activities of Dutch banks make the Netherlands particularly relevant for assessing the outward transmission of prudential policies. Analysis of the quarterly international claims of twenty-five Dutch banks in sixty-three countries over 2000–13 indicates that Dutch banks increase lending in countries that tighten prudential regulation. This result is driven particularly by larger banks, by banks with higher deposit ratios, by lending to advanced economies, and by lending in the post-crisis period. The result is not significant in most other subsamples. These findings suggest that banks react to changes in local prudential regulation via foreign lending—which could come either from regulatory arbitrage or from signaling effects of prudential policy on country risk. This contributes to the case for the reciprocation of macroprudential policy.
F44|International Banking and Cross-Border Effects of Regulation: Lessons from the United States|Domestic prudential regulation can have unintended effects across borders and may be less effective in an environment where banks operate globally. Using U.S. micro-banking data for the first quarter of 2000 through the third quarter of 2013, this study shows that some regulatory changes indeed spill over. First, a foreign country’s tightening of limits on loan-tovalue ratios and local-currency reserve requirements increases lending growth in the United States through the U.S. branches and subsidiaries of foreign banks. Second, a foreign tightening of capital requirements shifts lending by U.S. global banks away from the country where the tightening occurs to the United States and to other countries. Third, tighter U.S. capital regulation reduces lending by large U.S. global banks to foreign residents.
F44|Smooth operator: remittances and household consumption during fiscal shocks|With 250 million migrants globally, remittances are one of the major sources of income in many developing countries. While there is abundant evidence that remittances facilitate consumption smoothing, the literature has not considered whether this effect varies with the fiscal stance and during fiscal shocks. Our focus is therefore on whether the consumption-smoothing effect changes with fiscal policy phases and whether remittances and government support are substitutes or complements in stabilizing household consumption. We take a holistic approach to investigating this relationship combining cross-country and household-level analysis. We find that remittances help smooth consumption, and hence improve welfare, more during fiscal consolidation episodes, while this impact is insignificant during fiscal expansions. The results also indicate that the effect is more pronounced in countries with greater reliance on remittances.
F44|Unconventional policies and exchange rate dynamics|We study exchange rate dynamics under cooperative and self-oriented policies in a two-country DSGE model with unconventional monetary and exchange rate policies. The cooperative solution features a large exchange rate adjustment that cushions the impact of negative shocks and a moderate use of unconventional policy instruments. Self-oriented policies (Nash equilibrium), however, entail limited exchange rate movements and an aggressive use of unconventional policies in both countries. Our results suggest that sizable exchange rate depreciations are not always a symptom of “beggar-thy-neighbor” policies. They could also reflect a desirable process of external adjustment that improves global welfare.
F44|Terms-of-trade cycles and external adjustment|We study the process of external adjustment to large terms-of-trade level shifts—identified with a Markov-switching approach—for a large set of countries during the period 1960–2015. We find that adjustment to these shocks is relatively fast. Current accounts experience, on average, a contemporaneous variation of only about ½ of the magnitude of the price shock—indicating a significant volume offset—and a full adjustment within 3–4 years. Dynamics are largely symmetric for terms-of-trade booms and busts, as well as for advanced and emerging market economies. External adjustment is driven primarily by offsetting shifts in domestic demand, as opposed to variations in output (also reflected in the response of import rather than export volumes), indicating a strong income channel at play. Exchange rate flexibility played an important buffering role during booms, but less so during busts; while international reserve holdings were a key tool for smoothing the adjustment process.
F44|Monetary News, U.S. Interest Rate and Business Cycles in Emerging Economies|This paper identifies anticipated (news) and unanticipated (surprise) shocks to the U.S. Fed Funds rate using CBOT Fed Funds Future Market and assesses their propagation to emerging economies. Anticipated movements account for 80% of quarterly Fed Funds fluctuations and explain a significant fraction of the narrative monetary policy shocks. An expected 1% increase in the reference interest rate induces a fall of 2% in GDP of emerging economies two quarters before the shock materializes. Unanticipated contractionary shocks also cause a recession. Both shocks have a larger impact in emerging relative to developed economies and the financial channel is the most relevant for their transmission. Anticipation is also relevant to understand the transmission of U.S. real interest rate shocks.
F44|On the exposure of the BRIC countries to global economic shocks|The financial crisis led to a deep recession in many industrial countries. While large emerging countries recovered relatively quickly, their performance deteriorated in recent years, despite the modest recovery in advanced economies. The higher divergence of business cycles is closely linked to the Chinese economy. During the crisis, the Chinese fiscal stimulus prevented an abrupt decline in GDP growth not only in that country, but also in resource‐rich economies. Due to lower commodity demand, the environment became more challenging for many emerging markets in recent years. This view is supported by Bayesian structural VARs specified for the individual BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) countries. The results reveal a strong impact of the international economy on GDP growth. However, in contrast to the other countries, China plays a crucial role in determining global trade and oil prices. Therefore, the Chinese economy exerts significant spillovers to the other countries under analysis. The change in the Chinese growth strategy puts additional reform pressure especially in countries with abundant natural resources.
F44|Macroeconomic implications of financial imperfections: a survey|This paper surveys the theoretical and empirical literature on the macroeconomic implications of financial imperfections. It focuses on two major channels through which financial imperfections can affect macroeconomic outcomes. The first channel, which operates through the demand side of finance and is captured by financial accelerator-type mechanisms, describes how changes in borrowers' balance sheets can affect their access to finance and thereby amplify and propagate economic and financial shocks. The second channel, which is associated with the supply side of finance, emphasises the implications of changes in financial intermediaries' balance sheets for the supply of credit, liquidity and asset prices, and, consequently, for macroeconomic outcomes. These channels have been shown to be important in explaining the linkages between the real economy and the financial sector. That said, many questions remain.
F44|Financial Shocks,Supply-chain Relationships and the Great Trade Collapse|The collapse in trade relative to GDP during 2008-09 was unusually large historically and puzzling relative to the predictions of canonical two-country models.In a calibrated dynamic general equilibrium two-country model where firms must build supply chain relationship in order to sell their product, we show that a tightening of credit can cause a sizable fall in the trade-GDP ratio (44 percent of the observed value) while productivity shocks cannot. The key mechanism underlying the sharper fall in trade relative to GDP involves an endogenous reallocation of scarce resources from international to domestic supply-chains, that are acquired and maintained at lower cost.
F44|The effects of quasi-random monetary experiments|The trilemma of international finance entails that fluctuations in interest rates for countries with fixed exchange rates that allow unfettered cross-border capital flows are mostly due to international arbitrage. Consequently, we can locate a valid source of exogenous variation to identify monetary policy effects with instrumental variable methods. Paired with conventional instruments based on central bank staff forecasts, and using historical data since 1870, we estimate local average treatment effects (LATE) of monetary policy interventions for different subpopulations. Using a novel control function approach we determine the robustness of our findings to possible spillovers via alternative trade-based channels. Our results reveal and rectify attenuation bias in previous estimates, are consistent with theory, and provide a good approximation to the ATE. The effects that we report are quantitatively important and state-dependent.
F44|The Anatomy of Sentiment-driven Fluctuations|We characterize the entire set of linear equilibria of beauty contest games under general information structures. In particular, we focus on equilibria in which sentiments-self-fullling changes in beliefs that are orthogonal to fundamentals and exogenous noise - can drive aggregate fluctuations. We show that, under rational expectations, there exists a continuum of sentiment-driven equilibria that generate aggregate uctuations. Without having to take a stance on the private information agents might possess, we provide a general characterization of necessary and sufficient conditions under which a change in sentiments can have prolonged effects on aggregate outcomes and when it can only have short-lived effects. In addition, we also provide a practical way to characterize these equilibria.
F44|Austerity in the Aftermath of the Great Recession|We examine austerity in advanced economies since the Great Recession. Austerity shocks are reductions in government purchases that exceed reduced-form forecasts. Austerity shocks are statistically associated with lower real GDP, lower inflation and higher net exports. We estimate a cross-sectional multiplier of roughly 2. A multi-country DSGE model calibrated to 29 advanced economies generates a multiplier consistent with the data. Counterfactuals suggest that eliminating austerity would have substantially reduced output losses in Europe. Austerity shocks were sufficiently contractionary that debt-to-GDP ratios in some European countries increased as a consequence of endogenous reductions in GDP and tax revenue.
F44|Financial Markets and Fiscal Unions|Do sophisticated international financial markets obviate the need for an active union-wide authority to orchestrate fiscal transfers between countries to provide adequate insurance against country-specific economic fluctuations? We argue that they do. Specifically, we show that in a benchmark economy with no international financial markets, an activist union-wide authority is necessary to achieve desirable outcomes. With sophisticated financial markets, however, such an authority is unnecessary if its only goal is to provide cross-country insurance. Since restricting the set of policy instruments available to member countries does not create a fiscal externality across them, this result holds in a wide variety of settings. Finally, we establish that an activist union-wide authority concerned just with providing insurance across member countries is optimal only when individual countries are either unable or unwilling to pursue desirable policies.
F44|Explaining International Business Cycle Synchronization: Recursive Preferences and the Terms of Trade Channel|Abstract The business cycles of advanced economies are synchronized. Standard macro models fail to explain that fact. This paper presents a simple model of a two-country, two-traded-good, complete-financial-markets world in which country-specific productivity shocks generate business cycles that are highly correlated internationally. The model assumes recursive intertemporal preferences (Epstein-Zin-Weil), and a muted response of labor hours to household wealth changes (due to Greenwood-Hercowitz-Huffman period utility and demand-determined employment under rigid wages). Recursive intertemporal preferences magnify the terms of trade response to country-specific shocks. Hence, a productivity (and GDP) increase in a given country triggers a strong improvement of the foreign country’s terms of trade, which raises foreign labor demand. With a muted labor wealth effect, foreign labor and GDP rise, i.e. domestic and foreign real activity comove positively.
F44|The Post-Crisis Slump in the Euro Area and the US|This note discusses the drivers of the persistent post-crisis slump in the Euro Area (EA) and the US, and it gives a brief overview of the research literature that studies the slump. The note argues that financial shocks were key determinants of the 2008-09 Great Recession, for both the EA and the US. The post-2009 slump in the EA mainly reflects a combination of adverse aggregate demand and supply shocks, in particular lower productivity growth, and persistent adverse shocks to capital investment, linked to the poor health of the EA financial system. Adverse financial shocks were less persistent for the US.
F44|The Growth-Volatility Relationship: What Does Volatility Decomposition Tell?|This paper revisits the empirical relationship between volatility and long-run growth, but the key contribution lies in decomposing growth volatility into its business-cycle and trend components. This volatility decomposition also accounts for enormous heterogeneity among countries in terms of their long-run growth trajectories. We identify a negative effect of trend volatility, which we refer to as long-run volatility, on growth, but no effect of business-cycle volatility. However, if long-run volatility is omitted, there would be a spurious (negative) effect of business-cycle volatility. Our results draw attention to a crucial question about different volatility measures and their implications in macroeconomic analyses.
F44|Incidence de l'ouverture économique et de la libéralisation financière des pays de la Communauté Économique des États de l'Afrique de l'Ouest sur leurs activités économiques<BR>[Impact of economic openness and financial liberalization of the Economic Community of West African States on their economic activities]|This paper analyzes the effects of the high economic openness of West African economies coupled with liability dollarization, on their economic activities. By using a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model in a small open economy framework, and performing an experiment based on a case of moderate economic openness and another case on the high economic openness, we find that the high economic openness of west african economies constitutes a brake for their economic progress. This external constraint annihilates the effects of the economic policies implemented to stimulate economic growth, and consequently create macroeconomic imbalances. For small countries like those in West Africa, a moderate economic openness would be advantageous because it would allow them to develop a domestic market that presents many economic advantages and above all, to protect it from foreign competition. It is necessary to decrease now this dependency in order to avoid a polarization of economic blocks after the creation of a Currency Union in West Africa.
F44|International transmission of financial shocks without financial integration|In a two-country model of Ricardian trade with a continuum of goods and financial frictions, it is shown that a credit crunch in a country can trigger a synchronized economic downturn even in the absence of international financial transactions.
F44|Global Uncertainty, Macroeconomic Activity and Commodity Price|We extend Jurado et al. (2015)’s forecast-error-based uncertainty measure to the international context, and construct a new measure of global uncertainty. We examine dynamic causal effects among global uncertainty and other global macroeconomic variables, and provide two important applications of our global uncertainty measure by linking it to the price formation mechanism of oil and international uncertainty spillover effects. We show that the well-documented relation between uncertainty and real activities is not only a regional issue, but also a global phenomenon. Global uncertainty also plays a key role in determining commodity prices, as well as driving business cycle fluctuations in a certain economy.
F44|Comovements In The Real Activity Of Developed And Emerging Economies: A Test Of Global Versus Specific International Factors|Although globalization has shaped the world economy in recent decades, emerging economies have experienced impressive growth compared to developed economies, suggesting specific comovements within developed and emerging business cycles. Using observed developed and emerging real economy activity variables, we investigate whether the latter assertion can be supported by observed data. Based on a two-level factor model, we assume these activity variables can be decomposed into global components, emerging or developed common components, and idiosyncratic national shocks. We propose a statistical test for the null hypothesis of a one-level specification, where it is irrelevant to distinguish between emerging and developed latent factors against the two-level alternative. This paper provides a theoretical justification and Monte Carlo simulations that document the testing procedure. An application of the test to various datasets of developed and emerging countries leads to strong statistical evidence of specific comovements within these two groups.
F44|"TFP, News, and ""Sentiments:"" The International Transmission of Business Cycles"|"We propose a novel identification scheme for a non-technology business cycle shock, that we label ""sentiment."" This is a shock orthogonal to identified surprise and news TFP shocks that maximizes the short-run forecast error variance of an expectational variable, alternatively a GDP forecast or a consumer confidence index. We then estimate the international transmission of three identified shocks – surprise TFP, news of future TFP, and ""sentiment"" – from the US to Canada. The US sentiment shock produces a business cycle in the US, with output, hours, and consumption rising following a positive shock, and accounts for the bulk of short-run business cycle fluctuations in the US. The sentiment shock also has a significant impact on Canadian macro aggregates. In the short run, it is more important than either the surprise or the news TFP shocks in generating business cycle comovement between the US and Canada, accounting for up to 50% of the forecast error variance of Canadian GDP and about one-third of Canadian hours, imports, and exports. The news shock is responsible for some comovement at 5-10 years, and surprise TFP innovations do not generate synchronization."
F44|Bad Investments and Missed Opportunities? Postwar Capital Flows to Asia and Latin America|After World War II, international capital flowed into slow-growing Latin America rather than fast-growing Asia. This is surprising as, everything else equal, fast growth should imply high capital returns. This paper develops a capital flow accounting framework to quantify the role of different factor market distortions in producing these patterns. Surprisingly, we find that distortions in labor markets, rather than domestic or international capital markets, account for the bulk of these flows. Labor market distortions that indirectly depress investment incentives by lowering equilibrium labor supply explain two-thirds of observed flows, while improvement in these distortions over time accounts for much of Asia's rapid growth.
F44|The Anatomy of Sentiment-Driven Fluctuations|We show that sentiments - self-fulfilling changes in beliefs that are orthogonal to fundamentals - can drive persistent aggregate fluctuations under rational expectations. Such fluctuations can occur even in the absence of any exogenous aggregate fundamental shocks. In addition, sentiments also alter the volatility and persistence of aggregate outcomes in response to fundamental changes. We characterize conditions under which sentiments drive persistent fluctuations and when they only affect aggregate outcomes contemporaneously. We also discuss how these sentiments are related to noise shocks- driven fluctuations studied in the literature on information frictions.
F44|Decoupling Asia Revisited|The issue of decoupling is controversial. On the back of Asia’s sustained high growth, the hypothesis that the region’s business cycles would become increasingly independent of the global trend gained considerable attention. Asia was nonetheless hit hard by the global financial crisis and subsequent economic downturn. This paper focuses on the evolution and nature of macroeconomic interdependence between emerging East Asia and Group of 3 economies. First, the progress of regional economic integration has positively impacted the direction and magnitude of macroeconomic interdependence and growth spillovers both intraregionally and interregionally. Second, with the People’s Republic of China (PRC) playing a central role in the regional production and trade network, its ongoing structural changes will likely influence Asia’s economic integration both within and beyond the region through evolving trade and investment links. Finally, the paper employs a vector autoregression model to assess the impact of the United States (US) output, world trade, financial volatility, and the PRC output shocks on emerging East Asia. Findings suggest that the US economy remains an important source of external demand shock for the regional economy, although the impact of the PRC has increased sharply.
F44|Interbank Markets and Credit Policies amid a Sovereign Debt Crisis|Interbank markets have been at the core of the international transmission of recent financial crises, including the European sovereign debt crisis. We study the transmission of shocks in a two-country DSGE model where banks pledge government bonds as collateral in interbank markets. A standard “bank net worth channel” amplifies negative shocks to the returns of private loans. However, an “interbank collateral channel” can partially contrast the bank net worth channel. The stabilizing interbank collateral channel works through banks' portfolio switch towards government bonds, which helps sustain the value of banks' bond holdings and partially relax collateral constraints in the interbank market. Unconventional credit policies raise banks' liquidity but, if financed through government debt issuance, can undermine the stabilizing effect of the interbank collateral channel. The analysis yields insights for the optimal design of credit policies during sovereign debt crises.
F44|Strengthening ASEAN+3 Regional Financial Arrangements: A New Framework Beyond CMIM|This paper examines the operational limitations of the Chiang Mai Initiative Multilateralization (CMIM) as a regional financial safety net in East Asia and presents a new regional financial arrangement. To overcome the drawbacks of the Chiang Mai Initiative Multilateralization which has never been activated so far, this study proposes that ASEAN+3 establish a new lending facility, so-called a Reserve Fund Facility, and create a regional common reserves asset. The proposed Reserve Fund Facility framework guarantees lending automaticity of the liquidity facility, based on upfront funding instead of pledge funding. Establishing the Reserve Fund Facility could find a way of making up for weakness of the Chiang Mai Initiative Multilateralization and responding to the regional needs for effective regional financial arrangement. The full-fledged Reserve Fund Facility will ultimately contribute to the future development of East Asia's monetary and financial cooperation beyond the Chiang Mai Initiative Multilateralization.
F44|Measuring the international dimension of output volatility|This paper studies output fluctuations in a panel of OECD economies with the aim to decompose the evolution in output volatility into domestic and international factors. To this end we use a factor-augmented dynamic panel model with both domestic and international shocks and spillovers between countries through trade linkages. Changes in the volatility of output growth can be due to time-varying sensitivity to these shocks, changes in the propagation mechanism or shifts in the variances of shocks. We explicitly model cross-sectional dependence in the variance equation by specifying a common factor structure in the volatility of domestic shocks. The results show that while the size of international shocks and spillovers does not decrease in most countries, the volatilities of domestic shocks share a clear common decreasing trend. Hence, the ‘Great Moderation’ appears to be mainly driven by a decline in the volatility of domestic shocks rather than smaller international shocks.
F44|Inspecting the Mechanism: Leverage and the Great Recession in the Eurozone|We provide a comprehensive account of the dynamics of eurozone countries from 2000 to 2012. We analyze private leverage, fiscal policy, labor costs, and spreads, and we propose a model and an identification strategy to separate the impact of credit cycles, excessive government spending, and sudden stops. We then ask how periphery countries would have fared with different policies. We find that countries could have stabilized their employment if they had followed more conservative fiscal policies during the boom. Macroprudential policies and an early intervention by the central bank to prevent market segmentation and reduce fiscal austerity would also have significantly reduced the recession.
F44|Surges and stops in greenfield and M&A FDI flows to developing countries: analysis by mode of entry|Abstract This paper investigates the factors associated with foreign direct investment “surges” and “stops”, defined as sharp increases and decreases, respectively, of foreign direct investment inflows to the developing world and differentiated based on whether these events are led by waves in greenfield investments or mergers and acquisitions. Greenfield-led surges and stops occur more frequently than mergers-and-acquisitions-led ones and different factors are associated with the onset of the two types of events. Global liquidity is the factor significantly and positively associated with a surge, regardless of its kind, while a global economic growth slowdown and a surge in the preceding year are the main factors associated with a stop. Greenfield-led surges and stops are more likely in low-income countries and mergers-and-acquisitions-led surges are less likely in resource-rich countries than elsewhere in the developing world. Global growth accelerations and increases in financial openness, domestic economic and financial instability are associated with mergers-and-acquisitions-led surges but not with greenfield-led ones. These results are particularly relevant for developing countries where FDI flows are the major type of capital flows and suggest that developing countries’ macroeconomic vulnerability increases following periods of increased global liquidity. As countries develop they typically become more exposed to merger-and-acquisition-led surges, which are more likely than greenfield-led surges and stops to be short-lived and associated with domestic macroeconomic policies.
F44|Industry Volatility and International Trade|We develop an empirical framework that allows us to account for producer-country, industry, and demand shocks as drivers of volatility at the industry level in open economies. Our methodology separately accounts for demand shocks originating in the home and foreign markets. Using a panel of manufacturing and trade data, our findings suggest that, independent of the level of aggregation, output volatility is driven primarily by shocks originating in the destination markets for an industry's sales (demand shocks) including home markets. Further, we show that industries more open to trade are more volatile because intra-industry imports increase the uncertainty of 1) domestic demand, and 2) production through greater exposure to foreign shocks.
F44|International risk sharing with endogenously segmented asset markets|Asset price data imply a large degree of international risk sharing, while aggregate consumption data do not. We show that a model with trade in goods and endogenously segmented asset markets can account for this puzzling discrepancy. Active households—who pay a fixed cost to transfer money into or out of assets—share risk within and across countries, and their marginal utility growth prices assets, so asset prices imply high risk sharing. Inactive households consume their current income and do not share risk, so aggregate consumption (which averages across all households) reflects lower risk sharing. The model also provides a resolution to the Backus-Smith-Kollmann puzzle.
F44|What has caused global business cycle decoupling: Smaller shocks or reduced sensitivity?|According to a growing body of empirical literature, global shocks have become less important for business cycles in industrialized countries and emerging market economies since the mid-1980s. In this paper, we analyze the question of what might have caused a decoupling from the global business cycle: the smaller size of the global shocks or a reduced sensitivity of national business cycles to these shocks? To this end, we employ a large scale hierarchical dynamic factor model that decomposes the growth rates of GDP, consumption, and investment for 106 countries over 1961-2014 into a global, a group-, and a country-specific factor, as well as an idiosyncratic component. The factor loadings and conditional variances are allowed to vary over time according to random walk processes. Instead of assuming that the parameters change, we test for time variation using a Bayesian stochastic model specification search. Our results confirm a reduction in the importance of the global business cycle for the vast majority of our countries. However, the sensitivity of most countries to global or group-specific shocks as measured by the factor loadings has not changed over time. Instead, the magnitude of the global shocks relative to group-specific and country-specific shocks has decreased, resulting in a lower relevance of global shocks for national cycles.
F44|The falling elasticity of global trade to economic activity: Testing the demand channel|Since the recovery from the great financial crisis in 2010, global real trade flows grew much slower than pre-crisis, in both absolute terms (growth rates) and relative terms (relative to GDP, from 2:1 in the great 1990's to 1:1 since 2012) A debate has arisen as to whether this global trade slowdown, and related falling trade-to-income elasticity, was structural or cyclical. Some papers emphasized the slowing pace of international vertical specialization. Other works emphasized the prominent role of aggregate demand, notably when weighted by its trade component. Our paper goes in this latter direction. We estimated the standard import equation for 38 advanced and developing countries over the period 1995-2015, using an import intensity-adjusted measure of aggregate demand (IAD), calculated from input-output tables at country level, and compared results with regressions using GDP. The integration of IAD allows us to predict 76% to 86% of the changes in global imports, a better performance than if using GDP. The use of IAD also enabled us to measure the relative importance of each component of demand, according to their trade intensity. The model is able to account for over 90% of the recent trade slowdown (2012-2015), with IAD alone explaining 80% of it. The slowdown in global value chains explains more than half of the remaining share of the global trade slowdown, not explained by demand factors. Protectionism does not come up as statistically significant.
F44|Global Cycles: Capital Flows, Commodities, and Sovereign Defaults, 1815-2015|Capital flow and commodity cycles have long been connected with economic crises. Sparse historical data, however, has made it difficult to connect their timing. We date turning points in global capital flows and commodity prices across two centuries and provide estimates from alternative data sources. We then document a strong overlap between the ebb and flow of financial capital, the commodity price super-cycle, and sovereign defaults since 1815. The results have implications for today, as many emerging markets are facing a double bust in capital inflows and commodity prices, making them vulnerable to crises.
F44|Secular Stagnation in the Open Economy|Conditions of secular stagnation--low interest rates, below target inflation, and sluggish output growth--now characterize much of the global economy. We consider a simple two-country textbook model to examine how capital markets transmit secular stagnation and to study policy externalities across countries. We find capital flows transmit recessions in a world with low interest rates and that policies that attempt to boost national saving are beggar-thy-neighbor. Monetary expansion cannot eliminate a secular stagnation and may have beggar-thy-neighbor effects, while sufficiently large fiscal interventions can eliminate a secular stagnation and carry positive externalities.
F44|A Model of the International Monetary System|We propose a simple model of the international monetary system. We study the world supply and demand for reserve assets denominated in different currencies under a variety of scenarios: a hegemon versus a multipolar world; abundant versus scarce reserve assets; and a gold exchange standard versus a floating rate system. We rationalize the Triffin dilemma, which posits the fundamental instability of the system, as well as the common prediction regarding the natural and beneficial emergence of a multipolar world, the Nurkse warning that a multipolar world is more unstable than a hegemon world, and the Keynesian argument that a scarcity of reserve assets under a gold standard or at the zero lower bound is recessionary. Our analysis is both positive and normative.
F44|Trends and cycles in small open economies: making the case for a general equilibrium approach|Economic research into the causes of business cycles in small open economies is almost always undertaken using a partial equilibrium model. This approach is characterized by two key assumptions. The first is that the world interest rate is unaffected by economic developments in the small open economy, an exogeneity assumption. The second assumption is that this exogenous interest rate combined with domestic productivity is sufficient to describe equilibrium choices. We demonstrate the failure of the second assumption by contrasting general and partial equilibrium approaches to the study of a cross-section of small open economies. In doing so, we provide a method for modeling small open economies in general equilibrium that is no more technically demanding than the small open economy approach while preserving much of the value of the general equilibrium approach.
F44|Multinational Firms and International Business Cycle Transmission|We investigate how multinational firms contribute to the transmission of shocks across countries using a large multicountry firm-level data set that contains cross-border ownership information. We use these data to document two novel empirical patterns. First, foreign affiliate and headquarter sales exhibit strong positive comovement: a 10% growth in the sales of the headquarter is associated with a 2% growth in the sales of the affiliate. Second, shocks to the source country account for a significant fraction of the variation in sales growth at the source-destination level. We propose a parsimonious quantitative model to interpret these findings and to evaluate the role of multinational firms for international business cycle transmission. For the typical country, the impact of foreign shocks transmitted by all foreign multinationals combined is non-negligible, accounting for about 10% of aggregate productivity shocks. On the other hand, since bilateral multinational production shares are small, interdependence between most individual country pairs is minimal. Our results do reveal substantial heterogeneity in the strength of this mechanism, with the most integrated countries significantly more affected by foreign shocks.
F44|Macrofinancial History and the New Business Cycle Facts|"In advanced economies, a century-long, near-stable ratio of credit to GDP gave way to rapid financialization and surging leverage in the last forty years. This ""financial hockey stick"" coincides with shifts in foundational macroeconomic relationships beyond the widely noted return of macroeconomic fragility and crisis risk. Leverage is correlated with central business cycle moments, which we can document thanks to a decade-long international and historical data collection effort. More financialized economies exhibit somewhat less real volatility, but also lower growth, more tail risk, as well as tighter real-real and real-financial correlations. International real and financial cycles also cohere more strongly. The new stylized facts that we discover should prove fertile ground for the development of a new generation of macroeconomic models with a prominent role for financial factors."
F44|Macrofinancial History and the New Business Cycle Facts|In advanced economies, a century-long near-stable ratio of credit to GDP gave way to rapid financialization and surging leverage in the last forty years. This “financial hockey stick” coincides with shifts in foundational macroeconomic relationships beyond the widely-noted return of macroeconomic fragility and crisis risk. Leverage is correlated with central business cycle moments, which we can document thanks to a decade-long international and historical data collection effort. More financialized economies exhibit somewhat less real volatility, but also lower growth, more tail risk, as well as tighter real-real and real-financial correlations. International real and financial cycles also cohere more strongly. The new stylized facts that we discover should prove fertile ground for the development of a new generation of macroeconomic models with a prominent role for financial factors.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
