F47|Foreign aid, instability and governance in Africa|This study contributes to the attendant literature by bundling governance dynamics and focusing on foreign aid instability instead of foreign aid. We assess the role of foreign aid instability on governance dynamics in fifty three African countries for the period 1996-2010. An autoregressive endogeneity-robust Generalized Method of Moments is employed. Instabilities are measured in terms of variance of the errors and standard deviations. Three main aid indicators are used, namely: total aid, aid from multilateral donors and bilateral aid. Principal Component Analysis is used to bundle governance indicators, namely: political governance (voice & accountability and political stability/no violence), economic governance (regulation quality and government effectiveness), institutional governance (rule of law and corruption-control) and general governance (political, economic and institutional governance). Our findings show that foreign aid instability increases governance standards, especially political and general governance. Policy implications are discussed.
F47|Brexit: balance de situación y perspectivas|Tras casi tres años desde que se anunciara la celebración del referéndum sobre la permanencia del Reino Unido en la Unión Europea (UE) y dos de intensas negociaciones entre las partes, la no ratificación del Parlamento británico del acuerdo alcanzado por su Gobierno y por el resto de los socios europeos en noviembre del año pasado ha dado lugar a una situación extraordinariamente compleja, en la que, a escasos días de que se cumpla el plazo (el 29 de marzo de 2019) para la salida del Reino Unido establecido con la activación del artículo 50, no se vislumbra todavía un plan de consenso. A falta de una alternativa pactada, la salida sin acuerdo en la fecha prevista constituye —salvo prórroga— la actual opción por defecto. Este documento ocasional hace balance de la situación actual y de las perspectivas que se abren en relación con el proceso de salida del Reino Unido de la UE, y recopila y actualiza algunos trabajos que se han venido realizando, en relación con el seguimiento regular de dicho proceso y con la estimación de sus potenciales efectos en la economía española, en la Dirección General de Economía y Estadística del Banco de España. Tras tomar nota del momento actual del proceso negociador, el documento revisa la evolución de la economía británica desde que se anunciara el inesperado resultado del referéndum en junio de 2016, así como las perspectivas económicas a medio plazo del país, que dependerán ante todo del tipo de relación comercial que se establezca en un futuro entre ambas áreas, así como de la manera más o menos abrupta en que se produzca la salida. En relación con nuestro país, en este documento se analizan diversos aspectos relativos a la exposición comercial y financiera de la economía española al Reino Unido, y se estiman, mediante el modelo trimestral del Banco de España (MTBE), los posibles efectos que el brexit podría tener sobre nuestra economía en diversos escenarios hipotéticos. Finalmente, se recuerdan las medidas de contingencia que la Comisión Europa y el Gobierno de España han adoptado, en sus respectivos ámbitos, ante la eventualidad de que la salida del Reino Unido se produjera sin acuerdo y de forma brusca.
F47|Financial Stability Implications of Policy Mix in a Small Open Commodity-Exporting Economy|In this paper, we study how systematic monetary policy under inflation targeting in a commodity-exporting economy not fully isolated from commodity price volatility by fiscal policy may contribute to financial instability by fueling the credit cycle when commodity prices increase or by amplifying the credit crunch when commodity prices decline. We report several empirical observations that illustrate the potential procyclicality (relative to credit developments) of inflation targeting policy where commodity price fluctuations are the main drivers of macroeconomic developments. Namely, we find that relative prices in commodity-exporting economies are much more volatile than in other countries. The length of periods when relative prices grow or decline is comparable to the monetary policy horizon of most inflation targeters (2-3 years). Note that the central banks that target inflation, including those of the commodity-exporting countries, usually target the headline CPI. This index accommodates relative price changes by design. We proceed with formal statistical testing using panel structural VARs and local projection models. The tests support the procyclicality of inflation targeting, but only in a group of emerging market economies, which in practice have more procyclical fiscal policy than advanced economies: monetary policy eases in response to a higher price of an exported commodity while real credit grows. Counterfactual exercises show that endogenous monetary policy responses to commodity shocks explain around 20% on average of the real credit growth in a group of commodity exporting countries for which the reaction of policy rates to commodity shocks is statistically significant. We cross-check the empirical findings by reviewing a collection of papers with estimated DSGE models and analysing impulse responses of real policy rates to commodity price changes. We also conduct a theoretical analysis and compare stabilization properties (while accounting for financial stability risks) of the inflation-targeting policy rule and the ‘leaning against the wind’ policy rules. Notably, we do this exercise conditionally on the role of commodity price shocks for the economy. For this purpose, we use the DSGE with financial frictions and a banking sector estimated basing for the Russian economy and measure the efficiency of policy results with different sensitivity to credit developments (the ‘leaning against the wind’ rules) under different variance of oil price shocks (which may be interpreted also as different efficiency of fiscal policy in insulating the economy from a given oil price volatility). Results show that when commodity price volatility is relatively high (fiscal policy is not countercyclical), leaning against the wind outperforms pure inflation targeting, thus supporting our empirical findings. Interestingly, even when the financial stability risks associated with the volatility of credit developments are negligible, a moderate leaning against the wind policy is still preferable. As policy implication, we point that a commodity-exporting economy should have countercyclical fiscal policy for inflation targeting to become countercyclical in a commodity cycle.
F47|U.S. Macroeconomic Policy Evaluation in an Open Economy Context using Wavelet Decomposed Optimal Control Methods|It is widely recognized that the policy objectives of fiscal and monetary policymakers usually have different time horizons, and this feature may not be captured by traditional econometric techniques. In this paper, we first decompose U.S macroeconomic data using a time-frequency domain technique, namely discrete wavelet analysis. We then model the behavior of the U.S. economy over each wavelet frequency range and use our estimated parameters to construct a tracking model. To illustrate the usefulness of this approach, we simulate jointly optimal fiscal and monetary policy with different short-term targets: an inflation target, a money growth target, an interest rate target, and a real exchange rate target. The results determine the reaction in fiscal and monetary policy that is required to achieve an inflation target in a low inflation environment, and when both fiscal and monetary policy are concerned with meeting certain economic growth objectives. The combination of wavelet decomposition in an optimal control framework can also provide a new approach to macroeconomic forecasting.
F47|The Brexit Vote, Productivity Growth and Macroeconomic Adjustments in the United Kingdom|"The UK economy has experienced significant macroeconomic adjustments following the 2016 referendum on its withdrawal from the European Union. This paper develops and estimates a small open economy model with tradable and non-tradable sectors to characterize these adjustments. We demonstrate that many of the effects of the referendum result can be conceptualized as news about a future slowdown in productivity growth in the tradable sector. Simulations show that the responses of the model economy to such news are consistent with key patterns in UK data. While overall economic growth slows, an immediate permanent fall in the relative price of non-tradable output (the real exchange rate) induces a temporary ""sweet spot"" for tradable producers before the slowdown in the tradable sector productivity associated with Brexit occurs. Resources are reallocated towards the tradable sector, tradable output growth rises and net exports increase. These developments reverse after the productivity decline in the tradable sector materializes. The negative news about tradable sector productivity also lead to a decline in domestic interest rates relative to world interest rates and to a reduction in investment growth, while employment remains relatively stable. As a by-product of our Brexit simulations, we provide a quantitative analysis of the UK business cycle."
F47|A macroeconomic vulnerability model for the euro area|Macroeconomic imbalances increase the vulnerability of an economy to adverse shocks, which in turn can lead to crises with severe economic and social costs. We propose an early warning model that predicts such crises. We identify a set of macroeconomic indicators capturing domestic and external imbalances that jointly predict severe recessions (i.e. growth crises) in a multivariate discrete choice framework. The approach allows us to quantify an economy's macroeconomic vulnerabilities at any point in time. In particular, the model would have pointed early on to emerging vulnerabilities in all the euro area countries that registered severe recessions in the years after 2007. We also show that the model can be applied beyond the euro area crisis in that its main results remain robust to changes in assumptions and sample composition. JEL Classification: E37, E44, F47, O52
F47|Global economic and environmental outcomes of the Paris Agreement|In this paper, we use a multi-region model of the world economy to analyze the economic and environmental outcomes that are likely to result from Paris Climate Agreement. To construct the modeling scenario, we convert the disparate emission targets for each country or region in their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) formulations into estimated reductions in CO2 emissions relative to a baseline scenario with no new climate policies. We then solve for the tax rate path on CO2 in each region that achieves the NDC-consistent emissions reductions in the target year, 2030 for most regions. We find that if all regions achieve their NDCs, the Paris Agreement significantly reduces CO2 emissions relative to baseline. However, the Paris policy scenario suggests that global CO2 emissions would not decline in absolute terms relative to 2015 levels, let alone follow a path consistent with a 2°C stabilization scenario. Comparing projected 2030 CO2 tax rates to the same year’s percent emissions abatement relative to baseline, we find that declines in CO2 emissions do not necessarily correlate with the CO2 tax rate. We find the climate policies result in significant macroeconomic spillovers across the global economy, meaning that macroeconomic outcomes across countries depend not only on their own commitments but also on those of the rest of the world. We also explore how outcomes could change if select countries (United States, China and Australia) unilaterally withdraw from the agreement and undertake no new climate policies. We find that non-participation leads to economic gains (in terms of GDP) for these countries relative to participating, illustrating the challenge of forging an international agreement with participation by all major emitters and fossil fuel producers. However, we also find that if we account for the monetized climate and domestic cobenefits of emissions reductions, those countries, including Australia, are worse off if they unilaterally withdraw from the Paris Agreement than if they participate. Thus, although we find there are gross costs to participating, doing so generates net benefits for the individual country participants.
F47|Financial Integration and the Global Effects of China's Growth Surge|China's financial openness, as measured by cross border flows and asset ownership, peaked during its 2000s growth surge, as did downward pressure on global interest rates and price levels. This was despite China's restriction of financial inflows to approved FDI and tight controls on private outflows. We analyze the global effects of the growth surge and their dependence on these financial policies by employing a global macro model with national portfolio rebalancing, in which flexibility in asset differentiation is used to index financial integration. The results suggest that, globally, the growth surge raised asset prices, reduced yields and bolstered deflationary pressures, while improving aggregate economic welfare. It is shown that, without capital controls, most surge effects on China would have been moderated substantially while the global impacts would have been larger.
F47|The US-China Trade Dispute: A Macro Perspective|With the recent rise of populism and authoritarian politics multilateral agreements have been resisted and there are increasing trade disputes, the US-China conflict being a case in point. This paper uses a calibrated global macro model to assess the potential economic consequences of this conflict under explicit assumptions about monetary and fiscal policy. US unilateral protection emerges as “beggar thy neighbor” policy, by most if new tariff revenue affords capital tax relief. China’s proportional losses are large, little mitigated by its retaliation, which nonetheless constrains US net gains. Avoiding leakage by protecting against all sources causes large losses in third regions trading with China and the US.
F47|US-China rivalry: The macro policy choices|Stylized representations of recent US and Chinese tax reforms, tariffs against imports and alternative Chinese monetary targeting are examined using a calibrated global macro model that embodies both trade and financial interdependencies. For both countries, unilateral capital tax relief and bilateral tariffs are shown to be “beggar thy neighbor” in consequence with tariffs most advantageous for the US if revenue finances consumption tax relief. China is nonetheless a net loser when these policies are implemented unilaterally by the US, irrespective of its policy response, though a currency float is shown to cushion the effects on its GDP in the short run. Equilibria in normal form non-cooperative tariff games exhibit spill-overs that are substantial but insufficient to deter dominant strategies. The US imposes tariffs while China liberalizes, sustaining fiscal balance via consumption tax relief in the US and expenditure restraint in China.
F47|A Model-Based Assessment of the Distributional Impact of Structural Reforms|This paper studies the effects of structural reforms on the functional distribution of income in EU Member States. To study this mechanism we use a DSGE model (Roeger et al. 2008) with households supplying three types of labour, low-, medium- and high-skilled. We assume that households receive income from labour, tangible capital, intangible capital, financial wealth and transfers and we trace how structural reforms affect these types of incomes. The quantification of structural reforms is based on changes in structural indicators that can significantly close the gap of a country’s average income towards the best performing countries in the EU. We find a general trade-off between an increase in employment of a particular group and the income of the average group member relative to income per capita. In general, reforms which aim at increasing employment of low skilled workers are associated with a fall in wages relative to income per capita. Capital owners generally benefit from labour market reforms, with an increasing share in total income, due to limited entry into the final goods production sector. This suggests that labour market re-forms may lead to suboptimal distributional effects if there are rigidities in goods markets present, a finding which confirms the importance of ensuring that such reforms are accompanied or preceded by product market reforms.
F47|Foreign aid, instability and governance in Africa|This study contributes to the attendant literature by bundling governance dynamics and focusing on foreign aid instability instead of foreign aid. We assess the role of foreign aid instability on governance dynamics in fifty three African countries for the period 1996-2010. An autoregressive endogeneity-robust Generalized Method of Moments is employed. Instabilities are measured in terms of variance of the errors and standard deviations. Three main aid indicators are used, namely: total aid, aid from multilateral donors and bilateral aid. Principal Component Analysis is used to bundle governance indicators, namely: political governance (voice & accountability and political stability/no violence), economic governance (regulation quality and government effectiveness), institutional governance (rule of law and corruption-control) and general governance (political, economic and institutional governance). Our findings show that foreign aid instability increases governance standards, especially political and general governance. Policy implications are discussed.
F47|Contagion and bond pricing: The case of the ASEAN region|In this paper, we obtain explicit numerical formulas to price the defaultable bonds prices of firms. The possible default event of the firms happen in random time and not necessary in uniform time spread. For this purpose, we develop a Markov regime-switching Copula model that allows us to well-capture the economic behavior in some ASEAN region countries. The first regime represents the evidence that is used to support the standard economy. The second regime represents the crisis state. Based on various specifications, we obtain an explicit formula to evaluate the conditional Laplace transform of a regime switching Cox Ingersoll Ross model using the semi-affine property of this model. Our numerical results show strong evidence for increasing volatility parameter in crisis state, suggesting more possibility of contagion. Furthermore, statistically significant differences in terms of volatility of default across countries are reported. Indonesia and Malaysia exhibit particularly higher volatility than other markets, especially in the crisis state.
F47|The Spectral envelope: An Application to the decoupling problem in economics|In this paper we introduce the technique of spectral envelope into the analysis of decoupling problem in Economics. Decoupling refers to the phenomenon that the business cycles in emerging market economies are de-synchronized from cyclical movements in the advanced economies. The analysis shows that all the countries in the sample have a common cycle of approximately 42 months. The results point to a strong possibility of a common global cycle of a periodicity between 3 to 4 years.
F47|The Brexit Vote, Productivity Growth and Macroeconomic Adjustments in the United Kingdom|The UK economy has experienced significant macroeconomic adjustments following the 2016 referendum on its withdrawal from the European Union. This paper develops and estimates a small open economy model with tradable and non-tradable sectors to characterise these adjustments. We demonstrate that many of the effects of the referendum result can be conceptualised as news about a future slowdown in productivity growth in the tradable sector. Simulations show that the responses of the model economy to such news are consistent with key patterns in UK data. While overall economic growth slows, an immediate permanent fall in the relative price of non-tradable output (the real exchange rate) induces a temporary ‘sweet spot’ for tradable producers before the slowdown in tradable sector productivity associated with Brexit occurs. Resources are reallocated towards the tradable sector, tradable output growth rises and net exports increase. These developments reverse after the productivity decline in the tradable sector materialises. The negative news about tradable sector productivity also leads to a decline in domestic interest rates relative to world interest rates and to a reduction in investment growth, while employment remains relatively stable. As a by-product of our analysis, we provide a quantitative analysis of the UK business cycle.
F47|A Consumption-Based Approach to Exchange Rate Predictability|This paper provides evidence of short-run predictability for the real exchange rate by performing out-of-sample tests of a forecasting equation which is derived from a consumption-based asset pricing model. In this model, the real exchange rate is predictable as a result of the implications of preferences with habit persistence on the pricing of international assets. The implied predictors are: domestic, US and world consumption growth. Empirical exercises show evidence of short-term predictability on the bilateral rates of 15 out of 17 countries vis-à-vis the US over the post Bretton-Woods float. A GMM estimation of the parameters of the model also finds evidence of the presence of habits in consumers’ preferences.
F47|Is there any theory that explains the SEK?|This paper investigates if the value of the Swedish krona (SEK) against the US dollar ($) and the Euro (€) can be explained by some standard theories and fundamentals, such as the purchasing power parity, the interest rate parity, the debt-ratio and the trade balance ratio, using monthly data since Feb. 1993. All of them fail to explain why the SEK is so “weak”. The lower inflation rate in Sweden over the recent years has not strengthened the currency. Similarly, the theoretically stronger SEK implied by the lower interest rates in Sweden as the uncovered interest rate parity predicts, has not emerged yet. Finally, neither the persistent trade balance surpluses, nor the declining and very low debt ratio in Sweden have had any positive effects on the currency. It seems that the traders and investors ignore the fundamentals, speculate against the currency and keep it undervalued. Moreover, a number of simulated paths, predicted from various ARIMA-processes, based on the historic exchange rates, show that the worse exchange rates have already gone and by the end of 2020 the $ and the € will cost around 8 and 9.8 SEK respectively.
F47|Financial integration and the global effects of China's growth surge|China’s financial openness, as measured by cross border flows and asset ownership, peaked during its 2000s growth surge, as did downward pressure on global interest rates and price levels. This was despite China’s restriction of financial inflows to approved FDI and tight controls on private outflows. We analyze the global effects of the growth surge and their dependence on these financial policies by employing a global macro model with national portfolio rebalancing, in which flexibility in asset differentiation is used to index financial integration. The results suggest that, globally, the growth surge raised asset prices, reduced yields and bolstered deflationary pressures, while improving aggregate economic welfare. It is shown that, without capital controls, most surge effects on China would have been moderated substantially while the global impacts would have been larger.
F47|The US-China trade dispute: A macro perspective|The recent rise of populism and authoritarian politics has seen a turn from multilateralism and toward international disputes like that between the US and China. This paper uses a calibrated global macro model to assess the potential economic consequences of this conflict under explicit assumptions about monetary and fiscal policy. US unilateral protection emerges as “beggar thy neighbor” policy, the more so if new tariff revenue affords capital tax relief. China’s proportional losses are comparatively large and little mitigated by retaliation, which nonetheless constrains US net gains. Avoiding leakage by protecting against all sources causes substantial losses in third regions trading with China and the US.
F47|US-China Rivalry: The Macro Policy Choices|Stylized representations of recent US and Chinese tax reforms, tariffs against imports and alternative Chinese monetary targeting are examined using a calibrated global macro model that embodies both trade and financial interdependencies. For both countries, unilateral capital tax relief and bilateral tariffs are shown to be “beggar thy neighbor” in consequence with tariffs most advantageous for the US if revenue finances consumption tax relief. China is nonetheless a net loser when these policies are implemented unilaterally by the US, irrespective of its policy response, though a currency float is shown to cushion the effects on its GDP in the short run. Equilibria in normal form non-cooperative tariff games exhibit spill-overs that are substantial but insufficient to deter dominant strategies. The US imposes tariffs while China liberalizes, sustaining fiscal balance via consumption tax relief in the US and expenditure restraint in China.
F47|Potenzielle Auswirkungen einer Zuspitzung des Handelsstreits: Simulations- und umfragebasierte Ergebnisse|Im Rahmen des vorliegenden IW-Reports werden die Konsequenzen der aktuellen handelspolitischen Herausforderungen für die deutsche Wirtschaft geschätzt und die Größenordnung ihrer gesamtwirtschaftlichen Effekte quantifiziert. Die Simulationen mit dem Oxford Economics Global Economic Model (OEGEM) zeigen, dass die deutsche Wirtschaft erheblich unter einer Eskalation des Handelskonflikts mit den USA leiden würde. In einem Worst-Case-Szenario, bei dem die USA das Zollniveau gegenüber der Europäischen Union (EU) und fünf weiteren wichtigen Handelspartnern um 25 Prozent erhöhen und die betroffenen Länder mit entsprechenden Ver-geltungsmaßnahmen reagieren, dürfte die globale Wirtschaftsleistung um fast 3 Prozent schrumpfen. Etwas stärker fällt der Effekt auf Deutschland mit 3,8 Prozent aus, das Bruttoinlandsprodukt (BIP) der USA könnte sogar um 4,1 Prozent zurückgehen. Des Weiteren werden die Ergebnisse einer Unternehmensbefragung des Instituts der deutschen Wirtschaft (IW) in Kooperation mit der IW Consult aufgezeigt. Befragt wurden mehr als 1.100 Unternehmen in Deutschland nach ihren Erwartungen im Fall einer Zuspitzung des Handelskonflikts. Die Ergebnisse zeigen unter anderem, dass über 40 Prozent der befragten Unternehmen von negativen Effekten auf die Produktion und Beschäftigung in Deutschland ausgehen, sollte der Handelsstreit weiter eskalieren. Bei den US-Exporten gehen sogar über 81 Prozent der bereits in die USA exportierenden Firmen von Einbußen aus. Selbst auf die Investitionen und die bestehende Wertschöpfung deutscher Unternehmen in den USA dürfte die Zuspitzung des Handelskonflikts gemäß der Umfrage negative Effekte auslösen.
F47|Forecasting Exchange Rates with Commodity Prices - A Global Country Analysis|This paper investigates the predictive properties of import and export prices of commodities on the exchange rates. A period from 1993 to 2016 is considered. We find that forecasts of the exchange rate adding commodity export and import prices are superior to those neglecting these variables. This holds irrespective of whether the countries are net exporters or importers of commodities. However, the forecasting power was even better in the 1990s and seems to have decreased since that that time. Nevertheless forecasts can even today be improved considerably by adding commodity prices.
F47|Forecasting external demand using BVAR models|As the impact of monetary policy decisions manifests itself with a lag, decision-makers also need economic forecasts when they make decisions. In this paper, we present a method that may facilitate the integration of incoming data in the external demand forecast faster than is currently possible. The external demand forecast helps to forecast exports and, through that, developments in GDP. In the current practice, for the imports of Hungary’s key trading partners we use the forecasts of international institutions as a starting point. Data received in the meantime can be included in the forecast using expert judgements. With the method described in this paper, we forecast the imports of Hungary’s key trading partners – and with the help thereof – their external demand, relying on BVAR models and using monthly time series (confidence indices, industrial production, orders). Based on the literature, we use the Kalman filter to eliminate the differences in the publication lags of the individual time series. The missing variable is then forecast using the other variables. The forecasts thus obtained perform better than the best ARMA models, and the model containing global imports and the oil price. With one exception, the forecast of the imports of the individual countries is more accurate when prepared on the whole sample, rather than on the rolling sample. The forecast of external demand is also more accurate if we use the whole sample. The most accurate BVAR model used to forecast external demand provides an unbiased forecast and also yields a better forecast of turning points than the models used for comparison. Compared to the forecasts of international institutions, the BVAR forecast performs better when actual import data from the respective year are already available. Thus, compared to previous practice, the novelty is represented by the BVAR methodology and the monthly time series, which can be integrated into the forecast in a formalised manner. Looking ahead, it may also be worthwhile to forecast GDP components using this method.
F47|Does the foreign sector help forecast domestic variables in DSGE models?|This paper evaluates the forecasting performances of several small open-economy DSGE models relative to a closed-economy benchmark using a long span of data for Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom. We find that opening the model economy usually does not improve the quality of point and density forecasts for key domestic variables, and can even cause it to deteriorate. We show that this result can be attributed largely to an increase in the forecast error due to the more sophisticated structure of the extended setup, which is not compensated for by a better model specification. This claim is based on a Monte Carlo experiment in which an open-economy model fails to beat its closed-economy benchmark consistently even if the former is the true data generating process.
F47|Multihorizon Currency Returns and Purchasing Power Parity|Exposures of expected future depreciation rates to the current interest rate differential violate the UIP hypothesis in a distinctive pattern that is a non-monotonic function of horizon. Conversely, forward, risk-adjusted expected depreciation rates are monotonic. We explain the two patterns by incorporating the weak form of PPP into a no-arbitrage joint model of the depreciation rate, inflation differential, domestic and foreign yield curves. Short-term departures from PPP generate the first pattern. The risk premiums for these departures generate the second pattern.
F47|The Potential Macroeconomic and Sectoral Consequences of Brexit on Ireland|This paper provides estimates of the potential effects on exports, imports, production, factor demand and GDP in Ireland of an exit of the United Kingdom (UK) from the European Union (EU), focusing on trade and FDI channels. Owing to the high uncertainty regarding the final trade agreement between the negotiating parties, the choice has been made to assume a worst-case outcome where trade relations between the United Kingdom and EU are governed by World Trade Organization (WTO) most favoured nation (MFN) rules. In doing so, it provides something close to an upper bound estimate of the negative economic impact taking into account the potential for some firms to relocate to Ireland. Any final trade agreement that would result in closer relationships between the United Kingdom and the EU could reduce this negative impact. The simulations use two large-scale models: a global macroeconomic model (NiGEM) and a general equilibrium trade model (METRO). These models are used to quantify, both at the macroeconomic and the sectoral level, two key channels through which Ireland would be affected: trade and foreign direct investment. The simulation results highlight that the negative effect on trade could result in Ireland's GDP falling by 1½ per cent in the medium-term and around 2½ per cent in the long-term. The impacts are highly heterogeneous across sectors. Agriculture, food, and some smaller manufacturing sectors experience the largest declines in total gross exports at over 15%. By contrast, financial services exports increase slightly. The modelling suggests that any positive offsetting impact to the trade shock from increased inward FDI to Ireland is likely to be modest.
F47|Forecasting Base Metal Prices with Commodity Currencies|In this paper we show that the Chilean exchange rate has the ability to predict the returns of the London Metal Exchange Index and of the six primary non-ferrous metals that are part of the index: aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc. The economic relationship hinges on the present-value theory for exchange rates, a floating exchange rate regime and the fact that copper represents about a half of Chilean exports and nearly 45% of Foreign Direct Investment. Consequently, the Chilean peso is heavily affected by fluctuations in the copper price. As all six base metal prices show an important comovement, we test whether the relationship between copper prices and Chilean exchange rates also holds true when it comes to the six primary non-ferrous metals. We find interesting evidence of predictability both in-sample and out-of-sample. Our paper is part of a growing literature that in the recent years has evaluated and called into question the ability of commodity currencies to forecast commodity prices.
F47|Cointegration of Economic growth and External balance in Colombia: 1963-2016|In this paper is analyzed the relation between GDP growth and External balance in Colombia for the study period (1963-2016) by using a VECM. Supposing everything else unchanged, we conclude that Colombian external balance granger caused GDP growth and there was indeed a long run relation between both variables. This outcome helps to explain the Colombian GDP growth dynamics over the last fifty years and the impact of trade policy on economic growth.
F47|Time-Varying Vector Autoregressions: Efficient Estimation, Random Inertia and Random Mean|Time-varying VAR models have become increasingly popular and are now widely used for policy analysis and forecast purposes. They constitute fundamental tools for the anticipation and analysis of economic crises, which represent rapid shifts in dynamic responses and shock volatility. Yet, despite their flexibility, time-varying VARs remain subject to a number of limitations. On the theoretical side, the conventional random walk assumption used for the dynamic parameters appears excessively restrictive. It also conceals the potential heterogeneities existing between the dynamic processes of different variables. On the application side, the standard two-pass procedure building on the Kalman filter proves excessively complicated and suffers from low efficiency. Based on these considerations, this paper contributes to the literature in four directions: i) it introduces a general time-varying VAR model which relaxes the standard random walk assumption and defines the dynamic parameters as general auto-regressive processes with variable- specific mean values and autoregressive coefficients. ii) it develops an estimation procedure for the model which is simple, transparent and efficient. The procedure requires no sophisticated Kalman filtering methods and reduces to a standard Gibbs sampling algorithm. iii) as an extension, it develops efficient procedures to estimate endogenously the mean values and autoregressive coefficients associated with each variable-specific autoregressive process. iv) through a case study of the Great Recession for four major economies (Canada, the Euro Area, Japan and the United States), it establishes that forecast accuracy can be significantly improved by using the proposed general time-varying model and its extensions in place of the traditional random walk specification.
F47|The predictive relationship between exchange rate expectations and base metal prices|In this paper we show that survey-based-expectations about the future evolution of the Chilean exchange rate have the ability to predict the returns of the six primary non-ferrous metals: aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc. Predictability is also found for returns of the London Metal Exchange Index. Previous studies have shown that the Chilean exchange rate has the ability to predict copper returns, a world commodity index and base metal prices. Nevertheless, our results indicate that expectations about the Chilean peso have stronger predictive ability relative to the Chilean currency. This is shown both in-sample and out-of-sample. By focusing on expectations of a commodity currency, and not on the currency itself, our paper provides indirect but new and strong evidence of the ability that commodity currencies have to forecast commodity prices. Our results are also consistent with the present-value-model for exchange rate determination.
F47|Can we beat the Random Walk? The case of survey-based exchange rate forecasts in Chile|We examine the accuracy of survey-based expectations of the Chilean exchange rate relative to the US dollar. Our out-of-sample analysis reveals that survey-based forecasts outperform the Driftless Random Walk (DRW) in terms of Mean Squared Prediction Error at several forecasting horizons. This result holds true even when comparing the survey to a more competitive benchmark based on a refined information set. A similar result is found when precision is measured in terms of Directional Accuracy: survey-based forecasts outperform a “pure luck” benchmark at several forecasting horizons. Differing from the traditional “no predictability” result reported in the literature for many exchange rates, our findings suggest that the Chilean peso is indeed predictable.
F47|Determination of Different Types of Fixed Effects in Three-Dimensional Panels|In this paper we propose a jackknife method to determine the type of fixed effects in three-dimensional panel data models. We show that with probability approaching 1, the method can select the correct type of fixed effects in the presence of only weak serial or cross-sectional dependence among the error terms. In the presence of strong serial correlation, we propose a modified jackknife method and justify its selection consistency. Monte Carlo simulations demonstrate the excellent finite sample performance of our method. Applications to two datasets in macroeconomics and international trade reveal the usefulness of our method.
F47|Current account adjustment and retained earnings|This paper develops a formal strategy to calculate current accounts with retained earnings (RE) on equity investment and analyzes their adjustment during the global financial crisis. RE are the part of companies’ profits which is reinvested and not distributed to shareholders as dividends. International statistical standards treat RE on foreign direct investment and RE on portfolio investment differently: while the former enter the current and financial account, the latter do not. We show that this differential treatment strongly affects current accounts of several advanced economies, frequently referred to as financial centers, with large positions in equity (portfolio) investment. Our empirical analysis finds that the differential treatment of RE alters the interpretation of current account adjustment for the global financial crisis.
F47|Why don’t agricultural prices always adjust towards parity?|A prominent empirical regularity is the incomplete pass-through of exchange rate changes to domestic price changes, which reflects the failure of the purchasing power parity doctrine. We argue that such disconnection can be explained by the non-linear mean reversion dynamics of exchange rates: As a consequence of various trade barriers, there is a sizeable buffer region, a “band of inaction”, within which exchange rates can move independently of prices, thus generating large and persistent deviations from parity. When examining panels of large numbers of disaggregated and tradable agricultural products with a non-linear exchange rate specification, we observe relatively fast adjustment speeds whenever deviations are sufficiently large so as to induce arbitrage. On the other hand, when deviations fall within the band of inaction, there is evidence that movements in rates follow a random walk. Additionally, the speed of adjustment is asymmetric, in the sense that positive deviations are adjusted faster than negative deviations.
F47|Predictable biases in macroeconomic forecasts and their impact across asset classes|This paper investigates how biases in macroeconomic forecasts are associated with economic surprises and market responses across asset classes around US data announcements. We find that the skewness of the distribution of economic forecasts is a strong predictor of economic surprises, suggesting that forecasters behave strategically (rational bias) and possess private information. Our results also show that consensus forecasts of US macroeconomic releases embed anchoring. Under these conditions, both economic surprises and the returns of assets that are sensitive to macroeconomic conditions are predictable. Our findings indicate that local equities and bond markets are more predictable than foreign markets, currencies and commodities. Economic surprises are found to link to asset returns very distinctively through the stages of the economic cycle, whereas they strongly depend on economic releases being inflation- or growth-related. Yet, when forecasters fail to correctly forecast the direction of economic surprises, regret becomes a relevant cognitive bias to explain asset price responses. We find that the behavioral and rational biases encountered in US economic forecasting also exists in Continental Europe, the United Kingdom and Japan, albeit, to a lesser extent.
F47|Real exchange rate dynamics in New-Keynesian models – The Balassa-Samuelson effect revisited|This paper explores the Balassa-Samuelson effect in a New-Keynesian DSGE model of a monetary union with traded and non-traded goods. Credible sets for theoretical impulse response functions show that a model with perfect intersectoral labour mobility is unable to reproduce an appreciation of the real exchange rate caused by higher productivity in the traded sector. Allowing for imperfect intersectoral labour mobility resolves this obstacle and delivers testable restrictions for model parameters governing the labour market specification in a Bayesian estimation context.
F47|LU-EAGLE: A DSGE model for Luxembourg within the euro area and global economy|We describe LU-EAGLE, a DSGE model developed at the Banque centrale du Luxembourg. LU-EAGLE borrows its general structure from the Euro Area and GLobal Economy (EAGLE) model developed by the European System of Central Banks and also embeds specific features to capture some important characteristics of Luxembourg's economy. In particular, the model reproduces the high levels of exports and imports relative to GDP, as well as the significant share of cross-border workers in Luxembourg's labor market. We calibrate LU-EAGLE and discuss simulation results describing the effects of a set of standard shocks, originating both in Luxembourg and abroad. The model suggests that international spillovers make Luxembourg more responsive to monetary policy shocks and less responsive to fiscal policy shocks. Moreover, it highlights how fluctuations in foreign demand have a significant impact on domestic developments.
F47|International co-movements in recessions|Business cycle correlations are state-dependent and higher in recessions than in expansions. In this paper, I suggest a mechanism to explain why this is the case. For this purpose, I build an international real business cycle model with occasionally binding constraints on capacity utilization which can account for state-dependent cross-country correlations in GDP growth rates. The intuition is that firms can only use their machines up to a capacity ceiling. Therefore, in booms the growth of an individual economy can be dampened when the economy hits its capacity constraint. This creates an asymmetry that can spill-over to other economies, thereby creating state-dependent cross-country correlations in GDP growth rates. Empirically, I successfully test for the presence of capacity constraints using data from the G7 advanced economies in a Bayesian threshold autoregressive (T-VAR) model. This finding supports capacity constraints as a prominent transmission channel of cross-country GDP asymmetries in recessions compared to expansions.
F47|How important are the international financial market imperfections for the foreign exchange rate dynamics: A study of the sterling exchange rate|The UK has been a net debtor over the past two decades and the sterling exchange rates are sensitive to any chaos that might occur in the financial market. This paper examines the importance of the international financial imperfections in the sterling exchange rate dynamics. We build a small open economy DSGE model with the constrained international financial institutions that intermediate capital flows, and derive tractable analytical solutions. The constraint works to introduce a wedge between lending and borrowing rates, which compensates financiers for their currency risk-taking. The model has been estimated by using a simulation-based Indirect Inference approach, which provides a natural framework for testing the hypothesis implied by the model. We find that the model cannot be rejected by the UK data. Shocks to financial forces are the main driving forces behind the large and sudden depreciation of the Sterling exchange rates in the aftermath of the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the Brexit vote. Furthermore, the optimal policy rules have been proposed.
F47|Current Account Balance in Emerging Asia|The current account balance is an important indicator which reveals information on a country’s economic situation such as investments, capital flows, and indebtedness. The main purpose of this study is to examine the current account balance conditions in emerging Asian countries. In this respect, the long-run and causality relationship between current account balance, economic growth, government expenditure, real interest rates, and foreign direct investment was examined. The panel data analysis was applied using the data dated 1986 to 2015. Our results revealed a causal effect from economic growth and government expenditure to current account balance mainly dependent on saving tendency.
F47|Independent Monetary Policy Versus a Common Currency: A Macroeconomic Analysis for the Czech Republic Through the Lens of an Applied DSGE Model|The goal of this paper is to contribute to the understanding of the macroeconomic costs and benefits of euro adoption by the Czech economy through the lens of the CNB's official structural macroeconomic model - called g3. To do so, we perform simulations using the g3 model and a modification thereof with a fixed nominal exchange rate and with the policy rate given by the ECB. First, we compare the unconditional volatilities of selected macro variables implied by the two models. Second, we use the g3 model to filter the historical data to identify the structural shocks that affected the Czech economy in the past ten years, and we then use the modified model to simulate the counterfactual outcome of what would have happened to the Czech economy if the euro had been adopted in the past. Our results indicate that euro adoption would have had positive effects on the levels of macroeconomic variables at the cost of an increase in nominal volatility.
F47|Estudio sobre el impacto de la actividad petrolera en las regiones productoras de Colombia. Caracterización departamental Santander|En este trabajo se describe la dinámica de la actividad petrolera y de la industria de refinación, transporte y comercialización de sus productos en el departamento de Santander, así como su contribución al bienestar social y a la economía departamental, en las secciones de caracterización del departamento y de la cadena de valor del downstream. En otra sección se simulan escenarios futuros de la economía nacional y la departamental, con y sin la explotación de los yacimientos no convencionales, y se cuantifican sus impactos en términos de la cuenta corriente y los ingresos fiscales de la nación, así como en el PIB departamental y las cuentas fiscales de Santander.
F47|The cost of non-TTIP: A Global Value Chain Approach|What is the cost of non-TTIP for the European Union and the United States? To address this question, this paper develops a network trade model with international sector-level input-output linkages. Our model is entirely general with closed-form solutions and can be used for any trade policy experiment. We use World Input Output Data (WIOD) to simulate the effects of TTIP in terms of value added and employment. We find that a deepTTIP raises European GDP by 1.3%, and US GDP by 0.7%. The largest share of these TTIP gains result from the reduction in Non-Tariff Barriers (NTBs) rather than from the removal of tariffs. The potential gains from TTIP are higher for the EU than for the US. These findings may offer an explanation for the current US stance on TTIP.
F47|Multihorizon Currency Returns and Purchasing Power Parity|Exposures of expected future depreciation rates to the current interest rate differential violate the UIP hypothesis in a distinctive pattern that is a non-monotonic function of horizon. Conversely, forward, or risk-adjusted expected depreciation rates are monotonic. We explain the two patterns jointly by incorporating the weak form of PPP, aka stationarity of the real exchange rate, into a joint model of the stochastic discount factor, the nominal exchange rate, inflation differential, domestic and foreign yield curves. Short-term departures from PPP generate the first pattern. The risk premiums for these departures generate the second pattern. Thus, the variance of the stochastic discount factor must be related to the real exchange rate deepening the exchange rate disconnect.
F47|The real exchange rate, innovation and productivity : regional heterogeneity, asymmetries and hysteresis|We evaluate manufacturing firms' responses to changes in the real exchange rate (RER) using detailed firm-level data for a large set of countries for the period 2001-2010. We uncover the following stylized facts: In export-oriented emerging Asia, real depreciations are associated with faster growth of firm-level TFP, higher sales and cash-flow, and higher probabilities to engage in R&D and to export. We find negative effects for firms in other emerging economies, which are relatively more import dependent, and no significant effects for firms in industrialized economies. Motivated by these facts, we build a dynamic model in which real depreciations raise the cost of importing intermediates, affect demand, borrowing-constraints and the profitability of engaging in innovation (R&D). We decompose the effects of RER changes on productivity growth across regions into these channels. We estimate the model and quantitatively evaluate the different mechanisms by providing counterfactual simulations of temporary RER movements and conduct several robustness analyses. Effects on physical TFP growth, while different across regions, are non-linear and asymmetric.
F47|The transition of China to sustainable growth – implications for the global economy and the euro area|China’s rise has been the economic success story of the past four decades but economic growth has been slowing and domestic imbalances have widened. This paper analyses the recent evolution of China’s imbalances, the risks they pose to the economic outlook and the potential impact of a transition to sustainable growth in China on the global and euro area economies. The paper documents China’s heavy reliance on investment and credit as drivers of growth, which has created vulnerabilities in a number of sectors and has been accompanied by increased complexity and leverage in the financial system. China retains some buffers, including policy space, to cushion against adverse shocks for the time being, but additional structural reforms would facilitate a shift of China’s economy onto a sustainable and strong growth trajectory in the medium term. China’s size, trade openness, dominant position as consumer of commodities and growing financial integration mean that its transition to sustainable growth is crucial for the global economic outlook. Simulation analysis using global macro models suggests that the spillovers to the euro area would be limited in the case of a modest slowdown in China’s GDP growth, but significant in the case of a sharp downturn. Sensitivity analysis underscores that the spillovers are dependent on the strengths of the various transmission channels, as well as the policy reaction by central banks and governments. JEL Classification: E21, E22, E27, F10, F47, O11, O53
F47|Global climate change mitigation: Strategic incentives|Central to global agreement on carbon emissions are strategic interactions amongst regions over carbon tax implementation and the benefits to be shared. These are re-examined in this paper, in which benefits from mitigation stem from a meta-analysis that links carbon concentration with region-specific measures of economic welfare. Implementation costs are then drawn from a highly disaggregated model of global economic performance. Multiplayer games are then constructed, the results from which are sensitive to embodied temperature scenarios and discount rates but robustly reveal that the US and China would be net gainers from unilateral implementation in net present value terms. The dominant strategy for all other countries is to free ride. Net gains to the three large economies are bolstered by universal adoption, which could be induced by affordable side payments. Yet the revealed downside is that net gains to all regions are negative for at least two decades, rendering commitment to abatement politically difficult.
F47|The Quanto Theory of Exchange Rates|We present a new identity that relates expected exchange rate appreciation to a risk-neutral covariance term, and use it to motivate a currency forecasting variable based on the prices of quanto index contracts. We show via panel regressions that the quanto forecast variable is an economically and statistically significant predictor of currency appreciation and of excess returns on currency trades. Out of sample, the quanto variable outperforms predictions based on uncovered interest parity, on purchasing power parity, and on a random walk as a forecaster of differential (dollar-neutral) currency appreciation.
F47|An Exchange Rate Floor as an Instrument of Monetary Policy: An Ex-post Assessment of the Czech Experience|In November 2013 the Czech National Bank introduced a floor for the Czech koruna exchange rate as its monetary policy instrument. The rationale for this action was to prevent the risk of deflation in a zero-lower-bound environment where policy rates could not be lowered any further. The goal of this paper is to assess ex post the effect of the exchange rate floor on the Czech economy - inflation and the main real aggregates. The paper uses two different approaches. First, the official DSGE forecasting model is used to simulate the counterfactual macroeconomic dynamics of no introduction of a floor. Second, the paper applies an empirical approach: the synthetic control method and its generalised variant are used to estimate these counterfactual trajectories. Both approaches show that the floor prevented inflation from turning negative. Moreover, both methods indicate likely positive effects on macro variables and on various measures of inflation, although strongly statistically significant effects are only obtained for core inflation. The statistical significance for other variables is weaker or zero. We conclude that the introduction of the exchange rate floor was a correct policy action that has retrospectively been successful.
F47|New perspectives on forecasting inflation in emerging market economies: An empirical assessment|We use a broad-range set of inflation models and pseudo out-of-sample forecasts to assess their predictive ability among 14 emerging market economies (EMEs) at different horizons (1–12 quarters ahead) with quarterly data over the period 1980Q1-2016Q4. We find, in general, that a simple arithmetic average of the current and three previous observations (the RW-AO model) consistently outperforms its standard competitors—based on the root mean squared prediction error (RMSPE) and on the accuracy in predicting the direction of change. These include conventional models based on domestic factors, existing open-economy Phillips curve-based specifications, factor-augmented models, and time-varying parameter models. Often, the RMSPE and directional accuracy gains of the RW-AO model are shown to be statistically significant. Our results are robust to forecast combinations, intercept corrections, alternative transformations of the target variable, different lag structures, and additional tests of (conditional) predictability. We argue that the RW-AO model is successful among EMEs because it is a straightforward method to downweight later data, which is a useful strategy when there are unknown structural breaks and model misspecification.
F47|Nonlinearities in the Real Exchange Rates: New Evidence from Developed and Developing Countries|This paper investigates nonlinearities in the dynamics of real exchange rates. We use Monte Carlo simulations to establish the size properties of the Terï¿½svirta-Anderson (1992) and the Terï¿½svirta (1994) test, when the dynamics of the real exchange rate is infl?uenced by an exogenous process. In addition, we examine the modifi?cation proposed by Ahmad, Lo and Mykhaylova (2013; Journal of International Economics) to show that the modifi?ed nonlinearity test performs much better than the original in both Monte Carlo exercises and in the actual data on 1431 bilateral real exchange rate series. Finally, we investigate the dynamics of the real exchange rate for both developed and developing countries using the modifi?ed test for the recent ?floating period. In general, the results fi?nds a greater incidence of nonlinear dynamics for developing country real exchange rates.
F47|A global multi-sectoral model in local currencies|Economic agents make their decisions by focusing on the economic performance of their economies in their currencies rather than in a foreign currency. This shows that a multi-country economic model in local currencies is suitable to analyze global economic issues. However, international input-output tables are denominated in a specific currency such as the US dollar. Employing the OECD Intercountry Input-Output Tables, this paper presents a method to convert the international input-output tables in U.S. dollars and current prices to those in local currencies and constant prices. In addition, the structure of a global model with economies of scale and imperfect competition is illustrated. A numerical example is also demonstrated in order to show the applicability of the model.
F47|Export Sophistication: A Dynamic Panel Data Approach| In this article, we analyze export sophistication based on a large panel dataset (2001–2015; 101 countries) and using various estimation algorithms. Using Monte Carlo simulations, we evaluate the bias properties of estimators and show that GMM-type estimators outperform instrumental-variable and fixed-effects estimators. Based on our analysis we document that GDP per capita and the size of the economy exhibit significant and positive effects on export sophistication; weak institutional quality exhibits negative effect. We also show that export sophistication is path-dependent and stable even during a major economic crisis, which is especially important for emerging and developing economies.
F47|Are all types of capital flows driven by the same factors? Evidence from Mexico|In this paper we analyze the impact and persistence of shocks to global (push) and domestic (pull) factors on each component of the financial account for the Mexican Balance of Payments at the highest degree of disaggregation, including investment by foreign residents in Mexican public and private sector securities, as well as investment by domestic residents in foreign securities. To this end, we estimate impulse response functions from vector autoregressive models for the period 1995-2015. We find that an increase in the foreign interest rate leads to lower portfolio investment, particularly in Mexican public sector securities. An increase in global risk generates lower portfolio investment, particularly in private sector securities. Foreign investors respond to a higher extent to foreign interest rate and liquidity shocks compared to domestic investors.
F47|Subjective interest rate uncertainty and the macroeconomy: A cross-country analysis|We ask whether uncertainty about interest rates is important for economic activity. The effects of interest rate uncertainty on the economy are examined through the lens of a small VAR where the assumption that uncertainty can affect real activity contemporaneously but not vice versa is indeed in line with the data. Our measure of uncertainty stems from professional forecasts of short- and long-term interest rates and accounts for both disagreement among forecasters and the perceived variability of future aggregate shocks. Studying a panel of countries we find that subjective interest rate uncertainty has large, negative and persistent effects on the economy.
F47|Subjective interest rate uncertainty and the macroeconomy : a cross-country analysis|We present a measure of subjective interest rate uncertainty and explore its effects on the economy for G7 countries and Spain, during the period 1993-2015. This measure is a summary of uncertainty among professional forecasters over the future level of interest rates. We find that subjective interest rate uncertainty is harmful to the economy, with both recessionary and deflationary effects. These effects vary across countries in terms of magnitude and persistence. Differences in economic structures and institutional frameworks can explain this heterogeneity. Central banks can play an important role in mitigating interest rate uncertainty by designing strategies to enhance transparency and communication.
F47|Financial and real shocks and the effectiveness of monetary and macroprudential policies in Latin American countries|This work compares the impact of monetary and macroprudential policies on financial and real sectors in four Latin American countries: Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Peru, and explores the commonalities and differences in the reaction to shocks to both the financial and real sector. In order to do that, we estimate a New Keynesian small open economy model with frictions in the domestic financial intermediation sector and a commodity sector for each country. Results suggest that financial shocks are important drivers of output and investment fluctuations in the short run for most countries, but in the long run their contribution is small. Furthermore, we evaluate the ability of macroprudential policies to limit the impact on credit growth and its effect on real variables. In a scenario of tighter financial conditions, monetary policy becomes expansionary due to both lower inflation (given the exchange rate appreciation) and weaker output growth, and macroprudential policies further contribute to restoring credit and output growth. However, in the case of a negative commodity price shock, macroprudential policies are less effective but useful as a complement for the tightening of monetary policy. Higher inflation (due to the exchange rate depreciation) and higher policy rates lead to a contraction in output growth, but macroprudential policies could alleviate this by improving credit conditions.
F47|Modelling a small open economy using a wavelet-based control model|This paper develops a wavelet-based control system model that can be used to simulate fiscal and monetary strategies in an open economy context in the time-frequency domain. As the emphasis on real exchange rate stability is increased, the model simulates the effects on both the aggregate and decomposed trade balance under both constant and depreciating real exchange rate targets, and also the effects on the real GDP expenditure components. This paper adds to recent research in this area by incorporating an external sector via the use of a real effective exchange rate as a driver of output. The research is also the first to analyze exchange rate effects within a time-frequency model with integrated fiscal and monetary policies in an open-economy applied wavelet-based optimal control setting. To demonstrate the usefulness of this model, we use post-apartheid South African macro data under a political targeting design for the frequency range weights, where we simulate jointly optimal fiscal and monetary policy under varying preferences for real exchange rate stability.
F47|Estimating the Effects of Non-discriminatory Trade Policies within Structural Gravity Models|"We propose a simple method to identify the effects of unilateral and non-discriminatory trade policies on bilateral trade within a theoretically-consistent empirical gravity model. Specifically, we argue that structural gravity estimations should be performed with data that include not only international trade flows but also intra-national trade flows. The use of intra-national sales allows identification of the effects of non-discriminatory trade policies on the importer side (e.g. most favored nation tariffs) and on the exporter side (e.g. export subsidies), even in the presence of exporter and importer fixed effects. An important byproduct of our approach is that it can be used to recover estimates of the export-supply elasticity and of the import-demand elasticity. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our techniques in the case of MFN tariffs and ""Time to Export"" as representative determinants of trade on the importer and on the exporter side, respectively. Our methods can be extended to quantify the impact on trade of any country-specific characteristics as well as any non-trade policies."
F47|A DSGE Model with Financial Dollarization - the Case of Serbia|We amend a DSGE model of a small open economy by adding financial euroization in order to capture the main channels of the monetary transmission mechanism in match the Serbian data. In contrast to the standard DSGE workhorse, the model encompasses commercial banks and foreign-exchange-denominated deposits and loans. Given these features, the model is well suited to evaluating effects of the nominal exchange rate on the financial wealth and consumption of households. The model structure, including optimization problems and first-order conditions, is provided in the paper. The model properties are tested to match the stylized facts of dollarized economies. Specifically, the model is calibrated to the Serbian data, and a model-consistent multivariate filter is used to identify unobserved trends and gaps.
F47|An Exchange Rate Floor as an Instrument of Monetary Policy: An Ex-Post Assessment of the Czech Experience|In November 2013 the Czech National Bank introduced a floor for the Czech koruna exchange rate as its monetary policy instrument. The rationale for this action was to prevent the risk of deflation in a zero-lower-bound environment where policy rates could not be lowered any further. The goal of this paper is to assess ex post the effect of the exchange rate floor on the Czech economy – inflation and the main real aggregates. The paper uses two different approaches. First, the official DSGE forecasting model is used to simulate the counterfactual macroeconomic dynamics of no introduction of a floor. Second, the paper applies an empirical approach: the synthetic control method and its generalised variant are used to estimate these counterfactual trajectories. Both approaches show that the floor prevented inflation from turning negative. Moreover, both methods indicate likely positive effects on macro variables and on various measures of inflation, although strongly statistically significant effects are only obtained for core inflation. The statistical significance for other variables is weaker or zero. We conclude that the introduction of the exchange rate floor was a correct policy action that has retrospectively been successful.
F47|Estudio sobre el impacto de la actividad petrolera en las regiones productoras de Colombia|El presente informe de investigación: “Estudio sobre el impacto de la actividad petrolera en las regiones productoras de Colombia”, hecho por Fedesarrollo para Ecopetrol, consta de varios productos separados así: Caracterización departamental de Arauca. Caracterización departamental de Casanare. Caracterización departamental de Meta. Caracterización departamental de Putumayo. Análisis de impacto Ejercicios econométricos. Y Proyecciones del PIB departamental y regional 2017-2030 bajo tres escenarios de producción y precios del petróleo.
F47|Global Value Chains, Trade Shocks And Jobs: An Application to Brexit|"This paper develops a gravity model with sector-level input-output linkages in production. In contrast to a traditional gravity approach, which relies on direct gross exports between bilateral trade partners, our model additionally includes (1) domestic and global value chain linkages between goods and services sectors, (2) bilateral tariffs that affect direct production for a final destination as well as indirect production (shipped via third countries) to a final destination and (3) value added rather than gross production. Including input-output linkages implies that domestic production of intermediates can serve as inputs in foreign products and subsequently be exported ""indirectly"" to a final destination. Our input-output model can be taken to the sectoral World Input Output Database (WIOD) and can be used to evaluate trade policy shocks. While our framework is entirely general, we use it to predict the impact of the UK's withdrawal from the European Union (""Brexit"") in terms of value added production and employment for every individual EU country involved. We find that Brexit hits the UK relatively harder than the EU-27. In contrast to other studies, we find EU-27 losses from Brexit to be substantially higher than hitherto believed."
F47|Value Added in Motion: Modelling World Trade Patterns at the 2035 Horizon|We address in this paper the future geography of production, migration and energy at the world level, and the consequences for the largest European countries. We take scant account of the wide range of possible evolutions of the world economy in terms of technological progress and diffusion, education, demography including migrations and finally energy price and efficiency. Taking a 2035 horizon, we examine how world trade patterns will be shaped by the changing comparative advantages, demand, and capabilities of different regions, and what will be the implications in terms of location of value added at the sector and country level. We combine a convergence model fitting three production factors (capital, labour and energy) and two factor-specific productivities, alongside a dynamic CGE model of the world economy calibrated to reproduce observed elasticity of trade to income. Each scenario involves three steps. First, we project growth at country level based on factor accumulation, demography and migration, educational attainment and efficiency gains, and discuss uncertainties related to our main drivers. Second, we impose this framework on the CGE baseline. Third, we implement trade policy scenarios (tariffs as well as non-tariff measures in goods and services), in order to get factor allocation across sectors from the model as well as demand and trade patterns.
F47|Value Added in Motion: Macroeconomic Implications of Energy Price Trajectories|Taking a 2035 horizon, we examine how world energy consumption and emission patterns will be shaped by the changing demand and technological capabilities of different regions. We combine a convergence model fitting three production factors (capital, labour and energy) and two factor-specific productivities, along with a dynamic CGE model of the world economy. We consider three possible â€œworldsâ€ with very different energy scarcity, and how Copenhagen pledges change economic agentsâ€™ calculus in each of these three situations. We find that the most dramatic changes in terms of location of value added are to be expected from the intrinsic differences among the three considered â€œworldsâ€ , not so much in terms of economic impact of environmental pledges.
F47|Exchange rate prediction redux: New models, new data, new currencies|Previous assessments of nominal exchange rate determination, following Meese and Rogoff (1983) have focused upon a narrow set of models. Cheung et al. (2005) augmented the usual suspects with productivity based models, and “behavioral equilibrium exchange rate” models, and assessed performance at horizons of up to 5 years. In this paper, we further expand the set of models to include Taylor rule fundamentals, yield curve factors, and incorporate shadow rates and risk and liquidity factors. The performance of these models is compared against the random walk benchmark. The models are estimated in error correction and first-difference specifications. We examine model performance at various forecast horizons (1 quarter, 4 quarters, 20 quarters) using differing metrics (mean squared error, direction of change), as well as the “consistency” test of Cheung and Chinn (1998). The purchasing power parity estimated in the error correction form delivers the best performance at long horizons by a mean squared error measure. Moreover, along a direction-of-change dimension, certain structural models do outperform a random walk with statistical significance. While one finds that these forecasts are cointegrated with the actual values of exchange rates, in most cases, the elasticity of the forecasts with respect to the actual values is different from unity. Overall, model/specification/currency combinations that work well in one period and one performance metric will not necessarily work well in another period and alternative performance metric.
F47|Rationality and forecasting accuracy of exchange rate expectations: Evidence from survey-based forecasts|We examine rationality, forecasting accuracy, and economic value of the survey-based exchange rate forecasts for 10 developed and 23 developing countries at the 3-, 12-, and 24-month horizons. Using the data from two surveys for the period from 2004 to 2012, we find strong evidence that the forecasts for developing countries are biased at all forecast horizons. For developed countries, forecasts are strongly biased at the 3-month horizon, the bias decreases at the 12-month horizon, and increases again at the 24-month horizon. Based on the magnitude of the forecast errors and the direction of change, long-term forecasts are more accurate than short-term forecasts. Economic evaluation of the forecasts indicates that the forecasters are successful at generating positive economic profits, and economic gains of the forecasts for developed countries improve with the forecast horizon.
F47|Can monetary policy cause the uncovered interest parity puzzle?|Using a typical open macroeconomic model, we show that the UIP puzzle becomes more pronounced when the monetary policy rule is stricter against inflation. To determine the empirical validity of our model, we examine (the Taylor-rule-type) monetary policy rules and the slope coefficient in the regression of future exchange rate returns on interest rate differentials before and after the recent global financial crisis. We find that economies that reduced the reaction of the policy interest rate to inflation in response to the crisis have positive slope coefficients in the UIP regressions after the crisis, which is consistent with our model. However, economies for which we cannot find clear break evidence for the reaction to inflation in the monetary policy rule do not show a clear directional change in the slope coefficient of the UIP regression. Moreover, the relation implied by our model holds robustly with longer time-series data during the periods prior to the crisis.
F47|Asia's rebalancing and growth|The paper investigates the impact of Asia's demand rebalancing and supply‐side productivity changes on long‐term economic growth in Asia and worldwide. Results from a panel vector autoregression model show that a productivity–neutral demand‐rebalancing shock has no permanent effect on Asian output, whereas labour productivity shocks have significant, positive and permanent effects. Simulations using a global intertemporal multisector general equilibrium model suggest that labour productivity shocks increase the foreign GDP over time, but rebalancing shocks have a negative international spillover effect. In addition, labour productivity shocks help in rebalancing. Structural reforms promoting labour productivity growth along with rebalancing policies across Asia can achieve higher economic growth worldwide.
F47|The U.S. Oil Supply Revolution and the Global Economy|This paper investigates the global macroeconomic consequences of falling oil prices due to the oil revolution in the United States, using a Global VAR model estimated for 38 countries/regions over the period 1979Q2 to 2011Q2. Set-identification of the U.S. oil supply shock is achieved through imposing dynamic sign restrictions on the impulse responses of the model. The results show that there are considerable heterogeneities in the responses of different countries to a U.S. supply-driven oil price shock, with real GDP increasing in both advanced and emerging market oil-importing economies, output declining in commodity exporters, inflation falling in most countries, and equity prices rising worldwide. Overall, our results suggest that following the U.S. oil revolution, with oil prices falling by 51 percent in the first year, global growth increases by 0.16 to 0.37 percentage points. This is mainly due to an increase in spending by oil importing countries, which exceeds the decline in expenditure by oil exporters.
F47|Exploring the Nexus between Inflation and Globalization under Inflation Targeting through the Lens of New Zealand’s Experience|We investigate empirically the inflation dynamics in New Zealand, a small open economy and a pioneer in inflation targeting, under various open-economy Phillips curve specifications. Our forecasting exercise suggests that open-economy Phillips curves under standard measures of global slack do not help forecast domestic inflation, possibly indicating measurement problems with global slack itself. In turn, under a stable inflation target we still find that (i) global inflation or (ii) global inflation or oil prices have information content for headline CPI and core CPI inflation over the 1997:Q3-2015:Q1 period and appear to be reliable proxies for global slack in forecasting inflation.
F47|The Renminbi: A Warrior for Competitiveness?|The purpose of this paper is to describe the evolution of China’s exchange rate policy, relate it to the international competitiveness of the Chinese economy and assess the claims that China has been manipulating the exchange rate to foster its competitiveness. We begin by reviewing the historical evolution of China’s exchange rate policy. We then describe the implications of the constraint represented by the “trilemma” (or “impossible trinity”) of international economics for China’s economic policy. We assess whether the Renminbi can meet the requirements to be considered an international reserve currency. We also propose to evaluate the degree of currency manipulation by looking at the magnitude of the exchange rate forecast errors. Our interpretation of the test is that currencies subject to higher degrees of manipulation should be easier to forecast. We find that the magnitude of the forecast errors associated with the Chinese currency’s exchange rate is not noticeably smaller than the magnitudes observed for other currencies. This leads us to conclude that our test does not corroborate the view that China is a notorious currency manipulator. Countries wishing to improve their international competitiveness may therefore look to China’s history for insights. However, it is unlikely that policies oriented to setting the exchange rate to artificial values will find support in China’s exchange rate policy in recent years. Our conclusion runs counter the common view on China’s exchange rate policy.
F47|Deflation in the Euro Zone: Overview and Empirical Analysis|Two main issues, closely related to each other, have occupied the European Central Bank in recent years: the sovereign debt crisis and the possibility of deflation in the Euro Zone. In this paper we discuss the causes, the consequences and the policy options regarding deflation. In addition, we assess the magnitude of the risk of deflation in the Euro Zone. For this purpose, we will employ the methodology of Kilian and Manganelli (2007). Our results suggest that the threat of deflation in the Euro Zone is related to the international financial crisis and to the sovereign debt crisis in Europe. Thus, the probability of deflation in the Euro zone increased in recent years. Nevertheless, it appears to have subsided in 2017, justifying the view taken by the ECB’s Governing Council, according to which deflation is no longer a problem for the Euro zone.
F47|Core labour standards and exports|"(english) Core labour standards defined by the ILO in 1998 are universal, but applied very differently across countries. Compliance is much higher in high income countries. However, the causality between improved labour standards and economic growth remains a controversial issue. Export-led growth strategies might encourage developing countries to curb the process of standards improvement. In this way, they can raise the volume of their unskilled labour endowments (child and/or forced labour) in order to strengthen their comparative advantage over compliant countries and pursue ""social dumping"" strategies, which aim more directly at increasing competitiveness. We use a gravity model to assess the trade impact of curbing the level of compliance with core labour standards, distinguishing the effects on bilateral trade (geographical specialization) from the multilateral effects on all exports and imports. We show that, other things being equal, countries that meet the labour standards tend to trade more with each other, while non-compliant countries tend to trade more with compliant countries. These effects are identified mainly with respect to child labour and freedom of association. All other things being equal, countries that meet the labour standards tend to be less open than non-compliant countries, but differently depending on the standards, with a non-linear relationship for some of them. Less compliant countries, frequently the poorest ones, may simultaneously step up their trade and labour standards. For median countries, mainly the emerging countries, the level of compliance with labour standards is “optimal” from a mercantilist point of view. For the most compliant countries, the developed ones, their strict compliance with labour standards implies a trade shortfall. _________________________________ (français) Les normes de travail fondamentales définies par l'OIT en 1998 sont universelles, mais différemment appliquées dans les pays. Leur respect est beaucoup plus élevé dans les pays à haut revenu. Toutefois, la causalité entre l'amélioration des normes de travail et la croissance reste un sujet débattu. Les stratégies de croissance par les exportations pourraient encourager les pays en développement à ralentir le processus d'amélioration des normes. Ils peuvent ainsi accroître leur dotation relative en travail non qualifié (travail des enfants et/ou forcé) pour renforcer leurs avantages comparatifs par rapport aux pays qui les respectent et poursuivre des politiques dites de ""dumping social"" qui visent encore plus directement à accroître leur compétitivité. Nous utilisons un modèle de gravité pour évaluer l'impact du commerce sur le respect des normes fondamentales de travail en séparant les effets sur le commerce bilatéral (spécialisation géographique) des effets sur l'ouverture multilatérale. Nous montrons que, toutes choses égales par ailleurs, les pays qui respectent les normes de travail tendent à échanger davantage entre eux alors que les pays qui ne les respectent pas tendent à échanger davantage avec les pays qui les respectent. Ces effets sont particulièrement nets avec le travail des enfants et la liberté d'association. Les pays qui respectent les normes de travail tendent à être moins ouverts que les pays qui ne les respectent pas, mais avec des différences selon les normes avec une relation non linéaire pour certaines d'entre elles. Les pays qui les respectent le moins, généralement les plus pauvres, améliorent simultanément leur commerce et leurs normes. Pour les pays intermédiaires en terme de respect des normes, principalement les pays émergents, le niveau de respect des normes de travail est “optimal” d'un point de vue mercantiliste. Pour les pays les plus respectueux, ce niveau élevé de normes conduit à réduire leur commerce."
F47|Trade and Fiscal Deficits, Tax Reform, and the Dollar: General Equilibrium Impact Estimates|"Advocates of using a border tax adjustment (BTA) to shift the corporate profits tax to a ""destination"" basis argue that such an arrangement would not be protectionist, because the import tax and export subsidy would be fully offset by an induced appreciation of the dollar. To examine this claim, this study applies an updated and extended general equilibrium model from the author's 2005 book, The United States as a Debtor Nation. Cline finds that across various scenarios, the dollar appreciation typically would be less than half the amount needed to offset fully the BTA. Advocates of the BTA implicitly assume a strong, prompt expectational boost to the dollar upon announcement of the shift. Instead, market practitioners and mainstream macroeconomic models see the interest rate as the main driver of the exchange rate. Although an incipient rise in the trade balance would indeed put upward pressure on the interest rate and thus the exchange rate, it would also result in reduced investment. With the trade deficit equal to investment minus saving (I–S = M–X), reduced investment would tend to set the new equilibrium at a lower trade deficit before the interest rate would rise sufficiently to boost the dollar to a level that would completely offset the BTA.to about 12 and 14 percent of riskweighted assets, respectively. These levels are, respectively, about one-fourth to one-half higher than the Basel III capital requirements for the large global systemically important banks (G-SIBs)."
F47|Opportunities and limits of rebalancing the Eurozone via wage policies|In this paper we discuss the relationship between the current account rebalancing in the Eu-rozone, income distribution and wage policies with a focus on the main surplus economy, Germany. We will illustrate how and to which extent German wage policies could be able to contribute to a more balanced development of the Eurozone and to overcome the export-led mercantilist German model. Our analysis and our scenarios will be based on stylized econo-metric results for Germany, as they have recently been obtained in the empirical literature estimating the German demand and growth regime based on post-Kaleckian models. We will focus in particular on the relationship between nominal wages and functional income distribu-tion, on the one hand, and between functional income distribution and domestic demand, on the other hand. We show that more expansionary wage policy can contribute to reducing the excessive German current account surplus, mainly through the domestic income-imports channel. However, wage policy alone will be overburdened with the task of rebalancing. For this, in particular more expansionary fiscal policies are required.
F47|Economic shocks and changes in global production structures: Methods for measuring economic resilience|Conventional studies on the impacts of economic shocks using global input-output tables (sensitivity analyses) assume stable production structures and thus, only reveal the marginal impacts of changes in final demand. However, when economic shocks occur, whether at home or abroad, economic agents are expected to react to reduce the negative impact or amplify the positive effects. The ability of a country to contain economic losses can be defined as the resilience to economic shocks. Using the OECD's annual Inter-Country Input-Output (ICIO) tables, 1995 to 2011, this paper investigates the relationship between changes in final demand and production structures for 61 economies. Our findings are summarised as follows. Production and final demand structures tend to change to reduce the negative feedbacks from final demand shocks. During economic downturns, structures tend to change so that the dependence on domestic services increases, while the dependence on domestic demand for goods, and the dependence on foreign demand for domestic goods and services, both decrease. Therefore, the domestic service sector seems to play a key role in temporarily containing the negative feedback. Countries that are able to prop up their economy by domestic service sectors instead of domestic goods and foreign sectors are more resilient to negative economic shocks.
F47|Exploring the Nexus Between Inflation and Globalization Under Inflation Targeting Through the Lens of New Zealand’s Experience|We investigate empirically the inflation dynamics in New Zealand, a small open economy and a pioneer in inflation targeting, under various open-economy Phillips curve specifications. Our forecasting exercise suggests that open-economy Phillips curves under standard measures of global slack do not help forecast domestic inflation, possibly indicating measurement problems with global slack itself. In turn, under a stable inflation target we still find that (i) global inflation and (ii) global inflation and oil prices have information content for headline CPI and core CPI inflation over the 1997:Q3-2015:Q1 period and appear to be reliable proxies for global slack in forecasting inflation.
F47|Shocks versus structure: explaining differences in exchange rate pass-through across countries and time|We show that exchange rate pass-through to consumer prices varies not only across countries, but also over time. Previous literature has highlighted the role of an economy’s ‘structure’ — such as its inflation volatility, inflation rate, use of foreign currency invoicing, and openness — in explaining these variations in pass-through. We use a sample of 26 advanced and emerging economies to show which of these structural variables are significant in explaining not only differences in pass-through across countries, but also over time. The ‘shocks’ leading to exchange rate movements can also explain variations in pass‑through over time. For example, exchange rate movements caused by monetary policy shocks consistently correspond to significantly higher estimates of pass-through than those caused by demand shocks. The role of ‘shocks’ in driving pass-through over time can be as large as that of structural variables, and even larger for some countries. As a result, forecasts predicting how a given exchange rate movement will impact inflation at a specific point in time should take into account not just an economy’s ‘structure’, but also the ‘shocks’.
F47|Winning Investment Strategies Based on Financial Crisis Indicators|The aim of this work is to create systematic trading strategies built upon several financial crisis indicators based on the spectral properties of market dynamics. Within the limitations of our framework and data, we will demonstrate that our systematic trading strategies are able to make money, not as a result of pure luck but, in a reproducible way and while avoiding the pitfall of over fitting, as a result of the skill of the operators and their understanding and knowledge of the financial market. Using singular value decomposition (SVD) techniques in order to compute all spectra in an efficient way, we have built two kinds of financial crisis indicators with a demonstrable power of prediction. Firstly, there are those that compare at every date the distribution of the eigenvalues of a covariance or correlation matrix to a distribution of reference representing either a calm or agitated market reference. Secondly, we have those that merely compute at every date a chosen spectral property (trace, spectral radius or Frobenius norm) of a covariance or correlation matrix. Aggregating the signals provided by all the indicators in order to minimize false positive errors, we then build systematic trading strategies based on a discrete set of rules governing the investment decisions of the investor. Finally, we compare our active strategies to a passive reference as well as to random strategies in order to prove the usefulness of our approach and the added value provided by the out-of-sample predictive power of the financial crisis indicators upon which our systematic trading strategies are built
F47|Exchange rate forecasting with DSGE models|We run an exchange rate forecasting “horse race”, which highlights that three principles hold. First, forecasts should not replicate the high volatility of exchange rates observed in sample. Second, models should exploit the mean reversion of the real exchange rate over long horizons. Third, they should account for the international price co-movement seen in the data. Abiding by the first two principles an open-economy dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) model performs well in forecasting the real but not the nominal exchange rate. Only approaches that conform to all three principles tend to outperform the random walk.
F47|General Equilibrium Trade Modelling with Canada-US Transportation Costs|Transportation costs are an important topic in international trade, but seldom have researches paid attention to general equilibrium trade modelling with transportation costs and explored their relevant effects. This paper uses different numerical general equilibrium trade model structures to simulate the impacts of transportation costs on both welfare and trade for a Canada-US country pair case. We compare two groups of model structure, Armington assumption models and homogeneous goods models. Within these two groups of models, we also compare balanced trade structures to trade imbalance structures, and production function transportation costs to iceberg transportation costs. Armington goods models generate absolute welfare gains from transportation cost elimination than homogeneous goods models. Welfare gains under balanced trade structures are larger in production function transportation cost scenarios, but are larger in iceberg transportation cost scenario under trade imbalance structures. Canada’s welfare gains with iceberg transportation cost are significantly larger than gains with production function transportation cost. On trade effects, homogeneous goods models generate more export and import gains, balanced trade structures have more trade variations, and iceberg transportation cost generate more trade effects.
F47|Economic resilience: The usefulness of early warning indicators in OECD countries|The global financial crisis and the high associated costs have revived the academic and policy interest in “early warning indicators” of crises. This paper provides empirical evidence on the usefulness of a new set of vulnerability indicators, proposed in a companion paper (Röhn et al., 2015), in predicting severe recessions and crises in OECD countries. To evaluate the usefulness of the indicators the signalling approach is employed, which takes into account policy makers’ preferences between missing crises and false alarms. Our empirical evidence shows that the majority of indicators would have helped to predict severe recessions in OECD economies between 1970 and 2014. In the domestic areas, indicators that measure asset market imbalances (real house and equity prices, house price-to-income and house price-to-rent ratios), perform consistently well both in and out-ofsample. Domestic credit related variables appear particularly useful in signalling upcoming banking crises and in predicting the global financial crisis out-of-sample. Indicators of global risks consistently outperform domestic indicators in terms of their usefulness, highlighting the importance of taking international developments into account when assessing a country’s vulnerabilities. The good performance of the global indicators is however subject to a caveat: they are particularly suited to pick up recessions that affect a large number of countries simultaneously, such as the global financial crisis in 2008/09. The results are broadly robust to different definitions of costly events, different forecasting horizons and different time and country samples. JEL classification: E32; E44; E51; F47 Keywords: Resilience, early warning indicators, vulnerabilities, imbalances, severe recessions, crises
F47|Economic shocks and changes in global production structure : methods for measuring economic resilience|Conventional studies into the impacts of economic shocks using global input-output tables (sensitivity analyses) assume stable production structures and thus, only reveal the marginal impacts of changes in final demand. However, when economic shocks occur, whether at home or abroad, economic agents are expected to react to reduce the negative impact or amplify the positive effects. The ability of a country to contain economic losses can be defined as the resilience to economic shocks. Using the OECD's annual Inter-Country Input-Output (ICIO) tables, 1995 to 2011, this paper investigates the relationship between changes in final demand and production structures for 61 economies. Our findings are summarized as follows. Production and final demand structures tend to change to reduce the negative feedbacks from final demand shocks. During economic downturns, structures tend to change so that the dependency on domestic services increases, while the dependency on domestic demand for goods, and the dependency on foreign demand for domestic goods and services, both decrease. Therefore, the domestic service sector seems to play a key role in temporarily containing the negative feedback. Countries that are able to prop up their economy by domestic service sectors instead of domestic goods and foreign sectors are more resilient to negative economic shocks.
F47|Explaining International Business Cycle Synchronization: Recursive Preferences and the Terms of Trade Channel|Abstract The business cycles of advanced economies are synchronized. Standard macro models fail to explain that fact. This paper presents a simple model of a two-country, two-traded-good, complete-financial-markets world in which country-specific productivity shocks generate business cycles that are highly correlated internationally. The model assumes recursive intertemporal preferences (Epstein-Zin-Weil), and a muted response of labor hours to household wealth changes (due to Greenwood-Hercowitz-Huffman period utility and demand-determined employment under rigid wages). Recursive intertemporal preferences magnify the terms of trade response to country-specific shocks. Hence, a productivity (and GDP) increase in a given country triggers a strong improvement of the foreign country’s terms of trade, which raises foreign labor demand. With a muted labor wealth effect, foreign labor and GDP rise, i.e. domestic and foreign real activity comove positively.
F47|Forecasting inflation in Latin America with core measures|We explore the ability of core inflation to predict headline CPI annual inflation for a sample of eight developing economies in Latin America over the period January 1995–May 2017. Our in-sample and out-of-sample results are roughly consistent in providing robust evidence of predictability in four of the countries in our sample. Mixed evidence is found for the other four countries. The bulk of the out-of-sample evidence of predictability concentrates on the short horizons of one and six months. In contrast, at the longest horizon of 24 months, we only find out-of-sample evidence of predictability for two countries: Chile and Colombia, with robust results only for the latter. This is both important and challenging, given that the monetary authorities in our sample of developing countries are currently implementing or are taking steps toward the future implementation of inflation targeting regimes, which are based heavily on long-run inflation forecasts.
F47|The Programmable Economy: Envisaging an Entire Planned Economic System as a Single Computer through Blockchain Networks|Since the dawn of the concept of nation-states, many nations have been planning their economies to increase people’s prosperity and standard of living. All economies have a centralized feature where decisions are taken. But data collection and plan implementation has been cumbersome because of the manual nature of economic planning. Centralized systems, even when digitized, are prone to single point failures. Controlled Blockchains allow for an economic system to be decentralized, yet having central supervision i.e. quasi-decentralization. This paper deals with shifting a national economy to a network of Blockchains and creating a Programmable Economy (P.E) where the whole economic system behaves like a single computer, taking in certain inputs and providing the desired outputs. We discuss the various factors that are needed to bring about such a transformation. We also analyse the impact this will have on various aspects of the economy and people’s lives. Finally the paper concludes by summarizing the purpose, methodology and impact of a Programmable Economy (P.E).
F47|Estimating the Effects of Non-discriminatory Trade Policies within Structural Gravity Models|We propose a simple method to identify the effects of unilateral and non-discriminatory trade policies on bilateral trade within a theoretically-consistent empirical gravity model. Specifi-cally, we argue that structural gravity estimations should be performed with data that include not only international trade flows but also intra-national trade flows. The use of intra-national sales allows identification of the effects of non-discriminatory trade policies on the importer side (e.g. most favored nation tariffs) and on the exporter side (e.g. export subsidies), even in the presence of exporter and importer fixed effects. An important byproduct of our approach is that it can be used to recover estimates of the export-supply elasticity and of the import-demand elasticity. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our techniques in the case of MFN tariffs and “Time to Export” as representative determinants of trade on the importer and on the exporter side, respectively. Our methods can be extended to quantify the impact on trade of any country-specific characteristics as well as any non-trade policies.
F47|Import substitution of investment goods in Russia|This paper investigates the sensitivity of the demand for imported capital goods to the influence of various factors of the investment dynamics with the aim to generate evidence-based recommendations for the import substitution policy in the Russian Federation. It provides a forecast of the dynamics of the demand for imported machinery, equipment, components and vehicles in various macroeconomic scenario conditions. The article estimates the influence of the EU and US sectoral sanctions on the volume of Russian imports of investment goods. We characterize different approaches to the import substitution policy in the Russian Federation and conditions for their implementation.
F47|Modelling Effects of Tariff Liberalisation on Indiaâ€™s Key Export Sectors: Analysis of the EUâ€“India Free Trade Agreement|Trade agreements are increasingly being negotiated between developed and emerging economy partners. An example is the EUâ€“India Free Trade Agreement (FTA) for which negotiations began in 2007. There has been a debate on the potential effects of the proposed FTA and how this can impact on Indiaâ€™s key export sectors. Our study addresses this aspect from a global computable general equilibrium (CGE) modelling perspective. Using the Global Trade Analysis Project (GTAP) framework, we analyse trade and welfare impacts of the proposed FTA between the EU and India. Two scenarios are modelled: first, complete and immediate elimination of tariff on all goods traded and second, selective tariff elimination on textiles, wearing apparel and leather goodsâ€”products in which India has a comparative advantage. Results under both scenarios show that India enjoys positive welfare effects though there is a possibility of trade diversion. Under scenario 1, India loses due to a negative terms of trade (ToT) effect. Under scenario 2, with selective sectoral liberalisation, gains are mainly concentrated in the textiles, wearing apparel and leather sectors. There is a positive output effect from change in demand for factors of production, suggesting that the proposed FTA could lead to relocation of labour-intensive production to India. JEL Classification: F15, F47, F62
F47|A Generalized Dynamic Factor Model for the U.S. Port Sector|Although rarely available ports produce a polymorphic set of timely available monthly import, export, transport and labor utilization series, providing frequent snapshots of freight volumes either as being transferred between modes, or trans-shipped to secondary destinations. Utilizing monthly inflows and outflows of several cargo types as well as cruise passenger volumes from U.S ports, we: a) demonstrate the potential and the added value of information carried by common factors shaped by ports with respect to outlining the underlying forces of a national economy and b) provide competitive forecasts of disaggregate trade series from single ports (such as, e.g. outgoing or incoming TEUs) by exploiting factor dynamics, We test this concept in the context of Forni et al. (2005) one-sided generalized dynamic factor model, exploring the links between ports and the driving factors of the U.S. economy, as these are captured through its common and idiosyncratic components. Our model, employing 192 series from 31 major port complexes -covering 84.4% of TEUs and 60.1% of the dry bulk volume between 2005 and 2012-, displays a promising forecasting performance for individual ports and aggregate economic indicators versus benchmark models at 4-7 months ahead and explains a high fraction of the US GDP and Industrial Production indices variance.
F47|Endividamento Público e Crescimento Econômico: Evidências Para Países em Desenvolvimento|This paper analyzes the relationship between total public indebtedness and real per capita GDP growth in developing countries. Initially, an effort is made to review the literature, both empirically and theoretically, to understand the possible mechanisms for linking public indebtedness to economic growth. Afterward, empirical exercises are carried out by a panel composed of 69 countries in a 25-year interval (1988 - 2012). The first exercise is a descriptive statistics analysis where we find evidence of a negative relationship between the level of indebtedness and economic growth. After this, a brief econometric analysis is done estimating an augmented growth model with the debt variable via the pooled OLS estimator. The econometric results seem to confirm the existence of a negative linear relationship between public indebtedness and economic growth. Finally, evidence of non-linearity is also found in the relationship between indebtedness and economic growth, when the interaction between debt and interest rates or inflation are taken into account
F47|Global Climate Change Mitigation: Strategic Interaction or Unilateral Gains?|Global agreement to reduce carbon emissions has been weakened by slowing growth and burden sharing conflicts. This paper examines strategic interaction amongst regions by simplifying the policy choice to that between carbon taxation and free riding. Benefits from climate change mitigation are constructed via a meta-analysis of existing studies that link carbon concentration with average surface temperature and measures of economic welfare. Implementation costs are then derived by modeling national and global economic performance. Multiplayer, normal form games with payoffs derived by netting costs from shared benefits are then constructed, revealing that the US economy is a net gainer in net present value terms from unilateral implementation. The comparative net benefits to Europe and China are negative but small, making their choice sensitive to the discount rate. The dominant strategy for all other countries is to free ride. Taking the three large economies as a group, there are net gains from implementing carbon taxes, which would be bolstered by universal adoption. Yet compensatory side payments that would induce universal adoption are still not affordable. Moreover, the net gains to all regions do not begin to appear for at least two decades, rendering commitment to abatement politically difficult.
F47|China’s ‘New Normal’: Is the growth slowdown demand- or supply-driven?|China’s ‘New Normal’ has been much discussed in recent years. An important aspect of the New Normal is the growth slowdown from levels of around 10% per annum to a more modest 6 or 7%. Not surprisingly, there has been widespread discussion of whether the slowdown is permanent or not and, in either case, what the sources of the slowdown are. However, much of this discussion has been based on informal analysis of the data rather than formal econometric results. We make a move in the direction of formal empirical analysis of this issue by estimating and simulating a vector autoregressive (VAR) model which distinguishes between demand, supply and foreign shocks as possible drivers of changes in economic growth. We analyse both two-variable (growth and inflation) and three-variable (foreign growth, domestic growth and inflation) VAR models and identify demand, supply and foreign shocks, using a modification of the Blanchard-Quah identification procedure. In the two-variable model we identify two shocks (demand and supply) and find that the slowdown since the GFC has been mainly supply-driven. This conclusion is not changed when a foreign growth variable is added to the model and a foreign shock is allowed for – we find that demand continues to be of relatively little importance, that the foreign shock also makes little contribution to explaining the long-run growth decline in China which continues to be driven by long-term supply factors. This conclusion is robust to a number of alternative formulations of the model. Thus, the growth slowdown may, indeed, be characterised as the ‘New Normal’.
F47|Threshold cointegration and adaptive shrinkage|This paper considers Bayesian estimation of the threshold vector error correction (TVECM) model in moderate to large dimensions. Using the lagged cointegrating error as a threshold variable gives rise to additional difficulties that are typically solved by relying on large sample approximations. Relying on Markov chain Monte Carlo methods we circumvent these issues by avoiding computationally prohibitive estimation strategies like the grid search. Due to the proliferation of parameters we use novel global-local shrinkage priors in the spirit of Griffin and Brown (2010). We illustrate the merits of our approach in an application to five exchange rates vis-á-vis the US dollar and assess whether a given currency is over or undervalued. Moreover, we perform a forecasting comparison to investigate whether it pays off to adopt a non-linear modeling approach relative to a set of simpler benchmark models.
F47|Threshold cointegration and adaptive shrinkage| This paper considers Bayesian estimation of the threshold vector error correction (TVECM) model in moderate to large dimensions. Using the lagged cointegrating error as a threshold variable gives rise to additional difficulties that are typically solved by relying on large sample approximations. Relying on Markov chain Monte Carlo methods we circumvent these issues by avoiding computationally prohibitive estimation strategies like the grid search. Due to the proliferation of parameters we use novel global-local shrinkage priors in the spirit of Griffin and Brown (2010). We illustrate the merits of our approach in an application to five exchange rates vis-á-vis the US dollar and assess whether a given currency is over or undervalued. Moreover, we perform a forecasting comparison to investigate whether it pays off to adopt a non-linear modeling approach relative to a set of simpler benchmark models.
F47|Bilateral Trade under Environmental Pressure: Balanced Growth|Abstract Based on the advance-retreat course (ARC) model - a growth model under environmental pressure, this paper builds a bilateral import and export trade growth model under environmental pressure. By using the model, the paper analyzes the impacts of innovation on import and export growth, presents a method for computing the optimal levels of imports and exports, derives the limit values of imports and exports, and obtains the limit equilibrium between exports and imports. Finally, a strategy for promoting import and export growth and achieving a bilateral trade balance according to the limit equilibrium is designed. The findings are the following: (i) innovation growth will gradually reduce goods import and export, and services import and export will increase, (ii) the U.S. import–export structure is more reasonable than that of China, and (iii) there is big room for services import and export growth for China.
F47|What Helps Forecast U.S. Inflation?—Mind the Gap!|The Phillips curve, which posits a relationship between inflation and domestic economic activity, introduces a crucial trade-off between real and nominal objectives for the central bank. Atkeson and Ohanian (2001), among others, present evidence that forecasts of U.S. inflation from Phillips curve-based models tend to underperform relative to naïve forecasts. We propose that globalization can be an important factor in explaining the poor performance of forecasts under a closed-economy Phillips curve. To illustrate that, we empirically evaluate the performance of open-economy Phillips curve-based forecasts constructed with global variables, such as G7 credit growth, G7 money supply growth, terms of trade, and the real effective exchange rate. These global variables perform significantly better than domestic variables, and serve as proxies for poorly-measured indicators of global slack. Moreover, we show that forecasts using simulated data from a workhorse open-economy New Keynesian model support our empirical findings on the open economy Phillips curve and also suggest that better monetary policy and aspects of the Great Moderation have improved the forecast accuracy of open-economy models.
F47|Forecasting Daily Stock Volatility Using GARCH-CJ Type Models with Continuous and Jump Variation|In this paper we decompose the realized volatility of the GARCH-RV model into continuous sample path variation and discontinuous jump variation to provide a practical and robust framework for non- parametrically measuring the jump component in asset return volatility. By using 5-minute high-frequency data of MASI Index in Morocco for the period (January 15, 2010 - January 29, 2016), we estimate parameters of the constructed GARCH and EGARCH-type models (namely, GARCH, GARCH-RV, GARCH-CJ, EGARCH, EGARCH-RV, and EGARCH-CJ) and evaluate their predictive power to forecast future volatility. The results show that the realized volatility and the continuous sample path variation have certain predictive power for future volatility while the discontinuous jump variation contains relatively less information for forecasting volatility. More interestingly, the findings show that the GARCH-CJ-type models have stronger predictive power for future volatility than the other two types of models. These results have a major contribution in financial practices such as financial derivatives pricing, capital asset pricing, and risk measures.
F47|The impact of financial sanctions on the Russian economy|The paper looks into the impact of the Western financial sanctions on the Russian economy. The results of modeling of capital flow components (taking into account the influence of other factors, including the fall in oil prices) demonstrate that, apart from the direct effect of constraints on foreign funding for sanctioned state-controlled banks, oil, gas and arms companies, there is also a significant indirect effect of lower inflows of foreign direct investment and worsening funding conditions for non-sanctioned companies. The overall negative effect on gross capital inflow in 2014—2017 is estimated at about $280bn. However, the effect on net capital inflow is significantly lower ($160—170bn) thanks to self-adjustment of Russian companies evident in utilization of foreign assets accumulated earlier for debt repayment and overall decrease in gross capital outflow. The estimated sanctions’ effect on GDP is significant (–2.4 p.p. by 2017 as compared to hypothetical scenario without sanctions) but 3.3 times lower than the estimated effect of oil price shock.
F47|The impact of financial sanctions on the Russian economy|This paper examines the impact of the current Western financial sanctions on the Russian economy. Modeling the capital flow components (accounting for the influence of other factors, including falling oil prices) reveals that sanctions have directly affected sanctioned state-controlled banks, oil, gas and arms companies by severely constraining foreign funding and have indirectly affected non-sanctioned companies by reducing inflows of foreign direct investment and causing funding conditions to deteriorate. The overall negative effect on gross capital inflow over 2014–2017 is estimated at approximately $280bn. However, the effect on net capital inflow is significantly lower ($160–170bn) due to Russian companies’ self-adjustment, which is evidenced by their utilization of foreign assets accumulated earlier for debt repayment and an overall decrease in gross capital outflow. The sanctions’ estimated effect on GDP is significant (–2.4 p.p. by 2017, compared with a hypothetical scenario with no sanctions) but 3.3 times lower than the estimated effects of the oil price shock.
F47|The crisis in Russia and its spreading over the CIS countries: Transmission channels|This study evaluates the channels of crises transmission from Russia to the CIS countries on the basis of a Bayesian vector autoregression model. The empirical base of the study consists of 11 macroeconomic indicators of the CIS countries on quarterly data for the period from 2002 to 2015. It has been revealed that the monetary channel of transmission plays the main role. The economy of the CIS countries reacts stronger to the financial stress in Russia than the Russian economy itself, and over time the impact of the financial stress in Russia on the economy of the CIS countries only increases on average by 1.5—2 times throughout the year.
F47|Quantifying the Effects of Trade Liberalisation in Brazil: A Computable General Equilibrium Model (CGE) Simulation|Brazil remains a fairly closed economy, with small trade flows relative to its share of world income. This paper explores the effects of three possible policy reforms to strengthen Brazil’s integration into global trade: a reduction in import tariffs, less local content requirements and a full zero-rating of exports in indirect taxes. A simulation analysis using the OECD Multi-Region Trade CGE model suggests that current policies are holding back exports, production and investment in Brazil. The model simulations suggest significant scope for trade policy reforms to strengthen industrial development and export competitiveness. Results also show that the expansion of investment and production would be accompanied by significant employment gains. Moreover, employment growth is higher for low-skilled occupations, implying that a major trade and tax policy reform aiming at liberalising trade flows would particularly help those at the lower end of the income distribution. L'impact de la libéralisation du commerce au Brésil : Modélisation EGC et simulations Le Brésil reste une économie relativement fermée, avec des flux commerciaux faibles par rapport à sa part dans le revenu mondial. Ce document examine les effets de trois reformes politiques qui permettraient au Brésil de renforcer son intégration dans le commerce mondial: une baisse des barrières tarifaires à l’importation, une réduction des exigences en contenu local et un taux zéro sur les impôts indirects pour les exportations. L’analyse de simulations utilisant le modèle EGC de commerce Multi-Régions de l'OCDE suggère que les politiques actuelles freinent les exportations, la production et l’investissement au Brésil. Les simulations du modèle suggèrent un rôle important pour des réformes de la politique commerciale visant à renforcer le développement industriel et la compétitivité des exportations. Les résultats suggèrent aussi que l'expansion de l’investissement et de la production serait accompagnée par des gains d’emplois significatifs. En outre, la croissance de l'emploi serait plus élevée pour les emplois peu qualifiés, ce qui implique qu’une réforme majeure des politiques commerciales et fiscales visant à libéraliser le commerce aiderait particulièrement les populations aux plus faibles revenus.
F47|Five years in a balloon: Estimating the effects of euro adoption in Slovakia using the synthetic control method|We analyse the effect of Slovakia’s euro adoption in 2009 on the country’s economic performance by using the synthetic control method. This method compares Slovakia’s economic performance with that of a weighted combination of comparable Central European economies that have remained outside the Euro zone. We estimate that by adopting the euro, Slovakia gained 10% of real GDP per capita by 2011. Strong anticipation effects are present as two thirds of this gain occurred already in 2008. Nevertheless, had Slovakia postponed adoption of the EUR by one year and kept its own currency during the recession in 2009, the economy would have been temporarily better off that year by 2%. These results survive various robustness tests. Cinq années en ballon : Les effets de l'adoption de l'euro par la Slovaquie estimés par la méthode des contrôles synthétiques Nous analysons l'effet de l'adoption de l'euro par la Slovaquie en 2009 sur la performance économique du pays en utilisant la méthode de contrôle synthétique. Cette méthode compare la performance économique de la Slovaquie avec celle d'une combinaison pondérée d’économies d'Europe centrale comparables qui sont restées en dehors de la zone Euro. Nous estimons qu’en adoptant l'euro, la Slovaquie a gagné 10% du PIB réel par habitant à l’horizon 2011. D’importants effets d'anticipation ont été à l’oeuvre dans la mesure où les deux tiers de ce gain ont eu lieu en 2008. Néanmoins, si la Slovaquie avait reporté l'adoption de l'euro d’une année et gardé sa propre monnaie pendant la récession en 2009, les performances économiques aurait été amélioré temporairement de l’ordre de 2% en 2009. Ces résultats restent valides sous divers tests de robustesse.
F47|Advance Warning Indicators of Past Severe GDP per Capita Recessions in Turkey|The global financial crisis and its high economic and social costs have revived academic and policy interest in “early warning indicators” of crises. This paper aims to investigate the performance of vulnerability indicators as advance warning indicators of past severe GDP per capita recessions in Turkey. It draws on the recently established database of vulnerability indicators (Röhn et al., 2015) and employs the signalling approach as in Hermansen and Röhn (2015) complemented by visual inspections to detect vulnerability indicators that performed particularly well in the Turkish context. The evidence suggests that an index of the global stock market performs extremely well in the Turkish context. This index, which could be interpreted as a proxy for the risk appetite of global investors, exceeded its critical threshold before almost all past severe GDP per capita recessions in Turkey while sending only very few false alarms. Among domestic indicators, large positive deviations of household credit and the domestic stock market from trend also perform relatively well in signalling subsequent past severe GDP per capita recessions. The evidence is broadly robust to considering a more homogenous set of lower income OECD countries when defining the critical thresholds. Indicateurs d'alerte des récessions sévères passées en Turquie La crise financière mondiale et ses coûts économiques et sociaux élevés ont ravivé l'intérêt académique et politique pour les « indicateurs d'alerte rapide » des crises. Ce document vise à étudier la performance des indicateurs de vulnérabilité comme indicateurs d'alerte des récessions sévères passées en Turquie. Il se fonde sur un nouvel ensemble d'indicateurs de vulnérabilité récemment établi (Röhn et al., 2015), et emploie la méthode de signalisation utilisée dans Hermansen et Röhn (2015), complétée par des inspections visuelles pour détecter des indicateurs de vulnérabilité ayant particulièrement bien fonctionné dans le contexte turc. Les résultats indiquent que l'indice du marché boursier mondial performe extrêmement bien dans le cas turc. Cet indice, qui pourrait être interprété comme un proxy de l'appétit pour le risque des investisseurs mondiaux, a dépassé son seuil critique avant presque toutes les récessions sévères passées en Turquie. Il a envoyé très peu de fausses alarmes. Parmi les indicateurs intérieurs, de grands écarts positifs des crédits aux ménages, et du marché boursier par rapport aux tendances fonctionnent aussi relativement bien. Les résultats sont dans l’ensemble robustes à la considération d’un ensemble plus homogène de pays à faible revenu de l'OCDE dans la définition des seuils critiques.
F47|Digital DNA of economy of scale and scope|The research article aims to create a general fundamental theory on the Digital DNA of the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope. In the frames of our theory, we define the Digital DNA of the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope, making the following theoretical assumptions: 1) Digital DNA exists in the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope; 2) Digital DNA consists of a chain of the knowledge with all the information on the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope; 3) the Digital DNA uniquely identifies and accurately characterizes the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope in the time, scale, frequency domains; 4) the Digital DNA represents a genetic key, which may help us to better understand the generation of the discrete-time digital business cycles with the different amplitudes, frequencies, shapes and powers in the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope in the time, scale, frequency domains. In this innovative advanced research, we investigate the following research problems: 1) the existing damaging mechanisms of the Digital DNA’s complex knowledge base structure in the modern digital creative economies of the scales and scopes in the time, scale, frequency domains; 2) the possible repairing mechanisms of the Digital DNA’s complex knowledge base structure in the modern digital creative economies of the scales and scopes in the time, scale, frequency domains; 3) the specific influences by the damaged/repaired Digital DNA on the discrete-time digital business cycles generation/propagation in the modern digital creative economies of the scales and scopes in the time, scale, frequency domains. In addition, the innovative advanced research aims: 1) to perform the computer modeling on the Digital DNA’s complex knowledge base structure in the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope; 2) to decode the Digital DNA’s complex knowledge base structure in the modern digital creative economy of the scale and scope.
F47|Forecasting Daily Stock Volatility Using GARCH-CJ Type Models with Continuous and Jump Variation|In this paper we decompose the realized volatility of the GARCH-RV model into continuous sample path variation and discontinuous jump variation to provide a practical and robust framework for non-parametrically measuring the jump component in asset return volatility. By using 5-minute high-frequency data of MASI Index in Morocco for the period (January 15, 2010 - January 29, 2016), we estimate parameters of the constructed GARCH and EGARCH-type models (namely, GARCH, GARCH-RV, GARCH-CJ, EGARCH, EGARCH-RV, and EGARCH-CJ) and evaluate their predictive power to forecast future volatility. The results show that the realized volatility and the continuous sample path variation have certain predictive power for future volatility while the discontinuous jump variation contains relatively less information for forecasting volatility. More interestingly, the findings show that the GARCH-CJ-type models have stronger predictive power for future volatility than the other two types of models. These results have a major contribution in financial practices such as financial derivatives pricing, capital asset pricing, and risk measures.
F47|Is the Threat of Foreign Aid Withdrawal an Effective Deterrent to Political Oppression? Evidence from 53 African Countries|This study complements existing literature on the aid-institutions nexus by focusing on political rights, aid volatilities and the post-Berlin Wall period. The findings show that while foreign aid does not have a significant effect on political rights, foreign aid volatilities do mitigate democracy in recipient countries. Such volatilities could be used by populist parties to promote a neocolonial agenda, instill nationalistic sentiments and consolidate their grip on power. This is especially the case when donors are asking for standards that majority of the population do not want and political leaders are unwilling to implement them. The empirical evidence is based on 53 African countries for the period 1996-2010. As a main policy implication, creating uncertainties in foreign aid for political rights enhancement in African countries may achieve the opposite results. Other implications are discussed including the need for an ‘After Washington consensus’.
F47|Effect of fall in crude oil price on stock indices and exchange rates of India and China|The present study makes an attempt to investigate the effect of sharp continuous falling crude oil prices on stock market indices and exchange rates of India and China. The period of the study spans from July 2009 to May 2016. Multivariate cointegration techniques along with vector error correction mechanism, impulse response functions are employed in this empirical research
F47|Macroeconomic Imbalances in euro- and non-euro area member states|Abstract The recent reforms in the European economic governance framework add to the Stability and Growth pact requirements for establishing a new macroeconomic surveillance mechanism for both euro area and non-euro area countries. The early identification and the prevention of imbalances are of vital importance in a monetary union due to the limitations they impose on the tools available to economic policymaking. This paper examines the macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area countries in comparison with the non-euro area countries based on the set of indicators in the Scoreboard that is part of the Macroeconomic Imbalance Procedure (MIP), introduced in 2011. While the aim of the new alert mechanism is to identify potential risks this study goes further in measuring the level of risks by the scope of the deviation from the established thresholds. For this purpose an Integral Macroeconomic Imbalance Indicator (IMII) is constructed. It serves for comparing the level of imbalances between the countries in pre- and post-crisis period. The composed IMII indicates a tangible reduction in the scale of imbalances as compared to the pre-crisis period but the divergence between the countries enlarges. The results undermine the assumptions that the euro area countries will exhibit fewer imbalances as compared to the countries outside of the monetary union. Based on the dynamics of IMII it could be assumed that maintaining the macroeconomic framework within the thresholds is necessary but not sufficient to prevent future crisis. The results further question the ability of the alert mechanism to identify the sources of a future crisis.
F47|The relationship between the real economy and financial sector regarding technological bubbles|In this article, we presented factors which influence the financial asset´s profitability. First we have introduced the consumption based CAPM model. We have highlighted pros and cons resulting from further empirical research. More we have taken into account the impacts of technological shocks to the new and old economy structure. In the other words impact of technological shocks to the financial asset´s profitability. The time horizon analyzed in the data sample of the Czech Republic is from the 1995 to 2015. Technological progress is deducted on the basis of so called “Sollow” residuals. These are constructed from the real GDP evolution. In the empirical analysis we have presented conclusion about the both Stock exchange profitability dependent on the technological progress and the FOREX asset profitability dependence on the technological progress. A very surprising conclusion is that the technological progress effect to the FOREX asset profitability is immediate, whereas the effect to Stock exchange profitability is in the three years delayed.
F47|Cross-Border Effects of Car Scrapping Schemes: The Case of the German Car Scrapping Programme and its Effects on the Czech Economy|Many countries decided to launch car scrapping schemes during the 2009 crisis in order to support their car industries and to boost domestic demand. Owing to the existence of significant international trade links in the automotive sector, there is also a strong theoretical foundation for cross-border effects of such scrappage programmes. This paper explores spillovers of the German scheme to the Czech economy on the basis of a close mutual trade link between these two countries and the size of the Czech automotive sector. It is demonstrated that the German programme provided for a significant boost for Czech personal car exports, which were also coupled with increased imports due to large import requirements of the Czech automotive segment. Overall, the contribution of first-round effects of the German car scrapping scheme to the Czech real GDP growth in 2009 is estimated to have reached between 0.4 and 0.5 percentage points.
F47|EAGLE-FLI: A macroeconomic model of banking and financial interdependence in the euro area|We incorporate financial linkages in EAGLE, a New Keynesian multi-country dynamic general equilibrium model of the euro area (EA) by including financial frictions and country-specific banking sectors. In this new version, termed EAGLE-FLI (Euro Area and GLobal Economy with Financial LInkages), banks collect deposits from domestic households and cross-country inter-bank market and raise capital to finance loans issued to domestic households and firms. In order to borrow from local (regional) banks, households use domestic real estate whereas firms use both domestic real estate and physical capital as collateral. These features – together with the full characterization of trade balance and real exchange rate dynamics and with a rich array of financial shocks – allow to properly assessing domestic and cross-country macroeconomic effects of financial shocks. Our results support the views that (1) the business cycles in the EA can be driven not only by real shocks, but also by financial shocks, (2) the financial sector could amplify the transmission of (real) shocks, and (3) the financial/banking shocks and the banking sectors can be sources of business cycle asymmetries and spillovers across countries in a monetary union.
F47|Modeling extreme risks in commodities and commodity currencies|This paper examines extreme co-movements between the Australian and Canadian currencies, often known as commodity currencies, and gold and oil markets respectively. Here, two main approaches based on extreme value theory are compared in the context of explaining the co-movements between the markets in times of market instability. On the one hand, the intensity of the extreme events is represented by self-exciting marked point processes using a multivariate extension of the Hawkes-POT model, while contemporaneous co-movements are characterized utilizing a more traditional multivariate volatility model, the DBEKK-EVT model. It is found that intensity and volatility follow similar paths through time. The Hawkes-POT model reveals the unidirectional influence of the commodity on the currency, consistent with previous literature. Hawkes-POT model produces slightly more accurate Value at Risk results in the in-sample period, while the results are mixed in the backtesting period. Overall it seems as though the simpler multivariate volatility based approach produce forecasts of extreme risk that are comparable to the more complex Hawkes model.
F47|Contractions in Chinese Fertility and Savings: Long-run Domestic and Global Implications|Following three decades of rapid but unbalanced economic growth, China’s reform and policy agenda are set to rebalance the economy toward consumption while maintaining a rate of GDP growth near seven per cent. Among the headwinds it faces is a demographic contraction that brings slower, and possibly negative, labour force growth and relatively rapid ageing. While the lower saving rates that result from consumption-oriented policies and rising aged dependency may contribute to a rebalancing of the economy, in the long run they will reduce both GDP growth and per capita income. Moreover, while an effective transition from the one-child policy to a two-child policy would help sustain growth and eventually mitigate the aged dependency problem, it would set real per capita income on a still lower path. These conundrums are examined using a global economic and demographic model, which embodies the main channels through which fertility and saving rates impact on economic performance. The results quantify the associated trade-offs and show that continuing demographic and saving contractions in China would alter the trajectory of the global economy as well.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F47|Finland and Its Northern Peers in the Great Recession|Abstract The report focuses on the relative macroeconomic performance since the global financial crisis of six Northern European countries with a special emphasis on Finland. While fiscal and monetary policies have definitely impacted on macroeconomic outcomes in the six countries examined, as a whole they do not appear to be the key driving forces of the differences observed between the countries. The initial vulnerabilities, the nature of shocks and the resilience of the economies appear more important in explaining the differences. In particular, the weakness of growth in Finland can best be explained by a series of exceptional negative shocks in combination with a too weak capacity of the economy to improve its cost competitiveness in the absence of exchange rate flexibility.
F47|Impact of the People’s Republic of China’s Growth Slowdown on Emerging Asia: A General Equilibrium Analysis|As an important global and regional economic power, the PRC’s growth slowdown may cause large spillover effects to its neighboring economies. Using a multi-sectoral global computable general equilibrium model, this paper quantitatively investigates the impacts of a growth slowdown in the PRC for emerging Asian economies through trade linkages. The results suggest that a growth slowdown of 1.6 percentage points in the PRC would bring about a growth deceleration of 0.26 percentage points in developing Asia as a whole. However, the impacts vary dramatically by economy within developing Asia, reflecting their difference in economic and trade structure.
F47|Spillovers of United States and People’s Republic of China Shocks on Small Open Economies: The Case of Indonesia|This paper examines the impact of certain external shocks originating from the US and the PRC on Indonesia as a small open economy. The spillover effects of tapering off, an interest rate hike, exchange rate devaluation, and real gross domestic product (GDP) are analyzed. Two versions of the global vector autoregression model are employed, which covers 33 countries and considers both financial and trade relations among countries. Spillover assessments are conducted through impulse responses with 1,000 bootstrap replications, and compared to the responses of peer countries. The results suggest that the main risk for Indonesia’s real GDP is a shock to the PRC's real GDP, while a US interest rate hike is the greatest risk to Indonesia’s exchange rate depreciation in the short term, especially compared to the US tapering off. Moreover, the dominant transmission channel of US monetary tightening is through finance, dampening economic growth in small open economies.
F47|Implementing Cross-Border Interbank Lending in BoC-GEM-FIN|BIS interbank lending data show that the Great Recession generated large and persistent changes in the international interbank lending positions of various countries. The main objective of this study is to understand the role of changes in international interbank credit flows in transmitting shocks across borders. To accomplish this task, we needed a global structural model with an international interbank market. Our search for a suitable structural model revealed that the Bank of Canada version of the global economy model (BoC-GEM-FIN) comes closest to our needs. BoC-GEM-FIN includes region-specific interbank markets, as well as some international borrowing and lending, but abstracts from the international interbank lending. This paper describes the modifications we made in order to introduce the international interbank market into BoC-GEM-FIN. The modified model is calibrated to match the changes in international interbank lending positions and the decline in the business lending of US banks that took place after the fourth quarter of 2008. Our simulations show that the international interbank market amplifies spillover effects of demand shocks but does not systematically alter the effects of supply shocks, including those for commodities.
F47|A Short-Term Export Forecasting Model Using Input-Output Tables|Korea's export performance has exhibited a remarkable downturn since the end of 2014, declining over the 12 months of 2015 by about eight percent in nominal terms. Conjecturing this to reflect depreciation of the Japanese Yen and, during the second half of 2015, of the Chinese Yuan coupled with a sudden decline in China's import demand, we apply an Armington (1969)-type trade model to match international trade data with input-output tables in order to identify the sources of export variation in Korea and, as a bridge between the theoretical model and empirical input-output table, to analyze the effect of income (GDP) and exchange rate variation. The major findings of the present study are three-fold. First, the estimated long-run elasticity (0.067) of trading partners' GDP on Korea's export is a lot smaller than the static short-run elasticity (0.755) of their GDP in nominal terms and the estimate of static short-run elasticity (0.462) of GDP in real terms. Second, we find that Korean Won's real depreciation helps boost Korea's real exports in the short-run but its effect turns out to have a slightly negative effect in the long-run which implies that the positive effect of real depreciation of the Won may not last long. Third, we also find that a depreciation of Japanese Yen and Chinese Yuan in nominal terms has negative effects on Korean exports in the short-run, but the Japanese Yen's real depreciation facilitates increases in Korea's real exports consistently in both the short-run and long-run. The effects of the exchange rate variation cannot be unidirectional in both short-run and longrun because the variation affects the relative competitiveness of imported intermediate goods. According to our findings, Korean exports, given a positive income shock in trading partner countries, tend to be replaced by foreign alternatives which reflects a tightening of technology as well as price competition in the global market, and suggests as an optimal export promotion strategy for Korea the pursuit of technological progress and a diversification policy that encompasses both destination and export products.
F47|Estimation of Macroeconomic Effects from the Decline in Oil Export Duty<BR>[Оценка Макроэкономических Эффектов От Снижения Экспортной Пошлины На Нефть]|The article studies macroeconomic effects of reducing oil export duty, depending on various development scenarios for oil refining sector and the implemented economic policy measures in the framework of neoclassical general equilibrium model for the Russian economy. Relevance of the work is based on the fact that oil export duty subsidises both oil refining industry, allowing it to exist in the market with low efficiency compared with foreign producers, and petroleum customers, which translates into a lower cost of petroleum products as compared to the world prices. Our paper mainly focuses on a comparison of the different effects of the tax manoeuvre on the abolition of oil export duty. The positive effects can arise from increase in the efficiency of the oil refining industry, which the abolition of export duty on crude oil should create incentives for. The negative effects on the economy are mainly related to the appreciation of the prices for the most important factors of production — oil and petroleum products, which can lead to a loss in competitiveness of Russian non-energy export. The transition process to the new efficient technologies is set exogenously in the model. It is expected that the abolition of oil export duty will force companies to carry out the modernisation of production process. In this case, we build scenarios with gradual reduction of tariffs in 5–7 years that should not lead to the collapse in the domestic petroleum products market in the short run due to the inability of certain enterprises rapidly switch to the new technologies. It is shown that in the current economic environment with low oil prices, this tax reform can be virtually painless for the economy. At the same time, if considered economic policy measure will force the oil refining industry to modernise its production facilities, there will be a positive effect on output in the economy and the welfare of domestic economic agents in the long run.
F47|The Econometric Model for the Economic and Financial Analysis of Romanian International Trade|This paper describes the evolutions of the international trade of Romania during the recent period. The authors rely on official statistical data, drawn from the publications of the National Institute of Statistics and the results are presented using graphs of proper structure. The data are analyzed depending on the Combined Nomenclature, as reference for grouping statistic data. These elements are usually encountered in the case of countries of low level as development. On an annual basis, the foreign trade activity has developed slowly from the point of view of the volume, which is negative as well as considering both components, import and export. The evolution of imports and exports has been stimulated also by the slight appreciations of the national currency. At the same time, the positive element of currency appreciation implies a negative effect on the exports. Along with the effects of the economic and financial crisis, another element which has generated a slower rhythm evolution for imports and exports consists of the fact that the process of privatization and restructuring, involved the closure of a number of companies. Those data were analyzed and interpreted, based on a system of indicators which reflects the evolutions and perspectives of economic international exchanges. Also, we focused on the structure of the foreign trade, having in mind the geographic space, goods and services structure, structure of partners and volume of imports and exports of the same goods or from/to same country. As methodology, we used econometric and statistical methods and models, adapted based on the data series. In order to cover many aspects of the international trade, we provided out some data, from different periods and, after analysis, we took out some pertinent conclusions. The analysis was performed from the economic and financial viewpoints. On the other hand, the analyses of international trade were made in connection with the evolution of the Gross Domestic Product. The data on GDP were considered for the same period, and all data are deflated.
F47|External Factors in Debt Sustainability Analysis: An Application to Latin America?|This paper develops a framework for debt sustainability analysis that integrates econometric estimates of the effect of global factors on a set of key domestic variables that determines public and external debt dynamics. The methodology is applied to assess debt sustainability in Latin America—a region highly sensitive to external conditions. Results suggest that, while some countries in the region are well placed to withstand moderate or even large foreign shocks, many would benefit from strengthening their fiscal positions to be able to deploy countercyclical policies under adverse scenarios, especially tail events. External sustainability, on the other hand, does not appear to be a source of concern for most countries.
F47|Fertility and savings contractions in China: Long‐run global implications|Following three decades of rapid but unbalanced economic growth, China's reform agendas are set to rebalance the economy towards consumption while maintaining strong GDP growth. Headwinds include a demographic contraction that will bring negative labour force growth and rapid ageing. Rising aged dependency combined with lower saving rates will rebalance the economy, but they will reduce both GDP growth and real per capita income. While an effective two‐child policy could sustain growth and eventually mitigate the aged dependency problem, it would set real per capita income on a still lower path. These conundrums are examined using a global economic and demographic model, which shows how the continuing demographic and saving contractions in China would alter the trajectories of both the Chinese and global economies.
F47|Economic Resilience: What Role for Policies?|The global financial crisis highlighted the importance of strengthening the resilience of our economies to adverse shocks. In this paper, we take stock of studies carried out primarily within, but also outside the OECD, to better understand the role of macroeconomic and structural policies in spurring or mitigating the vulnerabilities that can lead to costly shocks, as well as the role of policies in mitigating the shock impact and speeding the recovery. Then we offer tentative insights on how policies can be geared to address vulnerabilities early on, mitigate the impact of shocks and speed recoveries, as well as highlight possible trade-offs that exist across policy areas.
F47|The macro-economic impact of e-commerce in the EU Digital Single Market|This paper examines the economic impact of a change in retail technology - the shift from offline to online shopping – and a change in policy – measures to reduce the barriers to online trade perceived by consumers and retailers. Contrary to the prevalent micro-economic partial equilibrium consumer modelling approach to e-commerce, we use a macro-economic general equilibrium model that brings together the impact on consumers as well as on producers. We use survey data on cross-border e-commerce between EU Member States to estimate the implied cross-border trade cost reduction when consumers move from offline to online consumption as well as the implied costs of perceived regulatory barriers to e-commerce. We distinguish between cross-border and domestic trade costs effects. We find that cross-bordere-commerce reduces trade costs compared to offline trade. Increased price competition squeezes domestic retail price margins and has a negative output effect in that sector (-2.6%). However, the resulting retail efficiency gains have a positive effect on production in other sectors (between 0.9 and 2.6%) and on household consumption (+1.07%). The combined macro-economic effect of these transmission channels adds 0.14% to EU GDP. Additional policy measures to facilitate cross-border e-commerce between EU Member States could add another 0.3% to household consumption and 0.04% to GDP, or 0.03% in the more conservative estimate. The relatively weak GDP effect in comparison with the production and consumption effects indicates that the shift from offline to online retail induces considerable welfare redistribution from retailing to other sectors and to households, more so than a production effect.
F47|On the Suitability of Alternative Competitiveness Indicators for Explaining Real Exports of Advanced Economies|Abstract We discuss the relative merits of various indicators of international price competitiveness from a conceptual point of view, and empirically check which indicator serves best to predict real exports in the long run. To this end, a panel cointegration analysis is conducted, augmented by a forecast exercise. In the latter, repeated sampling techniques are used in order to avoid arbitrary sample splits. In line with the theoretical reasoning, we find that broad price- and cost-based indicators are to be preferred to narrow price-based measures such as CPI- or PPI-deflated real exchange rates. Furthermore, the evidence points towards using world trade as external activity variable instead of GDP- or real imports-based measures.
F47|Real Income Convergence between Central Eastern and Western Europe: Past, Present, and Prospects|The paper presents an analysis of real income convergence between the 11 countries of Central Eastern Europe which have joined the European Union (EU11) and 15 countries of Western Europe (EU15) in the period 1993-2015. The evolution of the income gap between the two groups of countries in terms of GDP per capita at PPP reveals a clear-cut tendency towards income convergence over the analyzed period, confirmed also by the results of beta and sigma convergence tests. However, the catching-up process was not continuous, showing some breaks and divergence episodes. The most intensive convergence appeared in the years 2000-2007, just before and after the EU's major enlargement. This suggests that the increasing economic integration stimulated the convergence process. But the global economic crisis, along with financial perturbations in the euro area, have slowed down the convergence in most CEE countries, as reflected by changes in the income gap observed in the years 2007-2015. The paper also presents some projections of the convergence prospects, with three scenarios as to the future economic growth. The first two scenarios assume the continuation of past or current growth trends and the maintenance of positive growth rate differentials, indicating the probable length of the period needed by the individual CEE countries to attain the average GDP per capita level seen in Western Europe. The third scenario, based on a long-term economic forecast for the EU economies, warns that economic growth in the region may slow down due mainly to unfavorable demographic trends, with the resulting deceleration of the convergence process, up to its total halt or reversal into divergence. Proper social and economic policies are needed, both on the country level and in the framework of the common European policy, in order to assure a healthy economic growth in the CEE area and to maintain the convergence process within the EU.
F47|Propagation of changes in demand through international trade: A case study of China|China’s economy, the second largest in the world, is undergoing a fundamental transition. Its transition from a strong focus on investment and exports towards a larger share of consumption could have important ramifications for China’s trading partners. Using China as a case study, this paper deploys a sectoral input–output (IO) analysis to take into account higher‐round spillovers from a reduction of import demand or a shift in the composition of the Chinese economy. This approach demonstrates strong indirect effects that exceed by far the initial shock from direct trade links, reflecting China’s integration into a closely knit global value chain. The result suggests that the ongoing transition in China will have important effects on the global economy.
F47|Small Sample Properties Of Panel Cointegration Tests In The Presence Of Structural Change|Panel tests for non-stationarity are increasingly popular in recent years, also for macroeconomic data. Given that panels used in practice are rather small, there is a need of exploring the small sample properties of the tests in various cases. For annual data the N dimension of the panels is limited to no more than 25, and spatial dimension is also limited, because of the nature of studied entities. So, the main concern of researchers remains the relatively small panels – theoretical critical values should be applied with caution, given that they are taken in limits. An additional feature of macroeconomic panels are cycles – with business cycles one can expect even more than one structural break in the series, because up to 3 major cycles can fit in a series with T=25. In the paper small sample properties for the three “group” statistics of Pedroni (1999) under presence of structural breaks are explored. A set of Monte Carlo experiments is applied to processes with a structural break for three possible break dates at 0.3T, 0.5T and 0.7T. Tested for power against the general alternative.
F47|Is the Threat of Foreign Aid Withdrawal an Effective Deterrent to Political Oppression? Evidence from 53 African Countries|This study complements existing literature on the aid-institutions nexus by focusing on political rights, aid volatilities and the post-Berlin Wall period. The findings show that while foreign aid does not have a significant effect on political rights, foreign aid volatilities do mitigate democracy in recipient countries. Such volatilities could be used by populist parties to promote a neocolonial agenda, instill nationalistic sentiments and consolidate their grip on power. This is especially the case when donors are asking for standards that majority of the population do not want and political leaders are unwilling to implement them. The empirical evidence is based on 53 African countries for the period 1996-2010. As a main policy implication, creating uncertainties in foreign aid for political rights enhancement in African countries may achieve the opposite results. Other implications are discussed including the need for an ‘After Washington consensus’.
F47|Prospects of the Food Processing Sector under Tariff and Non-Tariff Measures Liberalization in the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership| Food processing firms differ in productivity, vary in size and engage in a monopolistic competition based on highly differential products. While trade in processed food is becoming more important, the processed food sector is still the most protected one in both the European Union (EU) and the United States (US). This study employs a Computable General Equilibrium model which incorporates a module for heterogeneous firms under monopolistic competition to quantify impacts of a potential Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) agreement. Specifically, we evaluate a full removal of bilateral tariff and export subsidies between the EU and the US, and an additional reduction of bi-lateral rents and trade costs related to Non-Tariff Measures (NTMs) in the food processing sector, drawing on cost estimates of existing empirical studies. Simulation results show quite small welfare impacts under both scenarios and limited impact on trade volumes as long as NTMs are not considered. Although transatlantic trade increases significantly in food processing sectors at the extensive margin of trade once changes in NTMs are accounted for, reduction in domestic sales leaves total industry output unchanged in both regions. Our model underlines the importance of considering NTMs and vertical differentiation, but is clearly limited by data availability especially on costs of existing NTMs and their composition.
F47|Implementing Cross-Border Interbank Lending in BoC-GEM-FIN|BIS interbank lending data show that the Great Recession generated large and persistent changes in the international interbank lending positions of various countries. The main objective of this study is to understand the role of changes in international interbank credit flows in transmitting shocks across borders. To accomplish this, we needed a global structural model with an international interbank market. Our search for a suitable structural model revealed that the Bank of Canadas version of the Global Economy Model (BoC-GEM-FIN) comes closest to our needs. BoC-GEM-FIN includes region-specific interbank markets, as well as some international borrowing and lending, but abstracts from international interbank lending. This paper describes the modifications we made in order to introduce the international interbank market into BoC-GEM-FIN. The modified model is calibrated to match the changes in international interbank lending positions and the decline in the US banksbusiness lending that took place after the fourth quarter of 2008. Our simulations show that the international interbank market amplifies the spillover effects of demand shocks but does not systematically alter the effects of supply shocks, including those for commodities.
F47|Quantifying Australia's ‘Three-Speed’ Boom|" type=""main"" xml:lang=""en""> We conjecture that a ‘secondary services boom’ is primarily responsible for the widespread nature of the gains in employment during Australia's recent ‘China boom’. An economy-wide model provides numerical theory for constructing hypotheses, which are tested econometrically. Predictions that include a services expansion and de-industrialisation are tested against pre-boom data and out-of-sample simulations through the boom. The secondary services boom appears clearly in both income and employment, though the effects on manufacturing are ambiguous, with stronger-than-hypothesised observed performance, suggesting that changes in industrial structure and the composition of assistance have favoured surviving manufacturing firms."
F47|Slower Growth and Vulnerability to Recession: Updating China's Global Impact|Central to the global impacts of China’s emergence has been its structural imbalance (its excess product supply and excess saving), but this has diminished considerably in the transition years since 2010. These imbalances are now reversed as its consumption expands faster than its GDP and so the global implications are qualitatively different. Moreover, higher income, slower growth, and therefore increasing similarity with the advanced economies, implies that consumer and business confidence are now more central to performance, rendering recession possible, and more likely as the growth slowdown raises the intensity of the domestic spotlight on political performance. The international effects of the transition and a possible recession are here quantified using a global macro model with national portfolio rebalancing. The transition to consumption-led growth is shown to foster employment abroad, particularly in the US, while a major Chinese recession is shown to be damaging to the advanced economies and particularly to the US, the more so if China’s policy response is expansionary and includes floating the RMB.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F47|Oil prices and the global economy: Is it different this time around?|The recent plunge in oil prices has brought into question the generally accepted view that lower oil prices are good for the US and the global economy. In this paper, using a quarterly multi-country econometric model, we first show that a fall in oil prices lowers interest rates and inflation in most countries, and increases global real equity prices. The effects on real output are positive, although they take longer to materialize (around 4 quarters after the shock). We then re-examine the effects of low oil prices on the US economy over different sub-periods using monthly observations on real oil prices, real equity prices and real dividends. We confirm the perverse positive relationship between oil and equity prices over the period since the 2008 financial crisis highlighted in the recent literature, but show that this relationship has been unstable when considered over the longer time period of 1946–2016. In contrast, we find a stable negative relationship between oil prices and real dividends which we argue is a better proxy for economic activity (as compared to equity prices). On the supply side, the effects of lower oil prices differ widely across the different oil producers, and could be perverse initially, as some of the major oil producers try to compensate their loss of revenues by raising production. Taking demand and supply adjustments to oil price changes as a whole, we conclude that oil markets equilibrate but rather slowly, with large episodic swings between low and high oil prices.
F47|Impacto económico de la Inversión Extranjera Directa en Colombia 2007-2015|Este reporte de investigación indaga sobre el impacto económico de la Inversión Extranjera Directa en Colombia para el periodo comprendido entre 2007 y 2015. Aquí se muestra que en ausencia de los flujos crecientes de ese periodo de tiempo, la economía habría observado una tasa de crecimiento inferior en 80 puntos básicos (0.8%). Así mismo, este documento presenta los resultados de una encuesta empresarial donde se pregunta sobre prácticas de responsabilidad social empresarial, I+D, formación de talento humano y remuneración salarial, transferencia tecnológica, entre otras. Los resultados de la encuesta sugieren que las empresas internacionales en Colombia presentan mejores prácticas en todos los frentes mencionados.
F47|Using the First Passage Times in Markov Chain model to support financial decisions on the stock exchange|The purpose of this article is to present the possibilities of using such a tool as Markov chain to analyse the dynamics of returns observed at the Warsaw Stock Exchange. Process analysis is the basis for decision-making with regard to the accepted horizon. Expected times for achieving specified states, understood as intervals of rates of return, in particular those describing negative rates of return, are extremely important. In this context, there is a possibility of determining easily the value at risk with the accepted probability.
F47|Credit, asset prices and business cycles at the global level|This paper assesses the role of financial variables in real economic fluctuations, in view of analysing the link between financial cycles and business cycles at the global level. A Global VAR modelling approach is used to first assess the contribution of credit and asset price variables to real economic activity in a number of countries and regions. The GVAR model is based on 38 countries estimated over 1987–2013. An analysis on a sample excluding the post-financial crisis period is also provided to check whether financial variables have gained importance in explaining business cycle fluctuations over the recent past. In a second step, financial shocks are identified through sign restrictions in order to illustrate how financial and business cycles could be related. Overall, the paper shows that the importance of credit and asset price variables in explaining real economic fluctuations is relatively large, but has not significantly increased since the global financial crisis. The international transmission of financial shocks on business cycle fluctuations also tends to be large and persistent.
F47|A Global Trade Model for the Euro Area|We propose a model for analyzing euro-area trade based on the interaction between macroeconomic and trade variables. First, we show that macroeconomic variables are necessary to generate accurate short-term trade forecasts; this result can be explained by the high correlation between trade and macroeconomic variables, with the latter being released in a more timely manner. Second, the model tracks well the dynamics of trade variables conditional on the path of macroeconomic variables during the Great Recession; this result makes our model a reliable tool for scenario analysis.
F47|Does joint modelling of the world economy pay off? Evaluating global forecasts from a Bayesian GVAR|We analyze how modeling international dependencies improves forecasts for the global economy based on a Bayesian GVAR with SSVS prior and stochastic volatility. To analyze the source of performance gains, we decompose the predictive joint density into its marginals and a copula term capturing the dependence structure across countries. The GVAR outperforms forecasts based on country-specific models. This performance is solely driven by superior predictions for the dependence structure across countries, whereas the GVAR does not yield better predictive marginal densities. The relative performance gains of the GVAR model are particularly pronounced during volatile periods and for emerging economies.
F47|Fiscal devaluation in the euro area: A model-based analysis|We assess the effects of a temporary fiscal devaluation enacted in Spain on the trade balance by simulating EAGLE, a large-scale multi-country dynamic general equilibrium model of the euro area. Social contributions paid by firms are reduced by 1% of GDP for four years and are financed by increasing the consumption tax. Our main results are the following. First, in the first years following implementation the Spanish trade balance improves by around 0.6% of GDP, the (before-consumption tax) real exchange rate depreciates by 0.7% and the terms of trade deteriorate by 1.3%. Second, the trade balance improves when the temporary fiscal devaluation is also enacted in the rest of the euro area, albeit to a lower extent than in the case of unilateral (country-specific) implementation. Third, similar results are obtained if we consider the case of a smaller euro area economy, specifically Portugal. Fourth, quantitative results are robust to changes in some key parameters but crucially depend on the degree of substitutability between domestic and imported tradables.
F47|Impact of mega trade deals on China: A computational general equilibrium analysis|This paper explores the potential impacts on both China and other major countries of possible mega trade deals. We use a 13-country computational general equilibrium model with trade costs to investigate both tariff and non-tariff reduction effects. Simulation results reveal that China-Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) will yield the highest welfare outcomes for China. For the US, China-TPP FTA will generate the highest welfare outcome. For the European Union, all China involved mega deals have negative impacts except China–US FTA. For Japan, RCEP will generate the highest welfare outcome. For both Korea and India, RCEP will generate the highest welfare outcome.
F47|A World Trade Leading Index (WTLI)|This paper develops a new monthly World Trade Leading Indicator (WTLI) that relies on a dynamic factor model estimated on set of leading indicators of world trade activity. Compared to the CPB World Trade Monitor’s benchmark indicator for global trade the WTLI captures turning points in global trade with an average lead between 2 and 3 months. This new tool can provide policy makers with valuable foresight into the future direction of economic activity by tracking world trade more efficiently.
F47|Trade and fiscal imbalances in Southeastern Europe: Can fiscal devaluation help?|We examine the need, potential and likely effects of fiscal devaluation for a group of seven economies in Southeastern Europe. All the countries face external trade imbalances and most of them also experience large or growing fiscal problems. We conclude that fiscal devaluation could be a useful instrument to help these countries improve their trade balances without (further) deteriorating their fiscal positions. The results of our simulations show that a budget neutral fiscal devaluation in the amount of 1 percent of gross value added could yield short-run improvements in trade balances ranging from 0.56 to 0.94 percentage points of (initial) gross value added. Simultaneously, this is expected to have a positive impact on output as well, which should grow at rates between 0.15 and 0.25 percent.
F47|Country-specific oil supply shocks and the global economy: A counterfactual analysis|This paper investigates the global macroeconomic consequences of country-specific oil-supply shocks. Our contribution is both theoretical and empirical. On the theoretical side, we develop a model for the global oil market and integrate this within a compact quarterly model of the global economy to illustrate how our multi-country approach to modeling oil markets can be used to identify country-specific oil-supply shocks. On the empirical side, estimating the GVAR-Oil model for 27 countries/regions over the period 1979Q2 to 2013Q1, we show that the global economic implications of oil-supply shocks (due to, for instance, sanctions, wars, or natural disasters) vary considerably depending on which country is subject to the shock. In particular, we find that adverse shocks to Iranian oil output are neutralized in terms of their effects on the global economy (real outputs and financial markets) mainly due to an increase in Saudi Arabian oil production. In contrast, a negative shock to oil supply in Saudi Arabia leads to an immediate and permanent increase in oil prices, given that the loss in Saudi Arabian production is not compensated for by the other oil producers. As a result, a Saudi Arabian oil supply shock has significant adverse effects for the global economy with real GDP falling in both advanced and emerging economies, and large losses in real equity prices worldwide.
F47|The financial and fiscal stress interconnectedness: The case of G5 economies|In this paper, we focus on the financial and fiscal stress transmission for the G5 economies. Using financial and fiscal stress indexes, we assess the spillovers within each economy, as well as the cross-sectional effects. Two supplementary methodologies, measuring the degree of interconnectedness, are employed. Our findings indicate that the interactions between these two kinds of distress are intensive, especially during and after the Global Financial Crisis outbreak. The above reiterates the necessity for coordinated macroprudential policies, as a means to confine the adverse effects of excessive financial and fiscal stress.
F47|Size and power of tests based on Permanent-Transitory Component Models|The literature has recently proposed a new type of tests for the Efficient Market Hypothesis based on Permanent-Transitory Component Models. We compare the power of these statistics with conventional tests based on linear regressions. Simulation results suggest that the former dominate the latter for a wide range of data generating processes. We propose an application to spot and forward interest rates. Empirical results show that the two types of tests can yield conflicting results which can be explained by the size distortions and reduced power which affect the statistics based on linear regressions.
F47|Macroprudential oversight, risk communication and visualization|This paper discusses the role of risk communication in macroprudential oversight and of visualization in risk communication. Beyond the increase in data availability and precision, the transition from firm-centric to system-wide supervision imposes vast data needs. Moreover, in addition to internal communication as in any organization, broad and effective external communication of timely information related to systemic risks is a key mandate of macroprudential supervisors. This further stresses the importance of simple representations of complex data. The present paper focuses on the background and theory of information visualization and visual analytics, as well as techniques within these fields, as potential means for risk communication. We define the task of visualization in risk communication, discuss the structure of macroprudential data, and review visualization techniques applied to systemic risk. We conclude that two essential, yet rare, features for supporting the analysis of big data and communication of risks are analytical visualizations and interactive interfaces. For visualizing the so-called macroprudential data cube, we provide the VisRisk platform with three modules: plots, maps and networks. While VisRisk is herein illustrated with five web-based interactive visualizations of systemic risk indicators and models, the platform enables and is open to the visualization of any data from the macroprudential data cube.
F47|Financial crisis, US unconventional monetary policy and international spillovers|We study the impact of US quantitative easing (QE) on both the emerging and advanced economies, estimating a global vector error-correction model (GVECM). We focus on the effects of reductions in the US term and corporate spreads. The estimated effects of QE are sizeable and vary across economies. First, we find the QE impact from reducing the US corporate spread to be more important than that from lowering the US term spread, consistent with Blinder's (2012) argument. Second, counterfactual exercises suggest that successive US QE measures might have prevented episodes of prolonged recession and deflation in the advanced economies. Third, the estimated effects on the emerging economies are diverse but generally larger than those found for the United States and other advanced economies. The estimates suggest that US monetary policy spillovers contributed to the overheating in Brazil, China and some other emerging economies in 2010 and 2011, but supported their respective recoveries in 2009 and 2012. These heterogeneous effects point to unevenly distributed benefits and costs of cross-border monetary policy spillovers.
F47|Rationality of survey based inflation expectations: A study of 18 emerging economies’ inflation forecasts|This study investigates rationality of inflation expectations of 18 emerging economies’ inflation rates using 10 years (2001–2011) of one month-ahead consensus survey forecasts of annual inflation rate from a data source previously unexploited by the researchers. Given the nature of the data, we use the panel method to assess the relationship between the actual and the expected inflation rates. We perform various diagnostic tests to identify the appropriate panel test for the data by applying the most recent econometric techniques. We use a recently developed panel regression method based on simple OLS technique but derive standard errors corrected for serial correlation, panel heterogeneity and cross-sectional dependence. Empirical results show that forecasters’ expectations are strongly unbiased, and efficient to most commonly used sources of information including money supply and oil prices. This research fills the gap in the existing literature by studying a large cross section of emerging economies inflation rates as there is no comprehensive study on the issue for these economies.
F47|Japan's oligopolies: potential gains from third arrow reforms|"Progress has been made in economic reform under the ""Abenomics"" first (monetary policy) and second (taxation reform) ""arrows"". The third, which emphasises structural reforms, has been more politically difficult, thus far yielding mixed results. This paper explores the gains that are possible from the labour market, tax and competition reforms embodied in the third arrow program. Economic rents and industry concentration levels are first identified from Nikkei firm specific data and used to construct an economy-wide model that represents oligopoly behaviour and its regulation explicitly. The analysis finds that modest gains in efficiency are available labour growth and, when it is accompanied by corporate governance reform, the switch between company and consumption taxation. Larger gains are shown to be available from active competition policy and, particularly, from productivity enhancing FDI in services. Central to the results is that a resurgent Japanese economy requires efficiency improvements that raise home rates of return and rebalance its large home and foreign asset portfolio toward home investment and capital growth."
F47|Post-GFC external shocks and Indonesian economic performance|The post-GFC era sees slower global growth and a substantial Chinese slowdown, unusually combined with lower investment financing costs, and with the eventual prospect of a US-led re-tightening of global financial markets. For Indonesia in the medium term, these developments imply a slowing of export growth and a temporary surge in net inward investment incentives. These changes are examined here using a numerical macro model. The results suggest that recent fiscal reform is long-run beneficial and that it will moderate the negative effects of expectations linked to these global events, the formation of which is shown to be an important determinant of performance. Finally, a sensitivity analysis is conducted, mainly on parameters indicating Indonesian openness to trade and finance. Liberal product markets and home investment are shown to offer unambiguous gains in the face of negative external shocks, while openness to external financial flows does not.
F47|Secular Drivers of the Global Real Interest Rate|Long-term real interest rates across the world have fallen by about 450 basis points over the past 30 years. The co-movement in rates across both advanced and emerging economies suggests a common driver: the global neutral real rate may have fallen. In this paper we attempt to identify which secular trends could have driven such a fall. Although there is huge uncertainty, under plausible assumptions we think we can account for around 400 basis points of the 450 basis points fall. Our quantitative analysis highlights slowing global growth as one force that may have pushed down on real rates recently, but shifts in saving and investment preferences appear more important in explaining the long-term decline. We think the global saving schedule has shifted out in recent decades due to demographic forces, higher inequality and to a lesser extent the glut of precautionary saving by emerging markets. Meanwhile, desired levels of investment have fallen as a result of the falling relative price of capital, lower public investment, and due to an increase in the spread between risk-free and actual interest rates. Moreover, most of these forces look set to persist and some may even build further. This suggests that the global neutral rate may remain low and perhaps settle at (or slightly below) 1% in the medium to long run. If true, this will have widespread implications for policymakers — not least in how to manage the business cycle if monetary policy is frequently constrained by the zero lower bound.
F47|Simulating World Trade in the Decades Ahead: Driving Forces and Policy Implications|The geography and composition of international trade are changing fast. We link a macroeconomic growth model and sectoral CGE framework in order to project the world economy forward to the year 2035 and assess to what extent current trends in trade are expected to continue. Constructing fully traceable scenarios based on assumptions grounded in the literature, we are also able to isolate the relative impact of key economic drivers. We find that the stakes for developing countries are particularly high: The emergence of new players in the world economy, intensification of South-South trade and diversification into skill-intensive activities may continue only in a dynamic economic and open trade environment. Current trends towards increased regionalization may be reversed, with multilateral trade relationships gaining in importance. Hypothetical mega-regionals could slow down, but not frustrate the prevalence of multilateralism. Continuing technological progress is likely to have the biggest impact on future economic developments around the globe. Population dynamics are influential as well: For some countries, up-skilling will be crucial, for others labour shortages may be addressed through migration. Several developing countries would benefit from increased capital mobility; others will only diversify into dynamic sectors, when trade costs are further reduced.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F47|Are Exchange Rates Disconnected from Macroeconomic Variables? Evidence from the Factor Approach|We use factor-augmented predictive regression to analyze the relation between nominal exchange rates and macroeconomic variables. Using a panel of 127 US macroeconomic time series, we estimate eight factors through principal component analysis. Those estimated factors have significant predictive power and can substantially improve the predictive power of Purchasing Power Parity through both in-sample and out-of-sample analyses. The estimated macroeconomic factor, which comoves with US money supply measures, has strong predictive power for nominal exchange rate fluctuations in the short run, while estimated factors, comoving with interest rate spreads and employment variables, have strong predictive power in the long run. Moreover, optimal factors selected by the BIC in the out-of-sample analysis differ greatly depending on the time points when forecasts are made. Finally, we show that factors extracted from a panel of 127 US time series data and those extracted from a panel of 215 Korean macroeconomic series together can predict a substantial portion of movements in the Korea-US bilateral exchange rate.
F47|Foreign aid instability and bundled governance dynamics in Africa|Purpose- With the recent financial crisis and reduction of foreign aid by donor countries, the aid-institutions debate is shifting to how aid instability affects governance in developing countries. We engage the policy debate by assessing the role of foreign aid instability on governance dynamics in fifty three African countries for the period 1996-2010. Design/methodology/approach- An autoregressive endogeneity-robust Generalized Methods of Moments is employed. Instabilities are measured in terms of standard errors and standard deviations. Three main aid indicators are used, namely: total aid, aid from multilateral donors and bilateral aid. Principal Component Analysis is used to bundle governance indicators, namely: political governance (voice & accountability and political stability/non violence), economic governance (regulation quality and government effectiveness), institutional governance (rule of law and corruption-control) and general governance (political, economic and institutional governance). Findings- Our findings show that foreign aid instability increases governance standards, especially political and general governance. Practical implications- In the presence of foreign aid instability, governments could be constrained to improve governance standards in exchange for, or anticipation of greater dependence on local tax revenues. Moreover, bundling governance indicators improves insights into how macroeconomic variables affect governance. This is essentially because, while aid instability improves general governance, for the most part it is not consistently for economic and institutional governance. Originality/value- The paper has contributed to the aid-institutions’ literature by examining how aid instabilities affect an aggregate index of governance dynamics in Africa.
F47|Food Price Crisis in Indonesia: Alert from the Key Markets| Food price variations can be very costly when they abrupt and unanticipated. In the current new era of market uncertainty, monitoring food prices become highly important to foresee any potential crisis. This study proposes an alternative approach in monitoring food price movements in many different markets within a country by focusing only on the key markets. Using monthly retail rice prices from the 25 major markets in Indonesia, we identify the key markets whose price movements can help to forecast price movements in all other markets. The key markets are identified using granger causality tests conducted in the vector error correction model framework. The relevance of monitoring the key markets in detecting price crisis is tested using Probit and Poisson models. We found that albeit not all of alert phases lead to crises, monitoring the key markets can help to forecast price movements in all markets across the country.
F47|Global prediction of recessions|We present evidence that global vectorautoregressive (GVAR) models produce more accurate recession forecasts than country-specific time-series models in a Bayesian framework. This result holds for most countries and forecast horizons as well as for several country groups.
F47|Estimates of Trade Mis-invoicing and Their Macroeconomic Outcomes for the Indian Economy|This paper has two main objectives. First, it computes capital flight (CF) through trade mis-invoicing from India for the period 1988-2012. India¡¯s trade with 17 major trading partners is considered. We find that CF has accelerated since 2004 and particularly sharply since 2007. It peaked at nearly $40 billion in 2008 with the total outflow between 1988 and 2012 exceeding $186 billion. Second, we model the mutual dependence of GDP growth, CF, and various risk factors in a VAR framework. We find that, if left undisturbed, CF through trade mis-invoicing will continue to be high and play a significant and, by its very nature, an uncontrollable macroeconomic role. Hence, reducing, if not eliminating CF, is essential for its own sake as well as for the proper conduct of macroeconomic policy.
F47|Understanding the dichotomy of financial development: credit deepening versus credit excess|In this paper we introduce several methodological innovations in an empirical analysis of the determinants of the private Credit-to-GDP ratio, which allow us to estimate the long-term sustainable level of credit deepening in a country and its deviations. We also find new evidence of different effects of some macroeconomic variables in the long, medium and short-term on the credit ratio.
F47|Introducing a New Early Warning System Indicator (EWSI) of banking crises|In this paper we develop a new Early Warning System (EWS) of Banking Crises based on a new estimated indicator of the gap between the observed private credit ratio and its long-term structural level.
F47|Systemic Risk, Aggregate Demand, and Commodity Prices|The paper presents a global model for analysis and projections. The model features a handful of elements that make it suitable for analyzing three broad sets of topics; first, systemic risk and its transmission to country risk premiums; second, the transmission from country risk premiums to demand-related variables such as the output gap, the trade balance, and unemployment; and third, the transmission from commodity prices to country inflation. The model incorporates one systemic risk channel and two foreign channels, specifically, a foreign aggregate demand channel and a foreign exchange rate channel. The model is estimated with Bayesian methods. In addition, the effect of risk on aggregate demand is calibrated with the aid of a VAR. Among the results are that the episodes of surges in systemic risk identified in the paper were transmitted to country risk premiums and aggregate demand--related variables; that the effect of systemic risk shocks on world economic activity is large, and that the busts in the world output gap correspond with the major financial events identified by the estimated time series for the unobserved systemic risk. In addition, systemic risk shocks are important drivers of output gaps while country risk premium shocks can have important effects on the trade balance. Surprisingly, commodity prices, in particular the price of oil, are shown to be demand driven; hence, demand related factors may play a nontrivial role in explaining noncore inflation. The model performed well at one- and four-quarter horizons compared to a survey of analysts' forecasts. In addition, systemic risk shocks were important at explaining the forecast variance of the world output gap, country output gaps, the price of oil, and country risk premiums. The breath of reach of systemic risk shocks back the efforts for financial surveillance with a systemic focus.
F47|Towards recoupling? Assessing the global impact of a Chinese hard landing through trade and commodity price channels|China's rapid growth over the past decade has been one of the main drivers of the rise in mineral commodity demand and prices. While concerns about the sustainability of China's growth model are rising, we assess to what extent rebalancing through a hard landing in China would impact other countries. After reviewing the main arguments pointing to a hard landing scenario—historical rebalancing precedents, overinvestment, unsustainable debt trends and real estate bubble—we use a global VAR methodology adapted to conditional forecasting to simulate the impact of a Chinese hard landing. We model metal and oil markets separately to account for their different end‐use patterns and consumption intensity in China. According to our estimates, emerging economies would be hardest hit—with a 7.5% cumulated growth loss after 5 years—in particular in Emerging Asia and in commodity‐exporting regions such as Latin America. The “growth gap” between emerging and advanced economies would be considerably reduced, leading to partial recoupling. In the light of these results, both the “commodity supercycle” and sustained convergence observed in emerging economies over the past decade could be to a large extent attributed to the high and unbalanced growth pattern in China.
F47|No milk for the bear: the impact on the Baltic states of Russia's counter-sanctions|The Russian government banned in August 2014 imports of different food and agricultural products from the European Union as a countermeasure to sanctions introduced by the EU and several other countries after Russia's actions in Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea. This paper assesses the effect of Russia's counter-sanctions on the economies of the Baltic states using different statistics sources and an international inputâ€“output model, while taking into account possible data problems in international trade data due to re-exports. The amount of trade affected by Russia's counter-sanctions varies across the Baltic states. In 2013, the exports of goods affected amounted to 2.6% of GDP in Lithuania, 0.4% of GDP in Estonia, and 0.3% of GDP in Latvia, but re-exports are included in these numbers. The overall impact of the sanctions on GDP once intra-EU supply chains are taken into account is below 0.5% of GDP in all the Baltic states.
F47|Invoicing Currency in International Trade: An Empirical Investigation and Some Implications for the Renminbi|" type=""main"" xml:id=""twec12211-abs-0001""> To play the role of a unit of account, an international currency must be a currency widely used to invoice international trade. This paper investigates the determinants of the use of currencies in trade invoicing and evaluates the potential of the renminbi for the denomination of cross-border transactions in the Asia-Pacific region. In particular, we develop a simple model and establish the evidence showing that there is a convex relationship between the invoicing share of a currency and the economic size of its issuing country because of a coalescing effect and thick market externalities. We use the ratio of the foreign exchange (FX) turnover share of a currency to the global GDP share of its issuing country as a proxy for the size of thick market externalities, which we argue reflects capital account openness, financial development and exchange rate stability of the country. This ratio is very small for the renminbi compared with the ratios for established international currencies. Our quantitative analysis suggests that the renminbi can be a major invoicing currency in the region only if China sufficiently opens up its capital account and liberalises its financial sector. We also draw a parallel between the renminbi and the euro and forecast the invoicing share of the renminbi in the Asia-Pacific region if the renminbi market attained the same degree of thickness as the euro."
F47|The Estimation of Multi-dimensional Fixed Effects Panel Data Models|The paper introduces for the most frequently used three-dimensional fixed effects panel data models the appropriate within estimators. It analyzes the behaviour of these estimators in the case of no-self-flow data, unbalanced data and dynamic autoregressive models. Then the main results are generalised for higher dimensional panel data sets as well.
F47|Stabilization and Rebalancing with Fiscal or Monetary Devaluation: a Model-Based Comparison|The article uses a small open economy version of the macroeconomic general-equilibrium model QUEST to compare fiscal and nominal exchange rate (EXR) devaluation with respect to their impact on economic activity and the current account. In particular, the article investigates quantitatively to which extent fiscal devaluation mimics nominal EXR adjustment and mitigates the output loss associated with demand rebalancing and external adjustment by shifting adjustment from domestic demand contraction to export growth. Fiscal and monetary devaluation support external adjustment and mitigate its impact on economic activity in the presence of price and wage rigidities. The quantitative impact of a tax shift from labour to consumption as the standard example of fiscal devaluation remains very moderate, however (JEL codes: E52, F41, F47).
F47|Secular drivers of the global real interest rate|Long-term real interest rates across the world have fallen by about 450 basis points over the past 30 years. The co-movement in rates across both advanced and emerging economies suggests a common driver: the global neutral real rate may have fallen. In this paper we attempt to identify which secular trends could have driven such a fall. Although there is huge uncertainty, under plausible assumptions we think we can account for around 400 basis points of the 450 basis points fall. Our quantitative analysis highlights slowing global growth as one force that may have pushed down on real rates recently, but shifts in saving and investment preferences appear more important in explaining the long-term decline. We think the global saving schedule has shifted out in recent decades due to demographic forces, higher inequality and to a lesser extent the glut of precautionary saving by emerging markets. Meanwhile, desired levels of investment have fallen as a result of the falling relative price of capital, lower public investment, and due to an increase in the spread between risk-free and actual interest rates. Moreover, most of these forces look set to persist and some may even build further. This suggests that the global neutral rate may remain low and perhaps settle at (or slightly below) 1% in the medium to long run. If true, this will have widespread implications for policymakers — not least in how to manage the business cycle if monetary policy is frequently constrained by the zero lower bound.
F47|Systemic Risk, Aggregate Demand, and Commodity Prices|The paper presents a global model for analysis and projections. The model features a handful of elements that make it suitable for analyzing three broad sets of topics; first, systemic risk and its transmission to country risk premiums; second, the transmission from country risk premiums to demand-related variables such as the output gap, the trade balance, and unemployment; and third, the transmission from commodity prices to country inflation. The model incorporates one systemic risk channel and two foreign channels, specifically, a foreign aggregate demand channel and a foreign exchange rate channel. The model is estimated with Bayesian methods. In addition, the effect of risk on aggregate demand is calibrated with the aid of a VAR. Among the results are that the episodes of surges in systemic risk identified in the paper were transmitted to country risk premiums and aggregate demand--related variables; that the effect of systemic risk shocks on world economic activity is large, and that the busts in the world output gap correspond with the major financial events identified by the estimated time series for the unobserved systemic risk. In addition, systemic risk shocks are important drivers of output gaps while country risk premium shocks can have important effects on the trade balance. Surprisingly, commodity prices, in particular the price of oil, are shown to be demand driven; hence, demand related factors may play a nontrivial role in explaining noncore inflation. The model performed well at one- and four-quarter horizons compared to a survey of analysts' forecasts. In addition, systemic risk shocks were important at explaining the forecast variance of the world output gap, country output gaps, the price of oil, and country risk premiums. The breath of reach of systemic risk shocks back the efforts for financial surveillance with a systemic focus.
F47|Determinantes de las exportaciones manufactureras de Colombia: un estudio a partir de un modelo de ecuaciones simultáneas|"""Las exportaciones manufactureras de Colombia han sido el segundo sector en importancia dentro del total de exportaciones del país, sin embargo, estas han venido perdiendo dinamismo y han visto reducida su participación en los últimos años debido en parte al auge del sector minero-energético. La presente investigación estima los determinantes de las exportaciones manufactureras colombianas a partir de datos anuales de comercio bajo clasificación CIIU y un modelo macroeconómico de ecuaciones simultaneas. Los resultados muestran como las exportaciones manufactureras se determinan principalmente por tres factores: los precios relativos de las exportaciones en los mercados foráneos, la renta extranjera y el costo de oportunidad entre vender en el mercado doméstico o el extranjero. Además de estos, las exportaciones quedan determinadas por el precio de las importaciones y los costos de producción."""
F47|Factores de riesgo en un mandato de inversión activo de renta fija|En este documento se aplica la metodología de Análisis de Componentes Principales (ACP) para explorar la existencia de factores de riesgo comunes en las estrategias de inversión activas implícitas en los lineamientos de inversión de los portafolios denominados en moneda extranjera de Fogafín. A partir de la identificación de estos factores se busca entender mejor la relación de las estrategias y el potencial de diversificación ofrecido por este conjunto de estrategias para lograr una mayor efectividad en el proceso de construcción de portafolios. Este análisis se realiza para un periodo de historia reciente (2010-2014) que representa el periodo del régimen de tasas bajas producto de las políticas monetarias expansivas después de la recesión económica del 2008. Adicionalmente, se realizan pruebas de estabilidad para evaluar la consistencia de los resultados del ACP en dos momentos históricos y se hacen pruebas de sensibilidad para estudiar los cambios en los factores ante variaciones en la muestra de estrategias elegibles. Se plantean dos aproximaciones para la aplicación del ACP en la administración de portafolios: top-down y bottom-up.
F47|Public debt, population ageing and medium-term growth|This paper analyses the challenges that high public debt and ageing populations pose to medium-term growth. First, macroeconometric model simulations suggest that medium-term growth can benefit from credible fiscal consolidation, partly through reductions in sovereign risk premia. Second, a disaggregated growth accounting exercise suggests that the impact of population ageing on medium-term growth can be mitigated by structural reforms boosting labour force participation. Finally, general equilibrium models suggest that pay-as-you-go public pension systems will require reforms combining lower benefits, a later retirement age and higher social contributions. These findings suggest several policy recommendations: (a) JEL Classification: E17, E23, E24, E62, F47, J1
F47|Macroprudential oversight, risk communication and visualization|This paper discusses the role of risk communication in macroprudential oversight and of visualization in risk communication. Beyond the soar in data availability and precision, the transition from firm-centric to system-wide supervision imposes vast data needs. Moreover, except for internal communication as in any organization, broad and effective external communication of timely information related to systemic risks is a key mandate of macroprudential supervisors, further stressing the importance of simple representations of complex data. This paper focuses on the background and theory of information visualization and visual analytics, as well as techniques within these fields, as potential means for risk communication. We define the task of visualization in risk communication, discuss the structure of macroprudential data, and review visualization techniques applied to systemic risk. We conclude that two essential, yet rare, features for supporting the analysis of big data and communication of risks are analytical visualizations and interactive interfaces. For visualizing the so-called macroprudential data cube, we provide the VisRisk platform with three modules: plots, maps and networks. While VisRisk is herein illustrated with five web-based interactive visualizations of systemic risk indicators and models, the platform enables and is open to the visualization of any data from the macroprudential data cube.
F47|Banking and Currency Crises: Differential Diagnostics for Developed Countries| We identify a set of ‘rules of thumb’ that characterize economic, financial and structural conditions preceding the onset of banking and currency crises in 36 advanced economies over 1970–2010. We use the classification and regression tree methodology and its random forest extension, which permits the detection of key variables driving binary crisis outcomes, allows for interactions among key variables and determines critical tipping points. We distinguish between basic country conditions, country structural characteristics and international developments. We find that crises are more varied than they are similar. For banking crises, we find that low net interest rate spreads in the banking sector and a shallow, or inverted, yield curve is their most important forerunners in the short term. In the longer term, it is high house price inflation. For currency crises, high domestic short‐term rates coupled with overvalued exchange rates are the most powerful short‐term predictors. We find that both country structural characteristics and international developments are relevant banking‐crisis predictors. Currency crises, however, seem to be driven more by country idiosyncratic, short‐term developments. We find that some variables, such as the domestic credit gap, provide important unconditional signals, but it is difficult to use them as conditional signals and, more importantly, to find relevant threshold values. Copyright © 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
F47|International effects of China's rise and transition: Neoclassical and Keynesian perspectives|Opinion over the global implications of China's rise is divided between critics and proponents. Critics see it as having developed at the expense of both investment and employment in the US, Europe and Japan. Proponents emphasise improvements in the terms of trade and reductions to the cost of financing that stem from China's supply of light manufactures, its demand for Western capital and luxury goods and its high saving. The criticism implies Keynesian assumptions while proponents take a neoclassical perspective. In this paper, both are embodied in a global macro-model that emphasises bilateral linkages via trade and investment, with monetary spill-overs represented by globally integrated bond markets. Net gains are suggested for the US and Europe from China's successful export-oriented growth, though there are partially offsetting Keynesian effects. China's recent slower, more consumption focussed, growth appears also to be beneficial in those regions and in Japan notwithstanding terms of trade losses.
F47|The internationalisation of financial crises: Banking and currency crises 1883–2008|Financial crises are high cost events which can transmit across international borders. Using data from 1883 to 2008, this article develops a means of mapping changes in the degree of international synchronisation of banking and currency crises through a formal concordance index. This index specifically accounts for the typically low incidence and potential serial correlation of crisis data. The results show that banking crises were highly internationalised at the beginning of the 20th century, and became far less so in the strong regulatory environment prevailing after the Depression until the 1980s. A strong increase in the synchronicity of international banking crises is revealed during the late 20th and early 21st century. Currency crises began the century as more idiosyncratic, but have tended to become more synchronised over the 115 year sample.
F47|How non-traded goods may generate quasi-quadratic costs for capital adjustment|This paper shows that a two-tiered production structure with both traded and non-traded intermediate goods and non-traded final goods can generate a cost of capital adjustment that is very similar to the quadratic adjustment cost often assumed in single good macroeconomic models. This implies that while a quadratic loss function may seem like an ad hoc adjustment, it can be rationalized by sound theory from a more detailed model.
F47|Systemic event prediction by an aggregate early warning system: An application to the Czech Republic|This work develops an early warning framework for assessing systemic risks and predicting systemic events over a short horizon of six quarters and a long horizon of 12 quarters on a panel of 14 countries, both advanced and developing. First, we build a financial stress index to identify the starting dates of systemic financial crises for each country in the panel. Second, early warning indicators for the assessment and prediction of systemic risk are selected in a two-step approach; we find relevant prediction horizons for each indicator by a univariate logit model followed by the application of Bayesian model averaging to identify the most useful indicators. Finally, we observe the performance of the constructed EWS over both horizons on the Czech data and find that the model over the long horizon outperforms the EWS over the short horizon. For both horizons, out-of-sample probability estimates do not deviate substantially from their in-sample estimates, indicating a good out-of-sample performance for the Czech Republic.
F47|On the stock market liquidity and the business cycle: A multi country approach|We provide original results on national and global stock market liquidity and its interaction with macro-economic variables for six of the G7 economies, namely: Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and UK, building on the methodology and on the US evidence by Naes et al. (2011). Using a number of additional tests, we find that different markets do not behave in a uniform manner. National liquidity has diminished ability in Granger causing macroeconomic variables for our sample countries, and in additional tests the same holds for an extended US sample, contrary to Naes et al. As regards global liquidity there is a two-way causality with macroeconomic indicators for the six nations in our sample while for the US there is no causality in either direction. We also show that there is no superior information in small firm liquidity in Granger causing macroeconomic variables even for the US in contrast to the sample period employed by Naes et al. implying an unstable relationship over time for the US.
F47|Forecasting the price of gold using dynamic model averaging|We develop several models to examine possible predictors of the return of gold, which embrace six global factors (business cycle, nominal, interest rate, commodity, exchange rate and stock price) extracted from a recursive principal component analysis (PCA) and two uncertainty and stress indices (the Kansas City Fed's financial stress index and the U.S. economic policy uncertainty index). Specifically, by comparing alternative predictive models, we show that the dynamic model averaging (DMA) and dynamic model selection (DMS) models outperform linear models (such as the random walk) as well as the Bayesian model averaging (BMA) model. The DMS is the best predictive model overall across all forecast horizons. Generally, all the predictors show strong predictive power at one time or another though at varying magnitudes, while the exchange rate factor and the Kansas City Fed's financial stress index appear to be strong at almost all horizons and sub-periods. However, the forecasting prowess of the exchange rate is supreme.
F47|Examining industrial interdependence between Japan and South Korea: A FAVAR approach|This paper investigates the economic relationship between Japan and South Korea by incorporating disaggregated output measures. Using a factor-augmented vector autoregression (FAVAR) model, we conduct several experiments to test the nature of the interdependence, both in the aggregate and by sector. We find that South Korean output shocks affect the Japanese economy in a significant manner, whereas Japanese output shocks have a limited effect on South Korea. By further examining the transmission mechanism of sectoral output shocks and comparing them with the direction of sectoral trade, we find evidence of cross-border production sharing, which explains the asymmetric results seen in the aggregate output.
F47|Measuring the dollar–euro permanent equilibrium exchange rate using the unobserved components model|This paper employs an unobserved component model that incorporates a set of economic fundamentals to obtain the Euro–Dollar permanent equilibrium exchange rates (PEER) for the period 1975Q1 to 2008Q4. The results show that for most of the sample period, the Euro–Dollar exchange rate closely followed the values implied by the PEER. The only significant deviations from the PEER occurred in the years immediately before and after the introduction of the single European currency. The forecasting exercise shows that incorporating economic fundamentals provides a better long-run exchange rate forecasting performance than a random walk process.
F47|Revisiting the relationship between exchange rates and fundamentals|In this paper, we apply the permanent–transitory decomposition method to analyze the role of permanent and transitory shocks in explaining the apparent weak link between nominal exchange rates and economic fundamentals. The results suggest that for most of the countries we investigate, including Finland, Italy, Portugal, France and Switzerland, transitory shocks dominate exchange rate fluctuations, while permanent shocks dominate the variations in economic fundamentals. The findings therefore provide an alternative interpretation of the “exchange rate disconnect puzzle”. Moreover, the results also suggest that comprehensive modeling of transitory components in empirical models should not be neglected in studies of the dynamics of exchange rates.
F47|On the directional accuracy of forecasts of emerging market exchange rates|We use survey data to study whether the exchange-rate forecasts made by professional forecasters are informative with respect to the direction of subsequent changes of (Asian, Eastern European, and South American) emerging market exchange rates. While results vary across exchange rates, we find that forecasts often contain information with respect to directional changes of exchange rates. We derive our empirical results using techniques developed to analyze relative operating characteristic (ROC) curves.
F47|Herding behavior and loss functions of exchange rate forecasters over interventions and financial crises|This study examines herding behaviors of yen/dollar exchange rate forecasters, focusing on whether their behaviors are time-varying. The empirical results show that interventions amplified herding for a one-month horizon. During the recent financial crises, herding was pronounced for the one-month forecast horizon, and anti-herding, for a one-year horizon. Quantitative Easing 1 (QE1) also saw pronounced anti-herding for one-month and one-year horizons. Their loss functions are also evaluated under a possibly asymmetric loss function. The degree and direction of asymmetry are time-varying, and their variations differ among forecasters. The results are broadly consistent with (anti-) herding and its time-varying feature.
F47|Carbon leakage in a fragmented climate regime: The dynamic response of global energy markets|As a global climate agreement has not yet been achieved, a variety of national climate policy agendas are being pursued in different parts of the world. Regionally fragmented climate policy regimes are prone to carbon leakage between regions, which has given rise to concerns about the environmental effectiveness of this approach. This study investigates carbon leakage through energy markets and the resulting macro-economic effects by exploring the sensitivity of leakage to the size and composition of pioneering regions that adopt ambitious climate action early on. The study uses the multi-regional energy–economy–climate model REMIND 1.5 to analyze the implications of Europe, China and the United States taking unilateral or joint early action. We find that carbon leakage is the combined effect of fossil fuel and capital market re-allocation. Leakage is limited to 15% of the emission reductions in the pioneering regions, and depends on the size and composition of the pioneering coalition and the decarbonization strategy in the energy sector. There is an incentive to delay action to avoid near-term costs, but the immediate GDP losses after acceding to a global climate regime can be higher in the case of delayed action compared to early action. We conclude that carbon leakage is not a strong counter-argument against early action by pioneers to induce other regions to adopt more stringent mitigation.
F47|Financial Integration and China's Global Impact|Product and financial market integration determine the global implications of China’s recent growth surge and its on-going transition from export led growth. These alter China’s structural imbalance (its excess product supply and excess saving), which in turn shifts the international terms of trade, changing asset yields causing deflationary and then inflationary pressures abroad. The effects are here quantified using a global macro model with national portfolio rebalancing, in which asset differentiation is used to index financial integration. The growth surge is found to have conferred on the advanced economies gains in their terms of trade, incompletely offset by structural unemployment. By contrast, the global effects of the transition are shown to reverse some of these impacts and to be amplified by further financial integration, particularly for the US.
F47|Indonesian Macro Policy through Two Crises|Indonesia’s open, developing economy fielded shocks due to the Asian financial crisis (AFC) and the global financial crisis (GFC) quite differently. Although the origins of both crises were external, during the AFC the coincidence of financial contagion with domestic political upheaval saw the Indonesian economy collapse. By contrast, during the decade-later GFC, when most nations slumped into recession the Indonesian economy slowed but did not recess, achieving real growth of 6.1% (2008) and 4.5% (2009) and recording one of the world’s best performances for the period. This paper reviews these events and employs numerical modelling of stylized AFC and GFC shocks to show that some of the contrast stems from differences in the states of the global economy during the crises and the compositions of the external shocks in each case. This said, both shocks have capital flight elements and it is shown that the key policy responses include floating the exchange rate and fiscal expansions that are, where necessary, money financed. There is, nonetheless, evidence of evolution in Indonesian macroeconomic policy making between the crises that allowed its strong performance to be sustained.
F47|Exchange Rate Dynamics under Financial Market Frictions|This paper extends Dornbusch's overshooting model by proposing a generalized interest parity condition (GIP), which captures a sluggish adjustment on the asset market. The exchange rate model under the GIP is able to reproduce the delayed overshooting and the hump-shaped response to monetary shocks of both nominal and real exchange rates. Furthermore, we present empirical results for OECD member countries which fit the theoretical predictions.
F47|Forecasting local inflation with global inflation: when economic theory meets the facts|"This paper provides both theoretical insight as well as empirical evidence in support of the view that inflation is largely a global phenomenon. First, we show that inflation across countries incorporates a significant common factor captured by global inflation. Second, we show that in theory a role for global inflation in local inflation dynamics emerges over the business cycle even without common shocks, and under flexible exchange rates and complete international asset markets. Third, we identify a strong ""error correction mechanism"" that brings local inflation rates back in line with global inflation which explains the relative success of inflation forecasting models based on global inflation (e.g., Ciccarelli and Mojon (2010). Fourth, we argue that the workhorse New Open Economy Macro (NOEM) model of Martínez-García and Wynne (2010) can be approximated by a finiteorder VAR and estimated using Bayesian techniques to forecast domestic inflation incorporating all relevant linkages with the rest of the world. This NOEM-BVAR provides a tractable model of inflation determination that can be tested empirically in forecasting. Finally, we use pseudo-out-of-sample forecasts to assess the NOEM-BVAR at different horizons (1 to 8 quarters ahead) across 17 OECD countries using quarterly data over the period 1980Q1-2014Q4. In general, we find that the NOEM-BVAR model produces a lower root mean squared prediction error (RMSPE) than its competitors—which include most conventional forecasting models based on domestic factors and also the recent models based on global inflation. In a number of cases, the gains in smaller RMSPEs are statistically significant. The NOEM-BVAR model is also accurate in predicting the direction of change for inflation, and often better than its competitors along this dimension too."
F47|Overcoming the Forecasting Limitations of Forward-Looking Theory Based Models|Theory-consistent models have to be kept small to be tractable. If they are to forecast well, they have to condition on data that are unmodelled, noisy, patchy and about the future. Agents can also use these data to form their own expectations. In this paper we illustrate a scheme for jointly conditioning the forecasts and internal expectations of linearised forward-looking DSGE models on data through a Kalman Filter fixed-interval smoother. We also trial some diagnostics of this approach, in particular decompositions that reveal when a forecast conditioned on one set of variables implies estimates of other variables which are inconsistent with economic priors.
F47|“Tropical” Real Business Cycles? A Bayesian Exploration|Can frictionless small open economy models driven solely by technology shocks account for business cycles in developing countries? We do not find evidence of it. We build a DSGE model that jointly includes a variety of real perturbations in addition to technology shocks, such as procyclical fiscal policies, terms of trade fluctuations, and perturbations to the foreign interest rate coupled with financial frictions. We estimate it using Bayesian methods on high and low frequency data from a developing —and “tropical”— country, Colombia. We find interest rate shocks to be crucial and that financial frictions play a central role as propagating mechanisms of transitory technology shocks. These two driving forces alone can account well for the observed properties of the Colombian business cycle. Other structural shocks, such as terms of trade fluctuations and level shifts in the technology process, do not appear to be relevant in the past decade and a half, but their importance increases when a longer span of data is considered.
F47|Overcoming the Forecasting Limitations of Forward-Looking Theory Based Models|Theory-consistent models have to be kept small to be tractable. If they are to forecast well, they have to condition on data that are unmodelled, noisy, patchy and about the future. Agents can also use these data to form their own expectations. In this paper we illustrate a scheme for jointly conditioning the forecasts and internal expectations of linearised forward-looking DSGE models on data through a Kalman Filter fixed-interval smoother. We also trial some diagnostics of this approach, in particulardecompositions that reveal when a forecast conditioned on one set of variables implies estimates of other variables which are inconsistent with economic priors.
F47|The OECD's new global model|This paper provides a summary of the OECD's new global macroeconometric model, including an overview of model structure and a selection of simulations illustrating its main properties. Compared with its predecessors, the new model is more compact and regionally aggregated, but gives more weight to the focus of policy interests in global trade and financial linkages. The country model structures typically combine short-term Keynesian-type dynamics with a consistent long-run neo-classical supply-side. While retaining a conventional treatment of international trade and payments linkages, the model has a greater degree of stock-flow consistency, with explicit modelling of domestic and international assets, liabilities and associated income streams. Account is also taken of the influence of financial and housing market developments on asset valuation and domestic expenditures via house and equity prices, interest rates and exchange rates. As a result, the model gives more prominence to wealth and wealth effects in determining longer-term outcomes and the role of asset prices in the transmission of international shocks both to goods and financial markets.
F47|The OECD's new global model|This paper provides a summary of the OECD's new global macroeconometric model, including an overview of model structure and a selection of simulations illustrating its main properties. Compared with its predecessors, the new model is more compact and regionally aggregated, but gives more weight to the focus of policy interests in global trade and financial linkages. The country model structures typically combine short-term Keynesian-type dynamics with a consistent long-run neo-classical supply-side. While retaining a conventional treatment of international trade and payments linkages, the model has a greater degree of stock-flow consistency, with explicit modelling of domestic and international assets, liabilities and associated income streams. Account is also taken of the influence of financial and housing market developments on asset valuation and domestic expenditures via house and equity prices, interest rates and exchange rates. As a result, the model gives more prominence to wealth and wealth effects in determining longer-term outcomes and the role of asset prices in the transmission of international shocks both to goods and financial markets.
F47|Forecasting national activity using lots of international predictors: An application to New Zealand|We assess the marginal predictive content of a large international dataset for forecasting GDP in New Zealand, an archetypal small open economy. We apply “data-rich” factor and shrinkage methods to efficiently handle hundreds of predictor series from many countries. The methods covered are principal components, targeted predictors, weighted principal components, partial least squares, elastic net and ridge regression. We find that exploiting a large international dataset can improve forecasts relative to data-rich approaches based on a large national dataset only, and also relative to more traditional approaches based on small datasets. This is in spite of New Zealand’s business and consumer confidence and expectations data capturing a substantial proportion of the predictive information in the international data. The largest forecasting accuracy gains from including international predictors are at longer forecast horizons. The forecasting performance achievable with the data-rich methods differs widely, with shrinkage methods and partial least squares performing best in handling the international data.
