F61|Immigrant Entrepreneurs and Innovation in the U.S. High-Tech Sector|We estimate differences in innovation behavior between foreign versus U.S.-born entrepreneurs in high-tech industries. Our data come from the Annual Survey of Entrepreneurs, a random sample of firms with detailed information on owner characteristics and innovation activities. We find uniformly higher rates of innovation in immigrant-owned firms for 15 of 16 different innovation measures; the only exception is for copyright/trademark. The immigrant advantage holds for older firms as well as for recent start-ups and for every level of the entrepreneur’s education. The size of the estimated immigrant-native differences in product and process innovation activities rises with detailed controls for demographic and human capital characteristics but falls for R&D and patenting. Controlling for finance, motivations, and industry reduces all coefficients, but for most measures and specifications immigrants are estimated to have a sizable advantage in innovation.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F61|The Costs of Bureaucracy and Corruption at Customs: Evidence from the Computerization of Imports in Colombia|Customs face a difficult tradeoff between, on one side, collecting tariff revenues and preventing smuggling, and on the other side, avoiding creating additional barriers to trade. They also tend to concentrate discretionary power in the hands of officials whose decisions can bear high costs for the firms, creating room for rent extraction. In this context, information technologies can limit direct interactions, reduce transaction costs and allow local businesses to better take of the benefits of international trade. We assess the effects of the computerization of import transactions on plants’ growth in Colombia. The reform occurred sequentially in the different customs between 2000 and 2005, allowing us to use a triple-difference strategy, comparing the change in outcome variables of plants that were importing before the beginning of the reform, to the one of firms that were not importing (less likely to be affected by changes at customs). We find that the computerization of imports led to an increase of 6 log points in the firms’ value added along with consequent increases in employment, productivity and tax collection. However, it generated winners (importing firms) and losers (non-importing firms). Our investigation of the channels reveals a reduction in corruption judiciary cases at treated customs, as well as a reduction of time to clear customs and its unpredictability. Our results support growing evidence of the high potential of proper use of information technologies to improve efficiency and tackle corruption in public administration with important consequences for the economy.
F61|Technology-Induced Trade Shocks? Evidence from Broadband Expansion in France|In this paper, we document the presence of “technology-induced” trade in France between 1997 and 2007 and assess its impact on consumer welfare. We use the staggered roll-out of broadband internet to estimate its causal effect on the importing behavior of affected firms. Using an event-study design, we find that broadband expansion increases firm-level imports by around 25%. We further find that the “sub-extensive” margin (number of products and sourcing countries per firm) is the main channel of adjustment and that the effect is larger for capital goods. Finally, we develop a model where firms optimize over their import strategy and which yields a sufficient statistics formula for the quantification of the effects of broadband on consumer welfare. Interpreted within this model, our reduced-form estimates imply that broadband internet reduced the consumer price index by 1.7% and that the import-channel, i.e. the enhanced access to foreign goods that is allowed by broadband, accounts for a quarter of that effect.
F61|Buyer-Driven Upgrading in GVCs: The Sustainable Quality Program in Colombia|This paper studies the Sustainable Quality Program in Colombia - a quality upgrading program implemented on behalf of a multinational coffee buyer. The Program is a bundle of contractual arrangements involving farmers, intermediaries, exporters and the multinational buyer. We tackle three questions. First, we investigate the impact of the Program on the supply of quality coffee. Eligible farmers upgraded their plantations, expanded land under coffee cultivation, increased quality and received higher farm gate prices. Second, we quantify how the Program gains are shared between farmers and intermediaries along the chain. In regions in which the Program was rolled out surplus along the chain increased by 30%. Eligible farmers kept at least half of the gains and their welfare increased by 20%. Finally, we examine how the Program works conducting counterfactual exercises and comparing the Program price premia along the chain against two prominent non-buyer driven certifications. The Program achieved a better transmission of the export gate price premium for quality to the farm gate and curbed market failures that stifled quality upgrading. Contractual arrangements at the export gate significantly contributed to higher farmers welfare in rural areas.
F61|Trading activities, productivity and markups: evidence for spanish manufacturing|This work analyses the firms’ internationalization strategies of importing intermediates and exporting output, and the potential rewards of these activities in terms of total factor productivity (TFP), as a proxy for marginal costs, and markups. It further deepens into the study of the relationship between internationalization strategies and markups by disentangling whether it operates through affecting firms’ marginal costs and/or firms’ prices. The panel database employed in this paper is the Spanish Survey on Business Strategies (ESEE) for the period 2006- 2014. Results in the paper distinguish between SMEs and large firms and indicate that there is high persistence in the performance of these activities and in firms’ TFP and markups. In addition, the internationalization strategies are especially relevant for SMEs, as for this group we obtain rewards of the two activities in terms of both TFP and markups. Furthermore, we also find that these strategies allow SMEs to charge higher output prices.
F61|The financialisation-offshoring nexus and the capital accumulation of U.S. nonfinancial firms|The financialisation of the nonfinancial corporation has drawn the attention of many scholars who have identified two channels by which financialisation happens: a higher proportion of financial assets compared to nonfinancial ones and a higher amount of resources distributed to financial markets. One of the consequences of this is the decrease in investment. Parallel to financialisation, many nonfinancial corporations have also engaged in an internationalization of their productive activities, organizing them under global value chains. Surprisingly, the intersections between the literature on financialisation and the literature on global value chain are still underdeveloped, although, for example, offshoring may also explain the decrease in investment of nonfinancial firms. This paper fills this gap using panel regressions for U.S. nonfinancial corporations between 1995 and 2011. We find evidence that both offshoring and financialisation are determinants to the decrease in investment and that financialisation occurs mainly for firms belonging to high offshoring sectors.
F61|Technology-induced Trade Shocks? Evidence from Broadband Expansion in France|In this paper, we document the presence of ''technology-induced'' trade in France between 1997 and 2007 and assess its impact on consumer welfare. We use the staggered roll-out of broadband internet to estimate its causal effect on the importing behavior of affected firms. Using an event-study design, we find that broadband expansion increases firm-level imports by around 25%. We further find that the ''sub-extensive'' margin (number of products and sourcing countries per firm) is the main channel of adjustment and that the effect is larger for capital goods. Finally, we develop a model where firms optimize over their import strategy and which yields a sufficient statistics formula for the quantification of the effects of broadband on consumer welfare. Interpreted within this model, our reduced-form estimates imply that broadband internet reduced the consumer price index by 1.7% and that the import-channel, i.e. the enhanced access to foreign goods that is allowed by broadband, accounts for a quarter of that effect.
F61|Upstreamness, Wages and Gender: Equal Benefits for All?|This paper provides first evidence on the impact of a direct measure of firm-level upstreamness (i.e. the steps before the production of a firm meets final demand) on workers' wages. It also investigates whether results vary along the earnings distribution and by gender. Findings, based on unique matched employer-employee data relative to the Belgian manufacturing industry for the period 2002-2010, show that workers earn significantly higher wages when employed in more upstream firms. Yet, the gains from upstreamness are found to be very unequally shared among workers. Unconditional quantile estimates suggest that male top-earners are the main beneficiaries, whereas women, irrespective of their earnings, appear to be unfairly rewarded. Quantile decompositions further show that these differences in wage premia account for a substantial part of the gender wage gap, especially at the top of the earnings' distribution.
F61|Globalization and the fall of markups|This paper provides the evidence of a fall of markups of price over marginal costs in Poland over the last 15 years. Markups were calculated using a census of ﬁrms and the methodology proposed by De Loecker and Warzynski (2012). The fall of markups, by 18.6% for median and by 13.1% for weighted mean and experienced by 70% of ﬁrms, is robust to several empirical identiﬁcation strategies. Moreover, the decline of markups is not related to changes in a sectoral composition and ﬁrms demography and is most severe in exporting ﬁrms. Our empirical results relate the fall of markups to globalization and emergence of the Global Value Chains. We show that the increasing reliance on imported components in production, together with rising concentration of domestic ﬁrms on export markets are the main factors behind the observed compression of markups. We also document a hump-shaped (U-shaped) relationship between foreign value added in exports (distance from ﬁnal demand) and markups.
F61|Import Competition, Heterogeneous Preferences of Managers, and Productivity|Empirical evidence on the relationship between import competition and firm productivity is mixed. We explore a new dimension of firm heterogeneity by focusing on different types of managers. Using Spanish firm-level data, we show that import competition leads to productivity increases for family-managed firms that are initially unproductive. Productivity changes are driven by family management as opposed to family ownership or non-managing family members. This evidence is consistent with a model in which family managers care more about the survival of their firm than professional managers, which triggers additional effort when the firm is faced with an increased bankruptcy risk. We show evidence consistent with this mechanism.
F61|Job characteristics, job transitions and services trade: Evidence from the EU labour force survey|This report presents new cross-country evidence on labour market transitions in sectors exposed to growing volumes of international trade, and the job characteristics of workers employed in these sectors. It shows that export growth is significantly associated with lower job loss risk. In commercial services sectors, exports offer over-proportional employment opportunities to those currently outside the workforce. Men and women are not always impacted identically. For example, involuntary part time employment amongst women falls with growing export volumes, while there is no such effect for men. These results show that the distributional effects of international trade are not limited to wage effects or net changes in employment numbers and highlight the need for a comprehensive assessment of trade implications for individual workers.
F61|Explaining the Persistent Effect of Demand Uncertainty on Firm Growth|We study the effect of demand uncertainty on firm growth. We use product-level bilateral trade data to build an exogenous firm-level measure of the uncertainty of demand shocks. We match it with exhaustive custom and fiscal data between 1996 and 2013. An increase in uncertainty has a negative and persistent impact on the growth of exposed firms. This suggests a different underlying mechanism from a simple real-option effect. Financially constrained firms experience a much sharper and longer slowdown. Sectoral comovement is also a key factor explaining the persistent effect of uncertainty.
F61|Measuring Macroeconomic Uncertainty in Zimbabwe|What matters to economic decision-making is whether the economy has become more or less predictable. People and businesses use information around them to form judgements about what might happen in the future. The rise in uncertainty might be associated with increased concern about extreme events, skewed towards worries about bad or disastrous events. The study seeks to measure macroeconomic uncertainty in Zimbabwe, using stock market indices - industrial index and mining index - for the period 2010M1 to 2019M3. Prevalence of macroeconomic uncertainty has been traced from the stock market index trend and stock market returns volatility. The squared residuals of the GARCH(1,1) regression model proxied macroeconomic uncertainty levels. The prevalence of significant macroeconomic uncertainty has been observed, with some periods highly uncertain. The study linked periods of uncertainty to some known political, social and economic events to derive meaning. The study found that some political, social and economic events have a contributing effect on the level of macroeconomic uncertainty. Good events and policies are accompanied by low levels of uncertainty while bad events and controversial policies match with high levels of uncertainty. The study recommends that to create a good economic climate, to attract investment and boost confidence in the economy, policymakers should dwell on reducing macroeconomic uncertainty. Reducing macroeconomic uncertainty require policy consistency, policy consultations, less frequent policy changes, avoiding numerous policies, avoiding policy reversals, among other measures. The observed macroeconomic uncertainty affects proper economic decision-making and is not conducive for high levels of investment for local and international investors; companies may struggle to hire labor, and employees and corporates may delay spending and saving pattern distorted.
F61|Brexit trade impacts' and Mercosur's negotiations with Europe|We estimate that a hard Brexit (HB) would reduce UK agro-industrial-imports from the EU by around 50%. Following the dismantling of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) the UK Government has proposed to shift towards market-oriented agricultural policies and negotiating free trade agreements (FTAs) with interested countries. Assuming that the UK restores the previous level of agro industrial products, the paper estimates the net export gains that Mercosur could achieve in the UK market for different agro-industrial products. In the event of a Hard Brexit, and assuming that the Mercosur-EU negotiations are not completed before, Mercosur would then face two negotiations in Europe: with the EU27 and with the UK. We argue that failing Mercosur to give priority to talks with the UK, other countries are more than likely sign trade agreements and fill its import gap thus creating additional trade diversion effects against the Mercosur. We offer back-of-the-envelope estimates indicating that under such an FTA, Mercosur could double its agro-industrial exports to the UK. These significant export gains are concentrated in a group of products that are now highly protected by the CAP.
F61|Rules of Origin Liberalization with Multi-Product Firms: Theory and Evidence from Bangladeshi Apparel Exporters|I study how rules of origin in potential export destinations influence firm- and industry-level export behavior in least-developed countries (LDCs). Rules of origin restrict LDCs from taking advantage of preferential tariff rates in export markets, and this undermines market access for LDCs and reduces the efficacy of export-oriented industrialization. I develop a model of multi-product firms in which rules of origin influence the product scope and export revenue of final goods producers through their effect on input sourcing decisions. I test the model's predictions using the 2011 revisions to the EU's rules of origin for apparel products from LDCs. To control for the potential endogeneity of the policy change I use a triple-difference approach, exploiting variation in the input-cost differentials across apparel products and export destination, before and after the EU policy change. Liberalizing rules of origin results in revenue gains, expansion of product scope, and firm entry into the export market. Within firms, incumbents upgrade product quality. Across firms, market share is reallocated toward more productive incumbents.
F61|A Microeconomic Analysis of the Declining Labor Share in Japan|The labor share in Japan has been declining significantly over the last three decades, accompanied by persistent stagnation and an unprecedented increase in economic inequalities. Since these dynamics are likely to be interrelated, understanding the drivers of the labor share might contribute significantly to the Japanese economic and policy debate. Surprisingly, the existing literature on the labor share in Japan is rather limited and confined to country or industry studies. We first attempt to analyze the drivers of the labor share in Japan at the firm level. To this aim, we employ a panel of manufacturing firms from the Basic Survey of Japanese Business Structure and Activities, spanning from 2001 to 2012. By means of panel data estimators, we show how, besides technological variables, firms’ labor share depends significantly on the share of regular workers, on the importance of firms’ international engagement, and on various institutional settings of the product and labor markets.
F61|The impact of WTO accession on Chinese firms' product and labor market power|This paper examines the causal impact of domestic trade liberalization on Chinese firms' product and labor market power. To recover both market power measures, we identify a firm's regime of competitiveness, corresponding to a product market setting and a labor market setting, at any point in time. The identification is based on implementing the distance test, which takes the dependence between both settings into account. The product market setting is defined to be imperfectly competitive if the firm sets a price-cost markup, which is our model consistent measure of product market power. The labor market setting is defined to be imperfectly competitive if the firm either pays a wage markup or sets a wage markdown. Our model consistent measure of labor market power is either the workers' bargaining power during work-firm negotiations in the former or the wage elasticity of the firm's labor supply curve capturing its wage-setting power in the latter. To establish causal evidence of trade shocks on product and labor market power, we use China's WTO accession in 2001 as an identification strategy. Reducing tariffs on intermediate inputs decreases the likelihood of shifting firms away from an imperfectly competitive labor market setting. Reducing tariffs on final goods increases the likelihood of shifting firms away from setting wage markdowns. Trade liberalization via input tariff reductions increases a firm's price-cost markup but decreases the degree of wage-setting power that it possesses, conditional on the relevant product/labor market setting. Such joint responses of firms' pricing behavior in product and labor markets to trade policy changes are important for understanding the distributional consequences of trade shocks and the underlying drivers of increased inter-firm wage disparities.
F61|Parental Economic Shocks and Infant Health: The Effect of Import Competition in the U.S|Much of the literature providing causal evidence of parental economic conditions on infant health has focused on the impact of positive economic or income shocks, as opposed to negative ones. The concept of loss aversion makes it clear that individuals react differently when facing potential losses compared to potential gains, and that losses tend to be twice as psychologically powerful as gains. Moreover, long-term and persistent negative shocks such as those arising through increasing import competition could have different effects on health compared to reasonably temporary shocks such as lay-offs, recessions or business cycle fluctuations. This paper examines the effect of parental or household economic shocks on infant health by exploiting the increasing import competition from China between 1990 and 2000 on U.S. local labor markets as a plausibly exogenous source of variation in economic conditions. It also utilizes additional variation stemming from parental age within the local labor markets, thereby controlling for local labor market trends and allowing the analysis of heterogeneous impacts. Results indicate that commuting zones in the U.S. which experienced increased import penetration over time also experienced an increased incidence of low birthweight and a decrease in average birthweight. Further analyses show that the above results are driven by relatively younger parents as opposed to older parents.
F61|Drehstuhlschnittstellen der deutschen Industrie: Befunde auf Basis einer explorativen Unternehmensbefragung|eBusiness-Standards ermöglichen die reibungslose inner- und überbetriebliche Kommunikation und sind damit die Enabler der Digitalisierung. Auch wenn Standards eingesetzt werden, kann es bei nicht flächendeckenden und interoperablen Standardeinsatz zu Friktionen kommen, etwa wenn eine Drehstuhlschnittstelle vorliegt. Dies ist dann der Fall, wenn manuell Daten aus einem IT-System in ein anderes IT-System übertragen werden müssen. Eine explorative Unterneh-mensbefragung zeigt, dass die Wahrscheinlichkeit hoch ist, in deutschen Unternehmen solche Drehstuhlschnittstellen vorzufinden. Aus Experteninterviews geht hervor, wie wichtig Standards sind, um diese Schnittstellenproblematik zu verringern beziehungsweise zu lösen.
F61|The Chinese are Here: Firm Level Analysis of Import Competition and Performance in Sub-Saharan Africa|This study uses firm level data on 19 Sub-Saharan Africa countries between 2004 and 2016 to provide a rigorous analysis on the impact of Chinese import competition on productivity, skills, and performance of firms., We measure import competition and ports accessibility at the city-industry level to identify the relevance of firms’ location in determining the impact of Chinese imports competition. To address endogeneity concerns, a time-varying instrument for Chinese imports based on the interaction between an exogenous geographic characteristic and a shock in transportation technology is developed. The results show that imports competition has a positive impact on firm performance, mainly in terms of productivity catch-up and skills upgrading. Of particular interest is the finding that the effects of import competition from China are stronger for more remote firms that have lower port accessibility, an indication that Chinese imports in remote areas improves productivity of laggard firms, employment, and intensity of skilled workers. Our findings indicate that African firms are improving their performance as a consequence of the higher Chinese import intensity, mainly through direct competition and the use of higher quality inputs of production sourced from China.
F61|The International Organization of Production in the Regulatory Void|In recent decades, NGOs and consumers have heavily criticized a large number of leading firms and their suppliers in a diverse set of industries for exploiting cross-country differences in regulation to cut costs at the expense of workers and the environment. In line with a wide range of examples, our explorative empirical analysis links these features of globalization to the international organization of production: a high cost advantage of ‘unethical’ production in an industry favors international outsourcing (as opposed to vertical integration) and most strongly so for sourcing from low-regulation countries. We rationalize this pattern by introducing a cost-saving ‘unethical’ technology, consumer boycotts, and advocacy NGOs into a standard property-rights model of the international organization of production. Contracts are incomplete, limiting a firm’s control over both investment and (un)ethical technology choices of integrated as well as independent suppliers. We identify and analyze a novel unethical outsourcing incentive, which - in line with the empirical findings - links outsourcing to unethical production. We also contribute to the modeling of NGO-firm interactions by providing a microfounded model of investment and pricing under incomplete contracts and monopolistic competition when the production technology is a credence attribute of the final good.
F61|Corporate Income Taxes Around the World - A Survey on Forward-looking Tax Measures and Two Applications|This study provides a survey on corporate taxes around the world. Our analysis has three main objectives. First, we collect tax data and calculate (forward-looking) effective tax measures for a large sample of countries and recent years. We particularly describe how these measures vary over time and across countries. Second, we augment the country-level information with firm- and industry-level data (providing weights for financial structure and asset composition) to contrast statutory measures at the level of countries with measures accounting for firm- and industry-specific weights. Third, we utilize our new data to (i) estimate Laffer-Curves, i.e., the relationship between statutory tax rate and tax revenue, based on non-parametric as well as parametric specifications; (ii) examine how taxes affect investment in fixed assets at the level of firms. As for the latter, our preferred specification, in which we use a firm-specific effective marginal tax rate to capture tax incentives, suggests an elasticity of -0.33.
F61|Looking for the Bright Side of the China Syndrome: Rising Export Opportunities and Life Satisfaction in China|"China's increased export capacity in recent decades has disrupted developed-country labor markets and the well-being of workers exposed to foreign competition. We here attempt to complete the assessment of the social and human consequences of globalization by exploring the other side of this ""China syndrome"". We evaluate the extent to which increased export opportunities have influenced well-being in China using panel data on approximately 25,000 adults across 122 Chinese localities in 2010, 2012 and 2014. The results show that perceived life satisfaction rises significantly as local export markets grow. This effect goes beyond higher local GDP per capita and individual incomes."
F61|The Chinese are Here: Firm Level Analysis of Import Competition and Performance in Sub-Saharan Africa| This study uses firm level data on 19 Sub-Saharan Africa countries between 2004 and 2016 to provide a rigorous analysis on the impact of Chinese import competition on productivity, skills, and performance of firms., We measure import competition and ports accessibility at the city-industry level to identify the relevance of firms’ location in determining the impact of Chinese imports competition. To address endogeneity concerns, a time-varying instrument for Chinese imports based on the interaction between an exogenous geographic characteristic and a shock in transportation technology is developed. The results show that imports competition has a positive impact on firm performance, mainly in terms of productivity catch-up and skills upgrading. Of particular interest is the finding that the effects of import competition from China are stronger for more remote firms that have lower port accessibility, an indication that Chinese imports in remote areas improves productivity of laggard firms, employment, and intensity of skilled workers. Our findings indicate that African firms are improving their performance as a consequence of the higher Chinese import intensity, mainly through direct competition and the use of higher quality inputs of production sourced from China.
F61|Opening UP Argentina to the World: Some Strategic Observations|No abstract is available for this item.
F61|The Micro Origins of International Business-Cycle Comovement|This paper investigates the role of individual firms in international business-cycle comovement using data covering the universe of French firm-level value added and international linkages over the period 1993–2007. At the micro level, trade and multinational linkages with a particular foreign country are associated with a significantly higher correlation between a firm and that foreign country. The impact of direct linkages on comovement at the micro level has significant macro implications. Without those linkages the correlation between France and foreign countries would fall by about 0.098, or one-third of the observed average correlation of 0.291 in our sample of partner countries.
F61|Under threat: Rules-based fiscal policy and how to preserve it|Rules-based fiscal policy is under threat. Over the last two decades, it proved frustratingly complicated to strike the right balance between three essential properties of sound fiscal policy rules: simplicity, flexibility, and enforceability. Simplicity has been sacrificed to ensure that more contingent (i.e. flexible) rules remained enforceable. The resulting arrangements have failed to adequately guide fiscal policy, undermining formal compliance, and ultimately, popular and political support for rules. To mitigate the risk that countries abandon rules-based policymaking, we suggest downplaying enforceability—i.e. the role of formal sanctions through enforcement—and enhancing the reputational costs of breaching rules. At the limit, the rule could consist of a simple quantitative benchmark for a key fiscal indicator. To boost reputational effects, independent fiscal councils should focus on debunking the “fiscal alchemy,” clearing the public debate from partisan smokescreens, and fostering popular support for sound fiscal policies.
F61|Information Frictions, Internet and the Relationship between Distance and Trade|Recent work suggests the patterns of international trade may be distorted because of information frictions. Little is known, however, about how advancements in information communication technology (ICT) affect trade patterns. The goal of our paper is to analyze how and why the adoption of such technology affects bilateral trade flows. Our context is the adoption of broadband internet in Norwegian firms over the period 2000-2008. We use panel data with information on Norwegian firms with regards to their production, technology, and trade. A public program with limited funding rolled out broadband access points, and provides plausibly exogenous variation in the availability and adoption of broadband internet in firms. We find that adoption of broadband internet makes trade patterns more sensitive to distance and economic size. Going from no broadband availability to full coverage increases the magnitude of the elasticity of trade with respect to distance by 0.12, and the elasticity of trade with respect to destination size by 0.06. For distance, this means that an increase in internet availability of 10 percentage points increases trade for a country at the 25th distance percentile by 1.1% more than for a country at the 75th distance percentile. The same difference for the GDP of a destination is 2.1%. We interpret the empirical results through a gravity theory of trade patterns, augmented with information frictions. We provide comparative statics predictions with respect to a reduction in information frictions, and show that these predictions are consistent with our empirical findings. Taken together, our results point to the importance of incorporating information frictions in the frequently used gravity equation, and they may help explain the so-called “distance puzzle” in international trade.
F61|Diabetes, Employment and Behavioural Risk Factors in China: Marginal Structural Models versus Fixed Effects Models|A diabetes diagnosis can motivate its recipients to reduce their health risks by changing lifestyles but can adversely affect their economic activity. We investigate the effect of a diabetes diagnosis on employment status and behavioural risk-factors taking into account their potentially intertwined relationships. Longitudinal data from the China Health and Nutrition Survey covering the years 1997 to 2011 are used to estimate the effect of a diabetes diagnosis on employment probabilities, alcohol consumption, smoking cessation, body mass index, physical activity and hypertension. To deal with potential confounding, two complementary statistical techniques - marginal structural and fixed effects models - are applied. The marginal structural and fixed effects models generate similar results despite their different underlying assumptions. Both strategies find patterns distinct for males and females, suggesting a decrease in employment probabilities after the diagnosis for women but not for men. Further, few improvements and even further deterioration of behavioural risk factors are found for women, while for men these risk factors either improve or remain the same. These results suggest differences in the impact of diabetes between sexes in China and highlight the potential of reducing behavioural risk factors for women to narrow these inequities.
F61|The Short and Long-Run Effects of International Environmental Agreements on Trade|Does the ratification of an international environmental agreement (IEA) reduce a countryâ€™s competitiveness on world markets? In this paper, we take a gravity regression approach to answering this question by using industry-level bilateral trade data and employing time-varying country fixed effects to control for the endogeneity of treaty participation. We find that ratifying an IEA has significant (albeit small) negative effects on the exports of a countryâ€™s median manufacturing industry as well as a compositional shift towards exporting cleaner goods. However, we also show that this negative competitive effect on the median manufacturing industry disappears in the long-run. In fact, the positive compositional shift becomes stronger in the long-run as a ratifying country sees a further decline in exports of dirtier industries which is more than compensated for by an increase in exports of cleaner industries, with an overall positive but negligible effect on employment.
F61|Chinese Competition and Product Variety of Indian Firms|Using detailed firm-product-year data across manufacturing industries in India, and exploiting the exogenous nature of China's entry into the WTO in 2001, we investigate the link between the impact of import penetration from China on the product variety of Indian manufacturing firms. We find: (i) robust and significant effect of product drop, with the effect coming only from competitive pressure in the domestic market; (ii) evidence of product drop or 'creative destruction' is robust only for the lower-half of the size distribution; (iii) firms drop their peripheral/marginal products and concentrate on the core ones; and (iv) our result is most strong for firms producing intermediate goods. For an average Indian manufacturing firm, 10 percentage point increase in India's Chinese share of imports in the domestic market reduces the product scope of firms by 1.7-4.4%. In contrast, we find positive effects on product scope as when firms are importing intermediate goods. We also find evidence of significant productivity effects and within-firm factor reallocation. Our results are consistent to a battery of robustness checks and IV estimation.
F61|Capital market imperfections and trade liberalization in general equilibrium|This paper develops a new international trade model with firm-specific credit frictions and endogenous borrowing costs in general equilibrium. We highlight new implications of globalization when general equilibrium effects on capital markets are present. In particular, we show that globalization increases the share of financially constrained firms and affects producers very differently depending on their exposure to credit frictions. While the positive effect of globalization dominates for unconstrained firms, higher borrowing costs and tougher competition especially hurt credit-rationed producers. We show that these new adjustments increase the heterogeneity among firms and reduce welfare gains from trade. Our theory is consistent with new empirical patterns from World Bank firm-level data. We show that credit frictions are positively related to the degree of product competition and to the variance of sales across firms.
F61|Internationalisation, innovation and productivity in services: evidence from Germany, Ireland and the United Kingdom|Abstract This paper examines the links between internationalisation, innovation and productivity in service enterprises. For this purpose, we use micro data from the Community Innovation Survey 2008 in Germany, Ireland and the United Kingdom, and estimate an augmented structural model. Our empirical evidence highlights the importance of internationalisation in the context of innovation outputs in all three countries. Our results indicate that innovation in service enterprises is linked to higher productivity. Among the innovation types that we consider, the largest productivity returns were found for marketing innovations.
F61|Productivity, wages and profits: Does firms’ position in the value chain matter?|This paper is the first to estimate the impact of a direct measure of firm-level upstreamness on productivity, wage costs and profits (i.e. productivity-wage gaps). To do so, we merged detailed Belgian linked panel data, covering all years from 2002 to 2010, to a unique data set developed by Dhyne et al. (2015), which contains accurate information on the position of (almost) each commercial firm in the value chain at each year. We rely on the methodological framework that has been pioneered by Hellerstein et al. (1999) to estimate dynamic panel data models at the firm level. Our estimates show that if upstreamness increases by one step (that is, by approximately, one standard deviation), productivity rises on average by 5%. They also indicate that productivity gains associated to upstreamness are shared almost equally between wages and profits. However, upstreamness is found to be more beneficial for workers’ wages in less competitive environments, where the price-elasticity of demand for firms’ products is typically smaller. Overall, these findings are compatible with the assertion that firms should move up the value chain to be more productive and profitable, but also that being higher in the value chain is likely to facilitate firms’ control over strategic downstream activities. Our results can also be understood through the application of the Melitz (2003) model to the value chain framework.
F61|Upstreamness, social upgrading and gender: Equal benefits for all?|This paper examines social upgrading related to firms’ participation in Global Value Chains (GVCs) from a developed countries’ perspective. Merging detailed matched employer-employee data relative to the Belgian manufacturing industry with unique information on firm-level upstreamness, we investigate whether workers on the upstream stage of GVCs benefit from higher wages. We also enrich our analysis with a gender dimension. Unconditional quantile regressions and decomposition methods reveal that firms’ upstreamness fosters workers’ social upgrading. Nevertheless, gains are found to be unequally shared among workers. Male top-earners are the main beneficiaries; whereas women, irrespective of their earnings, appear to be unfairly rewarded.
F61|The Impact of Trade Liberalization on Firm Productivity and Innovation|This chapter reviews the empirical economics literature on the impact of trade liberalization on firms’ innovation-related outcomes. We define and examine four types of shocks to trade flows: import competition, export opportunities, access to imported intermediates, and foreign input competition. Our review reveals interesting heterogeneities at the country and firm levels. In emerging countries, trade liberalization appears to spur productivity and innovation. In developed countries, export opportunities and access to imported intermediates tend to encourage innovation, but the evidence on import competition is mixed, especially for firms in the United States. At the firm level, the positive effects of trade on innovation are more pronounced at the initially more productive firms, while the negative effects are more pronounced at the initially less productive firms.
F61|The Impact of Trade Liberalization on Firm Productivity and Innovation|This chapter reviews the empirical economics literature on the impact of trade liberalization on firms' innovation-related outcomes. We define and examine four types of shocks to trade flows: import competition, export opportunities, access to imported intermediates, and foreign input competition. Our review reveals interesting heterogeneities at the country and firm levels. In emerging countries, trade liberalization appears to spur productivity and innovation. In developed countries, export opportunities and access to imported intermediates tend to encourage innovation, but the evidence on import competition is mixed, especially for firms in the United States. At the firm level, the positive effects of trade on innovation are more pronounced at the initially more productive firms while the negative effects are more pronounced at the initially less productive firms.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F61|Weight gains from trade in foods: Evidence from Mexico|This paper investigates the effects of trade in food on obesity in Mexico. We classifyMexican food imports from the U.S. into healthy and unhealthy and match thesewith anthropometric and food expenditure survey data. We exploit variation acrossMexican states in their exposure to food imports from the U.S.. We fi nd that imports ofunhealthy foods signi cantly contribute to the rise of obesity in Mexico. The empiricalevidence also suggests that unhealthy food imports may widen health disparitiesbetween education groups. By linking imports to food expenditure and obesity, thepaper sheds light on an important channel through which globalization may affecthealth.
F61|Mitigating the adjustment costs of international trade|The evidence demonstrating that nations gain from trade is overwhelming. However, trade liberalization can cause disruption to firms and workers, and its gains and losses are spread unevenly. While many gain from trade, import surges have sometimes undermined the economic viability of whole communities. Existing mechanisms specifically designed to mitigate trade adjustment costs are often inadequate. They can be a source of inefficiency and inequity since trade shocks are only a part of the economic uncertainty affecting workers. Gradualism in trade liberalization combined with preemptive measures to strengthen competitiveness, can help mitigate adjustment costs. Displaced workers are best helped using generally applied safety nets, not those specific to trade. But these are not enough. Trade adjustment requires mobility of factors. International coordination is required to support an open and predictable trading system under the WTO, as the greatest future source of trade shocks could be protectionism, not trade liberalization.
F61|The Scope, Scale and Locational Preferences of Spanish Multinationals<BR>[Las decisiones de localización, alcance y escala de las empresas multinacionales españolas]|This paper examines the relationship between firms’ heterogeneity and their multinational activity. We examine the scope and the scale of multinational firms following the insights of Yeaple’s (2009) model. The goal of the paper is to contribute to a better understanding of the activity of Spanish multinationals using a sample of Spanish multinational firms. Our dataset is built from two databases, SABI and ORBIS, both from the Bureau van Dijk. Our results confirm that more productive firms have a greater multinational activity in terms of both the scope (the number of foreign markets where they invest) and the scale (the volume of local sales by subsidiaries in foreign markets). The structure of Spanish multinational firms’ activity is also analysed from the perspective of host country characteristics (GDP, population, distance and language) using standard gravity equations. Country characteristics that are positively associated (GDP and common language) with the volume of multinational activity are negatively related to the productivity of firms that go abroad. This asymmetry also holds for bilateral characteristics as distance that appears negatively associated with the level of multinational activity.
F61|Re examination of Kinked Demand Oligopoly Market: Theory, Evidence and Policy Implications from Lakshadweep|There are number of markets discussed in the economic theory seems only as imaginative and lacks proper investigation on the existence in the real world situation and their validity. The kinked demand curve hypothesis is a famous one among them which is under crux among the economic researcher. In the past few decades the existence of this market in the real world economies and its impact is continue to be a puzzle and a very few attempts were made in this areas with a few oscillating conclusions. With this backdrop this attempt is made to fill this gap in economics literature of re examining the existence and the impact of the kinked demand theory hypothesis with a special reference to Lakshadweep islands of India.
F61|Economic and Social Upgrading in Global Value Chains: Insights from Philippine Manufacturing Firms|This study explores the 2012 Survey on Adjustments of Establishments to Globalization (SAEG) to analyze the economic and social upgrading experience of Philippine manufacturers inside global value chains (GVCs). Three broad patterns emerge from the data. First, firms with stronger GVC linkages tend to have better labor indicators than purely domestic producers. Second, the majority of manufacturers either experienced or missed economic and social upgrading simultaneously. Lastly, almost all social upgrading is accompanied by economic upgrading but economic upgrading may take place without a social component. Against this background, this study uses bivariate probit regression to model the joint determination of the two separate but interconnected upgrading outcomes. The estimation results show that the covariates in the model can be grouped into three based on their statistical significance—purely economic (i.e., employment size, unit labor cost, high skill intensity, and the Kaitz dummy), purely social (i.e., training, female intensity and foreign equity), and both (i.e., contractualization and process and product innovations). These results have several important implications. First, GVC firms’ notion of social upgrading are closer to the softer components of working conditions than to traditional measurable indicators such as employment, wages and efficiency. Second, the results suggest direct and indirect channels through which technological upgrading may generate desirable social outcomes. The direct channel highlights that innovation should be accompanied by skills development to sustain higher value creation while the indirect channel underlines the potential of innovation to create upward spirals in output, productivity, and ultimately labor conditions. Lastly, there are some indications that the social benefits of economic upgrading may not be evenly distributed among different types of employment. Overall, the above results emphasize the need for a holistic upgrading experience that shifts the country’s comparative advantage from cheap labor to innovative local industries and highly-skilled workers.
F61|The Double-Edged Sword of Global Integration: Robustness, Fragility & Contagion in the International Firm Network|We estimate global inter-firm networks across all major industries from 1981 through 2016 and provide the first empirical tests for both robust (beneficial) and fragile (harmful) network behavior, relating firms' health with global integration. More connected firms are less likely to be in distress and have higher profit growth and equity returns, but are also more exposed to direct contagion from distressed neighboring firms and network level crises. Our analysis reveals the centrality of finance in the international firm network and increased globalization, with greater potential for crises to spread globally when they do occur.
F61|Two Worlds Apart? Export Demand Shocks and Domestic Sales|Traditional heterogeneous firms and trade models predict no causal relationship between firms' exports and domestic sales. This paper, using a rich dataset on Turkish firms for the 2005-14 period, analyzes the relationship between firm-product sales in different markets for the first time in the literature to identify the channels that link exports and domestic sales. First, I use an instrumental variables strategy and establish that an exogenous doubling of exports increases a firm's domestic sales by 26 percent on average--a result that is mostly driven by small firms. Second, I do an analogous exercise at the firm-product level, and find coefficients that are 62 percent larger, hinting to the importance of product-specific scale effects. Moreover, I propose a novel approach to isolate the production versus non-production factors that influence firm dynamics by focusing on non-produced (or carry-along trade, CAT) exports. I find that CAT exports also affect domestic sales positively, suggesting that spillovers at the firm level such as the easing of liquidity constraints play a role. In the process, I reveal that export demand shocks influence firms' expansion in terms of employment, wages per employee, and investment.
F61|How do Structural Features Affect Corporate Exposures to Macro-financial Shocks in Open Economies?|The global financial crisis highlighted the importance of understanding how both national and global macro-financial shocks affect the performance and financial health of economies. We use a three-tiered heterogeneous panel SVAR (structural vector autoregressive) approach on data for banks and corporates across 29 countries to examine how structural features of national economies affect the exposure of these entities to various macro-financial shocks. In particular, we focus on the consequences of global, domestic real economy, inflation, and nominal level shocks. In contrast with the existing literature, we cover a range of structural characteristics relating to (i) development of domestic financial markets, (ii) features of the trade regime, (iii) features of the capital account, and (iv) integration with world financial markets. A key message from our empirical results is that the impact of these structural economic features on the transmission of shocks to the corporate sector is more complex than implied by previous research. There are important nonlinearities to take into account, and both the direction and magnitude of the impact can depend on the nature of the shock hitting the economy and on the sector of operation of the corporate entity.
F61|Import competition and vertical integration: Evidence from India|Recent theoretical contributions provide conflicting predictions about the effects of product market competition on firms' organizational choices. This paper uses a rich firm-product-level panel data set of Indian manufacturing firms to analyze the relationship between import competition and vertical integration. Exploiting exogenous variation from changes in India's trade policy, we find that foreign competition, induced by falling output tariffs, increases backward vertical integration by domestic firms. The effects are concentrated in rather homogenous product categories, among firms that mainly operate on the domestic market, and in relatively large firms. Our results are robust towards different sub-samples and hold with or without conditioning on various firm- and product-level characteristics including input tariffs and firm-year fixed effects. We also provide evidence that vertical integration is associated with higher physical productivity, lower marginal costs and rising markups.
F61|Mitigating the Adjustment Costs of International Trade|"In the present era of globalization and rapid technological advance living standards across the world have risen at unprecedented rates, and over a billion people have been lifted out of poverty. The theoretical and empirical evidence demonstrating that nations gain from trade is overwhelming (Irwin, 2015). However, trade has distributional consequences and gains and losses are spread unevenly. The policy challenge is how to promote and deepen trade integration while ensuring that the losers from trade liberalization are assisted and the cost of their adjustment is mitigated. As the G-20 leaders concluded in their declaration last year ""We recognise that the benefits of international trade and investment have not been shared widely enough. We need to better enable our people to seize the opportunities and benefits of economic globalisation."" (G20, 2017) It is a fact that, in many instances, the sudden rise in competition from imports, especially – but not only – from China and other low-income countries and the formerly planned economies of Eastern Europe, have caused considerable disruption. These import surges have sometimes undermined the economic viability of localities and whole communities. While some cities and regions have thrived as they have taken advantage of the expansion of export markets across the world, many individuals, communities, and localities have been unable to adjust."
F61|Fostering place-based innovation and internationalization – the new turn in German technology policy| Since the mid-1990s German technology policy has experienced a paradigmatic shift from standard grant schemes towards a region-oriented and competition-based R&D policy. Currently, a new policy experiment, the InterClust contest, is under way, trying to simultaneously foster place-based innovation, R&D internationalization and the internationalization of innovative places. The current paper analyses the new policy, relating it to the recent literatures on heterogeneous firms and on cluster-life cycles, and presents results from a firm survey performed in 21 winner regions of InterClust. Findings show that the new funding scheme takes insights from recent theoretical developments into account and addresses important impediments to firm and cluster internationalization. Although it is too early for an overall assessment, it is argued that the long-term impact will critically depend on the inflow of heterogeneous knowledge and the strength of intra-regional mobilization effects.
F61|WTO trade monitoring ten years on: Lessons learned and challenges ahead|A decade has passed since the onset of the global financial crisis in 2008. Less than a month after the collapse of the investment bank Lehman Brothers, an internal Secretariat Task Force was established by the WTO Director-General to monitor the trade related developments associated with the global financial crisis. When G20 Leaders met in London in early 2009 they mandated the WTO, together with other international bodies, to monitor and report publicly on the G20 adherence to resisting protectionism and promoting global trade and investment. Ten years of trade monitoring later, and notwithstanding widespread anti-trade rhetoric, a protectionist backlash has not materialized. Although there have been worrying increases in the application of certain trade restrictive policy measures, the overall reality has been less alarmist. The paper will provide an introduction to the WTO trade monitoring exercise. It will show how the idea and the principles behind the current trade monitoring effort have origins that go back considerably further than the financial crisis. The paper will also provide an overview of selected trends and developments identified by the monitoring exercise since 2009. Finally, the paper will address some of the challenges facing the WTO monitoring exercise as it enters its tenth year.
F61|Firm Heterogeneity in Consumption Baskets: Evidence from Home and Store Scanner Data|A growing literature has emphasized the role of Melitz-type firm heterogeneity within sectors in accounting for nominal income inequality. This paper explores the implications of firm heterogeneity for household price indices across the income distribution. Using detailed matched US home and store scanner microdata that allow us to trace the firm size distribution into the consumption baskets of individual households, we present evidence that richer US households source their consumption from on average significantly larger producers of brands within disaggregated product groups compared to poorer US households. We use the microdata to explore alternative explanations, write down a quantitative framework that rationalizes the observed moments, and estimate its parameters to quantify the underlying channels and explore model-based counterfactuals. Our central findings are that larger, more productive firms endogenously sort into catering to the taste of wealthier households, and that this gives rise to asymmetric effects on household price indices. We find that these price index effects significantly amplify observed nominal income inequalities in both the cross-section of households and for changes over time, and that they lead to a significantly more regressive distribution of the gains from international trade.
F61|The Distributional Consequences of Large Devaluations|We study the impact of large exchange rate devaluations on the cost of living at different points on the income distribution. Poor households spend relatively more on tradeable product categories and consume lower-priced varieties within categories. Changes in the relative price of tradeables and of lower-priced varieties affect the cost of living of low-income relative to high-income households. We quantify these effects following the 1994 Mexican devaluation and show that they can have large distributional consequences. Two years post-devaluation, the cost of living for the bottom income decile rose 1.48 to 1.62 times more than for the top income decile.
F61|Services trade policy and manufacturing productivity: The role of institutions|We study the effect of services trade restrictions on manufacturing productivity for a broad cross-section of countries at different stages of economic development. Decreasing services trade restrictiveness has a positive impact on the manufacturing sectors that use services as intermediate inputs in production. We identify a critical role of institutions in importing countries in shaping this effect. Countries with high institutional quality benefit the most from lower services trade restrictions in terms of increased productivity in downstream industries. We show that the conditioning effect of institutions operates through services trade that involves foreign establishment (investment), as opposed to cross-border arms-length trade in services.
F61|Domestic gains from offshoring? Evidence from TAA-linked U.S. microdata|We construct a new linked data set with over one thousand offshoring events by matching Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program petition data to U.S. Census Bureau microdata. We exploit these data to study the short- and long-term effects of offshoring on domestic firm-level employment, output, wages, and productivity in this large sample of offshoring events. As implied by heterogeneous firm models with high fixed costs of offshoring, we find that the average offshoring firm in the TAA sample is larger, more productive, older, and more likely to be an exporter, than the average non-offshorer. After initiating offshoring, TAA-certified offshorers experience large declines in employment (0.38 log points), output (0.33log points) and capital (0.25log points), and a concomitant increase in capital and skill intensity, relative to their industry peers. We find no significant change in average wages or productivity measures. Even six years after the initial offshoring event, we find no recovery in employment, output, or capital, and a higher probability of exit. We find similar results (including decline in output, and unchanged wages and productivity) for the aggregate of non-TAA certified plants of multi-plant offshoring firms. We find that the substitution of domestic activity by offshoring is stronger for relatively lower wage, lower capital intensity, lower productivity offshorers. Our results are consistent across two separate difference-in-differences (DID) approaches, and a number of robustness checks.
F61|The Internationalisation of Firms and Management Practices:A Survey of Firms in Viet Nam|This study examines the role of management practices in the internationalisation of domestic firms through directly exporting and/or supplying to local affiliates of multinationals. An original survey of manufacturing firms in Viet Nam was conducted, investigating their management practices such as human resource management and internationalisation status. The survey results shed light on similarities and dissimilarities among firms in several dimensions of management practices. Findings reveal that internationalised firms tended to be more enthusiastic about the formal training of production workers, the modernisation of production and operation, and product and process innovation. Differences in skills and experience requirements for newly employed managers were less recognizable, but internationalised firms tended to have managers who studied overseas. Furthermore, the use of public support to employee training, teamwork in production, and unionisation of employees did not show a significant difference between internationalised and non-internationalised firms.
F61|Impact of Foreign Tourists on Productivity in the Accommodation Industry : A panel data analysis|Recently, the number of foreign tourists visiting Japan has been rapidly increasing, and the overseas travel balance has drastically changed. By using micro panel data, this study empirically analyzes the effects of this increase on productivity in the accommodation industry. The novelty of this study is represented by the use of a physical productivity measure to document an unexplored channel through which service trade contributes to increasing the productivity in the domestic service industry. The estimation results show that an increase in the number of foreign guests significantly improves the measured total factor productivity (TFP) of the accommodation facilities, although the effect of foreign presence is quite heterogeneous across facilities.
F61|Services Trade Policy, Domestic Regulation and Economic Governance|This paper empirically investigates the role of governance institutions in shaping the economic impact of services trade reform. The analysis focuses on the effects of services trade policy on the productivity of manufacturing sectors that use services as intermediate inputs. We find that these effects depend on the quality of governance institutions in the country implementing trade and investment reform. The moderating effects of horizontal (cross-cutting) and services sector-specific dimensions of economic governance institutions are found to differ. For some services activities market access opening can substitute for weak regulation/governance; in others bad regulatory governance is a binding constraint and needs to be addressed directly for market opening to have the greatest benefits. Our empirical findings suggest these complementarity and substitution relationships may be associated with the types of market failure that arise in different services sectors and the effectiveness of regulatory regimes in addressing them. We also find that positive effects of services trade and investment reforms are higher in EU member states.
F61|A Portrait of Firms Participating in Global Value Chains|This paper presents new stylized facts on developing-nation firms that both import and export, drawing on data from the World Bank's Enterprise Surveys. Using a sample of 124 developing nations, I show that such two-way trading firms, a proxy for global value chains (GVC) participation, are more likely to run training programs, use foreign-licensed technology, possess quality certifications, and communicate with customers and suppliers via the internet. Using the same sample, I also show that local suppliers, i.e. non-trading domestic firms, are more likely to engage in internet-based communication, and hold quality certificates and licences to foreign technology for stronger downstream input-output linkages with two-way trading firms. Overall, these results suggest that the fragmentation of production processes, both internationally and domestically, have significantly affected firms' characteristics in developing and emerging economies.
F61|Markup heterogeneity, export status ans the establishment of the euro|We investigate the effects of the establishment of the euro on the markups of French manufacturing firms. Merging firm-level census data with customs data, we estimate time-varying firm-specific markups and distinguish between eurozone exporters from other firms between 1995 and 2007. We find that the establishment of the euro has had a pronounced pro-competitive impact by reducing firm markups by 14 percentage points. By reducing export costs, the euro represented an opportunity for eurozone exporters to increase their margins relative to other firms. Quantile regressions show that the euro has led to a reduction in the variance of markups.
F61|The Gains from Import Variety in Two Globalisations: Evidence from Germany|What are the gains from trade today compared to those in the globalisation hundred years ago? To answer this question I rely on Krugman’s (1980) idea that consumers value growing import variety, and very granular German product-level data from the ﬁrst globalisation (ahead of World War I), and today. First, I derive structural estimates of the elasticity of substitution at the product-level for both globalisation episodes. I ﬁnd substantial heterogeneity in terms of how elastic demand over goods and their varieties is, especially when compared over the long run. The median elasticity is 3.8 in the ﬁrst globalisation, but only 2.5 in the second. This suggests that demand was more elastic in the ﬁrst globalisation and that the structure of demand is not easily approximated by using a single elasticity of substitution, which is often done in the literature. Second, I use these estimated elasticities and calculate the consumer gains from growing import variety ahead of World War I and for today. The welfare calculations suggest that the gains from trade in the ﬁrst globalisation are twice as much as today. Welfare turns out much lower—falling down to a ﬁfth of the benchmark— when using non-contemporary, that is, inadequate elasticities. Simply taking one single elasticity or a set of ahistorical elasticities can be easily misleading because gains from international trade as well as the eﬀects of changes in trade costs may be wrongly captured.
F61|Inside And Outside The Black Box - Organization Of Interdependencies|Production theory has remained substantially unchanged since the publication of the Theory of Production by Ragnar Frisch, (1928, 1965). The theory is based on the idea of a firm deciding on the possible input and output combinations of a single unit of production. His theory was substantially copied in contributions by Sune Carlsson (1939) and Erich Schneider (1947), and later by practically all textbooks in microeconomics. The idea is to model the firm as a “black box” in which a finite number of externally purchased inputs are transformed into a finite number of outputs to be sold in the market(s). Most of the time, the prices are externally determined. Often, the production process is summarized by some simplified production function as for example in the form of a CES function. Another and conceptually richer approach is the formulation of an activity analysis model. In the latter case, simple internal interdependencies can be included. In this paper, we indicate how internal interdependencies can also be modeled within a special CES framework. In recent decades, there has been a remarkable growth in the number of production units of firms like IKEA, Walmart and Apple to name a few such global networking firms. Most of the analysis of these network firms has been modeled by logistics and other operations-research analysts and to a limited extent by researchers in business administration schools. Very little has been done in economics. We propose a modelling approach consistent with microeconomic theory.
F61|What Can Be Learned from Spatial Economics?|Spatial economics aims to explain the location of economic activity. While the importance of the proximity to natural resources has declined considerably, distance and location have not disappeared from economic life. Recent work in spatial economics indicates that new forces, hitherto outweighed by natural factors, are shaping an economic landscape that, with its many barriers and large inequalities, is anything but flat. The location of economic activity is the outcome of a trade-off between different types of scale economies and costs generated by the transfer of people, goods, and information. This trade-off is used as a guide in our survey of the main developments in regional and urban economics, which refer to different spatial scales. The role of transport is discussed for each subfield. We briefly survey the ingredients that could be useful for a synthesis of regional and urban economics and conclude with general policy insights.
F61|Impact of Foreign Tourists on Productivity in the Accommodation Industry : A panel data analysis|Recently, the number of foreign tourists visiting Japan has been rapidly increasing, and the overseas travel balance has drastically changed. By using micro panel data, this study empirically analyzes the effects of this increase on productivity in the accommodation industry. The novelty of this study is represented by the use of a physical productivity measure to document an unexplored channel through which service trade contributes to increasing the productivity in the domestic service industry. The estimation results show that an increase in the number of foreign guests significantly improves the measured total factor productivity (TFP) of the accommodation facilities, although the effect of foreign presence is quite heterogeneous across facilities.
F61|Capital Openness and Income Inequality: Smooth Sailing or Troubled Waters?|The 2008 Financial Crisis and subsequent financial turbulence has triggered economists and policymakers to revisit the extent to which capital account liberalization is optimal for all countries at all levels of development. While that literature has largely concluded that capital account liberalization may have detrimental effects on growth and accentuate financial instability in emerging markets, relatively little literature has examined the impacts of capital account liberalization on inequality—a subject that has also been under intense study over the past decade as well. In this paper, we attempt to build upon and bridge these two literatures to examine the extent to which capital account liberalization is associated with income inequality. We confirm earlier studies that show there is such a relationship between increased capital account openness and increases in inequality, and that capital account regulations are associated with less inequality—at least for emerging market economies. We expand on these findings to learn that there are differential impacts of capital account liberalization on inequality during booms and busts, being financial development a key factor. During normal times, we find that there are positive impacts on income inequality, whereas during busts, capital account liberalization appears to exacerbate inequality, calling for active policies.
F61|Inequality and Globalization: A Review Essay|"As normally measured, ""global inequality"" is the relative inequality of incomes found among all people in the world no matter where they live. Francois Bourguignon and Branko Milanovic have written insightful and timely books on global inequality, emphasizing the role of globalization. The books are complementary: Milanovic provides an ambitious broad-brush picture, with some intriguing hypotheses on the processes at work; Bourguignon provides a deep and suitably qualified economic analysis. This paper questions the thesis of both books—that globalization has been a major driving force of inequality between or within countries. The paper also questions the robustness of the evidence for declining global inequality, and notes some conceptual limitations of standard measures in capturing the concerns of many observers in the ongoing debates about globalization and the policy responses."
F61|The internationalisation of firms and management practices : a survey of firms in Viet Nam|This study examines the role of management practices in the internationalisation of domestic firms through directly exporting and/or supplying to local affiliates of multinationals. An original survey of manufacturing firms in Viet Nam was conducted, investigating their management practices such as human resource management and internationalisation status. The survey results shed light on similarities and dissimilarities among firms in several dimensions of management practices. We found that internationalised firms tended to be more enthusiastic about the formal training of production workers, the modernisation of production and operation, and product and process innovation. Differences in skills and experience requirements for newly employed managers were less recognisable, but internationalised firms tended to have managers who studied overseas. Furthermore, the use of public support to employee training, teamwork in production, and unionisation of employees did not show a significant difference between internationalised and non-internationalised firms.
F61|Geography, Income, and Trade in the 21st Century|We investigate the relationship between GDP per capita, trade costs, demand, and income inequality between 1996 and 2011. Specifically we apply the aggregate AIDS-based gravity model as developed in Fajgelbaum and Khandelwal (2016) to a panel of 40 countries to generate a new measure of market potential. We then relate this measure of market potential to country level GDP per capita finding a significant positive relationship which performs better than CES-based measures of market potential. The AIDS model allows for non-homotheticities in demand and the possibility that nations produce goods with higher or lower income elasticities so that income inequality and GDP per capita matter for the direction of trade. CES-based market potential measures are typically only a function of overall income and trade costs, but in AIDS relative incomes and average incomes matter. We also go beyond this partial equilibrium relationship and explore the welfare effects of a unilateral decline in international trade costs. A 10% decline in import prices induces an average rise in welfare of 2% for importing countries. This effect is larger for smaller countries and depends in an interesting way on the income elasticity of demand for source and destination products.
F61|Economic globalisation, inequality and the role of social protection|This paper examines the link between economic globalisation, social protection expenditure, and within-country income inequality. We examine the relationship using income inequality data from both the Luxembourg Income Study (LIS) and the Standardized World Income Inequality Database (SWIID). The results based on the LIS data confirm previous findings that economic globalisation, especially economic flows, associates with higher income inequality, and that social protection expenditure are negatively associated with inequality.
F61|Trading firms and trading costs in services: Firm-level analysis|This report presents evidence on how services trade restrictions influence the decisions and performance of firms engaged in international markets, drawing on micro-data from Belgium, Finland, Germany, Italy, Japan, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United States. It first describes the patterns of services exports and affiliate sales at the firm level, uncovering a number of stylised facts about the firms engaged in international trade in services, their choices of modes of supply and the links between services trade and manufacturing activities. The report then relates these outcomes to services trade policy barriers in destination markets as measured by the OECD STRI. It demonstrates that complex and restrictive regulatory environments limit the volume of services that firms are able to trade as well as the number of firms that engage with those markets. Hence services trade restrictions reflect not only ad valorem trade costs, but also fixed and sunk costs. Such barriers do not affect all firms equally. Restrictive services trade regulations disproportionately discourage SMEs. Size, productivity and previous exporting experience appear to be decisive factors in dealing with at-the-border and behind-the-border trade barriers. Finally, the cost of regulatory compliance is lower for foreign-owned firms with headquarters located in the export destination country and for firms that trade bundles of services and manufacturing products, than it is for pure services exporters.
F61|Time-Varying Impacts of Financial Credits on Firm Exports: Evidence from Trade Deregulation in China|This paper investigates the heterogeneous and time-varying effects of financial credits on firm-level export performance. Using a data set covering comprehensive Chinese manufacturing firms and employing a difference-in-differences approach, we find that financial credits improve firm-level exports and productivity more for firms switching from indirect to direct export than continuing indirect exporting firms. Further, we employ a difference-in-difference-in-differences approach and find that improvements in firm-level finance have larger positive impacts on firm export values in the post-WTO accession period, conditioning on the firm switching from indirect to direct exporting. The time-varying impact may suggest an export distortion in China before its WTO accession.
F61|The Impact of Football Attendance on Tourist Expenditures for the United Kingdom|We employ unconditional quantile regression with region of origin fixed effects, whereby we find that attending live football matches significantly increases expenditures by inbound tourist in the UK, and surprisingly we find that such effects are strongest for those who overall spend the least. Higher spending individuals spend significantly more than those who do not attend football matches, even when such individuals are otherwise similar. We analyse the impact of football attendance across the tourism expenditure distribution which is a relatively neglected aspect within previous research.
F61|Effects of globalizing a consumer-friendly firm into an asymmetric mixed duopoly|We study the effects of uniting two separated markets, each monopolized by a producer, into a single globalized duopoly market. When one of the firms is consumer-friendly before and after globalization, we examine certain conditions under which globalization turns out to be beneficial. Consumers in the local market which the consumer-friendly firm is from may have their surplus reduced under certain conditions. We also find conditions under which welfare of one market or the other can be reduced, even that of both simultaneously. If these conditions were met, it would be better, in a globalizing context, that the firm is friendly only with the consumers of its original market and not with those of the global market.
F61|The reverse home-market effect in exports: a cross-country study of the extensive margin of exports|Abstract Do small countries have higher proportions of firms that export in manufacturing industries than large ones? As small countries are well known to be more open than large ones, it may appear uncontroversial to claim that the answer is yes. Nevertheless, this contradicts predictions from many standard trade models positing a home-market effect in the number of manufacturing firms and exporters. In this article, I present a theoretical model where a home-market effect in the number of firms coexists with a reverse home-market effect in the number of exporters: as in standard models, the number of firms in a small country relative to that in a large one is lower than relative income, but, in contrast to standard models, the relative number of exporters is larger. As a consequence, small countries will have higher proportions firms that export in manufacturing industries—a claim I support empirically.
F61|Market knowledge: Evidence from importers|Previous firm‐level literature established that there are substantial costs of entry into new export markets. Chaney (The American Economic Review, 104, 2014, 3600) opens the black‐box of entry costs by building a dynamic network model of international trade where firms acquire customers in new destinations through their existing customers in other destinations. Following his conjecture, this paper examines whether firms use their existing suppliers in a destination to find their first clients in those markets. I use a disaggregated data set on Turkish firms' exports and imports for the 2003–08 period, and investigate the effect of import experience on export entry. By identifying import experience using instrumental variables, and shutting down productivity channels with firm‐year fixed effects, I find that having a supplier in the destination country raises the probability of starting to export to that country by 5.5 percentage points on average, revealing a “market knowledge” phenomenon. The paper's main contribution to the literature is finding that firms' country‐specific import experience increases the likelihood of export‐market entry. Digging further to explore heterogeneous effects, I find that this effect does not exist when trading with low‐income countries, but it increases with the destination country's size, proximity, language similarity and the size of its Turkish immigrant community. Moreover, the strength of the firm's relationship with its supplier as proxied by several variables such as the share of imported products that are differentiated increases the probability of export‐market entry.
F61|Mito y realidad del alquiler vacacional en las Islas Baleares. Análisis y recomendaciones de política turística|Las consecuencias negativas del alquiler vacacional (y de Airbnb en particular) han sido exageradas. Tomar decisiones basadas en un diagnóstico incorrecto puede tener graves consecuencias para el bienestar de la sociedad balear. En este breve informe se documenta que el alquiler vacacional tiene un impacto muy limitado sobre la supuesta saturación y sostenibilidad turística, los precios de venta y alquiler de la vivienda, y la oferta de vivienda en alquiler de larga temporada. Asimismo, se argumenta que el turismo vacacional estaría contribuyendo a aportar recursos a las familias que mayoritariamente no viven profesionalmente del turismo y, obtienen así unos ingresos extra, repartiendo sus ganancias de una manera más justa socialmente y más equilibrada territorialmente que el modelo tradicional basado en la explotación de hoteles y otros establecimientos de alojamiento. Prohibir o restringir esta modalidad de alquiler supone desaprovechar una gran oportunidad de luchar contra los grandes males de la economía balear: su baja productividad, la estacionalidad y la alta dependencia del turismo de sol y playa. Ordenar el sector exige: i) neutralidad ante los diferentes modos de negocio turístico sin favorecer a los ya establecidos y permitiendo que nuevas empresas y nuevas tecnologías puedan disfrutar de las mismas oportunidades que los agentes que ya están establecidos en el mercado; ii) corregir las externalidades negativas que genera esta actividad, y iii) exigir el pago de impuestos. Una sociedad que regula restrictivamente la entrada de nuevas empresas y tecnologías está condenada a empobrecerse.
F61|Industry Volatility and International Trade|We develop an empirical framework that allows us to account for producer-country, industry, and demand shocks as drivers of volatility at the industry level in open economies. Our methodology separately accounts for demand shocks originating in the home and foreign markets. Using a panel of manufacturing and trade data, our findings suggest that, independent of the level of aggregation, output volatility is driven primarily by shocks originating in the destination markets for an industry's sales (demand shocks) including home markets. Further, we show that industries more open to trade are more volatile because intra-industry imports increase the uncertainty of 1) domestic demand, and 2) production through greater exposure to foreign shocks.
F61|Opening and linking up: Firms, global value chains and productivity in Latin America|This work explores the relationship between exports, Global Value Chains' (GVCs) participation and position, and firms' productivity. To this aim, we combine the most recent World Bank Enterprise Survey in Latin American and Caribbean (LAC) countries with the OECD-WTO trade in value added data. To explore the above relationship we adopt an extended version of the standard Cobb-Douglas output function including indicators of export performance and GVCs. We control for heterogeneity among firms (by country, region, and industry), sample selection, firms' characteristics and reverse causality. Our empirical outcomes confirm the presence of a positive relationship between participation in international activities and firm performance. They also show that both participation in GVCs and position within GVCs matter. These findings have strong policy implications and may help policymakers in choosing the best policy options to enhance the link between GVCs integration and firms' productivity.
F61|The financialisation-offshoring nexus and the capital accumulation of U.S. nonfinancial firms|The financialisation of the nonfinancial corporation has drawn the attention of many scholars who have identified two channels by which financialisation happens: a higher proportion of financial assets compared to nonfinancial ones and a higher amount of resources distributed to financial markets. One of the consequences of this is the decrease in investment. Parallel to financialisation, many nonfinancial corporations have also engaged in an internationalization of their productive activities, organizing them under global value chains. Surprisingly, the intersections between the literature on financialisation and the literature on global value chain are still underdeveloped, although, for example, offshoring may also explain the decrease in investment of nonfinancial firms. This paper fills this gap using panel regressions for U.S. nonfinancial corporations between 1995 and 2011. We find evidence that both offshoring and financialisation are determinants to the decrease in investment and that financialisation occurs mainly for firms belonging to high offshoring sectors. La financiarisation des sociétés non financières a attiré l'attention de nombreux chercheurs qui ont identifié deux canaux par lesquels elle se produit : les bilans des sociétés sont composés d'une plus grande proportion d'actifs financiers relativement aux actifs non financiers, et une plus grande part des ressources est redistribuée vers les marchés financiers. L'une des conséquences qui en résulte est la baisse de l'investissement. Parallèlement à ce mouvement de financiarisation, beaucoup de sociétés non financières ont développé l'internationalisation de leur production en l'organisant selon des chaînes globales de valeur. Il est surprenant de constater que les liens entre la littérature sur la financiarisation et celle sur les chaînes globales de valeur soit peu développée, bien que, par exemple, le transfert de la production à l'étranger puisse aussi expliquer la baisse de l'investissement des firmes non financières. Cet article vise à combler cette lacune en menant des régressions sur un panel de firmes américaines entre 1995 et 2011. Nous montrons que tant le transfert de production à l'étranger que la financiarisation sont des déterminants de la baisse de l'investissement. Nous montrons également que la financiarisation touche surtout les firmes appartenant à des secteurs fortement insérées dans les chaînes globales de valeur.
F61|Do General Practices of Management Play Role as Drivers for Employee Job Satisfaction in Pakistani Entrepreneurial Companies?|Using general practices of management is management philosophy; many organizations practice these tools that endeavor to improve their efficiency and competitiveness in the business markets. It is an integrated approach to reaching and maintaining high-quality production and services focusing on the maintenance and continuous improvement of operations in order to satisfy or exceed the customer satisfaction. Many researchers have done a lot of work on other management practices; total quality management is an important one of them in this competitive era, which has rarely studied especially in small and medium size entrepreneurial companies in Pakistan. This quantitative research study tried to determine the impact of Total Quality Management practices on job satisfaction level of the employees of those small and medium size companies based on new and creative ideas in the capital city. The conducted survey among 550 employees of small and medium size entrepreneurial companies in the capital of Pakistan got 200 employees response properly in filling out the questionnaire. The collected data was analyzed after applying software (version 20) Statistical Package for Social Sciences. Multiple regression was applied to test the proposed model, which was found satisfied. Leadership and top management support were founded the most dominant practice among the selected Total Quality Management practices which has a significant effect on employee job satisfaction. The findings of this study prove that the implementation of Total Quality Management practices can help in increasing employeesâ€™ job satisfaction which intern would increase Productivity of small and medium size entrepreneurial companies.
F61|The effect of investing abroad on investment at home: On the role of technology, tax savings, and internal capital markets|This paper examines the relationship between foreign and domestic investment activity of multinational enterprises. The empirical analysis is based on micro data of German firms and their operations at home and abroad, including information on investment in fixed assets. The empirical approach, which rests upon extensive and intensive margin variation, is shown to produce very robust results. These suggest a positive relationship between foreign and home investment in real capital. This positive effect seems to be mainly related to additional opportunities for tax planning and better access to financing capital. In contrast, we do not find evidence that improved production processes and technology upgrading cause the positive effect on investment at home. Our empirical approach allows us to distinguish between an extensive and intensive margin effect: setting up a new foreign affiliate leads to an immediate positive effect of about EUR 460,000 additional investment; the investment elasticity at the intensive margin is estimated to be approximately 0.13.
F61|Microeconomic mechanisms behind export spillovers from FDI: evidence from Bulgaria|Abstract This paper studies how the presence of multinational enterprises affects the export performance of Bulgarian manufacturing firms—export spillovers from FDI. Using export data at the firm/product/destination level for the period 2004–2006, it finds positive forward spillover on export value and quantity, related to quality upgrading. Conversely, it finds negative (or insignificant) backward and horizontal spillover on export flows, related to quality downgrading. When aggregating data at the firm level and considering that a firm can operate in several sectors, the paper shows that the presence of foreign input suppliers allows domestic firms to export additional varieties of lower quality and upgrade the average quality of existing varieties, whereas the presence of foreign customers generates the opposite effect.
F61|M&As, Investment and Financing Constraints|We use a panel data set of European firms to analyze the effects of domestic and international M&As on target firms' investment and financial constraints. Combining propensity score matching with a difference-in-differences estimator, our results show that upon acquisition, target firms obtain better access to external finance, are characterized by higher levels of tangible and intangible assets, and display lower dependence of investments and cash savings to the availability of internal funds.
F61|Import Competition and Vertical Integration: Evidence from India|This paper uses a rich firm-product panel data set of Indian manufacturing firms to analyze the relationship between import competition and vertical integration. Exploiting exogenous variations from changes in India's trade policy, we find that import competition induced by falling output tariffs increases vertical integration by domestic firms, with the effects concentrated in rather homogenous product categories, among firms that mainly operate on the domestic market and in larger firms.
F61|Acquisitions, markups, efficiency, and product quality: Evidence from India|This paper uses a rich panel data set of Indian manufacturing firms to analyze the effects of domestic and international acquisitions on various outcomes at target firm and product level. We apply recent methodological advances in the estimation of production functions together with information on prices and quantities to estimate physical productivity, markups, marginal costs and proxies for product quality. Using a propensity score reweighting estimator, we find that acquisitions are associated with increases in quantities and markups and lower marginal costs on average. These changes are most pronounced if acquirers are located in technologically advanced countries. We also provide evidence that the quality of products increases while quality-adjusted prices fall upon acquisitions.
F61|Accumulating trade costs and competitiveness in global value chains|"Trade costs such as applied tariffs, transportation and insurance costs are amplified as they pass through the multiple production steps associated with modern supply chains. This so-called ""cascade effect"" arises since trade costs accumulate as intermediate goods are imported and then re-exported further downstream, going through different processing nodes before reaching the final consumer. Moreover, the financial impact of these trade costs is magnified in the ""trade in tasks"" rationale which governs global value chains (GVCs). Specialised processing firms need to recoup the associated trade cost applying to the full value of the good from the smaller fraction of value-added created at each consecutive productive stage. This large relative weight of transaction expenses on the profitability of individual business operations explains why trade along GVCs is particularly exposed to trade costs. The paper reviews the implications of trade costs on competitiveness at industry, national and global levels. The financial implications of trade costs at firm and sectoral level are based on trade in value-added data for 2011. The multilateral welfare effects of reducing discrete trade costs are identified using a network analysis approach, which goes beyond the traditional bilateral dimension of international trade and identifies where trade facilitation investment would have the highest social returns from a GVC perspective. The authors conclude that while the direct benefits of trade facilitation will be proportionally higher for those countries that are not well integrated into international trade because of their high trade costs, the global benefits of trade facilitation investments will also be high if they are undertaken by key traders that lie at the core of global value chains"
F61|Distance and Time Effects in Swedish Commodity Prices, 1732–1914|We study the role of distance and time in statistically explaining price dispersion across 32 Swedish towns for 19 commodities from 1732 to 1914. The resulting large number of relative prices (502,689) allows precise estimation of distance and time effects, and their interaction. We find an effect of distance that declines significantly over time, beginning in the 18th century, well before the arrival of canals, the telegraph, or the railway.
F61|Foreign ownership and performance: evidence from a panel of Italian firms|The paper studies the impact of foreign ownership on a firm’s economic performance. We use a unique panel dataset to test the foreign ownership premium by comparing our sample of firms based in Italy and owned by a foreign subject with a sample of purely domestic firms that, in order to have a proper counterfactual, were selected using propensity score matching. Our difference-in-differences results show the existence of a premium for the size, profitability and financial soundness of the foreign-owned companies. The premium increases with time, is concentrated in the service sector, and disappears if the foreign investor is based in a fiscal haven.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F61|The Impact Of Cross-Border Acquisitions In Serbia On Productivity, Wages, And Employment|Globalization created a new business environment, characterized by intensive privatization and economic liberalization. The changed business environment opened the way to increased use of crossborder acquisitions, which make the lion’s share of foreign direct investment in transition economies. The acquisitions accelerate transition, facilitating the restructuring of state-owned enterprises and making them more efficient. This paper analyses the impact of cross-border acquisitions in Serbia, an economy in transition, on employee productivity, employment, and wages in acquisition targets. Statistical analysis of a sample comprising 79 cross-border acquisitions carried out in Serbia in the period 2003-2009 shows that the change of ownership had a positive impact on employee productivity and real wages, while the number of employees in the acquired enterprises decreased.
F61|The Effects of FTAs on Intra-Firm Trade of Korean Firms (in Korean)|The spread of Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) has been reshaping global trade environment. Under these changing economic circumstances, Korean firms have been trying to promote their international competitiveness by expanding export, establishing foreign subsidiaries, and strengthening joint investment. This study aims at investigating the effects of FTAs on the role of local subsidiaries of Korean firms that already made inroads into the FTA partner country by analyzing the effects of FTAs on intra-firm trade between Korean firms and their foreign subsidiaries using firm-level data on FDI. The results show that FTAs have been contributing to the expansion of sales of local subsidiaries in both Korea and third countries, although they have not significantly affected the expansion of sales of Korean firms to their foreign subsidiaries. Particularly in the manufacturing industry, FTAs have significant positive effects on the sales in Korea of local subsidiaries in addition to the sales in third countries. After analysing data by ownership, we find that when Korean firms have enough ownership to control their local subsidiaries overseas, FTAs have significant positive effects on the sales of local subsidiaries in both Korea and third countries. The results suggest that from the perspective of intra-firm trade, Korean firms have utilized their existing local subsidiaries as a platform for exports to a third country or a way to import products such as raw materials or intermediary goods after FTAs went into effect. The results also show that an increase in the sales of local subsidiaries in third countries, in particular, can have indirect positive effects on Korean firms through consolidated financial statements.
F61|Rethinking deindustrialization|Summary Manufacturing in high-income countries is on the decline and Denmark is no exception. Manufacturing employment and the number of firms have been shrinking as a share of the total and in absolute levels. This paper uses a rich linked employer-employee dataset to examine this decline from 1994 to 2007. We propose a different approach to analyze deindustrialization and generate a series of novel stylized facts about the evolution. While most of the decline can be attributed to firm exit and reduced employment at surviving manufacturers, we document that a non-negligible portion is due to firms switching industries, from manufacturing to services. We focus on this last group of firms before, during, and after their sector switch. Overall this is a group of small, highly productive, import intensive firms that grow rapidly in terms of value-added and sales after they switch. By 2007, employment at these former manufacturers equals 8.7 percent of manufacturing employment, accounting for half the decline in manufacturing employment. We focus on the composition of the workforce as firms make their transition. In addition, we identify two types of switchers: one group resembles traditional wholesalers and another group that retains and expands their R&D and technical capabilities. Our findings emphasize that the focus on employment at manufacturing firms overstates the loss in manufacturing-related capabilities that are actually retained in many firms that switch industries.
F61|Network Structure and Industrial Clustering Dynamics in the Aerospace Industry|We use a new firm level dataset to study the network of formal firm linkages within and across 52 aerospace clusters in North America and Europe over the period 2002-2014. Applying community structure detection techniques, we find that the structure of the overall network has changed over time. We organize sub-networks by linkage type and find two important trends in their evolution. First, new linkages in the vertical buyer-supplier sub-network are generally formed in a hierarchical hub-and-spoke fashion, whereas new links in the horizontal partnership sub-network are generated in a more decentralized and cohesive manner. Second, the geographical scope of new linkages is different, with vertical buyer-supplier and investment linkages moving increasingly trans-local and partnership linkages becoming more localized. Taken together, our findings suggest that the overall network is evolving from a geographically partitioned community structure to a hierarchical community structure that is stratified along value chain stages.
F61|Indirect Inference with Endogenously Missing Exogenous Variables|We consider consistent estimation of parameters in a structural model by Indirect Inference (II) when the exogenous variables can be missing at random (MAR) endogenously. We demonstrate that II procedures which simply discard sample units with missing observations can yield inconsistent estimates of the true structural parameters. By inverse probability weighting (IPW) the “complete case” observations, i.e., sample units with no missing variables for the observed and simulated samples, we propose a new method of II to consistently estimate the structural parameters of interest. Asymptotic properties of the new estimator are discussed. An illustration is provided based on a multinomial probit model. A small scale Monte-Carlo study in this model demonstrates the severe bias incurred by existing II estimators, and its subsequent correction by our new II estimator.
F61|Los determinantes de las exportaciones manufactureras de la economía colombiana. El papel de la Inversión Extranjera Directa en el sector. 2000-2014|El objetivo del artículo es capturar los determinantes que explican en el largo plazo el desempeño de las exportaciones manufactureras colombianas durante el período 2000-2014 usando un modelo de series de tiempo multivariado. Los resultados muestran que el PIB de la Comunidad Andina, PIB de Estados Unidos, tipo de cambio real, términos de intercambio, productividad laboral, índice de producción manufacturero e índice de salario real cointegran en el largo plazo con las exportaciones manufactureras. Además, el VAR demuestra que la IED dirigida al sector manufacturero impacta indirectamente a este tipo de exportaciones a través de mejoras en la productividad laboral.
F61|Globalization and Wage Inequality|Globalization has been blamed for rising inequality in rich and poor countries. Yet the views of many protagonists in this debate are not based on evidence. To help form an evidence-based opinion, I review in this paper the theoretical and empirical literature on the relationship between globalization and wage inequality. While the initial analysis that started in the early 1990s focused on a particular mechanism that links trade to wages, subsequent studies have considered several other channels, and the quantitative assessment of the size of these influences has been carried out in multiple studies. Building on this research, I conclude that trade played an appreciable role in increasing wage inequality, but that its cumulative effect has been modest, and that globalization does not explain the preponderance of the rise in wage inequality within countries.
F61|Testing Self-Selection And Learning By Exporting Hypotheses. The Case Of Romania|This paper provides empirical evidence of export-productivity link, using a comprehensive set of data on Romanian firms activating in ten business sectors. By using the semi-parametric estimation technique developed by Levinsohn and Petrin (2003) to estimate Total Factor Productivity (TFP)we find that exporters display a productivity advantage compared to their domestic counterparts. We seek to distinguish between self-selection and learning by exporting through matching techniques and we find that the most productive firms self-select in activities in international markets, including importing. Learning effects (when TFP is used as outcome) are present on a narrow sample of companies, although in most of the cases are positive and significant when using labour productivity. Stronger evidence for positive effects of international trade is found for importers, which suggests a possible learning by importing phenomenon manifested in Romanian.
F61|Endogenous labour market imperfection, foreign direct investment and external terms-of-trade shocks in a developing economy|This theoretical paper shows that developing countries possess an inherent shock-absorbing mechanism that stems from their peculiar institutional characteristics and can lessen the gravity of detrimental welfare consequence of international terms-of-trade disturbances in terms of a static two-sector, full-employment general equilibrium model with endogenous labour market distortion. The supply of foreign capital in the economy is a positive function of the return to capital. Subsequently, it has been verbally explained why the main result of the full-employment model would remain valid even in a two-sector specific-factor Harris-Todaro type model with urban unemployment. The analysis leads to a couple of important policies that should be adhered to preserve this in-built system. Finally, it offers three important statistically testable hypotheses which would pave the way for future empirical research in this area.
F61|Markets with untraceable goods of unknown quality: Beyond the small-country case|When importing durables and nondurables, consumers often cannot discern quality prior to purchase. If they cannot also identify the individual producer, exporters have diminished incentives to produce high quality goods. To raise the quality of traded experience goods, previous international literature has proposed consolidation of export firms and the imposition of export quotas, policies that may be appropriate for tiny Taiwan but not a colossus like China. We contribute to this literature in three ways. First, we explicitly model the way in which consumers of experience goods rely on the reviews of previous buyers (who in turn rely on the reviews of buyers before them...) when deciding whether to purchase an experience good. Second, we endogenize the price of any given quality. Third, we assume that firms may exercise market power. As we show, once the “small country” assumption is dropped, policies advocated in the literature such as the merger of exporters or the imposition of export quotas can have adverse consequences on the profits of domestic exporters and on the welfare of all consumers. On the other hand, the unilateral imposition of minimum quality standards will increase the profits of domestic exporters while improving the welfare of all consumers.
F61|Offshoring with endogenous NGO activism|The process of globalization is characterized by an impressive growth of global value chains, as well as the proliferation of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) interacting with multinational firms. This paper presents a model of offshoring and NGO–firm interactions in which offshoring to a low-regulation country allows a monopolist to implement a “dirty” technology undesired by consumers. Consumers can reduce the incentive for dirty production by financing an NGO monitoring the firm. NGO emergence and offshoring can arise as joint and interacting outcomes. For a range of trade costs, NGO emergence allows firms to capture gains from globalization, which would otherwise be unattainable. Somewhat paradoxically, NGO emergence can be at the expense of consumers possibly leading to welfare losses through offshoring.
F61|Factoryless goods producers in Japan|Manufacturing firms in advanced countries are servitizing alongside the deepening of the global value chain. In this respect, “factoryless goods producers” (FGPs) are attracting attention from economics researchers. This study, using firm-level data, presents findings on Japanese FGPs. In this study, FGPs are defined as non-manufacturing firms that outsource manufacturing processes entirely to other firms. Although the large majority of FGPs are classified in ICT or wholesale industries, some FGPs belong to retail or services industries. FGPs are larger and have higher productivity and wages compared with non-FGPs, invest more intensively in intangible assets, including research and development, and have relatively larger headquarters functions.
F61|The Great Recession and social preferences: Evidence from Ukraine|We use detailed survey data to document stark differences between West and East Ukraine when it comes to household attitudes toward market-based economies and democratic institutions. Along both of these dimensions, Eastern Ukrainians are decidedly less supportive of liberal systems. We also find that economic attitudes changed in response to the global financial crisis. West Ukrainian households who were affected more extensively by the crisis were more disappointed with the market and private ownership, while in Eastern Ukraine economic attitudes became less pro-market across the board. Our evidence suggests that attitudes and values are determined by both deep-rooted factors and more transient macroeconomic shocks.
F61|Technology transfer and spillovers from FDI in transition economies: A meta-analysis|In this paper, we conduct a meta-analysis of the literature that empirically examines the microeconomic impacts of foreign direct investment (FDI) in Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. The meta-synthesis of estimates collected from relevant studies shows that both the effect size and the statistical significance of the indirect effect of FDI, namely the productivity spillover effect, are obviously lower than those of the direct effect caused by foreign participation in company management through ownership. Moreover, the meta-regression analysis reveals that, probably due to the presence of publication selection bias, previous studies have not yet provided empirical evidence of a non-zero productivity spillover effect in the region. Further research efforts are required to capture the true effect.
F61|Does the global trade slowdown matter?|Since the Global Financial Crisis, world trade growth has been subdued and lagging slightly behind GDP growth. Trade is growing more slowly not only because global GDP growth is lower, but also because trade itself has become less responsive to GDP. This article reviews the reasons behind the changing trade−income relationship and then investigates its consequences for economic growth. On the demand side, sluggish world import growth may adversely affect individual countries’ economic growth as it limits opportunities for their exports. On the supply side, slower trade may diminish the scope for productivity growth through increasing specialization and diffusion of technologies. We find preliminary evidence that the changing trade−income relationship matters, although the quantifiable effects do not appear to be large.
F61|Inserción en cadenas de valor globales y patrones de innovación de empresas de países en desarrollo: las pymes de Argentina|La segmentación internacional de los procesos productivos y la conformación de sistemas globales de producción han generado nuevos desafíos para las pymes de los países en desarrollo. Los estudios sobre cadenas de valor globales han señalado las oportunidades y los obstáculos para mejorar las capacidades de aquéllas en las actividades (como ID y diseño) que conforman las competencias clave de las empresas transnacionales. Los estudios empíricos que analizan, a partir de encuestas de innovación, la asociación de la inserción internacional con los procesos de innovación de las firmas no consideran estos aportes. Con base en una muestra de pymes de Argentina, se intenta integrar ambos enfoques diferenciando los distintos patrones de innovación de las pymes y analizando cómo la inserción en las cadenas globales afecta el tipo de dichos patrones. Asociado a esto, se las posibilidades de upgrading de estas empresas.
F61|Foreign Direct Investment and Value Added in Indonesia|Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) has increased in importance over the last decades, globally as well as in Indonesia. We examine how such inflows of FDI affects value added in Indonesia. The effect is positive: foreign firms generate relatively high levels of value added and they also seem to have a positive impact on value added in local firms. Moreover, FDI contribute to a structural change of the economy towards more high-value added activities. High value added could lead to increased investments and higher tax revenues for the government. High value added could also benefit labor through higher wages, an effect that is empirically confirmed in Indonesia.
F61|Multinationality, R&D and productivity: Evidence from the top R&D investors worldwide|This paper investigates the effects of multinationality on firm productivity, and contributes to the literature in two respects. First, we argue that multinationality affects productivity both directly and indirectly through higher incentives to invest in R&D. Second, we maintain that the multinational depth and breadth have different direct effects on productivity and R&D. Using data from the top R&D investors in the world, we propose an econometric model with an R&D and a productivity equation that both depend on multinationality. We find: i) multinational depth has a positive effect on productivity, while the effect of multinational breadth is negative; ii) multinationality (along both dimensions) has a positive effect on R&D intensity, translating into an indirect positive effect on productivity; iii) the positive indirect effect is however not large enough to compensate the negative direct effect of multinational breadth.
F61|Foreign Direct Investment and Value Added in Indonesia|Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) has increased in importance over the last decades, globally as well as in Indonesia. We examine how such inflows of FDI affects value added in Indonesia. The effect is positive: foreign firms generate relatively high levels of value added and they also seem to have a positive impact on value added in local firms. Moreover, FDI contribute to a structural change of the economy towards more high-value added activities. High value added could lead to increased investments and higher tax revenues for the government. High value added could also benefit labor through higher wages, an effect that is empirically confirmed in Indonesia.
F61|Doing Business in Emerging Market: Successful Strategies|Doing business today become a very challenging endeavour, drivers such as globalization, technological changes, economic crisis, just mention a few are changing the competitive game. Successful firms, appear to be those that demonstrate a real capacity to compete 'differently' and especially to innovate in their business models. Emerging markets are seen now as a unique environment which requires a systematic approach, in developing novel business models and strategies. Going global is one thing but targeting emerging economies is quite a different story. It is a real need to develop strategies for doing business in emerging markets that are completely different from those used in their home country. The successful companies customize their strategy implementation to fit the nationâ€™s institutional context. Adapting constantly their strategies seems to be the best way to cope with unexpected market developments.
F61|Self-employment and trade shock mitigation|This paper investigates the moderating effects of entrepreneurial activity on the impact of trade penetration. Entrepreneurs may help to mitigate adverse trade shocks through several mechanisms, i.e., more flexible output structure, diversified economic portfolio, and higher knowledge spillovers from trade-induced R&D activities. Our empirical work embeds the analysis of entrepreneurship, measured using self-employment rates, into a framework of international trade and local labor markets. The empirical results show that the marginal impacts of Chinese import penetration on job losses are dampened in localities with higher self-employment rates, which suggests self-employment or entrepreneurial activities can mitigate the adverse impacts of trade penetration from low-income countries. Our study provides a novel perspective on entrepreneurs’ benefits on economic well-being: Besides their direct contribution to economic growth documented in earlier research, they can also enhance the resilience of a local economy in the face of external shocks. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2016
F61|Distance And Time Effects In Swedish Commodity Prices, 1732-1914|We study the role of distance and time in statistically explaining price dispersion across 32 Swedish towns for 19 commodities from 1732 to 1914. The resulting large number of relative prices (502,689) allows precise estimation of distance and time effects, and their interaction. We find an effect of distancethat declines significantly over time, beginning in the 18th century, well before the arrival of canals, the telegraph, or the railway.
F61|Global Service Efficiency and the Role of Special and Differential Based Negotiation|This paper argues that the pursuit of special and differential treatments (SDT) by developing countries has hampered the liberalization of global service trade, which is one of the causes of the only slowing improving of service efficiency globally. We use value added per worker as a proxy of production efficiency, and show the growth rate of service efficiency is much lower than agriculture and industry. Despite the progress in world commodity market integration in past half century, the world service market remains highly segmented, which can be seen clearly from the World Bank’s STRD index and CHB index. We argue that the SDT negotiation contributes to the service market segment, and give three reasons on why it is difficult for developing countries to be granted SDT in service. In the last part we present some suggestions on trade negotiations in the future.
F61|Globalization and Wage Inequality|Globalization has been blamed for rising inequality in rich and poor countries. Yet the views of many protagonists in this debate are not based on evidence. To help form an evidence-based opinion, I review in this paper the theoretical and empirical literature on the relationship between globalization and wage inequality. While the initial analysis that started in the early 1990s focused on a particular mechanism that links trade to wages, subsequent studies have considered several other channels, and the quantitative assessment of the size of these influences has been carried out in multiple studies. Building on this research, I conclude that trade played an appreciable role in increasing wage inequality, but that its cumulative effect has been modest, and that globalization does not explain the preponderance of the rise in wage inequality within countries.
F61|Eurasian Economic Union: A sober look|The paper appraises current progress in establishing the Customs Union and the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU). Although the progress has slowed down after the initial rapid advancement, the Union is better viewed not as an exception from the general rules of regional economic integration but rather as one of the functioning customs unions with its successes and stumbling blocs. The paper reviews the state of Eurasian institutions, the establishment of the single market of goods and services, the situation with mutual trade and investment flows among the member states, the ongoing work on the liquidation/unification of non-tariff barriers, the problems of the efficient coordination of macroeconomic policies, progress towards establishing an EAEU network of free trade areas with partners around the world, the state of the common labor market, and the dynamics of public opinion on Eurasian integration in the five member states.
F61|Quantifying the Effects of Trade Liberalisation in Brazil: A Computable General Equilibrium Model (CGE) Simulation|Brazil remains a fairly closed economy, with small trade flows relative to its share of world income. This paper explores the effects of three possible policy reforms to strengthen Brazil’s integration into global trade: a reduction in import tariffs, less local content requirements and a full zero-rating of exports in indirect taxes. A simulation analysis using the OECD Multi-Region Trade CGE model suggests that current policies are holding back exports, production and investment in Brazil. The model simulations suggest significant scope for trade policy reforms to strengthen industrial development and export competitiveness. Results also show that the expansion of investment and production would be accompanied by significant employment gains. Moreover, employment growth is higher for low-skilled occupations, implying that a major trade and tax policy reform aiming at liberalising trade flows would particularly help those at the lower end of the income distribution. L'impact de la libéralisation du commerce au Brésil : Modélisation EGC et simulations Le Brésil reste une économie relativement fermée, avec des flux commerciaux faibles par rapport à sa part dans le revenu mondial. Ce document examine les effets de trois reformes politiques qui permettraient au Brésil de renforcer son intégration dans le commerce mondial: une baisse des barrières tarifaires à l’importation, une réduction des exigences en contenu local et un taux zéro sur les impôts indirects pour les exportations. L’analyse de simulations utilisant le modèle EGC de commerce Multi-Régions de l'OCDE suggère que les politiques actuelles freinent les exportations, la production et l’investissement au Brésil. Les simulations du modèle suggèrent un rôle important pour des réformes de la politique commerciale visant à renforcer le développement industriel et la compétitivité des exportations. Les résultats suggèrent aussi que l'expansion de l’investissement et de la production serait accompagnée par des gains d’emplois significatifs. En outre, la croissance de l'emploi serait plus élevée pour les emplois peu qualifiés, ce qui implique qu’une réforme majeure des politiques commerciales et fiscales visant à libéraliser le commerce aiderait particulièrement les populations aux plus faibles revenus.
F61|Services Trade Restrictiveness, Mark-Ups and Competition|This report explores the relationship between services trade policies and mark-ups at the firm level, taken as a measure of competitive pressure. Restrictive regulations are found to enable firms to charge higher mark-ups in a majority of services sectors, suggesting ample scope for pro-competitive gains from trade liberalisation. Barriers to establishment consistently enable incumbent firms shielded from competition to raise their prices, while a lack of regulatory transparency and complex administrative procedures tend to add to all firms’ operating expenses. A “tax equivalent” of trade-restrictive regulations is then inferred from the abnormal price-cost margin of domestic firms in each service sector. These estimates indicate the magnitude of the welfare costs of regulatory trade restrictions across sectors and countries. The sectors with the highest average tax equivalents of STRI indices are broadcasting, construction, storage, and air and maritime transport, while those with the lowest averages are road transport, architecture and cargo-handling. There is however considerable variation between countries in all sectors.
F61|Doğrudan Yabancı Yatırımlar Kadın İstihdamını Artırır mı? Türkiye’de Hizmetler Sektörüne Yakından Bakış<BR>[Does Foreign Direct Investment Bring Jobs to Women? A Closer Look to Turkish Services Industry]|The aim of this study is to investigate of the relationship between foreign direct investment and women employment. Focusing on services sector with the highest rate of women employment, we empirically attest whether foreign direct investment creates job opportunities for women and decrease the gender inequality for women in terms of employment. Propensity Score Matching techniques and Difference-in-Difference techniques are employed to firm level data for Turkish services industry over 2003-2012. The results of the study suggest that foreign direct investment increase women employment and create good jobs for women.
F61|The Impact of Food Price Crises on the Demand for Nutrients in Pakistan|The global economic crisis in 2007â€“2008 resulted in a tremendous food price increase that is likely to have adversely affected the food security and nutritional status in many developing countries. Understanding how nutritional intakes may have changed as a result of the food price crisis is important, especially for Pakistan, the country under scrutiny which, despite of being a large producer of staple food, suffers from severe problems of undernourishment. We used two survey rounds, 2005â€“2006 and 2010â€“2011, to investigate how calorie and macronutrient intakes have evolved. The analysis was carried out with the use of a time varying model and is enriched by an in-depth investigation for different quantiles. The results show that food security deteriorated because of the food price crisis. In the light of this outcome, policy implications are discussed.
F61|L'agence sociale compte! - Des entrepreneurs migrants africains et chinois comme acteurs de changement<BR>[Social Agency matters! - African and Chinese migrant entrepreneurs as agents of change]|"English Abstract: [Social Agency matters! - African and Chinese entrepreneurs as agents of change] - The book reviewed, edited by Laurence Marfaing and Karsten Giese, documents a research project, on-going since six years, at the German Institute of Global and Area Studies (GIGA-Hamburg) which combines African and Sinologist perspectives. The publication in French, can be seen as advantage and disadvantage at the same time. Considering the lack of French edited publications on this subject and the deplorable language-divide between Anglophone and Francophone Africa, the chapters (some of them translated from English) are certainly most welcomed by French speaking African readers and scholars alike. Thus, they gain the unique possibility to become familiar with the results of painstaking studies by spearheading researchers in this field of study. Some of the contributions are revised papers, originally presented at a workshop at Dakar organised by the editors in January 2013 within the framework of the program Point Sud, an International Centre for Research on Local Knowledge in Bamako (Mali). The introduction by the editors, written jointly with their research collaborator, Alena Thiel, develops the Leitmotiv of the book. It aptly captures the essence of the research findings presented in its title: ""From rejecting the other to mutual involvement of both parties in the dynamics of social change"". In fact, the relations of Chinese and African petty traders and their mutual perception have changed fundamentally since the xenophobe manifestations against 'the Chinese' in several African towns as well as mutual incomprehension of both in Chinese towns (mostly in the urban districts Xiaobei and Sanyuanli of Guangzhou) where migrant African entrepreneurs arrived in the early 2000s. Many, if not most of them did not come to stay in the host country permanently, but they acted rather as sojourner, exploring the terrain in search of profitable trade, that is, Chinese imports of cheap consumer goods to Africa. Their mutual economic interest was based not so much on the general impact of political and economic globalisation but more specifically on the development of Chinese industrial production that facilitated Africans access to the desired Western products at an affordable price. Thus, these entrepreneurial migrants, who incorporated globalisation from below in their very transnational economic practices, became themselves carriers of social and economic transformations in their respective host countries. The realm of these transformations covered a remarkable range, from specific access strategies to resources and social mobility, changing consumer behaviour, new norms and practices up to modifications of taste and ways of life. French Abstract: [L'agence sociale compte! - Les entrepreneurs africains et chinois en tant qu'agents du changement] - Le livre revu, édité par Laurence Marfaing et Karsten Giese, documente un projet de recherche en cours depuis six ans à l'Institut allemand des études mondiales et régionales (GIGA-Hambourg). Les cultures africaines et chinoises sont analysé simultanément d'un point de vue africain et sinologique. La publication en français peut être considéré comme un avantage et un inconvénient en même temps. Considérant le manque de publications éditées en français sur ce sujet et le fossé linguistique déplorable entre l'Afrique anglophone et l'Afrique francophone, les chapitres (certains d'entre eux traduits de l'anglais) sont certainement les bienvenus parmi les lecteurs et chercheurs africains francophones. Ainsi, ils ont la possibilité unique de se familiariser avec les résultats d'études minutieuses des chercheurs specialisés dans ce domaine d'étude. Certaines des contributions sont des documents révisés, initialement présentés lors d'un atelier organisé à Dakar par les éditeurs en janvier 2013 dans le cadre du programme Point Sud, un Centre international de recherche sur les savoirs locaux à Bamako (Mali). L'introduction par les rédacteurs, écrite conjointement avec leur collaborateur de recherche, Alena Thiel, développe le Leitmotiv du livre. Il capture judicieusement l'essence des résultats de recherche présentés dans son titre: «De reject de l'autre à l'implication mutuelle des deux parties dans la dynamique du changement social». En fait, les relations des petits commerçants chinois et africains et leur perception mutuelle ont changé fondamentalement depuis les manifestations xénophobes contre les «Chinois» dans plusieurs villes africaines ainsi que l'incompréhension mutuelle des deux groupes dans les villes chinoises (principalement dans les districts urbains Xiaobei et Sanyuanli de Guangzhou) où les entrepreneurs africains migrants sont arrivés au début des années 2000. Beaucoup, sinon la plupart d'entre eux ne sont pas restés dans le pays d'accueil en permanence, mais ils ont plutôt agi en tant que agents, explorant le terrain à la recherche de commerce rentable, c'est-à-dire des importations chinoises de biens de consommation bon marché. Leur intérêt économique mutuel ne reposait pas tant sur l'impact général de la mondialisation politique et économique que sur le développement de la production industrielle chinoise qui facilitait l'accès des Africains aux produits occidentaux désirés à un prix abordable. Ainsi, ces migrants entrepreneurs, qui ont intégré la mondialisation d'en bas dans leurs pratiques économiques très transnationales, sont devenus eux-mêmes porteurs de transformations sociales et économiques dans leurs pays d'accueil respectifs. Le domaine de ces transformations couvrait une gamme remarquable allant des stratégies d'accès spécifiques aux ressources et à la mobilité sociale, en passant par le changement du comportement des consommateurs, de nouvelles normes et pratiques jusqu'aux modifications du goût et des modes de vie. German Abstract: [Gesellschaftliches Handeln zählt! - Afrikanische und chinesische Unternehmer als Motor des Wandels] - Das rezensierte Buch, herausgegeben von Laurence Marfaing und Karsten Giese, dokumentiert ein seit sechs Jahren laufendes Forschungsprojekt am German Institute of Global and Area Studies (GIGA-Hamburg), das afrikanische und afrikanische Kulturen simultan analysiert, sowohl aus afrikanischer als auch sinologischer Perspektive. Die Publikation in Französisch, kann sowohl als Vorteil, als auch als Nachteil zugleich gesehen werden. In Anbetracht des Mangels an französischen Publikationen zu diesem Thema und der beklagenswerten Kluft zwischen dem anglophonen und dem frankophonen Afrika, sind die Kapitel (von denen einige aus dem Englischen übersetzt wurden) sicherlich bei französischsprachigen afrikanischen Lesern und Wissenschaftlern sehr willkommen. Dadurch erhalten sie die einzigartige Möglichkeit, sich mit den Ergebnissen der fundierten Studien von führenden Forschern auf diesem Gebiet vertraut zu machen. Einige der Beiträge sind überarbeitete und aktualisierte Studien, die ursprünglich im Rahmen eines im Januar 2013 organisierten Workshops in Dakar im Rahmen des Programms Point Sud, einem internationalen Zentrum für lokale Wissensforschung in Bamako (Mali), vorgestellt wurden. Die Einführung des Buches, von den Herausgebern gemeinsam mit ihrer Forschungskollegin Alena Thiel geschrieben, entwickelt das Leitmotiv des Buches. Es fasst treffend die Essenz der Forschungsergebnisse zusammen, die in seinem Titel dargestellt sind: ""Von der Ablehnung des Anderen zur gegenseitigen Beteiligung beider Parteien an der Dynamik des sozialen Wandels"". In der Tat haben sich die Beziehungen zwischen chinesischen und afrikanischen Kleinhändlern und ihre gegenseitige Wahrnehmung seit den fremdenfeindlichen Kundgebungen gegen ""die Chinesen"" in mehreren afrikanischen sowie chinesischen Städten (hauptsächlich in den Stadtbezirken Xiaobei und Sanyuanli von Guangzhou), wo afrikanische Unternehmer zu Beginn der 2000er Jahre eintrafen, grundlegend verändert. Viele, wenn nicht die meisten von ihnen, blieben nicht dauerhaft im Gastland, sondern sie agierten eher als Reisende, die das Terrain auf der Suche nach profitablem Handel erkundeten, d.h. nach chinesischen Importen billiger Konsumgüter nach Afrika. Ihr beiderseitiges wirtschaftliches Interesse basierte nicht so sehr auf den allgemeinen Auswirkungen der politischen und wirtschaftlichen Globalisierung, sondern insbesondere auf der Entwicklung der chinesischen Industrieproduktion, die den Afrikanern den Zugang zu den (nachgebauten) gewünschten westlichen Produkten zu einem erschwinglichen Preis erleichterte. So wurden diese unternehmerischen Migranten, die die Globalisierung von unten in ihre transnationalen Wirtschaftspraktiken einbrachten, selbst Träger von sozialen und wirtschaftlichen Transformationen in ihren jeweiligen Gastländern. Die Bandbreite dieser Transformationen reichte von spezifischen Zugangsstrategien über Ressourcen und soziale Mobilität, wechselndes Konsumverhalten, neue Normen und Praktiken bis hin zu Geschmacks- und Lebensmodifikationen."
F61|Early Globalization and the Law of One Price: Evidence from Sweden, 1732-1914|We review research using departures from the law of one price to measure the advent of globalization in Europe and Asia. In an application, we then study the role of distance and time in statistically explaining price dispersion across 32 Swedish towns for 19 commodities from 1732 to 1914. The resulting large number of relative prices (502,689) allows precise estimation of distance and time effects, and their interaction. We find an effect of distance that declines significantly over time, beginning in the 18th century, well before the arrival of canals, the telegraph, or the railway.
F61|Risking Capitalism|The growing centrality of risk management in pro-market governance raises important questions regarding how risks are produced, and why? Who and what is included in, and excluded from, risk management, and why? And, what is the relationship between the rise of risk management and neoliberalism? Charting the relationship between risk, contemporary capitalism and its neoliberal modes of governance, Risking Capitalism, addresses these questions by examining - both analytically and empirically - diverse meanings and practices of risk management across a range of scales and themes, ranging from austerity to climate change to housing and debt. The authors investigate the relationship between shifts in contemporary capitalism and the ways in which neoliberal forms of risk management have emerged, been reproduced and normalized, and, transformed historically.
F61|Macro-financial linkages and bank behaviour: evidence from the second-round effects of the global financial crisis on East Asia|Abstract This paper studies the link between macro-financial variability and bank behaviour, which justifies the second-round effects of the global financial crisis on East Asia. Following Gallego et al. (The impact of the global economic and financial crisis on Central Eastern and South Eastern Europe (CESEE) and Latin America, 2010), the second round effects are defined as the adverse feedback loop from the slumps in economic activities and sharp financial market deterioration, which may influence the financial performance of bank, inter alia via deteriorating credit quality, declining profitability and increasing problems in retaining necessary capitalization. Differentiating itself from other research, this study stresses adjustments in four dimensions of bank performance and behaviour: asset quality, profitability, capital adequacy, and lending behaviour, assuming that any change in a bank-specific characteristic is induced by endogenous adjustments of the others. The empirical results based on partial adjustment models and two-step system GMM estimation show that bank’s adjustment behaviour is subject to the variation in the macro-financial environment and the stress condition in the global financial market. There is no convincing evidence to support the effectiveness of policy rate cut to boots bank lending and to avoid a financial accelerator effect.
F61|Multinational firms and host country market structure: A review of empirical literature| We address the impact of multinationals on host country market structure through reviewing existing empirical literature. Our main conclusion is that the majority of studies focus on samples of manufacturing industries/firms, neglecting the service sector, despite its importance. Future research should be directed to this sector and explore the possibility of bidirectional causality between foreign presence and host country industry concentration. Studies concerning the impact of multinationals on entry, exit and survival of host country firms must use more recent data, investigate the role of vertical linkages and taking into account other control variables that may affect the exit rate. Finally, future work should take into account the mode of foreign firm establishment in the host country.
F61|Poor-Quality Drugs and Global Trade: A Pilot Study|Experts claim that some Indian drug manufacturers cut corners and make substandard drugs for markets with nonexistent, underdeveloped, or emerging regulatory oversight, notably Africa. This paper assesses the quality of 1,470 antibiotic and tuberculosis drug samples in solid oral form (tablet or capsule) that claim to be made in India and were sold in Africa, India, and five mid-income non-African countries. We find that 10.9 percent of those products fail a basic assessment of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API), and the majority of the failures are substandard (7 percent) as they contain some correct API but the amount of API is underdosed. The distribution of these substandard products is not random: they are more likely to be found as unregistered products in Africa than in India or non-African countries. Moreover, our finding is robust for manufacturer-drug fixed effects, and is unlikely to be explained by differences in storage conditions as the five Indian cities in our sample are on average more likely to have high temperatures, above 25°C or 30°C, than the other African or non-African cities. A more likely explanation is that Indian pharmaceutical firms and/or their export intermediaries differentiate drug quality according to the destination of consumption.
F61|Choosing the Right Partner: R&D Cooperations and Innovation Success|Abstract Generally, establishments can choose among different cooperation partners for innovation. However, the choice of a particular partner is pivotal to the success of any cooperative arrangement for innovation and therefore not an easy one. The ensuing analysis uses a comprehensive firm-level dataset of Central, East and Southeast European (CESEE) and Former Soviet Union (FSU) countries to shed light on the role of different cooperative arrangements – cooperations with domestic suppliers, domestic client firms, foreign suppliers, foreign client firms and with external academic or research institutes – for a product innovators’ success, captured in terms of either annual average sales per new or significantly improved product or, alternatively, the probability of applying for a patent. It demonstrates that the choice of cooperation partner is essential Innovators profit greatly from innovation partnerships with foreign suppliers only in terms of higher sales from novel or improved products but, in turn, are less likely to apply for patents if engaged in cooperative arrangements with foreign suppliers or client firms, indicating that patenting is probably predominantly undertaken by foreign cooperation partners. Furthermore, it highlights that establishment size, ownership structure, trading status or absorptive capacity greatly matter and that the institutional environment is essential for an innovator’s commercial success, which assigns a decisive role to policy-makers in building an environment that helps innovators extract returns to innovations to the fullest extent possible.
F61|Size and welfare costs of price differences across European countries|Studies employing micro price data suggest that price dispersion is larger between regions in different countries than between regions in the same country. To investigate the strength of this border effect, deviations from the law of one price are used in most studies to provide statistical evidence on the effect of borders on price dispersion. I propose an alternative measure of the economic costs of borders which has an explicitwelfare-theoretic foundation. Employing a unique micro price data set from households in Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands I provide evidence on the economic importance of price differences for households. I find that price dispersion within countries has only small economic importance, but that price dispersion between Belgium andGermany (and Belgium and theNetherlands) has considerable economic importance.
F61|Globale Vernetzung, Kooperation und Wertschöpfung im Mittelstand|Die vorliegende Studie untersucht mit Hilfe theoretischer Analysen und vertiefender Exper-teninterviews, welche Herausforderungen und Chancen für mittelständische Unternehmen mit der Mitwirkung in (globalen) Wertschöpfungsketten verbunden sind. In Wertschöpfungsketten mit hohem Wettbewerbsdruck üben börsennotierte Endhersteller häufig einen hohen Kostensenkungs- und Innovationsdruck aus und diktieren den Zulieferern ihre Bedingungen. Demgegenüber legen mittelständische Endhersteller mehr Wert auf fairen Dialog und Interessenausgleich. Zur Reduzierung von Abhängigkeiten und Machtasymmetrien können Zulieferer verschiedene Upgrading-Strategien verfolgen, darunter eine kontinuierliche Innovationsorientierung sowie die verstärkte Produktion von modular aufgebauten Produkten. In mehreren Zulieferbranchen lassen sich Konzentrationstendenzen beobachten, die u. a. durch einen hohen Internationalisierungsdruck verursacht werden.
F61|Asymmetric Monotone Comparative Statics for the Industry Compositions|Within a standard model of international trade with heterogeneous firms and two asymmetric countries, we derive sufficient conditions for monotone comparative statics (MCS) for the industry composition. This model outcome is defined as first-order stochastic dominance shifts in the equilibrium distributions of all activities across active firms. MCS for the industry composition occurs in a country which experiences a decline in its costs of serving the foreign market and meanwhile experiences an increase in its level of competition. In the other country, the industry-level implications are exactly opposite. These clear industry-level results hold while firms respond asymmetrically to the trade shock
F61|Extensive Margins of Offshoring and Exporting|This paper derives new comparative statics within a two-country version of the recent offshoring model by Antràs, Fort, and Tintelnot (2014) with nonprohibitive costs of exporting final goods. One key finding is that an asymmetric trade liberalisation might very well imply that the fractions of offshorers and exporters increase in one country and decrease in the other country. This model outcome occurs when competition enhances in a country experiencing a decline in its costs of international trade. The fractions of offshorers and exporters certainly increase in a small open economy experiencing a decline in its costs of international trade. These strong industry-level results appear even though the comparative statics at the firm level are nonmonotone and asymmetric across the heterogeneous firms.
F61|Import Penetration, Intermediate Inputs and Firms’ Productivity in the EU Food Industry| The aim of this contribution is to study empirically the effect of trade liberalization on productivity growth exploiting a large micro-dataset of more than 20,000 French and Italian food firms, over the 2004-2012 period. This relationship has been studied focusing on import penetration at both industry and upstream sectors level, to investigate the role played by imports in intermediate inputs. Main findings show that import penetration in both final products and intermediate inputs systematically contributed to firm-level productivity growth. Yet, the productivity growth effect induced by import penetration in upstream sectors is 10 times higher than the one at the industry level. Horizontal import competition coming from the EU15 and OECD countries exerts the strongest effect on productivity growth. By contrast, when vertical import penetration is considered, also sourcing intermediate inputs from emerging markets appears important for firms’ productivity growth. Finally, we also find a strong confirmation that the effects of import penetration are increasing with the initial level of firms’ productivity. All these stylized facts may have interesting policy implications.
F61|Import Penetration, Intermediate Inputs and Firms’ Productivity in the EU Food Industry| The aim of this contribution is to study empirically the effect of trade liberalization on productivity growth exploiting a large micro-dataset of more than 20,000 French and Italian food firms, over the 2004-2012 period. This relationship has been studied focusing on import penetration at both industry and upstream sectors level, to investigate the role played by imports in intermediate inputs. Main findings show that import penetration in both final products and intermediate inputs systematically contributed to firm-level productivity growth. Yet, the productivity growth effect induced by import penetration in upstream sectors is 10 times higher than the one at the industry level. Horizontal import competition coming from the EU15 and OECD countries exerts the strongest effect on productivity growth. By contrast, when vertical import penetration is considered, also sourcing intermediate inputs from emerging markets appears important for firms’ productivity growth. Finally, we also find a strong confirmation that the effects of import penetration are increasing with the initial level of firms’ productivity. All these stylized facts may have interesting policy implications.
F61|Food Processing Firms, Input Quality Upgrading and Trade| In this paper the heterogeneous firms and trade literature is extended by integrating quality of inputs and outputs in a food and agricultural setting. Recently, Sexton (2013) has suggested that intermediate agricultural input quality is critical in food processing firms’ output quality and pricing decisions. The results presented in this paper indicate that intermediate agricultural input quality, when combined with the quality of other food processing inputs, is important in analyzing the production decision-making of firms. Extending the model of Kugler and Verhoogen (2012), the quality of food processing inputs is integrated into the analysis in two ways: first, it affects the production of the final good, in that higher quality food processing inputs lower the marginal cost of producing the final good; and, second, food processing input quality is complementary to intermediate input quality in determining quality of the final good. By choosing these elements, firms become differentiated on a vertical (quality) level not only because of their capability draw and intermediate input quality choice, but also because of their choice of food processing inputs. Three key results are developed in the paper: first, larger firms, measured by revenue, charge a higher price for their final good, pay a higher price for their inputs, and produce a higher quality final good. Second, firms that produce for export destinations with a higher preference for quality, choose higher-quality inputs. Third, if preference for quality increases in export-destinations new firms enter the export market, while less capable firms are forced to exit.
F61|Quality Upgrading, Trade, and Market Structure in Food Processing Industries| In this paper the heterogeneous firms and trade literature is extended by integrating quality of inputs and outputs in a food and agricultural setting, along with an analysis of how the ability to translate capability into higher product quality is critical in evaluating the cut-offs for food processing firms to enter domestic and export markets. Specifically, it is found that the direction of change in the domestic market cut-off, due to an increased ability to raise quality, is sensitive to key parameters of the capability distribution; while for the export market cut-off the direction of change depends on the fixed costs of entry into and rents from exporting. These hypotheses are then tested for using panel data for Chilean food processors.
F61|Beyond Ricardo: Assignment Models in International Trade|International trade has experienced a Ricardian revival. In this article, we offer a user guide to assignment models, which we refer to as Ricardo-Roy (R-R) models, that have contributed to this revival.
F61|The effects of Chinese competition and demand on Peruvian Exporters|China’s role in the global economy has grown tremendously over the past two decades, significantly altering the nature of world markets. In this paper, we study the impact of Chinese supply and demand shocks to the international markets on Peruvian firm-product exports across destinations from 2000 to 2011. In particular, the demand shock has been notably absent from literature on the recent impact of China. We present evidence using both channels, focusing primarily on within firm-product and across destinations specification. The results indicate that for most part, an increase in Chinese supply and demand has had a significant and positive effect on Peruvian firm exports. From the supply side, this suggests that firms are either (i) concentrating on markets where competition is tougher, (ii) increasing R&D efforts to enhance the productivity as well as the competitiveness, (iii) benefiting from a comparative advantage in certain sectors that helps mitigate the competition presented by Chinese exporters, or (iv) a combination of these three explanations. From the demand side, this indicates that firms are possibly redirecting their exports from other markets to China.
F61|Â¿Cuales son los sectores con mayor potencial para aprovechar la Alianza del PacÃ­fico?|Segun una metodologia desarrollada para este fin, encontramos que en cada pais de la AP hay entre 4 y 8 sectores de bienes intermedios y de capital (y otros tantos para bienes finales) con potencial para aprovechar la AP, a traves del establecimiento de cadenas de valor, de mayores exportaciones o a traves de procesos de fusion y adquisicion.
F61|Innovation and Trade Policy Coordination: The Role of Firm Heterogeneity|Recent studies have concluded that R&D grants can induce firms to export and that exporting and innovating can be complementary activities at the firm level. Yet the trade literature has paid little attention to the scope of innovation policy as a stimulus to both trade and innovation. To investigate this question we rely on a general work-horse model of trade and firm heterogeneity with firm investments in R&D activities. The multiplicity of equilibria together with the interplay of innovation and trade policies uncover novel results. In particular, we show that the effects of either policy depend on the degree of protectionism in a country. Therefore, countries can respond differently to the same policy, and similarly to different policies. In such a context, different governments may face different degrees of freedom regarding how to achieve a given target. This finding leads us to discuss the issue of policy coordination.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F61|Business Models To Meet The Challenges Of The Global Economy. A Literature Review|The paper aims to perform a literature review on the business models that define the strategic approach of firms in search for competitiveness - within the framework of globalization. The research goals are as follows: to identify the main challenges companies are facing nowadays - due to the complex global economy we are living in, and to explore the business models they develop (or - at least - ought to think about, according to the most recent developments in academia) in order to meet these challenges. The expected results of the study are related to the need for a paradigm shift as regards firms' strategic positioning toward the challenges of the global economy - when designing and implementing their business models.
F61|The Impact of External Shocks on the Korean Trade through Direct/Indirect Trade Linkages (in Korean)|This paper examines the impacts of external shocks on Korean trade through direct and/or indirect trade linkages. Our empirical analysis focuses on the panel data of Korea and its trading partners for the period from 2002 to 2010. The results show that direct and/or indirect trade intensity appears to play a significant role in the way external shocks affect Korean trade. Specifically, the higher the direct trade intensity index, the greater the effect of appreciation of the Korean Won relative to the currencies of its trading partners and the consequent drop in exports to them. A higher indirect trade intensity index on the other hand provides better mitigation of the shock from the global financial crisis. In addition, stronger financial linkages aggravate the extent of export decline. When the direct trade linkage is strong enough, Korea's exports decrease with FDI. When the indirect trade linkage is rather strong, on the other hand, FDI and trade, by facilitating vertical trade in intermediate goods, are in a complementary relationship with each other. Lastly, it is notable that the shocks from the rise in U. S. interest rates and the shrinkage of global liquidity amid the weak global recovery may exacerbate the drops in Korea's exports to countries with strong direct trade linkages to Korea.
F61|The Spillover Effects Of Outward Foreign Direct Investment On Home Countries: Evidence From The United States|Most studies of foreign direct investment (FDI) spillovers focus on externalities of inward FDI to host country firms. However, spillovers may also be generated from outward FDI and flow to home country firms. We test for the presence of spillovers from U.S. multinational corporations to domestic U.S. firms in the same industry, downstream industries and upstream industries using firm level information from Standard and Poor’s Compustat data and industry level data on U.S. outward FDI from the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis. We find evidence of positive and significant spillovers flowing from multinational customers to their domestic suppliers. This is consistent with most previous studies of spillovers from inward FDI and may suggest a role for domestic policies that subsidize outward FDI. We also find that the presence of beneficial spillovers depends on several firm characteristics in
F61|Globalization and social justice in OECD countries|Social justice is a topic of importance to social scientists and also political decision makers. We examine the relationship between globalization and social justice as measured by a new indicator for 31 OECD countries. The results show that countries that experienced rapid globalization enjoy social justice. When the KOF index of globalization increases by one standard deviation, the social justice indicator increases by about 0.4 points (on a scale from 1 to 10). The policy implication is that permitting a national economy to become globally integrated is consistent with and promotes social justice. Copyright Kiel Institute 2015
F61|Globalisierung und soziale Gerechtigkeit in OECD-Ländern|Soziale Gerechtigkeit zählt zu den zentralen Themen, denen sich Sozialwissenschaftler und politische Entscheidungsträger widmen. Anhand des Indikators für soziale Gerechtigkeit, den die Bertelsmann Stiftung für 31 OECD-Länder abbildet, untersucht eine neue Studie den Zusammenhang zwischen Globalisierung und sozialer Gerechtigkeit. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, dass in stark globalisierten Ländern soziale Gerechtigkeit besonders ausgeprägt ist.
F61|Market Size, Trade and Quality: Evidence from French Exporters|This paper presents the most direct test to date of the key welfare mechanism put forward by Melitz and Ottaviano (2008): the best firms increase sales disproportionately when competing in larger markets. I test this prediction in a quality context where the best firms produce the highest quality. The empirical analysis is guided by a quality-augmentation of Melitz and Ottaviano (2008). I capture product quality empirically using a unique dataset containing firm-level quality ratings. The results are in line with the key prediction of the model. I also find a strong positive relationship between a proxy for consumer quality preference and demand for quality which is consistent with the theory.
F61|Hic Sunt Leones! The role of national identity on aggressiveness between national football teams|This paper examines the role of national identity in explaining on field aggression during soccer competitions between national teams. In particular, this paper empirically investigates whether differences in macro identity markers such as: the economy, religion, education, governance and power between nation-states influence football players’ aggressiveness across a range of international FIFA competitions. We analyse the finals of the FIFA World, Confederations and Under 20’s World Cups as well as the Olympic tournaments from 1994 to 2012, resulting in 1088 individual matches. Our aggression focus is derived from both the (i) weighted measure of penalties (red and yellow cards) and; (ii) the count of sanctions (fouls) issued during a game as a proxy measure for on field aggression. We generate national identity factors from a set of macro level variables in order to estimate the size of national differences, from which we determine the impact that national identity has on the emergence of on field aggression between rival countries. Our results show that these national identity factors are significant predictors of aggression, while the match specific variables seem to be of less importance. Interestingly, our results also show that these aggression factors disappear once we include referee fixed effects, indicating that while national differences are played out on the football pitch the referees are effective at controlling the aggression.
F61|Long Term Effects of “Prosperity in Youth” on Consumption: Evidence from China|We test for the long-term impact of experiencing “prosperity in youth” (PIY) on non-traditional category consumption. Using unique twenty-year panel data of individuals from nine Chinese provinces with varying levels of per-capita GDP and rates of per-capita GDP growth, we find robust evidence for the PIY effect. We find both a direct effect of one’s own prosperity and an indirect effect of the prosperity of one’s province during youth on long-term consumption. In particular, the indirect PIY effect is driven more strongly by individuals with low incomes during youth — suggesting that norms and aspirations created by the consumption of non-traditional categories by the rich during one’s youth have significant impact on long-term consumption — almost the same magnitude as the direct effect. The analysis also highlights the importance of separating cohort effects from life cycle effects for taste based products. We highlight the marketing implications for non-traditional categories in emerging markets.
F61|Long Term Effects of Experience During Youth: Evidence From Consumptions in China|We test for the long-term effects of experience during youth on consumption in nontraditional taste-forming categories. A unique dataset that tracks individuals over twenty years from 1992-2011, residing in nine Chinese provinces that vary widely in both income levels and rate of economic growth, helps us identify cohort and intra-cohort “prosperity-inyouth” (PIY) effects on consumption. We first demonstrate that non-traditional category consumption increases strongly among cohorts that entered adulthood during China’s boom years. We then show evidence of the intra-cohort PIY effect, controlling for individual level experience by leveraging the heterogeneity in the timing and rate of growth in prosperity across Chinese provinces. We find that the PIY effect has two dimensions– a direct effect of one’s own prosperity and an indirect effect of the prosperity of one’s province during youth. The indirect effects suggest that norms and aspirations created by the consumption of nontraditional categories by the surrounding rich during one’s youth have significant impact on long-term consumption—almost the same magnitude as the direct effect. We conduct a large number of robustness checks; in particular, we rule out potential supply side and attitude based explanations for the PIY effect. Our results imply that segmentation and consumption forecasts based on birth cohorts and experience of prosperity can be effective for taste forming non-traditional products in emerging markets.
F61|Liquidity in Retirement Savings Systems: An International Comparison|We compare the liquidity that six developed countries have built into their employer-based defined contribution (DC) retirement schemes. In Germany, Singapore, and the UK, withdrawals are essentially banned no matter what kind of transitory income shock the household realizes. By contrast, in Canada and Australia, liquidity is state-contingent. For a middle-income household, DC accounts are completely illiquid unless annual income falls substantially, in which case DC assets become highly liquid. The US stands alone in the universally high liquidity of its DC system: whether or not income falls, the penalties for early withdrawal are low or non-existent.
F61|Liquidity in Retirement Savings Systems: An International Comparison|We compare the liquidity that six developed countries have built into their employer-based defined contribution (DC) retirement schemes. In Germany, Singapore, and the UK, withdrawals are essentially banned no matter what kind of transitory income shock the household realizes. By contrast, in Canada and Australia, liquidity is state-contingent. For a middle-income household, DC accounts are completely illiquid unless annual income falls substantially, in which case DC assets become highly liquid. The US stands alone in the universally high liquidity of its DC system: whether or not income falls, the penalties for early withdrawal are low or non-existent.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F61|Supplier responses to Walmart's invasion in Mexico|This paper examines the effect of Walmart's entry into Mexico on Mexican manufacturers of consumer goods. Guided by firm interviews that suggested substantial heterogeneity across firms in how they responded to Walmart's entry, we develop a dynamic industry model in which firms decide whether to sell their products through Walmex (short for Walmart de Mexico), or use traditional retailers. Walmex provides access to a larger market, but it puts continuous pressure on its suppliers to improve their product's appeal, and it forces them to accept relatively low prices relative to product appeal. Simulations of the model show that the arrival of Walmex separates potential suppliers into two groups. Those with relatively high-appeal products choose Walmex as their retailer, whereas those with lower appeal products do not. For the industry as a whole, the model predicts that the associated market share reallocations, adjustments in innovative effort, and exit patterns increase productivity and the rate of innovation. These predictions accord well with the results from our firm interviews. The model's predictions are also supported by establishment-level panel data that characterize Mexican producers' domestic sales, investments, and productivity gains in states with differing levels of Walmex presence during the years 1994 to 2002.
F61|Cadenas de valor globales en servicios: el caso de la industria de TI en México|El surgimiento de las cadenas de valor globales es resultado de un desplazamiento de la integración vertical las transnacionales a favor de las redes de proveedores externos. Lejos de la noción que identifica la subcontratación de servicios extraterritoriales con la manufactura, la evidencia muestra que aquélla ocupa 80% del total global, dentro del cual están los de tecnologías de la información (ti). Mediante estudios de caso se identifica el proceso mediante el cual las empresas de software se han podido insertar en la cadena de las ti y los obstáculos a los que enfrentan una vez que ya están inmersas en ella, con la conjetura de que la oportunidad internacional se combinó con la utilización de apoyos de política, como el Prosoft, y la presencia de espíritu empresarial de sus dirigentes.
F61|Binyıl Kalkınma Hedeflerinden Sürdürülebilir Kalkınma Hedeflerine|2015 yılını özel kılan birkaç neden bulunmaktadır. Bu yıl içinde ülke liderleri, kalkınmanın yeni gündemini şekillendirecekler ve iklim değişikliği konusunda küresel bir anlaşmaya varacaklardır. Yoksulluk, eşitsizlik ve iklim değişikliği gibi problemlerin çözümü küresel işbirliği gerektirmektedir. 2015 yılı küresel işbirliği konusunda eşsiz fırsatlar sunmaktadır. Eylül ayında dünya liderleri sürdürülebilir kalkınma için yeni gündemi oluşturmak üzere New York’ta Birleşmiş Milletler aracılığı ile bir araya geleceklerdir. Ayrıca iklim değişikliği konusunda 6 Aralık’ta Paris’te bir konferans gerçekleştirilecektir. Tüm bu toplantılar sonucunda kararlaştırılacak olan yeni küresel “Sürdürülebilir Kalkınma Hedefleri” gelecek 15 yılın kalkınma politikasını ve kalkınma fonlamasını yönlendirecektir. 2015 yılının diğer bir özelliği ise, 2000 yılının Eylül ayında yoksulluk problemi başta olmak üzere çeşitli kalkınma engellerine çözüm olmak üzere, sekiz madde halinde ilan edilmiş olan “ Binyıl Kalkınma Hedeflerinin” sonuçlarının değerlendirileceği yıl olmasıdır. 2000 ile 2015 yılları arasında geçen süre, hedeflere ulaşma performansı açısından incelendiğinde, bardağın yarısı dolu yarısı boştur. 2015 sonrası yeni kalkınma gündemi, “Binyıl Kalkınma Hedeflerinin” çözemediği sorunlara çözüm getirirken, kapsayıcı ve sürdürülebilir kalkınma, istihdam, büyüme, iyi yönetişim ve küresel işbirliği ile ilgili ek hedefler belirleme kararlılığına da işaret etmektedir. “Sürdürülebilir Kalkınma Hedefleri”, “Binyıl Kalkınma Hedefleri” ile başlatılan önemli görevleri başarıyla tamamlama amacındadır ve dünya üzerinde hiç kimsenin kalkınmanın nimetlerinden yoksun kalmamasını hedeflemektedir. Bu çalışma, “Binyıl Kalkınma Hedeflerinin” ilanıyla 2000 yılında başlatılan küresel kalkınma yaklaşımının 2015 yılında ulaştığı sonuçları ve bu sürecin yol açtığı “Sürdürülebilir Kalkınma hedefleri” ile ilgili yeni küresel kalkınma gündemini değerlendirmek amacındadır.
F61|A Case Study on Multinational Companies’ Global Innovation Networks and Global Production Networks: Toward a Theoretical Conceptualisation|The recent wave of globalisation has been characterised not only by an increased number of cross-border production networks of multinational companies (MNCs) but also by an increasing number of their cross-border innovation networks. However, the differences, commonalities, and interaction between a MNC’s global innovation network (GIN) and global production network (GPN) have not been theoretically and empirically clarified. Using case study and social network analysis, this paper simultaneously captures the network characteristics of the case MNCs’ GINs and GPNs. It finds that the case MNCs’ GINs and GPNs 1) interact; 2) are different in terms of network composition and network centralisation; 3) are similar in terms of pattern of ties; nevertheless, 4) the interaction, the differences and the commonality clearly present firm or industrial differences. The paper argues that theoretically considering GIN and GPN as two different but interwoven layers of a MNC’s global value creation network may provide better conceptual clarity for reality interpretation and theoretical development. It suggests knowledge base perspective in future research for better understanding the dynamics of MNCs’ GINs and GPNs.
F61|The impact of foreign firms on industrial productivity : evidence from Japan|With a newly constructed dataset on foreign firms in Japan for the period 1995-2008 from firm-level surveys, this paper estimates the impact of foreign firms on industrial productivity at the regional level. A Bayesian-model averaging approach is taken to account for model uncertainty resulting from various linkages between foreign firms and domestic industries. The results show that the foreign firms may contribute to industrial efficiency directly through their above-average productivity and indirectly through positive spillovers in intra-industry and local backward linkages. Forward linkages with foreign firms may have a negative impact on industrial productivity. However, these impacts depend on the nationality and entry mode of foreign investors. Aggregating foreign firms may mask their distinctive impacts on productivity.
F61|Like it or not? How the economic and institutional environment shapes individual attitudes towards multinational enterprises|This paper analyses the determinants of people's attitudes towards foreign direct investment (FDI) using a survey‐based data set that covers a wide range of rich and poor countries. We find that both individual socioeconomic characteristics and macroeconomic and institutional factors shape agents’ attitudes towards multinational firms. Moreover, we find that the influence of an individual's characteristics—such as education and the status as an entrepreneur—on her/his perspective on multinationals depends on the respective country's per‐capita income. Our results confirm the conjecture that relative individual attitudes towards multinationals reflect distributional interests as suggested by economic theory.
F61|Three Narratives on the Changing Face of Global Commodities Market Structure|The commodity market structure has changed at an incredible pace in the last 20 years and is now subject to intense scrutiny by academics and policy-makers. Taking a long-term view of price formation, empirical findings show that international trade and finance, mostly driven by emerging markets demand, market liberalisations and technological developments in market infrastructure, have increased pro-cyclicality and interconnection among physical commodity markets. Price formation mechanisms are more sensitive to information flows. The interconnection with the financial system is strong and so the transmission of shocks from the financial system to commodity physical and futures markets. The rise of commodity-linked financial transactions was an important contribution to those developments. WTO commitments in international trade and expansionary monetary policies have promoted greater financial participation and so interconnection, which is also expressed by a greater pooling of commodity returns with returns of financial indexes (also defined here as the true ‘financialisation’ process). This paper represents an introduction to the functioning and structure of modern commodity markets. Three narratives emerge as key drivers of the modern global market structure: international trade, international finance and trading technology.
F61|Has the crisis altered the Belgian economy’s DNA ?|Using a unique and original database which combines information on the organisation of the domestic production network with data from segments of international production chains, the research work described in the article aims to present some new findings on how the Belgian economy works. One of the first points to emerge is that Belgian firms have a lot of mutual trading links. Compared to other economies, the Belgian economy seems to exhibit a relatively high degree of fragmentation of production. In addition, via trading links with import or export firms, the majority of Belgian firms are integrated – albeit indirectly – into global production chains. The question of the economy’s external competitiveness is therefore not confined to exporters alone, but extends to a very large number of firms active in a wide variety of branches of activity. In general, belonging to a fragmented production chain seems to be beneficial. Belgian firms which specialise in specific segments of the production chain fared better, and especially those active at the end of the production chain. During the economic and financial crisis, however, specialisation was actually a risk factor for firms, especially for those involved in the early stages of production. Overall, since the crisis, the trading links established by firms in the network have not made up for the links lost. It is therefore more crucial than ever to create new businesses in order to regenerate the domestic production network.
F61|BITCOIN Currency - Methods of Adapting to the Economic Crisis|Given that the global crisis is a cyclical phenomenon that directly affects the company's existence, this adaptation is a condition more than necessary to carry out an activity in a reliable way. Adaptation involves choosing innovative solutions that can withstand market in the current context, as the use of virtual currency Bitcoin as an alternative method in order to remove barriers, given that Bitcoin, a virtual currency created six years ago is not supported or controlled by any government or central bank and is freely traded, fluctuating depending on demand.
F61|Endogenous Labour Market Imperfections, FDI and External Terms-of-Trade Shocks in a Developing Economy|This paper shows that developing countries possess an inherent shock-absorbing mechanism that stems from their peculiar institutional characteristics and can lessen the gravity of detrimental welfare consequence of exogenous terms-of-trade disturbances in terms of a two-sector, full-employment general equilibrium model with endogenous labour market distortion. The supply of foreign capital in the economy is a positive function of the return to capital and a decreasing function of the degree of prevailing restrictions in the economy in the process of free inflow of foreign capital. The analysis leads to a couple of important policies that should be adhered to preserve this in-built system. Finally, it offers three important statistically testable hypotheses, empirical validation of which might have an important bearing on formulation of developmental policies in these countries.
F61|Pouvoir syndical et régulation des firmes multinationales<BR>[Trade union power and regulation of multinational firms]|Our paper examines a set of regulation of a multinational firm with salary negotiation with a local union. Especially, we have shown that the government can extract informational rent of the multinational firm through collective bargaining process. Our theoretical analysis is the first step in the introduction of collective bargaining in the regulatory of regulation of multinational firms
F61|Information Asymmetry on the Czech Insurence Market|The goal of this paper is to describe the problem of information asymmetry within the commercial insurance market of the Czech Republic. At first, the paper focuses on the history and theoretical definition of information asymmetry. It is regarded as one of the market failures that may have possible negative impacts into production or consumption. Negative impact of asymmetry is also described by the micro-economic model of Michael Rothschild and Joseph E. Stiglitz, who analyzed the impact of it on market equilibrium. Then paper focuses on the current situation within the insurance market, which is modelled with three participants (client, broker and insurance company). Paper covers forms of asymmetry by each participant, sources of asymmetry, motivation for asymmetry and concrete examples of information asymmetry. Finally the paper also provides available data which can express the current situation in the Czech Republic and provides actually applied solutions for solving the information asymmetry problem. There are also mentioned specific issues, which are related to information asymmetry - lack of financial education and problem of privacy.
F61|A risk-adequate valuation of Brazilian companies using the example of Arezzo Indústria e Comércio S.A|Whether and to what extent an investor conducts a direct investment depends inter alia on how much the investor assesses the risk of a direct investment. This article examines the risk-adequate valuation of foreign equity investments. Foreign equity investments can be calculat-ed with an investment calculating procedure; however, the final decision regarding the foreign shareholding depends on the investor’s subjective risk assessment. This subjective risk as-sessment may lead to a determination that the investment risk is overvalued or undervalued. Therefore, it is possible that the investor loses opportunities or mistakenly invests. Hence, we will present different objectives and risk-adequate methods to value companies. The risk as-sessment can be performed using previously existing credit rating agencies and insurance company risk assessments, or it can be performed using the theory of international parity rela-tions. This new method is used to evaluate foreign companies. Also it is possible to simulate changes in a foreign equity investment over a long period and using scenarios. This will be performed using the fashion group Arezzo Indústria e Comércio SA in Brazil as the example. The acquired knowledge allows the investor to make an objective and risk-adequate assess-ment of foreign equity investments.
F61|The spillover effects of outward foreign direct investment on home countries: evidence from the United States|Most studies of foreign direct investment (FDI) spillovers focus on externalities of inward FDI to host country firms. However, spillovers may also be generated from outward FDI and flow to home country firms. We test for the presence of spillovers from U.S. multinational corporations to domestic U.S. firms in the same industry, downstream industries and upstream industries using firm level information from Standard and Poor’s Compustat data and industry level data on U.S. outward FDI from the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis. We find evidence of positive and significant spillovers flowing from multinational customers to their domestic suppliers. This is consistent with most previous studies of spillovers from inward FDI and may suggest a role for domestic policies that subsidize outward FDI. We also find that the presence of beneficial spillovers depends on several firm characteristics including exporting status, size and absorptive capacity.
F61|Markup Heterogeneity, Export Status and the Establishment of the Euro|We investigate the effects of the establishment of the euro on the markups of French manufacturing firms. Merging firm-level census data with customs data, we estimate time-varying firm-specific markups and distinguish between eurozone exporters from other firms between 1995 and 2007. We find that the establishment of the euro has had a pronounced pro-competitive impact by reducing firm markups by 14 percentage points. By reducing export costs, the euro represented an opportunity for eurozone exporters to increase their margins relative to other firms. Quantile regressions show that the euro has led to a reduction in the variance of markups.
F61|The interaction between globalization and financial development: new evidence from panel cointegration and causality analysis|The paper studies the impact of globalization on financial development in a sample of 32 developed and developing economies over the period 1989–2012. Indicators of financial development include three banking indicators (private sector credit, domestic credit, and liquid liabilities) and three indicators of stock market development (value traded, turnover ratio, and stock market capitalization), all relevant to GDP. Two panel estimation methodologies are under consideration: panel cointegration and panel VAR. The findings reveal that financial development affects economic growth and globalization positively. Globalization helps mobilize economic growth, but does not help financial development as it helps increase access to external financing. Quality institutions do not impact financial development although the latter increases incentives for better quality institutions in support of sustainable growth. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
F61|The effects of production offshoring on R&D and innovation in the home country|We investigate the effects of production offshoring on the innovation activities of manufacturing firms in the home country. The analysis is based on a dataset of more than 3,000 manufacturing firms from seven European countries. We find that offshoring firms on average employ a higher share of R&D and design personnel, introduce new products more frequently to the market, and invest more frequently in advanced process technologies compared to non-offshoring firms. Concerns that offshoring may hurt innovation because of the lost links between production and product development are not supported by the evidence. Copyright Associazione Amici di Economia e Politica Industriale 2015
F61|Offshoreability and wages. Evidence from German task data|We analyse the relationship between individuals’ wages and the potential relocation of their jobs, which we measure as a combination of a large number of job characteristics. Going beyond existing research, we distinguish between characteristics that are theoretically supposed to make a job more offshoreable, i.e. transferable across national borders, and characteristics that are assumed to make a job more easily outsourceable, i.e. transferable across a firm’s boundary. We find that wages are largely negatively influenced by these characteristics and that they are significantly lower especially for individuals with easily offshoreable jobs. Further differentiating these results, we also find differences between blue-collar and white-collar workers and between offshoreability in manufacturing and services. Methodologically, we show that a data-generated index can approximate an individual’s job’s offshoreability without the curse of dimensionality. Copyright Associazione Amici di Economia e Politica Industriale 2015
F61|Trade and technology: new evidence on the productivity sorting of firms|Recent advances in trade theory suggest novel gains from trade liberalisation through technology adoption by expanding exporting firms. These theories rely on strict assumptions regarding the productivity sorting of firms with different technology use. In this paper, we test the sorting of German firms using data on actually implemented technologies. Our analysis distinguishes between manufacturing and service industries. In case of the former, we confirm the sorting pattern of the most productive firms being high-tech exporters, followed by low-tech exporters and then domestic low-tech firms. For services, the evidence is mixed and potentially depends on the tradability of the considered services. Copyright Kiel Institute 2015
F61|Economic Development of Taiwan:Early Experiences and the Pacific Trade Triangle|"Taiwan's economic growth since the 1970s has roots in its pre-war development and post-war formation of the Pacific trade triangle. By highlighting the historical perspective of the Japanese linkages and the geographic vantage point of Taiwan–Japan–USA trade triangle, Economic Development of Taiwan features a collection of papers by Frank S T Hsiao and Mei-Chu Wang Hsiao. Published mostly between 1989 and 2002, their analyses on Taiwan's pre-war and post-war early economic history debunk the myth of the country's post-war rags to riches story and revalue the myth of ""wise"" government policy. Timely and accessible, this unique volume shows how early Taiwanese experiences of economic development can be valuable paradigms for emerging economies of Asian, African and Latin American countries in this age of globalization."
F61|International trade and the occupational mix in manufacturing: Evidence from german micro data|We use the Establishment History Panel from 1975 to 2010 provided by the German Federal Employment Office to examine the impact of international trade on the occupational structure of the German manufacturing sector. To capture trade, we match the Establishment History Panel with UN Comtrade trade data. To do so, we develop a new matching approach that takes the input and output structure of the German manufacturing sector into account. We identify three different trade channels: import intensity, import competition, and export intensity. Using a fixed-effects Poisson regression model, we find diverse occupational effects from trade at the industry-level, while establishment-level estimations show only few significant effects.
F61|Choice of foreign R&D entry mode and impact on firm performance: A firm-level analysis for Switzerland and Austria|The study seeks to identify the determinants of a firm's foreign entry mode choice and the impact of mode selection on firm performance for the specific case of R&D - a topic so far not investigated in entry mode research. Separate estimates of a Heckman selection model for Austria and Switzerland, based on comparable firm-level data and variable specification, show for both countries that the OLI model is well-suited to explain not only the propensity to investing abroad in R&D but also the respective choice between equity-based and non-equity governance modes. Moreover, it turns out, but only for Swiss companies, that foreign R&D raises (domestic) firm performance with a larger impact in case of equity-based governance. The differences between the two countries primarily reflect the much higher degree of R&D internationalisation of Switzerland.
F61|Choice of foreign R&D entry mode and its relation to firm performance: A firm-level analysis for Switzerland and Austria|The objective of this study is to identify the determinants of a firm's foreign entry mode choice and the relationship between mode selection and firm performance for the specific case of R&D-a topic not yet investigated in entry mode research. Separate estimates of a Heckman selection model for Austria and Switzerland based on comparable firm-level data and variable specification show for both countries that the OLI model is well-suited to explain not only the propensity to invest in R&D abroad but also the related choice between an equity-based and a non-equity governance mode. Moreover, the research reveals that foreign R&D activity is positively related to firm performance and that this relationship is stronger in the case of an equity-based mode of governance, however only in the Swiss case. The differences between the two countries primarily reflect the much higher degree of internationalisation of the Swiss economy.
F61|Real Effective Exchange Rate Imbalances and Macroeconomic Adjustments: evidence from the CEMAC zone|We assess the behavior of real effective exchange rates (REERs) of members of the CEMAC zone with respect to their long-term equilibrium paths. A reduced form of the fundamental equilibrium exchange rate (FEER) model is estimated and associated misalignments are derived for the period 1980 to 2009. Our findings suggest that for majority of countries, macroeconomic fundamentals have the expected associations with the exchange rate fluctuations. The analysis also reveals that, only the REER adjustments of Cameroon and Gabon are significant in restoring the long-term equilibrium in event of a shock. The Cameroonian economic fundamentals of terms of trade, government expenditure and openness have different long-term relations with the REER in comparison to those of other member states. Ultimately, there is no need for an adjustment in the level of the peg based on the present quantitative analysis of REER paths.
F61|Internacjonalizacja przedsiebiorstw - istota budowania konkurencyjnosci w dobie globalizacji korporacyjnej / Internationalization of enterprises - the essence of competitiveness building in the corporate globalization era|The purpose of this article is to analyze the changes in the strategies of the internationalization of enterprises as a result of the evolution the global economy. An attempt is made to assess the impact of the progressive stages of the process of globalization on the models of functioning of enterprises, especially the rules of competitiveness building. The article is divided into four parts. The first part is an analysis of the evolution of the globalization processes. The second part refers to the impact of changes in the globalization process for businesses. The third part shows the implications of the current phase of globalization for the competitiveness system. The last part is an attempt to explain the methods of the implementation of these challenges using selected corporations as examples (Volkswagen, Siemens, British Petroleum).
F61|“Income inequality in Europe. Analysis of recent trends at the regional level”|The evolution of income inequality is becoming a great concern all over the World, particularly since the start of the Great Recession. In this work we analyse the main trends of income inequality in Europe over the last decade, both at the national and regional level. Our results point to a large diversity in inequality patterns, as we observe both increases and decreases in inequality both at the regional and at the national level. The EU2020 Strategy aims achieving an inclusive economic growth, benefitting the largest possible number of people. We briefly analyse the main factors impacting inequality and finally derive several policy implications.
F61|REER Imbalances and Macroeconomic Adjustments in the Proposed West African Monetary Union| With the spectre of the euro crisis hunting embryonic monetary unions, we use a dynamic model of a small open economy to analyse real effective exchange rate (REER) imbalances and examine whether the movements in the aggregate real exchange rates are consistent with the underlying macroeconomic fundamentals in the proposed West African Monetary Union (WAMU). Using both country-oriented and WAMU panel-based specifications, we show that the long-run behaviour of the REERs can be explained by fluctuations in the terms of trade, productivity, investment, debt and openness. While there is still significant evidence of cross-country differences in the relationship between underlying macroeconomic fundamentals and corresponding REERs, the embryonic WAMU has a stable error correction mechanism, with four of the five cointegration relations having signs that are consistent with the predictions from economic theory. Policy implications are discussed, and the conclusions of the analysis are a valuable contribution to the scholarly and policy debate over whether the creation of a sustainable monetary union should precede convergence in macroeconomic fundamentals that determine REER adjustments.
F61|The Margins of Global Sourcing: Theory and Evidence from US Firms|We develop a quantifiable multi-country sourcing model in which firms self-select into importing based on their productivity and country-specific variables. In contrast to canonical export models where firm profits are additively separable across destination markets, global sourcing decisions naturally interact through the firm's cost function. We show that, under an empirically relevant condition, selection into importing exhibits complementarities across source markets. We exploit these complementarities to solve the firm's problem and estimate the model. Comparing counterfactual predictions to reduced-form evidence highlights the importance of interdependencies in firms' sourcing decisions across markets, which generate heterogeneous domestic sourcing responses to trade shocks.
F61|The Surprisingly Swift Decline of US Manufacturing Employment|This paper links the sharp drop in US manufacturing employment after 2000 to a change in US trade policy that eliminated potential tariff increases on Chinese imports. Industries more exposed to the change experience greater employment loss, increased imports from China, and higher entry by US importers and foreign-owned Chinese exporters. At the plant level, shifts toward less labor-intensive production and exposure to the policy via input-output linkages also contribute to the decline in employment. Results are robust to other potential explanations of employment loss, and there is no similar reaction in the European Union, where policy did not change.
F61|Evaluación de mecanismos de estabilización y promoción de exportaciones de leche|Para hacer realidad su potencial exportador lechero, el país debe crear los mecanismos financieros y de apoyo que soporten las transformaciones productivas y comerciales que ello demanda. El presente estudio tiene como objetivo la evaluación de algunos mecanismos de estabilización y promoción de las exportaciones colombianas de leche. El estudio encuentra que los Fondos propuestos son mecanismos idóneos para apalancar las exportaciones. Para ello es necesario que el precio de referencia (PCE) esté asociado a las cotizaciones internacionales, que la producción nacional crezca en más del 15 por ciento y que el Gobierno Nacional dé su apoyo inicial a los Fondos.
F61|Anerkannte Abschlüsse und Deutschkenntnisse lohnen sich|Little is currently known about the employment histories and earnings of migrants prior to migration to Germany. Not only does the new IAB-SOEP Migration Sample close this gap but it also provides comprehensive information about the determinants of labor market integration of immigrants in Germany. People who were employed prior to arrival are frequently also subsequently employed in Germany and their income gains are usually high. Knowledge of German and having professional qualifications recognized raises wages and increases the chances of being employed according to the level of qualification. Über die Erwerbsverläufe und die Verdienste von Migranten vor dem Zuzug nach Deutschland ist bislang aufgrund der Datenlage wenig bekannt. Die neue IAB-SOEP-Migrationsstichprobe schließt nicht nur diese Lücke, sie stellt auch umfassende Informationen zu den Determinanten der Arbeitsmarktintegration von Migranten in Deutschland bereit. Menschen, die bereits vor dem Zuzug erwerbstätig waren, sind dies in der Regel auch später in Deutschland und ihre Einkommensgewinne sind hoch. Deutschkenntnisse und die Anerkennung beruflicher Abschlüsse erhöhen die Löhne und steigern die Chancen, entsprechend der Qualifikation beschäftigt zu werden.
F61|The Relationship Between Economic Growth and Income Inequality|"The objective of this work is to study the nature of the relationship between income inequality and economic growth in Tunisia. To do this, we started with a review of the literature. Then we conducted an empirical study on the Tunisian case over the period 1984-2011. The main results show that economic growth and openness exchange constituted aggravating factors of inequalities and that these effects are accentuated with the accelerated process of trade liberalization in the country. However, human capital and financial development appears to have contributed to the alleviation of this problem.The second result shows that inequality had a negative effect on economic growth and that this effect appeared more after the acceleration of the process of opening exchange. This result can be explained by the fact that the country has reached an ""unbearable"" level of inequality. Similarly, it can be explained by the failure of redistribution policies."
F61|Multinational Firms and the Structure of International Trade|This chapter reviews the state of the international trade literature on multinational firms. This literature addresses three main questions. First, why do some firms operate in more than one country while others do not? Second, what determines in which countries production facilities are located? Finally, why do firms own foreign facilities rather than simply contract with local producers or distributors? We organize our exposition of the trade literature on multinational firms around the workhorse monopolistic competition model with constant-elasticity-of-substitution (CES) preferences. On the theoretical side, we review alternative ways to introduce multinational activity into this unifying framework, illustrating some key mechanisms emphasized in the literature. On the empirical side, we discuss the key studies and provide updated empirical results and further robustness tests using new sources of data.
F61|Asian fragmentation in the Global Financial Crisis|This paper studies the impact of the Global Financial Crisis of 2008 on Japanese exports, focusing on international production networks in machinery sectors. For our survival analysis, we estimate a Cox proportional hazards model. Consequently, we find that Japanese exports to Asian countries, parts and components trade in particular, were less likely to stop during the crisis. Even if they stopped, such trade is more likely to be revived. Therefore, regardless of the worldwide economic crisis, Japan maintained trade relationships in parts and components in the machinery sectors.
F61|Geographic barriers to commodity price integration: evidence from US cities and Swedish towns, 1732-1860|"We study the role of distance and time in statistically explaining price dispersion for 14 commodities from 1732 to 1860. The prices are reported for US cities and Swedish market towns, so we can compare international and intranational dispersion. Distance and commodity-specific fixed effects explain a large share - roughly 60% - of the variability in a panel of more than 230,000 relative prices over these 128 years. There was a negative ""ocean effect"": international dispersion was less than would be predicted using distance, narrowing the effective ocean by more than 3000 km. Price dispersion declined over time beginning in the 18th century. This process of convergence was broad-based, across commodities and locations (both national and international). But there was a major interruption in convergence in the late 18th and early 19th centuries, at apoleonic Wars, stopping the process by two or three decades on average."
F61|Import Penetration, Export Orientation and Plant Size in Indonesian Manufacturing|This paper empirically examines differential impacts of globalisation on plant size among plants with different characteristics, including initial plant size, import and export status, and ownership. After accounting for other characteristics, results of this analysis suggest that both import penetration and export orientation do not have differential impacts on the size of larger and smaller plants. This is contrary to fears that only relatively large plants can benefit from globalisation while smaller plants would lose their market shares. The results also suggest that negative impact of import penetration on plant size is greater for importers and that the increase in export orientation positively impacts the size of exporting plants.
F61|Innovation and Productivity in Services: Evidence from Germany, Ireland and the United Kingdom|This paper examines the links between innovation and productivity in service enterprises. For this purpose, we use micro data from the Community Innovation Survey 2008 in Germany, Ireland and the United Kingdom, and estimate an augmented structural model. Our results indicate that innovation in service enterprises is linked to higher productivity. In all three countries analysed, among the innovation types that we consider, the strongest link between innovation and productivity was found for marketing innovations. Our empirical evidence highlights the importance of internationalisation in the context of innovation outputs in all three countries. The determinants of innovation in service enterprises appear remarkably similar to the determinants of innovation in manufacturing enterprises.
F61|The Impact of Multinationals’ Overseas Expansion on Employment at Suppliers at Home: New Evidence from Firm-Level Transaction Relationship Data for Japan| This paper focuses on non-internationalized supplier firms and investigates how the expansion of overseas activities by their main customer firms affects their employment, utilizing a unique dataset that includes information on buyer-supplier transaction relationships for Japanese manufacturing firms for the period 1998-2007. We do not find any negative effect of top buyers’ overseas expansion on domestic suppliers’ employment.􀀁 Instead, we find a significant positive effect. Our result implies that, contrary to fears of a potential hollowing out of domestic supporting industries, the expansion of overseas activities of customer firms has a positive impact on suppliers’ employment. Expansion of overseas production by downstream firms may increase purchases from upstream firms in Japan and this would be the case if downstream firms can increase their world-wide sales by expanding overseas production. Therefore, our result suggests that having a transaction relationship with successful downstream multinational firms that expand their global sales through overseas production is important for non-internationalized suppliers in Japan.
F61|Geographic Barriers to Commodity Price Integration: Evidence from US Cities and Swedish Towns, 1732 - 1860|We study the role of distance and time in statistically explaining price dispersion for 14 commodities from 1732 to 1860. The prices are reported for US cities and Swedish market towns, so we can compare international and intranational dispersion. Distance and commodity-specific fixed effects explain a large share - roughly 60% - of the variability in a panel of more than 230,000 relative prices over these 128 years. There was a negative “ocean effect”: international dispersion was less than would be predicted using distance, narrowing the effective ocean by more than 3000 km. Price dispersion declined over time beginning in the 18th century. This process of convergence was broad-based, across commodities and locations (both national and international). But there was a major interruption in convergence in the late 18th and early 19th centuries, at the time of the Napoleonic Wars, stopping the process by two or three decades on average.
F61|Gains from Offshoring? Evidence from U.S. Microdata|We construct a new linked data set with over one thousand offshoring events by matching Trade Adjustment Assistance program petition data to micro-data from the U.S. Census Bureau. We exploit this data to assess how offshoring impacts domestic firm-level aggregate employment, output, wages and productivity. A class of models predicts that more productive firms engage in offshoring, and that this leads to gains in output and (measured) productivity, and potential gains in employment and wages, in the remaining domestic activities of the offshoring firm. Consistent with these models, we find that offshoring firms are on average larger and more productive compared to non-offshorers. However, we find that offshorers suffer from a large decline in employment (32 per cent) and output (28 per cent) relative to their peers even in the long run. Further, we find no significant change in average wages or in total factor productivity measures at affected firms. We find these results robust to a variety of checks. Thus we find no evidence for positive spillovers to the remaining domestic activity of firms in this large sampleof offshoring events.
F61|Exploring the interplay, differences, and commonalities between global production networks and global innovation networks of two multinational companies|The recent wave of globalisation has been characterised not only by an increased number of cross-border production networks but also by an increasing number of cross-border innovation networks. However, most literature treats global innovation networks (GINs) as an extension of global production networks (GPNs). Taking a network perspective and based on primary data, this paper explores the composition of and relations between the GPNs and GINs of two multinational companies (MNCs). It finds that the case firms’ GINs and GPNs interplay and the interplay is to a greater extent in the ICT case firm than in the automobile case firm. The case firms’ GINs have more diverse actors and are more centralised than their GPNs but the reason is different in two cases. Meanwhile, the GINs and GPNs share the same relational pattern in both case firms. The paper suggests that theoretically considering GPN and GIN as two different but interwoven layers of a MNCs’ global value creation network may provide better conceptual clarity and may generate more precise implications for practitioners and policymakers.
F61|Is There a Development Gap in Rationality?|We report an experimental test of the four touchstones of rationality in choice under risk – utility maximization, stochastic dominance, expected-utility maximization and small-stakes risk neutrality – with students from one of the best universities in the United States and one of the best universities in Africa, the University of Dar es Salaam. Although the US and the Tanzanian subjects come from different backgrounds and face different economic prospects, they are united by being among the most able in their societies. Importantly, many of whom will exercise an outsized influence over economic and political affairs. We find very small or no significant differences between the two samples in the degree of rationality according to a number of standard economic measures. An alternative approach is to take cognitive ability (IQ) as a proxy for economic rationality. We show that a canonical IQ test indicates a much larger development gap in rationality relative to our economic tests.
F61|The Dragon Is Flying West: Micro-level Evidence of Chinese Outward Direct Investment|Outward direct investment (ODI) from the People's Republic of China (PRC) is surging. A common perception is that it was driven by the country's resource-seeking and technology-seeking motives. Using a new, unique, and comprehensive dataset that covers close to 10,000 Chinese ODI deals from 1998 to 2009, we find that in contrast to the common perception, over half of the ODI deals are in service sectors, with many of them appearing to be export-related. In addition to documenting the pattern and trend of the PRC's ODI, we empirically examine both the determinants and effects of ODI at the firm level. We find that ex ante larger, more productive, and more export-intensive firms are more likely to start investing abroad. Using matching estimation techniques, we find that ODI is associated with better firm performance, including higher total factor productivity, employment, and export intensity, and greater product innovation. To assess the relative contributions of technology transfer, export promotion, and resource seeking to the positive effects of ODI, we use ODI data merged with customs transaction-level trade data. We find that firms’ ODI participation is associated with significantly better trade performance, measured by export and import volumes, export and import unit values, and number of export destinations. Contrary to perceived technology-seeking and resource-seeking motives, we find no evidence that ODI firms import more capital or intermediate inputs compared to non-ODI firms. © 2013 Asian Development Bank and Asian Development Bank Institute.
F61|Innovation and Productivity in Services:Evidence from Germany, Ireland and the United Kingdom|We examine the links between innovation investment, innovation output and productivity in service enterprises. For this purpose, we use micro data from the Community Innovation Surveys 2006-2008 in Germany, Ireland, and the United Kingdom and estimate an augmented structural model which links innovation inputs, innovation outputs and productivity. Our estimates suggest that innovation in service enterprises was linked to higher productivity. In all three countries analysed, amongst the innovation types that we consider, the strongest link between innovation and productivity was found for marketing innovations. Successful innovation in service enterprises appears to be associated with enterprise size, innovation expenditure intensity (in Germany and the United Kingdom), foreign ownership (Ireland), exporting and engagement in co-operation for innovation activities. The determinants of innovation in service enterprises appear remarkably similar to the determinants of innovation in manufacturing enterprises.
F61|“Income inequality in Europe. Analysis of recent trends at the regional level”|The evolution of income inequality is becoming a great concern all over the World, particularly since the start of the Great Recession. In this work we analyse the main trends of income inequality in Europe over the last decade, both at the national and regional level. Our results point to a large diversity in inequality patterns, as we observe both increases and decreases in inequality both at the regional and at the national level. The EU2020 Strategy aims achieving an inclusive economic growth, benefitting the largest possible number of people. We briefly analyse the main factors impacting inequality and finally derive several policy implications.
F61|La performance delle piccole e medie imprese italiane: un’analisi empirica|On the basis of a panel of manufacturing enterprises reconstructed by Istat in the period 2001-2008, this work aims at examining if and to what extent sectoral, regional and dimensional differences affect the performance of Italian enterprises with less than 250 employees. The results obtained seem to indicate an increasingly lower importance of sectoral and territorial variables (localisation and inclusion within industrial districts) in determining enterprises’ performance.
F61|Il ruolo della proiezione estera nella performance delle imprese manifatturiere italiane durante la crisi|In line with the global market evolution, during 2011-2013 recession, Italy and Spain showed the largest gaps between (strongly decreasing) domestic and (increasing) foreign demand. In Italy such trends have been both a key factor in selecting enterprises and a cause for a readjustment in the overall manufacturing sector. Beside export, other forms of enterprise internalisation have also played a crucial role in stimulating economic growth in recent years. In this vein, some innovative and integrated dataset at enterprise level provided by Istat make it possible to: a) define a “map” of the manufacturing sector on the basis of enterprise strategic profiles,emphasising their propensity to compete internationally; b) classify enterprises with foreign relationships according to the complexity of this propensity; c) assess enterprise exporting performance in the light of their characteristics, strategies and economic profiles.
F61|The Impact of Multinationals' Overseas Expansion on Employment at Suppliers at Home: New evidence from firm-level transaction relationship data for Japan|This paper focuses on non-internationalized supplier firms and investigates how the expansion of overseas activities by their main customer firms affects their employment, utilizing a unique dataset that includes information on buyer-supplier transaction relationships for Japanese manufacturing firms for the period 1998-2007. We do not find any negative effects of top buyers' overseas expansion on domestic suppliers' employment. Instead, we find a significant positive effect. Our result implies that, contrary to fears of a potential hollowing out of domestic supporting industries, the expansion of overseas activities of customer firms has a positive impact on suppliers' employment. Expansion of overseas production by downstream firms may increase purchases from upstream firms in Japan, and this would be the case if downstream firms can increase their worldwide sales by expanding overseas production. Therefore, our result suggests that having a transaction relationship with successful downstream multinational firms that expand their global sales through overseas production is important for non-internationalized suppliers in Japan.
F61|Multi-Product Firms, Endogenous Sunk Costs, and Gains from Trade through Intra-Firm Adjustments|In this paper, I investigate welfare gains associated with trade induced intra-firm adjustments of multi-product firms. To disentangle the welfare gains, I split up the R&D portfolio of a multi-product firm into three different channels: i) product innovation, ii) investments in the degree of product differentiation, and iii) process innovation. Trade integration enables firms to exploit economies of scale as innovation requires upfront development costs and encourages firms to spend more on R&D. I derive the indirect utility function and show that consumers bene.t from this behavior through a larger product range (love of variety) which is also more differentiated (love of diversity). Furthermore, a larger market is associated with technology upgrading. The resulting cost savings are passed on to consumers, leading to welfare gains from lower prices.
F61|Import Penetration, Intermediate Inputs and Productivity: Evidence from Italian Firms|We test the impact of import penetration on the productivity of a sample of roughly 35,000 Italian manufacturing firms operating in the period 1996-2003, considering the impact on productivity of both import penetration in the same industry and import penetration in the up-stream industries. We also distinguish the source country of imports. We find that: 1) import penetration has a positive effect on productivity. 2) The effects are much larger for import penetration in up-stream industries than for import penetration in the same industry. 3) Imports from the other European countries and the BRICS have more significant impact on the productivity of Italian firms than imports from the US.
F61|Poor Quality Drugs and Global Trade: A Pilot Study|Experts claim that some Indian drug manufacturers cut corners and make substandard drugs for markets with non-existent, under-developed or emerging regulatory oversight, notably Africa. This paper assesses the quality of 1470 antibiotic and tuberculosis drug samples that claim to be made in India and were sold in Africa, India, and five mid-income non-African countries. We find that 10.9% of those products fail a basic assessment of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API), and the majority of the failures are substandard (7%) as they contain some correct API but the amount of API is under-dosed. The distribution of these substandard products is not random: they are more likely to be found as unregistered products in Africa than in India or non-African countries. Since this finding is robust for manufacturer-drug fixed effects, one likely explanation is that Indian pharmaceutical firms and/or their export intermediaries do indeed differentiate drug quality according to the destination of consumption.
F61|Globalized Markets, Globalized Information, and Female Employment: Accounting for Regional Differences in 30 OECD Countries|Accounting for within-country spatial differences is a neglected aspect in many cross-country comparisons. This chapter highlights this importance in this empirical analysis of the impact of a country’s degree of informational and economic globalization on female employment in 30 OECD countries, using a micro pseudo panel of 110,000 persons derived from five waves of repeated cross sections from the World Values Survey, 1981–2008. I conjecture that informational globalization affects societal values and perceived economic opportunities, while economic globalization impacts actual economic opportunities. A traditional crosscountry analysis suggests that the informational dimension of globalization but not the economic one increases the probability of employment for women— contradicting the Becker (1957) hypothesis of international competition mitigating discrimination in employment.However, accounting for subnational regional gender heterogeneity reveals that the impact of worldwide information exchange works rather at the regional level, while economic globalization (trade) increases female employment in general.
F61|International fragmentation of production. Local vulnerabilities and capitalization of heritage values in Romania|Due to the extent of markets globalization and of cross-border fragmentation of world production, the international value-added chains development brought about new challenges for emerging countries, many from SEE area, including Romania. The benefits for host countries arising from global production relocating on their territory could be significant in terms of employment, but maintaining active and even enriching the local work skills and cultural heritage. At the same time, these international transactions (through processing trade and/or FDI inflows) create vulnerabilities at the local level. The risks for host countries associated to other areas relocation of production could be mitigated by developing innovative and entrepreneurship heritage as drivers of sustainable growth and post-crisis economic recovery.
F61|SME Internalisation Index (SMINI) Based on the Sample of the Visegrad Countries|The goal of the chapter is to develop an index (Small and Medium-Sized Enterprise Internationalisation Index – SMINI) to measure the degree of internationalisation in the SME sector, and to uncover its most important influencing factors. The index was calculated from a data set obtained from a questionnaire conducted among 1,124 firms from the Visegrad (V4) countries, comprised of 270 Polish, 597 Czech, 113 Hungarian and 144 Slovak firms. The relationship between the index value and the influencing factors was also tested using the same dataset. The influencing factors were chosen based on a literature review. We found that the factors suggested by the literature (company size, company age, ownership structure, innovation activity, network participation and sectorial structure) have a significant effect on the SMINI, but the strength of relationship is either weak or weak to moderate. A multiway ANOVA analysis revealed that three of our variables – firm size, family ownership and innovation – have an 11.8% combined effect on the SMINI.
