F62|The Impact of a Trade War: Assessment of the Current Tariffs and Alternative Scenarios|This note uses Charbonneau and Landry’s (2018) framework to assess the direct impact of the current trade tensions on the Canadian and global economies, as well as possible implications if the conflict escalates further. Overall, my findings show that the estimated impact of current tariffs on real gross domestic product (GDP) remains relatively small, which is in line with the literature on gains from trade, but the impact on trade is much larger. With a modest escalation of trade tensions, monetary policy in Canada could face a situation of rising prices and falling real GDP. This dilemma would be worse if Canada takes an active role in the trade conflict. If trade tensions rise more dramatically, the effect on Canada would depend on Canada’s access to the US market. A significant and more broad-based rise in tariffs could lead to large global impacts.
F62|Protección y productividad en la industria colombiana, 1993-2011|Este documento analiza la evolución de la productividad total factorial en la industria colombiana entre 1993 y 2011 haciendo uso de datos a nivel de firma. La determinación de la productividad total factorial es bastante importante debido a sus implicaciones en el crecimiento económico, la innovación y el nivel de ingresos del país. Una vez definida la evolución de la productividad total factorial se estudian sus determinantes. Fundamentalmente se consideran especificaciones que evalúan la importancia de la apertura económica y el nivel de concentración de la producción sobre los niveles de productividad. Los resultados muestran un estancamiento en la productividad factorial en la industria manufacturera del país y, además, se identifica una relación directa entre los niveles de incorporación de las firmas a los mercados internacionales y su nivel de productividad.
F62|A Theory of Economic Unions|After decades of successful growth, economic unions have recently become the focus of heightened political controversy. We argue that this is partly due to the growth of trade between countries that are increasingly dissimilar. We develop a theoretical framework to study the effects on trade, income distribution and welfare of economic unions that differ in size ad scope. Our model shows that political support for international unions can grow with their breadth and depth as long as member countries are sufficiently similar. However, differences in economic size and factor endowments can trigger disagreement over the value of unions between and within countries. The model is consistent with same salient features of the process of European integration and statistical evidence from survey data.
F62|Global Banking, Financial Spillovers, and Macroprudential Policy Coordination|The gains from international macroprudential policy coordination are studied in a two-region, core-periphery macroeconomic model with imperfect financial integration and cross-border banking. Financial frictions occur at two levels: between firms and banks in each region, and between periphery banks and a global bank in the core region. Macroprudential regulation takes the form of a countercyclical tax on bank loans to domestic capital goods producers, which responds to real credit growth and is subject to a cost in terms of welfare. Numerical experiments, based on a parameterized version of the model, show that the welfare gains from macroprudential policy coordination are positive, albeit not large, for the world economy. In addition, these gains tend to increase with the degree of international financial integration. However, depending on the origin of financial shocks, they can also be highly asymmetric across regions.
F62|Has globalization changed the inflation process?|The relationship central to most inflation models, between slack and inflation, seems to have weakened. Do we need a new framework? This paper uses three very different approaches - principal components, a Phillips curve model, and trend-cycle decomposition - to show that inflation models should more explicitly and comprehensively control for changes in the global economy and allow for key parameters to adjust over time. Global factors, such as global commodity prices, global slack, exchange rates, and producer price competition can all significantly affect inflation, even after controlling for the standard domestic variables. The role of these global factors has changed over the last decade, especially the relationship between global slack, commodity prices, and producer price dispersion with CPI inflation and the cyclical component of inflation. The role of different global and domestic factors varies across countries, but as the world has become more integrated through trade and supply chains, global factors should no longer play an ancillary role in models of inflation dynamics.
F62|Inflation expectations anchoring: new insights from micro evidence of a survey at high-frequency and of distributions|We shed new light on the anchoring of long-term euro area inflation expectations since the crisis by using micro evidence from a new survey at high (weekly) frequency. We find that long-term inflation expectations remained well anchored to the ECB's inflation aim, which has acted as a focal point. By contrast, we find no evidence that professional forecasts (reported by Consensus Economics) acted as focal points. But there are subtle signs of long-term inflation expectations not being perfectly well-anchored. Using measures based on the distribution of inflation expectations from a quarterly survey, namely uncertainty based on the full distribution, the probability of expected long-term inflation lying between 1.5% and 2.5%, and the effect of short-term on long-term deflation risk, we find that long-term euro area inflation expectations have remained well-anchored, and have become better-anchored between 2011 and 2018.
F62|The evolution of US and UK GDP components in the time-frequency domain : A continuous wavelet analysis|Understanding the relationship between national income GDP components is an essential part of macroeconomics. This study investigates quarterly real GDP component data for the U.S. and the U.K. and applies continuous wavelet analysis on cross comparisons of the data, from both within and between the two datasets. The results show that the cyclical interactions between consumption and investment are the most complex and most substantial at several different frequencies. The relationship of exports with other macroeconomic variables has also developed over time, likely due to the evolution of an international business cycle.
F62|Expected Effects of the US Tax Reform on Other Countries: Global and Local Survey Evidence|The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act constitutes the largest change to the US tax system since the 1980s and thoroughly alters the way in which multinational companies are taxed. Current assessments on the reform’s international impact vary widely. This article sheds light on the tax reform’s expected effects on other countries. We first use representative German business survey data to analyse the impact of the reform on German firms. Many firms with substantial US revenues or production capacities in the US intend to expand US investment in response to the reform, in particular large firms and manufacturing companies. The effects on investment in Germany are ambiguous: While some firms substitute between investment locations, others expand in both countries. We subsequently extend our analysis to the global level using worldwide survey data. The results suggest a negative impact on tax revenues and investment in countries with close economic ties to the US.
F62|Bilateral Trade Imbalances|In standard quantitative models, bilateral trade imbalances are determined by aggregate trade imbalances, expenditure and production patterns, and trade wedges. We calibrate such a model using recent data on incomes, factor endowments, and sector-level expenditures, outputs and bilateral trade flows for 40 economies and the rest of the world. Large pairwise asymmetries in trade wedges are needed for the model’s bilateral-trade predictions to match the data. They account for 21-35% of the standard deviation of bilateral trade imbalances. Aggregate imbalances play a minor role, while more than 50% of the variation is explained by international differences in production and expenditure patterns.
F62|Trade Protectionism and US Manufacturing Employment|This paper uses a numerical global general equilibrium model to simulate the possible effects of US initiated trade protection measures on US manufacturing employment. The simulation results show that US trade protection measures do not increase but will instead reduce manufacturing employment, and US losses will further increase if trade partners take retaliatory measures. The mechanism is that although the substitution effects between domestic and foreign goods have positive impacts, the substitution effects between manufacturing and service sectors and the retaliatory effects both have negative influences, therefore the whole effect is that the US will lose manufacturing employment.
F62|The global component of inflation volatility|Global developments play an important role in domestic inflation rates. Previous literature has found that a substantial amount of the variation in a large set of national inflation rates can be explained by a single global factor. However, inflation volatility has been typically neglected, while it is clearly relevant both from a policy point of view and for structural analysis and forecasting purposes. We study the evolution of inflation rates in several countries, using a novel model that allows for commonality in both levels and volatilities, in addition to country-specific components. We find that inflation stochastic volatility is indeed important, and a substantial share of it can be attributed to a global factor that also drives the levels and persistence of inflation. While various phenomena may contribute to global inflation dynamics, it turns out that since the early 1990s, the estimated global factor is correlated with China’s PPI and with oil inflation levels and volatilities. The extent of commonality among core inflation rates and volatilities is substantially smaller than for overall inflation, which leaves scope for national monetary policies.
F62|Understanding Inflation in Emerging and Developing Economies|"Emerging market and developing economies (EMDEs) have experienced an extraordinary decline in inflation since the early 1970s. After peaking in 1974 at 17.3 percent, inflation in these economies declined to 3.5 percent in 2017. Despite a checkered history of managing inflation among many EMDEs, disinflation occurred across all regions. This paper presents a summary of a recent book,""Inflation in Emerging and Developing Economies: Evolution, Drivers, and Policies,""that analyzes this remarkable achievement. The findings suggest that many EMDEs enjoy the benefits of stability-oriented and resilient monetary policy frameworks, including central bank transparency and independence. Such policy frameworks need to be complemented by strong macroeconomic and institutional arrangements. Inflation expectations are more weakly anchored in EMDEs than in advanced economies. In EMDEs that do not operate inflation targeting frameworks, exchange rate movements tend to have larger and more persistent effects on inflation."
F62|Trade, Technology and the Great Divergence|"This paper develops a model that captures the key features of the Industrial Revolution and the Great Divergence between the industrializing \North"" and the lagging \South."" In particular, a convincing story is needed for why North-South divergence occurred so dramatically during the late 19th Century, a good hundred years after the beginnings of the Industrial Revolution. To this end we construct a trade/growth model that includes both endogenous biased technologies and intercontinental trade. The Industrial Revolution began as a sequence of unskilled-labor intensive innovations which initially incited fertil- ity increases and limited human capital formation in both the North and the South. The subsequent co-evolution of trade and technological growth however fostered an inevitable di- vergence in living standards - the South increasingly specialized in production that worsened their terms of trade and spurred even greater fertility increases and educational declines. Biased technological changes in both regions only reinforced this pattern. The model high- lights how pronounced divergence ultimately arose from interactions between specialization from trade and technological forces."
F62|Inflation expectations anchoring: new insights from micro evidence of a survey at high-frequency and of distributions|We shed new light on the anchoring of long-term euro area inflation expectations since the crisis by using micro evidence from a new survey at high (weekly) frequency. We find that long-term inflation expectations remained well anchored to the ECB's inflation aim, which has acted as a focal point. By contrast, we find no evidence that professional forecasts (reported by Consensus Economics) acted as focal points. But there are subtle signs of long-term inflation expectations not being perfectly well-anchored. Using measures based on the distribution of inflation expectations from a quarterly survey, namely uncertainty based on the full distribution, the probability of expected long-term inflation lying between 1.5% and 2.5%, and the effect of short-term on long-term deflation risk, we find that long-term euro area inflation expectations have remained well-anchored, and have become better-anchored between 2011 and 2018.
F62|Fiscal multipliers and foreign holdings of public debt|This paper explores a natural connection between fiscal multipliers and foreign holdings of public debt. Although fiscal expansions can raise domestic economic activity through various channels, they can also have crowding-out effects if the resources used to acquire public debt reduce domestic consumption and investment. Thus, these crowding-out effects are likely to be weaker when public debt is purchased by foreigners. We test this hypothesis on (i) post-war US data and (ii) data for a panel of 17 advanced economies from the 1980’s to the present. To do so, we assemble a novel database of public debt holdings by domestic and foreign creditors for a large set of advanced economies. We combine this data with standard measures of fiscal policy shocks and show that, indeed, the size of fiscal multipliers is increasing in the share of public debt held by foreigners. In particular, the fiscal multiplier is smaller than one when the foreign share is low, such as in the U.S. in the 1950’s and 1960’s and Japan today, and larger than one when the foreign share is high, such as in the U.S. and Ireland today
F62|How resilient is ASEAN-5 to trade shocks? Regional and global shocks compared|This paper revisits the resilience of the ASEAN region to external shocks amidst the unfolding effects of the US-China trade war. It investigates and compares the effects of regional(ASEAN) and global (US, China) shocks on ASEAN-5 using a structural VAR framework. To identify the propagation of economic shocks and spillovers on ASEAN-5, the changing trade links between the economies considered are used to account for time variations spanning the period 1978Q1 to 2018Q2. Three major results follow from the analyses on trade links and output multiplier effects. First, the response of ASEAN-5 to shocks from the US and China were more pronounced than regional shocks for the period after the Asian financial crisis. Second, the increasing cumulative impact of China’s shock on ASEAN was congruous to the growing trade links and trade intensities between ASEAN and China. Third, the US and China were dominant growth drivers for the weaker trade-linked ASEAN partners. Taken together, the results suggest that global shocks matter for the region, and the economic resilience of the region to global shocks depends on indirect effects, apart from the direct trade links.
F62|Transmission of a resource boom: The case of Australia|This paper presents evidence on the macroeconomic adjustment of a resource-rich country to a resource boom using the effects of Chinese industrialisation on Australia from 1988 to 2016. An SVAR model is specified, incorporating a proxy for Chinese resource demand and commodity prices to identify the effects of commodity supply and demand shocks on the Australian macroeconomy. We develop a multivariate historical decomposition to show how resource sector shocks lead the economy to deviate from a long-run projection. The paper identifies four phases of the transmission of the resource boom before its conclusion in 2015.
F62|Corporate Financial Distress of Industry Level Listings in an Emerging Market|Any critical analysis of the corporate financial distress of listed firms in international exchange would be incomplete without a serious dissection at the industry level because of the different levels of risks concerned. This paper considers the financial distress of listed firms at the industry level in Vietnam over the last decade. Two periods are considered, namely during the Global Financial Crisis (GFC) (2007 - 2009) and post-GFC (2010 - 2017). The logit regression technique is used to estimate alternative models based on accounting and market factors. The paper also extends the analysis to include selected macroeconomic factors that are expected to affect the corporate financial distress of listed firms at the industry level in Vietnam. The empirical findings confirm that the corporate financial distress prediction model, which includes accounting factors with macroeconomic indicators, performs much better than alternative models. In addition, the evidence confirms that the GFC had a damaging impact on each sector, with the Health & Education sector demonstrating the most impressive recovery post-GFC, and the Utilities sector recording a dramatic increase in bankruptcies post-GFC.
F62|On the Heterogeneous Welfare Gains and Losses from Trade|How are the gains and losses from trade distributed across individuals within a country? First, we document that tradable goods and services constitute a larger fraction of expenditures for low-wealth and low-income households. Second, we build a trade model with nonhomothetic preferences—to generate the documented relationship between tradable expenditure shares, income, and wealth—and uninsurable earnings risk—to generate heterogeneity in income and wealth. Third, we use the calibrated model to quantify the differential welfare gains and losses from trade along the income and wealth distribution. In a numerical exercise, we permanently reduce trade costs so as to generate a rise in import share of GDP commensurate with that seen in the data from 2001 to 2014. We find that households in the lowest wealth decile experience welfare gains over the transition, measured by permanent consumption equivalents, that are 67 percent larger than those in the highest wealth decile.
F62|On the Heterogeneous Welfare Gains and Losses from Trade|How are the gains and losses from trade distributed across individuals within a country? First, we document that tradable goods constitute a larger fraction of expenditures for poor households. Second, we build a trade model with nonhomothetic preferences—to generate the documented relationship between tradable expenditure shares, income, and wealth—and uninsurable earnings risk—to generate heterogeneity in income and wealth. Third, we use the calibrated model to quantify the differential welfare gains and losses from trade along the income and wealth distribution. In a numerical exercise, we permanently reduce trade costs so as to generate a rise in import share of GDP commensurate with that seen in the data from 2001 to 2014. We find that households in the lowest wealth decile experience welfare gains over the transition, measured by permanent consumption equivalents, that are 67 percent larger than those in the highest wealth decile.
F62|On the Heterogeneous Welfare Gains and Losses from Trade|How are the gains and losses from trade distributed across individuals within a country? First, we document that tradable goods and services constitute a larger fraction of expenditures for low-wealth and low-income households. Second, we build a trade model with nonhomothetic preferences—to generate the documented relationship between tradable expenditure shares, income, and wealth—and uninsurable earnings risk—to generate heterogeneity in income and wealth. Third, we use the calibrated model to quantify the differential welfare gains and losses from trade along the income and wealth distribution. In a numerical exercise, we permanently reduce trade costs so as to generate a rise in import share of GDP commensurate with that seen in the data from 2001 to 2014. We find that households in the lowest wealth decile experience welfare gains over the transition, measured by permanent consumption equivalents, that are 57 percent larger than those in the highest wealth decile.
F62|The volatility effect of diaspora's location|Remittances can transmit volatility from host to home countries for some common patterns of diaspora's geographical distribution. In a migration portfolio model, the overall risk of volatility of any set of diaspora location is decomposed into a contagion and a concentration risks: a diaspora located in more volatile destinations induces a higher contagion risk, while a diaspora located in few destination countries increases the concentration risk. A series of estimations on a large panel of developing countries over 1995–2015 provide evidence for these two risks. Estimation of a structural model confirms that the geography of diaspora has an indirect impact on the origin country's aggregate instability through remittances.
F62|Determinants of International Consumption Risk Sharing in Developing Countries|Complete financial markets allow countries to share their consumption risks internationally, thereby creating welfare gains through lower volatility of aggregate consumption. This paper empirically looks at international consumption risk sharing and its determinants in a panel of 120 countries from 1970 to 2014. Contrary to some previous studies, I show that financial liberalization and financial integration has a significantly positive impact on international consumption risk sharing in poorer developing countries, whereas in emerging market countries only capital account openness has an impact. Moreover, there is some evidence that high income inequality or a high share of low income individuals reduces consumption smoothing in less developed countries. Lack of financial reforms, a lower degree of financial integration and higher inequality can thus partly explain why the degree of risk sharing is lower in developing countries than in advanced economies.
F62|External debt financing and macroeconomic instability in emerging market economies|We study the relationship between external debt financing and risk to macroeconomic stability using a panel vector autoregression model for a sample of ten major emerging market economies. We also focus on the linkages of key channels of external debt financing, namely external debt securities and cross-border loans. We find that external debt securities substantially impact the yield spread and the exchange rate for emerging market economies, both before and after the global financial crisis of 2008. On the other hand, the impact of cross-border flows is found to be relatively subdued for these economies in the post-crisis period. We also find that emerging economies that were already receiving a high level of external debt securities inflows experienced a relatively larger yield compression and greater exchange rate pressure compared to the economies that had a low level of external debt securities flows. It indicates higher risk exposure for EMEs with larger external debt securities flows.
F62|Understanding Inflation in Emerging and Developing Economies|"Emerging market and developing economies (EMDEs) have experienced an extraordinary decline in inflation since the early 1970s. After peaking in 1974 at 17.3 percent, inflation in these economies declined to 3.5 percent in 2017. Despite a checkered history of managing inflation among many EMDEs, disinflation occurred across all regions. This paper presents a summary of our recent book, ""Inflation in Emerging and Developing Economies: Evolution, Drivers, and Policies,"" that analyzes this remarkable achievement. Our findings suggest that many EMDEs enjoy the benefits of stability-oriented and resilient monetary policy frameworks, including central bank transparency and independence. Such policy frameworks need to be complemented by strong macroeconomic and institutional arrangements. Inflation expectations are more weakly anchored in EMDEs than in advanced economies. In EMDEs that do not operate inflation targeting frameworks, exchange rate movements tend to have larger and more persistent effects on inflation."
F62|Chinese Capital Flows to African Economies and Real Bilateral Exchange Rates|Since the turn of the millennium, China opened up internationally both in terms of its current account (trade) and its capital account, even though the opening of the latter happened de facto, not de jure. With respect to China being Africa's largest trading partner and developing investor in combination with its desire for African natural resources, we embark on an analysis of the impact of several categories of Chinese capital flows to African economies on the bilateral real exchange rate. We conduct a panel data analysis by means of a Hausman-Taylor-estimation over the period 2003-2016. Our results suggest that capital flows from China to Africa in the form of mainly economic cooperation projects, but also FDI contribute to an appreciation of the local currencies vis à vis the RMB, while no such effect appears for aid fl ows from China. The former two categories may pose a risk of Dutch Disease effects. Since many African countries have pegged their currencies to the Euro, and the Renminbi abandoned its peg to the US Dollar over the sample period, valuation effects of capital fl ows must be interpreted in this context.
F62|Trade Protectionism and US Manufacturing Employment|This paper uses a numerical global general equilibrium model to simulate the possible effects of US initiated trade protection measures on US manufacturing employment. The simulation results show that US trade protection measures do not increase but will instead reduce manufacturing employment, and US losses will further increase if trade partners take retaliatory measures. The mechanism is that although the substitution effects between domestic and foreign goods have positive impacts, the substitution effects between manufacturing and service sectors and the retaliatory effects both have negative influences, therefore the whole effect is that the US will lose manufacturing employment.
F62|Increasing the benefits of Slovakia’s integration in global value chains|Heavy involvement in international trade and global value chains has been an effective way for promoting Slovakia's economic and social catch-up. Large foreign direct investment inflows have helped develop a competitive export-led manufacturing industry, with a strong specialisation in the automotive and electronics sectors, fostering robust growth and productivity performance with good fiscal and external balance results. However, the benefits of this development strategy have diminished since the 2008-09 crisis and the subsequent slowdown in world trade growth. Moreover, over the years Slovakia’s integration into world trade has remained for a large part based on downstream activities of value chains that incorporate little domestic value added, such as the assembly of imported intermediate goods, and further expansion of this growth model is hindered by employers’ increasing difficulties in finding skilled labour. There is a need to help local firms to better benefit from foreign companies’ know-how, further prepare the workforce for the increasing digitalisation and automation of most industries, promote the diversification of the economy and, in particular, strengthen the role of the services sector. This assessment, which is derived from the first part of this chapter, is followed by a discussion of the changes required to better leverage Slovakia’s experience with global value chains. All in all, a broad range of well-coordinated policies is called for. This entails better adapting the skills of the workforce to the changing needs of the labour market, enhancing the business environment, improving transport infrastructure and stimulating firms’ innovation capacity.This Working Paper relates to the 2019 OECD Economic Survey of Slovak Republic(http://www.oecd.org/economy/surveys/slovak-republic-economic-snapshot/)
F62|Can you hear me now? Good?? The Effect of Mobile Phones on Collective Violent Action in the Libyan Revolution|We explore the effect of mobile phone and internet access on levels of collective violent action within the Libyan Revolution. Eastern Libya experienced a state-implemented blackout shortly after widespread riots and protests began. However, with luck, ingenuity, and foreign aid, Libyan rebels forged an independent mobile phone network. We exploit the exogeneity of the timing of the network’s reactivation and use a variation of difference-in-differences (DID) to measure the effect on the frequency of collective violent action. While the dominant view in the literature is that cell access increases violence by lowering the costs of organizing, we find that the reactivation of the mobile phone network reduced violent collective action by 21%. We find this negative effect for all conflicts and for conflicts that can be identified as initiated by non-state actors. We also study mobile phone’s effect on collective deadly action and fatalities using a different source for conflicts, finding similar negative effects. We propose mechanisms that may explain the aggregate negative effect: (1) substitution of physical protests to digital protests, (3) the reduction of dissatisfaction toward the state, and (3) the use of mobile phones to avoid conflict with state actors.
F62|Measuring Macroeconomic Uncertainty in Zimbabwe|What matters to economic decision-making is whether the economy has become more or less predictable. People and businesses use information around them to form judgements about what might happen in the future. The rise in uncertainty might be associated with increased concern about extreme events, skewed towards worries about bad or disastrous events. The study seeks to measure macroeconomic uncertainty in Zimbabwe, using stock market indices - industrial index and mining index - for the period 2010M1 to 2019M3. Prevalence of macroeconomic uncertainty has been traced from the stock market index trend and stock market returns volatility. The squared residuals of the GARCH(1,1) regression model proxied macroeconomic uncertainty levels. The prevalence of significant macroeconomic uncertainty has been observed, with some periods highly uncertain. The study linked periods of uncertainty to some known political, social and economic events to derive meaning. The study found that some political, social and economic events have a contributing effect on the level of macroeconomic uncertainty. Good events and policies are accompanied by low levels of uncertainty while bad events and controversial policies match with high levels of uncertainty. The study recommends that to create a good economic climate, to attract investment and boost confidence in the economy, policymakers should dwell on reducing macroeconomic uncertainty. Reducing macroeconomic uncertainty require policy consistency, policy consultations, less frequent policy changes, avoiding numerous policies, avoiding policy reversals, among other measures. The observed macroeconomic uncertainty affects proper economic decision-making and is not conducive for high levels of investment for local and international investors; companies may struggle to hire labor, and employees and corporates may delay spending and saving pattern distorted.
F62|Trade Liberalization and Unemployment in India: A State Level Analysis|The study empirically examines the relationship between trade liberalization and unemployment for the Indian economy using data for Indian states (separately for rural and urban areas). This study provides support to the argument that effects of trade liberalization have been different for the states in India. The results find evidence for the negative relationship unemployment and trade openness. The relationship is significant for rural parts of the states which also drive results for the total state; though for urban part of the states, relationship is not found to be significant. The results also indicate that this effect is higher and stronger for more flexible states. The results hence, confirm to the theory that in developing countries trade openness leads to increase in the employment of labour; but more so of unskilled workers and leads to a movement away from the agriculture and hence rural sector of the economy. This is substantiated by internal migration trends for India which showed an increase in population mobility during post reform period. The data also corroborated the shift from rural agricultural to rural non-agricultural and urban sectors of the economy.
F62|The Mining Dynamics and Economic performance in South African Mineral Resources Using Quantile Regression|The paper analyses the performance of the South African mineral resources such as gold, coal, Platinum Group Metals (PGMs), iron ore, manganese and diamonds, by assessing the dynamics of commodity total production and sales over the period 1990-2018. The empirical evidence is based on Monge-Kantorovich Multivariate Quantile regression. The change in revenue, exchange rates, mining production oil prices, Producer Price Index (PPI) as well as the dummy variable which presents the shock of a global financial crisis, are proposed indicators of the study. The results are nevertheless ambiguous in some sectors. The findings provided that the depreciation of exchange rates is associated with positive and significant increases in total production and sales, particularly in the coal and diamond sectors. In particular, oil prices only contribute unfavorably to coal, PGMs and diamond production. The results might be interpreted to provide some useful implications for minerals and mining policy strategy.
F62|Short and Long Run Asymmetric Effects of Monetary and Fiscal Policy Uncertainty on Economic Activity in the U.S|This paper extends the ongoing literature on the macroeconomic effects of monetary and fiscal policy uncertainty. It examined the asymmetric effects of monetary and fiscal policy uncertainty on economic activity in the short and long run using U.S. monthly data from 1985M1 to 2017M2. The industrial production index is used as a measure of economic activity while the Baker et al (2016) news based monetary and fiscal policy uncertainty were used as measures of uncertainty. To analyse asymmetry, the paper employed the nonlinear autoregressive distributed lag (NARDL) model which allows one not only to capture the effects of positive and negative uncertainty but to do so in both short and long run. Hence this paper provides new evidence of possible existence of a nonlinear and asymmetric relationship between policy uncertainty and economic activity in the short and long run. The results show that monetary and fiscal policy uncertainty share long run relationship with economic activity. Further, the effect of monetary and fiscal policy uncertainties in the long run is asymmetric. Asymmetric effect in the short run was supported only for monetary policy uncertainty. These findings have important practical and policy implications.
F62|Protección y productividad en la industria colombiana, 1993-2011|Este documento analiza la evolución de la productividad total factorial en la industria colombiana entre 1993 y 2011 haciendo uso de datos a nivel de firma. La determinación de la productividad total factorial es bastante importante debido a sus implicaciones en el crecimiento económico, la innovación y el nivel de ingresos del país. Una vez definida la evolución de la productividad to tal factorial se estudian sus determinantes. Fundamentalmente se consideran especificaciones que evalúan la importancia de la apertura económica y el nivel de concentración de la producción sobre los niveles de productividad. Los resultados muestran un estancamiento en la productividad factorial en la industria manufacturera del país y, además, se identifica una relación directa entre los niveles de incorporación de las firmas a los mercados internacionales y su nivel de productividad. **** ABSTRACT: This document analyzes the evolution of total factor productivity in Colombian industry between 1993 and 2011 using data at the firm level. The determination of total factor productivity is quite important because of its implications for economic growth, innovation and the income levels in the country. Once the evolution of total factor productivity is defined, its determinants are studied. Fundamentally, we considered specifications that evaluate the importance of the economic opening and the level of production concentration on productivity levels. The results show a stagnation in the productivity levels in the manufacturing industry of the country and, in addition, a direct relationship is identified between the firm’s integration levels to international markets and their productivity.
F62|Does Import Competition Reduce Domestic Innovation? Evidence from the 'China Stock' and Firm-Level Data on Canadian Manufacturing|A key economic issue in Canada is the declining Business Enterprise Research and Development in manufacturing since the early 2000s. Accompanying this, the total factor productivity (TFP) growth in manufacturing slowed after 2000. However, there has not been a definitive explanation for these trends. To deepen our understanding of this phenomenon, we focus on the increasing Chinese import share in the total domestic absorption in Canadian manufacturing since the early 2000s, which appears to be driven by positive supply shocks within Chinese manufacturing. Based on a firm-level database covering all incorporated firms in Canadian manufacturing, we find that rising Chinese import competition led to declines in R&D expenditure and TFP growth within firms but reallocated employment towards more productive firms and induced less productive firms to exit. The negative within-effects were pronounced for firms that were initially smaller, less profitable, and less productive. These firms also experienced declines in their profit margins due to rising Chinese import competition while larger and better-performing firms did not. Our estimates imply that rising Chinese import competition can explain about 7 per cent of the total decline of $1.36 billion (2007 CAD) in R&D expenditure in Canadian manufacturing between 2005 and 2010. Although it led to declines in TFP within firms, the positive reallocation effects more than offset the negative within-effect. Had there been no increase in Chinese import competition between 2005 and 2010, TFP in Canadian manufacturing would have declined by 1.26 per cent per year instead of the actual 1.09 per cent per year over this period.
F62|How resilient is ASEAN-5 to trade shocks? Regional and global shocks compared|This paper revisits the resilience of the ASEAN region to external shocks amidst the unfolding effects of the US-China trade war. It investigates and compares the effects of regional (ASEAN) and global (US, China) shocks on ASEAN-5 using a structural VAR framework. To identify the propagation of economic shocks and spillovers on ASEAN-5, the changing trade links between the economies considered are used to account for time variations spanning the period 1978Q1 to 2018Q2. Three major results follow from the analyses on trade links and output multiplier effects. First, the response of ASEAN-5 to shocks from the US and China were more pronounced than regional shocks for the period after the Asian financial crisis. Second, the increasing cumulative impact of China’s shock on ASEAN was congruous to the growing trade links and trade intensities between ASEAN and China. Third, the US and China were dominant growth drivers for the weaker trade-linked ASEAN partners. Taken together, the results suggest that global shocks matter for the region, and the economic resilience of the region to global shocks depends on indirect effects, apart from the direct trade links.
F62|A theory of economic unions|After decades of successful growth, economic unions have recently become the focus of heightened political controversy. We argue that this is partly due to the growth of trade between countries that are increasingly dissimilar. We develop a theoretical framework to study the e§ects on trade, income distribution and welfare of economic unions that di§er in size ad scope. Our model shows that political support for international unions can grow with their breadth and depth as long as member countries are su¢ ciently similar. However, di§erences in economic size and factor endowments can trigger disagreement over the value of unions between and within countries. The model is consistent with same salient features of the process of European integration and statistical evidence from survey data.
F62|Understanding inflation in emerging and developing economies|Emerging market and developing economies (EMDEs) have experienced an extraordinary decline in inflation since the early 1970s. After peaking in 1974 at 17.3 percent, inflation in these economies declined to 3.5 percent in 2017. Despite a checkered history of managing inflation among many EMDEs, disinflation occurred across all regions. This paper presents a summary of our recent book, “Inflation in Emerging and Developing Economies: Evolution, Drivers, and Policies,” that analyzes this remarkable achievement. Our findings suggest that many EMDEs enjoy the benefits of stability-oriented and resilient monetary policy frameworks, including central bank transparency and independence. Such policy frameworks need to be complemented by strong macroeconomic and institutional arrangements. Inflation expectations are more weakly anchored in EMDEs than in advanced economies. In EMDEs that do not operate inflation targeting frameworks, exchange rate movements tend to have larger and more persistent effects on inflation.
F62|The Trade War in Numbers|We build upon new developments in the international trade literature to isolate and quantify the long-run economic impacts of tariff changes on the United States and the global economy. In particular, we apply the most recent data and trade elasticity estimates to the Ricardian model of Caliendo and Parro (2015) to quantify the long-run impacts of the recently applied and proposed tariff changes, including the U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum imports and the rounds of additional tariffs between the United States and China. To fit the reality of the current trade policy shift, our analysis also allows for quotas and endogenizes trade balances. Overall, our results suggest that the newly imposed and proposed tariff schemes imply considerable changes in trade flows and sectoral output reallocations, but modest impacts on long-run aggregate prices and output levels.
F62|Estimating the Impacts of Tariff Changes: Two Illustrative Scenarios|We build upon new developments in the international trade literature to construct a quantitative Ricardian framework similar to Caliendo and Parro (2015) to isolate and estimate the long-run economic impacts of tariff changes. Our framework incorporates the most recent data and shows that the trade elasticities have changed considerably since the 1990s—highlighting the need to use recent data to quantitatively evaluate newly imposed and proposed tariff schedules. We apply our model and use our estimated elasticities to measure the long-run economic impact of the recently announced US tariffs on steel and aluminum and the first round of additional tariffs between the United States and China. Our results suggest that modifying the current global tariff schedules would imply considerable changes in trade flows and sectoral reallocations, but modest impacts on longrun output levels.
F62|Venting Out: Exports During a Domestic Slump|We exploit plausibly exogenous geographical variation in the reduction in domestic demand caused by the Great Recession in Spain to document the existence of a robust, within-firm negative causal relationship between demand-driven changes in domestic sales and export flows. Spanish manufacturing firms whose domestic sales were reduced by more during the crisis observed a larger increase in their export flows, even after controlling for firms' supply determinants (such as labor costs). This negative relationship between demand-driven changes in domestic sales and changes in export flows illustrates the capacity of export markets to counteract the negative impact of local demand shocks. We rationalize our findings through a standard heterogeneous-firm model of exporting expanded to allow for non-constant marginal costs of production. Using a structurally estimated version of this model, we conclude that the firm-level responses to the slump in domestic demand in Spain could well have accounted for around one-half of the spectacular increase in Spanish goods exports (the so-called `Spanish export miracle') over the period 2009-13.
F62|The Irish GDP in 2016. After the disaster comes a dilemma|The paper examines the disruption of statistics with the publication of the 2015 Ireland GDP at +26.3 per cent year on year. The figure was greeted by international disbelief. Ireland’s statistical authorities reacted with the publication, for the main aggregates, of modified data in parallel with the official one, much less affected by the bias on value added. The bias resulted from the relocation in Ireland of a huge amount of intellectual property capital, of the dimension of the GDP itself.To fix the link between statistical representation and economic fact means to depart from the legal form to let the substance prevail, i.e. depart from the description given by business reports and administrative data.
F62|Does Monetary Policy in Advanced Economies Have Differentiated Effects on Portfolio Flows to Emerging Economies?|This work analyzes whether monetary policy in advanced economies has differentiated effects on portfolio flows towards emerging economies coming from the US, the Euro Area and the UK. The results show the following: First, portfolio flows' response to US monetary policy events is vastly homogeneous across regions, whilst the reaction to Euro Area or UK polices are more diverse. Second, US policies have a bigger effect on portfolio flows from each of the selected advanced economies. Third, the magnitude of investors' responses is stronger towards Emerging Europe and Latin America than to Emerging Asia. These results could be useful for policymakers in emerging economies as a benchmark to anticipate differentiated effects in portfolio flows caused by monetary policy in advanced economies.
F62|¿Cuál es la dimensión y en que se gastó la reciente bonanza en Colombia?|En las primeras décadas del siglo XXI, Colombia experimentó una de las bonanzas más importantes de su historia. Este artículo identifica y cuantifica las más recientes del país, y los sectores en los que aumentó el gasto público en el período 2008-2016. Además, contrasta los resultados con un grupo de países suramericanos. Surgen cuatro mensajes: (i) en comparación con sus países vecinos, Colombia ha experimentado menos bonanzas, con una duración promedio similar a la mediana regional; (ii) mientras los otros países tienden a tener un sector económico que origina siempre la bonanza, Colombia tuvo un cambio sectorial al pasar de alimentos (café) a combustibles (hidrocarburos); (iii) el tamaño de la bonanza de hidrocarburos fue cerca de cinco veces la del café, lo que tuvo un impacto significativo en el presupuesto público; y (iv) al comparar el periodo anterior y posterior a la bonanza, se encuentra un cambio de tendencia simultáneo en la inversión pública con aumentos en rubros que, desde un perspectiva teórica, podrían haber tenido un impacto positivo en el desarrollo económico. **** ABSTRACT: Colombia experienced one of the major economic booms in its history during the first two decades of the 21st century. This paper characterizes and quantifies them and identifies the sectors where public expenditures increased over the period 2008-2016. Additionally, it compares these results with a group of South American countries. Four conclusions arise: (i) Colombia experienced fewer booms than its neighbors, although the average duration is similar to the regional median; (ii) while other countries maintain a historic leading sector, in Colombia a sectoral change occurred from food (coffee) to fuels (oil); (iii) income windfall of the oil boom in Colombia was around five times larger than the coffee boom, which significantly increased public budget and spending; and (iv) trend changes in public investment occurred during the recent oil boom in a way that, could have had a positive impact in economic development.
F62|Dissecting the Impact of Imports from Low-Wage Countries on French Consumer Prices|We provide a quantitative assessment of the impact of imports from low-wage countries (LWCs) on CPI inflation in France during 1994-2014, using detailed micro data on imports and exports. The share of imports from low-wage countries in consumption increased from about 2% to 7%, and resulted in a negative impact on CPI inflation of about 0.17 pp per year on average. This effect decomposes in three channels. 1) The substitution channel, capturing the replacement of domestic production by goods from LWCs, accounts for almost -0.05 pp. 2) The rise in the proportion of LWC goods in total imports weighed down on imported inflation. This channel reduced French CPI inflation by 0.06 pp per year. 3) Instrumental variable estimation of the competition channel at the product level shows that the increase in the market share of LWCs in French expenditures led to a negative effect of 0.06 pp on CPI inflation.
F62|The economics of revoking NAFTA|In a world economy interconnected by global value chains (GVCs), domestic productivity depends on the availability of imported inputs and the vast majority of workers stands to lose from protectionism. To exemplify this, we provide a quantitative assessment of the aggregate and distributional effects of one hypothetical protectionist measure - the case of revoking the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Using a multi-country, multi-sector, quantitative model of global production, we show that a full revocation extending to both tariffs and non-tariff trade barriers would result in a real annual GDP loss of US$ 37 billion in Canada, US$ 22 billion in Mexico, and US$ 40 billion in the USA. In contrast, annual combined losses would amount to less than US$ 5 billion if only tariff rates were to be increased. For both counterfactuals, the distributional impacts across sectors would be an order of magnitude larger than the aggregate effects. Combining these results with information on the geographic distribution of sectoral employment, we show that almost all regions in North America would record reductions in their average real wage.
F62|Domestic and Global Output Gaps as Inflation Drivers: What Does the Phillips Curve Tell?|We study how domestic and global output gaps affect CPI inflation. We use a New-Keynesian Phillips curve framework which controls for nonlinear exchange rate movements for a panel of 26 advanced and 22 emerging economies covering the 1994Q1-2017Q4 period. We find broadly that both global and domestic output gaps are significant drivers of inflation both in the pre-crisis (1994-2008) and post-crisis (2008-2017) periods. Furthermore, after the crisis, in advanced economies the effect of the domestic output gap declines, while in emerging economies the effect of the global output gap declines. The paper demonstrates the usefulness of the New Keynesian Phillips curve in identifying the impact of global and domestic output gaps on inflation.
F62|The global financial cycle, bank capital flows and monetary policy. Evidence from Norway|We investigate the importance of a global financial cycle for gross capital inflows based on monthly balance sheet data for Norwegian banks. The VIX index has been interpreted as an “investor fear gauge” and associated with a global financial cycle. This index has also been found to impact real activity. We include both a global activity variable and the VIX index in our structural VAR model of capital inflows. We find that when global activity falls, banks’ foreign funding share falls. Our results suggest that global real activity rather than a global financial cycle is a main driver behind the volume of bank capital inflows. We also study domestic monetary policy and implications for capital flows. Domestic monetary policy helps absorb VIX shocks and there is no indication of procyclical (“carry trade”) effects on funding. Monetary policy affects activity and inflation in a standard fashion, and the exchange rate acts as a buffer when shocks hit the economy.
F62|Mind the (current account) gap|There is substantial evidence that openness to trade raises economic growth and boosts living standards. But trade liberalisation has been asymmetric, focused on goods rather than services trade. The decline in goods trade barriers may have favoured countries specialising in goods, like China, Germany and Japan, allowing them to increase exports relative to imports, and contributing to their persistent current account surpluses. By contrast, countries like the United States and the United Kingdom, who specialise in the services sector where trade is more restricted, have been running persistent deficits. This pattern of persistent surpluses and deficits in these key countries has proven hard to explain in the International Monetary Fund’s External Balance Assessment methodology. This paper suggests that asymmetric trade liberalisation is one overlooked explanation. We demonstrate how realistic additions to textbook economic models allow trade policy to have persistent effects on current account imbalances. We also find empirical support for significant quantitative effects. These results suggest that liberalising services trade, levelling up to the liberalisation seen in goods trade, could reduce excess global imbalances by around 40%. Moreover it could contribute to higher and more inclusive global growth.
F62|International Value-Added Linkages in Development Accounting|We generalise the traditional development-accounting framework to an open economy setting. In addition to factor endowments and productivity, relative factor costs emerge as a source of real-income variation across countries. These are determined by bilateral trade frictions (which underpin the patterns of “international value-added linkages”) and the global distribution of factor endowments and final expenditures. We use information on endowments, trade balances and value-added trade to back out the relative factor costs of 40 major economies in a theory-consistent manner. This reduces the variation in “residual” TFP required to explain the observed per-capita income differences by more than one half.
F62|Domestic and global output gaps as inflation drivers: what does the Phillips curve tell?|We study how domestic and global output gaps affect CPI inflation. We use a New Keynesian Phillips curve framework, which controls for non-linear exchange rate movements for a panel of 26 advanced and 22 emerging economies covering the 1994Q1-2017Q4 period. We find broadly that both global and domestic output gaps are significant drivers of inflation both in the pre-crisis (1994-2008) and post-crisis (2008-2017) periods. Furthermore, after the crisis, in advanced economies the effect of the domestic output gap declines, while in emerging economies the effect of the global output gap declines. The paper demonstrates the usefulness of the New Keynesian Phillips curve in identifying the impact of global and domestic output gaps on inflation.
F62|Let their Knowledge Flow: The Effect of Returning Refugees on Export Performance in the Former Yugoslavia|During the early 1990s Germany received over half a million Yugoslavian refugees fleeing war. By 2000, many of these refugees, who were under temporary protection, had been repatriated. We exploit this historical episode to provide causal evidence on the role that migrants play explaining export performance in global markets after returning to their home country. We find that the elasticity of exports to return migration is between 0.1 to 0.24 in industries where migrants were employed during their stay in Germany. In order to deal with endogeneity we use historic exogenous rules of allocation of asylum seekers across different German states to construct an instrumental variable for the treatment. The results are mostly driven by knowledge-intensive industries, and by workers in occupations intensive in analytical and managerial skills.
F62|The KOF Globalisation Index – revisited|Abstract We introduce the revised version of the KOF Globalisation Index, a composite index measuring globalization for every country in the world along the economic, social and political dimension. The original index was introduced by Dreher (Applied Economics, 38(10):1091–1110, 2006) and updated in Dreher et al. (2008). This second revision of the index distinguishes between de facto and de jure measures along the different dimensions of globalization. We also disentangle trade and financial globalization within the economic dimension of globalization and use time-varying weighting of the variables. The new index is based on 43 instead of 23 variables in the previous version. Following Dreher (Applied Economics, 38(10):1091–1110, 2006), we use the new index to examine the effect of globalization on economic growth. The results suggest that de facto and de jure globalization influence economic growth differently. Future research should use the new KOF Globalisation Index to re-examine other important consequences of globalization and why globalization was proceeding rapidly in some countries, such as South Korea, but less so in others. The KOF Globalisation Index can be downloaded from http://www.kof.ethz.ch/globalisation/ .
F62|Top income shares in OECD countries: The role of government ideology and globalisation|This paper investigates how government ideology and globalisation are associated with top income shares in 17 OECD countries over the period 1970 to 2014. We use top income shares of the World Wealth and Income Database (WID). Globalisation is measured by the KOF index of globalisation. Static and dynamic panel model results show that the top income shares increased more under right wing governments than under left wing governments. The ideology‐induced effect was stronger when globalisation proceeded more rapidly. Globalisation was positively correlated with income shares of the upper‐middle class (P99–P90), but negatively with income shares of the rich (top 1%) in the overall sample. We show that the relationship differs between Anglo‐Saxon countries and other OECD countries. Globalisation was more pro‐rich in Anglo‐Saxon countries than in other OECD countries. Government ideology does not turn out to have a statistically significant effect on top income shares in Anglo‐Saxon countries after the 1980s, whereas ideology‐induced differences in the distributional outcomes continued in other OECD countries.
F62|Do global value chains amplify global imbalances?|This paper addresses the impact of countries' participation in global value chains (GVCs) on their current account balances. Relying on a panel of 57 advanced and emerging countries, we do not find evidence that GVC participation directly raises economies' current account positions. On the contrary, we show that backward participation makes a negative contribution to current account balances: our results contradict the speculation that current account imbalances of downstream countries are likely to benefit more from GVC participation than economies which are located further upstream. Moreover, we show that there is no significant indirect effect of GVC on the current account operating through the exchange rate. Finally, our findings indicate that whereas GVC participation boosts exports, this increase is not accompanied by improvements in price competitiveness, nor by higher levels of saving rates.
F62|¿Cuál es la dimensión y en que se gastó la reciente bonanza en Colombia?|En las primeras décadas del siglo XXI, Colombia experimentó una de las bonanzas más importantes de su historia. Este artículo identifica y cuantifica las más recientes del país, y los sectores en los que aumentó el gasto público en el período 2008-2016. Además, contrasta los resultados con un grupo de países suramericanos. Surgen cuatro mensajes: (i) en comparación con sus países vecinos, Colombia ha experimentado menos bonanzas, con una duración promedio similar a la mediana regional; (ii) mientras los otros países tienden a tener un sector económico que origina siempre la bonanza, Colombia tuvo un cambio sectorial al pasar de alimentos (café) a combustibles (hidrocarburos); (iii) el tamaño de la bonanza de hidrocarburos fue cerca de cinco veces la del café, lo que tuvo un impacto significativo en el presupuesto público; y (iv) al comparar el periodo anterior y posterior a la bonanza, se encuentra un cambio de tendencia simultáneo en la inversión pública con aumentos en rubros que, desde un perspectiva teórica, podrían haber tenido un impacto positivo en el desarrollo económico. **** ABSTRACT: Colombia experienced one of the major economic booms in its history during the first two decades of the 21st century. This paper characterizes and quantifies them and identifies the sectors where public expenditures increased over the period 2008-2016. Additionally, it compares these results with a group of South American countries. Four conclusions arise: (i) Colombia experienced fewer booms than its neighbors, although the average duration is similar to the regional median; (ii) while other countries maintain a historic leading sector, in Colombia a sectoral change occurred from food (coffee) to fuels (oil); (iii) income windfall of the oil boom in Colombia was around five times larger than the coffee boom, which significantly increased public budget and spending; and (iv) trend changes in public investment occurred during the recent oil boom in a way that, could have had a positive impact in economic development.
F62|The cost of non-TTIP: A Global Value Chain Approach|What is the cost of non-TTIP for the European Union and the United States? To address this question, this paper develops a network trade model with international sector-level input-output linkages. Our model is entirely general with closed-form solutions and can be used for any trade policy experiment. We use World Input Output Data (WIOD) to simulate the effects of TTIP in terms of value added and employment. We find that a deepTTIP raises European GDP by 1.3%, and US GDP by 0.7%. The largest share of these TTIP gains result from the reduction in Non-Tariff Barriers (NTBs) rather than from the removal of tariffs. The potential gains from TTIP are higher for the EU than for the US. These findings may offer an explanation for the current US stance on TTIP.
F62|Venting out: exports during a domestic slump|We exploit plausibly exogenous geographical variation in the reduction in domestic demand caused by the Great Recession in Spain to document the existence of a robust, within-firm negative causal relationship between demand-driven changes in domestic sales and export flows. Spanish manufacturing firms whose domestic sales were reduced by more during the crisis observed a larger increase in their export flows, even after controlling for firms’ supply determinants (such as labor costs). This negative relationship between demand-driven changes in domestic sales and changes in export flows illustrates the capacity of export markets to counteract the negative impact of local demand shocks. We rationalize our findings through a standard heterogeneous-firm model of exporting expanded to allow for non-constant marginal costs of production. Using a structurally estimated version of this model, we conclude that the firm-level responses to the slump in domestic demand in Spain could well have accounted for around one-half of the spectacular increase in Spanish goods exports (the so-called “Spanish export miracle”) over the period 2009-13.
F62|The Economics and Politics of Revoking NAFTA|We provide a quantitative assessment of both the aggregate and the distributional effects of revoking NAFTA using a multi-country, multi-sector, multi-factor model of world production and trade with global input-output linkages. Revoking NAFTA would reduce US welfare by about 0.2%, and Canadian and Mexican welfare by about 2%. The distributional impacts of revoking NAFTA across workers in different sectors are an order of magnitude larger in all three countries, ranging from -2.7 to 2.26% in the United States. We combine the quantitative results with information on the geographic distribution of sectoral employment, and compute average real wage changes in each US congressional district, Mexican state, and Canadian province. We then examine the political correlates of the economic effects. Congressional district-level real wage changes are negatively correlated with the Trump vote share in 2016: districts that voted more for Trump would on average experience greater real wage reductions if NAFTA is revoked.
F62|International Relocation of Production and Growth|The relocation of production and exports from the North to the South has been a central feature of economic globalization. Using data on approximately 5,000 products, this paper describes this process over the 1996-2014 period and assesses its impact on cross-country growth. Although increased competition from lower income countries tended to have a significant negative effect on the previous exporting countries of the relocated products, most rich countries were able to upgrade their export baskets and avoid a negative aggregate impact. A one-standard negative deviation in a country's export relocation index tended to reduce the country's annual growth by 0.3 percentage points at the median country income but had zero impact at the top of the country income distribution. Medium and low income countries were the most negatively affected by the increased competition from their pair countries.
F62|Do Global Value Chains Amplify Global Imbalances?|This paper addresses the impact of countries' participation in global value chains (GVCs) on their current account balances. Relying on a panel of 57 advanced and emerging countries, we do not fi nd evidence that GVC participation directly raises economies' current account positions. On the contrary, we show that backward participation makes a negative contribution to current account balances: our results contradict the speculation that current account imbalances of downstream countries are likely to benefi t more from GVC participation than economies which are located further upstream. Moreover, we show that there is no signifi cant indirect effect of GVC on the current account operating through the exchange rate. Finally, our fi ndings indicate that whereas GVC participation boosts exports, this increase is not accompanied by improvements in price competitiveness, nor by higher levels of saving rates.
F62|Chinese resource demand or commodity price shocks: Macroeconomic effects for an emerging market economy|This paper empirically addresses the hypothesis that of the external commodity based sector, Chinese resource demand is the most important driver of emerging market economy business cycles using Brazil as a representative case. Using a structural VAR to examine the effects of Chinese resource demand, world commodity prices and foreign output on domestic macroeconomic variables, we show that shocks to Chinese demand induce an expansion in Brazilian resource exports, the non-tradeable primary commodity sector and other domestic activity. Commodity price shocks are less favorable than Chinese resource demand shocks. Our findings identify the important role of the interest rate in amplifying the real effects of the commodity sector boom, in contrast to the role of the interest rate in developed countries. By incorporating Chinese resource demand in addition to commodity prices, commodity prices play a smaller role in explaining the variance of domestic output than found in previous literature.
F62|Financial and non-financial global stock market volatility shocks|We decompose global stock market volatility shocks into financial originated shocks and nonfinancial originated shocks. Global stock market volatility shocks arising from financial sources reduce substantially more global outputs and inflation than non-financial sources shocks. Financial stock market volatility shocks forecasts 16.85% and 16.88% of the variation in global growth and inflation, respectively. In contrast, the on-financial stock market volatility shocks forecasts only 8.0% and 2.19% of the variation in global growth and inflation. Beside this markable difference global interest/policy rate responds similarly to both shocks.
F62|Global Banking Network and Regional Financial Contagion|This paper investigates and tests the role of regional exposures in financial contagion from advanced to emerging market economies through the global banking network using data on cross-border bilateral bank claims and liability positions. We first examine whether an economy can become more susceptible to capital outflows, regardless of its own bank exposures, if economies in the same region are heavily exposed to crisis countries. Second, we test whether the same region lenders tend to reduce exposures to the emerging market borrowers less than do different region lenders during crises. Using bilateral data from the Bank for International Settlements international banking statistics, we obtain evidence for both hypotheses. First, we find that direct exposures of a country’s own and the overall region’s banking sectors to crisis-affected countries are systematically related to bank capital outflows during the global financial crisis. Also, some of our empirical results indicate that an emerging economy’s financial vulnerability can be influenced by its region’s indirect exposures to crisis countries. Second, a further analysis suggests more favorable behavior of the same region lender toward emerging economies during crisis.
F62|Assessing the Effectiveness of IMF Programs Following the Global Financial Crisis: How Did It Change Since the Asian Crisis?|We identify the key features of International Monetary Fund (IMF)–supported programs following the 2008 global financial crisis. The statistical analysis of a large sample of countries that borrowed from the IMF during 1997–2013 indicates that, compared to the amount of financing provided to crisis countries during the post-Asian crisis period, the amount was larger on average by more than 3 percentage points of GDP. Yet, the observed magnitude of adjustment in key macroeconomic variables, such as output, the exchange rate, and the current account balance, was just as large, even when the influence of less favorable global economic conditions was controlled for. We argue that the puzzle can be explained, in part, by the large-scale global financial deleveraging, as well as the large initial domestic imbalances observed during the post-global crisis period. The IMF’s post-global crisis programs routinely allowed fiscal balance targets to be relaxed in the face of adverse shocks; some attempted to bail in private investors or accommodated the use of capital and exchange controls to limit capital outflows; and the IMF often collaborated with other donors to boost total official financing. It is reasonable to surmise that, without these innovations, the required macroeconomic adjustments would have been even greater.
F62|Do Local Currency Bond Markets Enhance Financial Stability?|It is widely believed that local currency bond markets (LCBMs) can promote financial stability in developing countries. For instance, they can help mitigate the currency and maturity mismatch that contributed to the outbreak of the Asian financial crisis of 1997–1998. In this paper, we empirically test such conventional wisdom on the stabilizing effect of LCBMs. To do so, we analyze and compare the financial vulnerability of developing countries during two episodes of financial stress—global financial crisis and taper tantrum. During the two episodes, we find a negative association between the growth of LCBMs and the degree of currency depreciation in emerging economies. Similar association is found of bank loans but not for the stock market.
F62|The Heterogeneous Effects of Global and National Business Cycles on Employment in U.S. States and Metropolitan Areas|The growth of globalization in recent decades has increased the importance of external factors as drivers of the business cycle in many countries. Globalization affects countries not just at the macro level but at the level of states and metro areas as well. This paper isolates the relative importance of global, national and region-specific shocks as drivers of the business cycle in individual U.S. states and metro areas. We document significant heterogeneity in the sensitivity of states and metro areas to global shocks, and show that direct trade linkages are not the only channel through which the global business cycle impacts regional economies.
F62|Uncertainty and Fiscal Cliffs|Fiscal uncertainty arises in many forms. Expiring temporary stimulus measures, projections of rapid debt growth, and oscillating political concerns over general levels of taxation are examples that all contribute to fiscal uncertainty. Motivated by anecdotal evidence associated with the US Fiscal-Cliff episode near the end of 2012, we empirically investigate the impact of economic policy uncertainty on investment and employment, especially with regard to the type of investment project. Increases in policy uncertainty lower investment and employment, with some investment dropping immediately and some more gradually, depending upon the ease of installation of types of capital. Based upon this empirical evidence, we then present a DSGE model of expiring tax provisions, and show that the model generates responses to fiscal uncertainty that match key features of the data. The framework captures a few unique elements of fiscal uncertainty. First, fiscal uncertainty is over the average tax rate, rather than a mean-preserving shock to the future tax rate. Second, households obtain information that tax rates may change at a particular date in the future, though whether tax rates do ultimately change is uncertain. As a result, information indicating that a policy change may occur in the future immediately sets in motion partial adjustments toward the new policy. The degree of adjustment households undertake depends on the probability attached to the outcome that actually does result in a change in fiscal policy. Unsuccessful reforms inject noise into the economy and lower the steady state level of the capital stock and output.
F62|INTERNATIIONAL TAX RULES IN RUSSIA: CONCEPTUAL FINDINGS in the light of BEPS OECD/G20 PROJECT and GLOBAL E-COMMERCE DEVELOPMENTS|In this paper author compares Russian international tax rules with international “best practice” (incorporated in BEPS deliverables and other OECD and academic reports) with the aim of finding out ways of their improving and development. Main findings include: high level of uncertainty due to existence of distance in applying and interpretation typical international tax concepts (including permanent establishment, VAT place of supply and e-commerce related rules, beneficial owner, transfer pricing and others) between Russia and developed states. Second, some indicators of base erosion were estimated and they showed existence of BEPS behavior in Russia. Third, Russian treaty policy based on concluding OECD-Model treaties and participating in BEPS and implementing new complex anti-abuse rules and recommendations (such as LOB, PPT, CbC, for example) in combination with current court and fiscal practice can harm investment climate and lead to defeat in tax competition game in favor of more developed states
F62|Globalization Effects on the Distribution of Income| Changes in the distribution of income are one of the main challenges to social cohesion in OECD countries. In particular, empirical evidence points to a large share of growth accruing to the top 1% in the income distribution during the last three decades. The role of globalization in this process is hotly debated. In this paper, I present a theoretical mechanism to explain how globalization affects income distribution, which has not been studied extensively yet. I build my argument on the Melitz model, which I augment with a banking sector to replace the implicit complete financial market in the original paper. The generated rents thus become income-relevant and accrue by assumption to the firms’ top managers. This allows me to assess globalization’s effect on the top end of the income distribution. I find that globalization has a strong effect on income distribution but I do not conclude that reversing globalization is the solution for the challenge to social cohesion.
F62|Is globalisation taking away jobs? An empirical assessment for advanced economies|We empirically investigate the link between economic globalisation and unemployment for a sample of 20 OECD countries over the 1981-2013 period. Controlling for the usual determinants of unemployment, our results show that unemployment is related in a complex way to global economic factors. Specifically , we show that outflows of foreign direct investment and restrictions reduce the unemployment rate, whereas capital account openness raises it. We also find that the standard trade openness measure does not explain unemployment in advanced economies. Finally, the increase in the share of China's imports is not to be blamed for slack in Western labour markets. JEL Classification: E24, F62, C33.
F62|Why Are Keynesian Multipliers Larger in Hard Times? A Palley-Aftalion-Pasinetti Explanation|We use the Annual Macroeconomic database of the European Commission (AMECO) to confirm that textbook multipliers are nearly always greater than one and that they increase during recessions. Propensity to import falls in recessions through the combined effects of the amplified fall in investment and the high import content of investment. A change in saving behavior may also raise the multiplier. These findings strongly support the need for countercyclical fiscal policies during recessions.
F62|The Micro Origins of International Business-Cycle Comovement|This paper investigates the role of individual firms in international business-cycle comovement using data covering the universe of French firm-level value added and international linkages over the period 1993–2007. At the micro level, trade and multinational linkages with a particular foreign country are associated with a significantly higher correlation between a firm and that foreign country. The impact of direct linkages on comovement at the micro level has significant macro implications. Without those linkages the correlation between France and foreign countries would fall by about 0.098, or one-third of the observed average correlation of 0.291 in our sample of partner countries.
F62|Migration, Knowledge Diffusion and the Comparative Advantage of Nations|The diffusion of tacit knowledge involves direct human interactions. This implies that the international diffusion of knowledge should follow the pattern of international migration. We test this idea using cross‐country productivity spillovers leading to new exports as proxy for knowledge diffusion. We find that a 10% increase in immigration from exporters of a given product is associated with a 2% increase in the likelihood that the host country starts exporting that good ‘from scratch’ in the next decade. The results appear stronger for highly‐skilled migrants, qualitatively similar for emigrants and robust to instrumenting for migration in a gravity framework.
F62|R&D offshoring and home industry productivity|Offshoring R&D commonly invokes concerns regarding the loss of high value jobs and a hollowing out of technological capabilities, but it can also benefit domestic firms by enabling them to tap into the global technological frontier. We study the effect of R&D offshoring on industrial productivity in the home country using industry-level data for 18 OECD countries over a 26-year period. Simultaneity between productivity and R&D offshoring is addressed by using foreign tax policy as an instrument for offshored R&D. We show that R&D offshoring contributes positively to productivity in the home country, irrespective of the host country destination.
F62|EU exports to the world: Effects on employment|"The European Commission identified trade policy as a core component of the European Union's 2020 Strategy. The fast changing global economy, characterised by the dynamic creation of business opportunities and increasingly complex production chains, means that it is now even more important to fully understand how trade flows affect employment. Gathering comprehensive, reliable and comparable information on this is crucial to support evidencebased policymaking. Guided by that objective, the European Commission's Joint Research Centre (JRC) and the Commission's Directorate General for Trade have collaborated to produce this publication. It aims to be a valuable tool for trade policymakers. Following up the first edition (Arto et al, 2015), the report features a series of indicators to illustrate in detail the relationship between trade and employment for the EU as a whole and for each EU Member State using the new World Input-Output Database (WIOD), 2016 release (Timmer et al, 2015, 2016), as the main data source. This information has been complemented with data on employment by age, skill and gender from other sources such as EUKLEMS. All the indicators relate to the EU exports to the rest of the world so as to reflect the scope of EU trade policymaking. Most indicators are available as off 2000 but, due to data constraints, the indicators on employment split by skill, gender and age are only available from 2008 to 2014. The geographical breakdown of the data includes the 28 EU Member States, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, India, Indonesia, Japan, Mexico, Norway, Russia, South Korea, Switzerland, Turkey, Taiwan, the United States of America, and an aggregate ""Rest of the World"" region. On the basis of the number of jobs embodied in every million EUR worth of exports in 2014 and more recent data on international trade in goods and services, this report also provides projections elaborated by the JRC for 2017 using a different methodology, so they should be taken with caution. The information presented in this pocketbook is complemented with an electronic version allowing downloads of the tables with the complete time series (2000-2014 and 2017)."
F62|EU exports to the world: Effects on income|"The European Commission identified trade policy as a core component of the European Union's 2020 Strategy. The fast changing global economy, characterised by the dynamic creation of business opportunities and increasingly complex production chains, means that it is now even more important to fully understand how trade flows affect income generation. Gathering comprehensive, reliable and comparable information on this is crucial to support evidence-based policymaking. Guided by that objective, the European Commission's Joint Research Centre (JRC) and the Commission's Directorate General for Trade have collaborated to produce this publication. It aims to be a valuable tool for trade policymakers. Following up the first edition (Arto et al., 2015), the report features a series of indicators to illustrate in detail the relationship between trade and income (i.e. value added) generation for the EU as a whole and for each EU Member State using the World Input-Output Database (WIOD), 2016 release (Timmer et al., 2015, 2016), as the main data source. This information has been complemented with data on labour compensation by skill from EUKLEMS. All the indicators relate to the EU's exports to the rest of the world so as to reflect the scope of EU trade policymaking. Most indicators are available as off 2000 but, due to data constraints, the indicator on labour compensation split by skill is only available from 2008 to 2014. The geographical breakdown of the data includes the 28 EU Member States, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, India, Indonesia, Japan, Mexico, Norway, Russia, South Korea, Switzerland, Turkey, Taiwan, the United States of America, and an aggregate ""Rest of the World"" region. On the basis of the value added embodied in every million EUR worth of exports in 2014 and more recent data on international trade in goods and services, this report also provides projections elaborated by the JRC for 2017 using a different methodology, so they should be taken with caution. The information presented in this pocketbook is complemented with an electronic version allowing downloads of the tables with the complete time series (2000-2014 and 2017)."
F62|EU exports to the EU: Effects on employment and income|"The European Commission identified trade policy as a core component of the European Union's 2020 Strategy. The fast changing global economy, characterised by the dynamic creation of business opportunities and increasingly complex production chains, means that it is now even more important to fully understand how trade flows affect employment in the EU economy. Gathering comprehensive, reliable and comparable information on this is crucial to support evidence-based policymaking. Guided by that objective, the European Commission's Joint Research Centre (JRC) produced this publication. It aims to be a valuable tool for EU policymakers covering trade policy, industrial policy, employment policy and the European Semester. Following up Arto et al. (2015), this report features a series of indicators to illustrate in detail the relationship between international trade, income and employment for the EU as a whole and for each EU Member State using the World Input-Output Database (WIOD), 2016 release (Timmer et al., 2015, 2016), as the main data source. This information has been complemented with labour data by age, skill and gender from other sources such as EUKLEMS. All the indicators relate to the EU exports of goods and services consumed in another EU country or sold as intermediate to another EU country. Effects of intra-EU trade supplying inputs to other EU countries to produce exports of goods and services sold to non-EU countries are not reported here but in other JRC publications: ""EU exports to the world: Effects on Employment"" (Arto et al., 2018a) and ""EU exports to the world: Effects on Income"" (Arto et al., 2018b). Most indicators are available as off 2000 but, due to data constraints, the indicators on employment split by skill, gender and age are only available from 2008 to 2014. The geographical breakdown of the data includes the 28 EU Member States. The information presented in this pocketbook is complemented with an electronic version allowing downloads of the tables with the complete time series (2000-2014)."
F62|Globalisation and Economic Growth: A panel data approach|Using different kinds of panel unit root and cointegration tests as well as panel estimations this paper seeks to improve upon the existing literature by testing the possible relationship between globalisation and the real GDP of 29 countries across almost all continents for the period 1970–2013. The results obtained allow us to confirm that globalisation is clearly relevant to economic growth, mostly when globalisation is proxied by variables related to international transactions, but also when it is proxied with the globalisation indexes and sub-indexes provided by the database of the Swiss think-tank KOF. There is also clear evidence that the long-run relationships, measured through panel cointegration, are stronger among the countries belonging to the same continent, Europe, as well as among those with a higher GDP per capita.
F62|Chinese and Japanese infrastructure investment in Southeast Asia: from rivalry to cooperation?|This article focuses on Sino-Japanese competition dynamics in Southeast Asian infrastructure investment. It attempts to use Sino-Japanese competition for infrastructure financing and high-speed railway contracts as a case in point to explore whether and in what way the Sino-Japanese rivalry extends to the infrastructure sectors in Southeast Asia, what impacts it will create on the region in terms of investment models and regional financial architecture. This article concludes by saying that Sino-Japanese competition in Southeast Asian infrastructure could be constructive, since this competition can contain the two countries’ respective behavior and prompt them to improve their investment approaches. Thus, a multilateral cooperation framework among ASEAN, Japan and China would be needed so as to contain and soften Sino-Japanese overdue rivalry in Southeast Asia.
F62|The KOF Globalisation Index â€“ Revisited|In this paper we present and describe the revised version of the KOF Globalisation Index, a composite index measuring globalisation for every country in the world along the economic, social and political dimension. The original index was introduced by Dreher (2006) and updated in Dreher et al. (2008). This second revision of the index introduces the differentiation between de facto and de jure measures along the different dimensions of globalisation, the differentiation between trade and financial globalisation within the economic dimension of globalisation and time-varying weighting of the variables entering the index. Finally, the revised version incorporates several additional variables in the construction process. At the aggregate level, we show that a bidirectional relationship between de facto and de jure globalisation exists.
F62|What core inflation indicators measure?|Whether excluding food and energy components from overall price indices produces a useful indicator for monetary policy purposes is widely debated. The proposals of model based measures of underlying inflation are scarce and the evidence on their performance is limited. In the paper the multidimensional performance of exclusion and model based core inflation indicators is compared in the period of persistently low inflation and interest rates. Providing new measures of underlying inflation we look for specific features of such indices as: tracking trend, appropriate smoothing, unbiasedness with respect to the cost-of-living index, good approximation of the demand pressure, and good short- to medium-term forecasting abilities. To this end, we extract permanent and transitory components of headline HICP and core inflation in the sample of 26 European Union countries for the period 2002-2016 using bivariate unobserved correlated components model and maximum likelihood estimator. We construct an aggregate performance measure, named Core Inflation Score, to capture different dimensions of underlying inflation indicators which could be of interest in monetary policy analysis.
F62|Global Portfolio Rebalancing and Exchange Rates|We examine international equity allocations at the fund level and show how different returns on the foreign and domestic proportion of portfolios determine rebalancing behavior and trigger capital flows. We document the heterogeneity of rebalancing across fund types, its greater intensity under higher exchange rate volatility, and the exchange rate effect of such rebalancing. The observed dynamics of equity returns, exchange rates, and fund-level capital flows are compatible with a model of incomplete FX risk trading in which exchange rate risk partially segments international equity markets.
F62|Capital inflows, equity issuance activity, and corporate investment|This paper uses issuance-level data to study how equity capital inflows that enter emerging market economies affect equity issuance and corporate investment. It shows that foreign inflows are strongly correlated with country-level issuance. The relation especially reflects the behavior of large firms, defined as those with large market value of equity. To identify supply-side shocks, capital inflows into each country are instrumented with exogenous changes in other countries'attractiveness to foreign investors. Shifts in the supply of foreign capital are important drivers of increased equity inflows. Instrumented contemporaneous and lagged capital inflows lead large firms to raise new equity, which they use to fund investment. The results indicate that inflows imply more than a transfer of equity ownership from domestic to foreign investors. Foreign purchases of equity have financial and real consequences for firms.
F62|The Exorbitant Tax Privilege|We estimate and attempt to explain the evolution of the taxes paid by U.S. multinationals on their foreign profits since 1966. In the oil sector, taxes paid to oil-producing States have been contained, allowing U.S. firms to earn high after-tax returns. Foreign taxes fell abruptly after the first Gulf War. In sectors other than oil, the effective foreign tax rate has fallen by half since the late 1990s. Almost half of this decline owes to the rise of profit shifting to tax havens. The low foreign taxes paid by U.S. multinationals can explain half of the U.S. cross-border return differential.
F62|Factor Incomes in Global Value Chains: The Role of Intangibles|Recent studies document a decline in the share of labour and a simultaneous increase in the share of residual (‘factorless’) income in national GDP. We argue the need for study of factor incomes in cross-border production to complement country studies. We define a GVC production function that tracks the value added in each stage of production in any country-industry. We define a new residual as the difference between the value of the final good and the payments to all tangibles (capital and labour) in any stage. We focus on GVCs of manufactured goods and find the residual to be large. We interpret it as income for intangibles that are (mostly) not covered in current national accounts statistics. We document decreasing labour and increasing capital income shares over the period 2000-14. This is mainly due to increasing income for intangible assets, in particular in GVCs of durable goods. We provide evidence that suggests that the 2000s should be seen as an exceptional period in the global economy during which multinational firms benefitted from reduced labour costs through offshoring, while capitalising on existing firm-specific intangibles, such as brand names, at little marginal cost.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F62|The economics and politics of revoking NAFTA|Abstract We provide a quantitative assessment of both the aggregate and the distributional effects of revoking NAFTA, using a multi-country, multi-sector, multi-factor model of world production and trade with global input-output linkages. Revoking NAFTA would reduce US welfare by about 0.2%, and Canadian and Mexican welfare by about 2%. The distributional impacts of revoking NAFTA across workers in different sectors are an order of magnitude larger in all three countries, ranging from -2.7 to 2.26% in the United States. We combine the quantitative results with information on the geographic distribution of sectoral employment, and compute average real wage changes in each US congressional district, Mexican state, and Canadian province. We then examine the political correlates of the economic effects. Congressional district-level real wage changes are negatively correlated with the Trump vote share in 2016: districts that voted more for Trump would on average experience greater real wage reductions if NAFTA is revoked.
F62|A Simultaneous Equation Model of Globalization, Corruption, Democracy, Human Development and Social Progress|This study builds a simultaneous equation model that establishes inter-connections among the measures of globalization, measures of democracy, human development, corruption perception index and per capita income, which in turn jointly influence social progress. The model has eleven equations in which the response variables and the predictor variables are log-linearly related. The empirical data used for estimation of the model pertain to the period 2006-2016 for 116 countries distributed over all the continents. The model has been estimated by the conventional Two-Stage Least Squares (2-SLS) and alternatively by a modified 2-SLS in which, at the second stage, Shapley value regression has been used to ameliorate the detrimental effects of collinearity among the predictor variables. It has been found that the modified 2-SLS outperforms the conventional 2-SLS. Empirically, it has been established that globalization, democracy, human development and low level of corruption are reinforcing each other and they together explain social progress quite well.
F62|Trade Balance Analysis in Zimbabwe: Import and Export Examination Using Vector Auto-Regression Model|Zimbabwe, just like many other developing nations have failed to register a positive trade balance for the past decade. Zimbabwe, is then labelled a net-importer or a permanent net-importer, since imports have always been greater than exports. Despite differences in value of imports and exports, quality is also essential to determine the country’s development path. The trade balance is affected by both international and domestic events. Chief exports for Zimbabwe remains primary products which are unprocessed, while the country imports finished products which have been value-added. The study seeks to analyse the trade balance over the years 1980 to 2017, paying particular attention to the periodic trends. The study also explore the relationship between the trade balance components, being imports and exports. The study employed a trend analysis and a statistical analysis to attain its study objectives. The study noted a general rise in both exports and imports, however imports significantly above imports for the entire study period, whether for merchandise or non-merchandise. ADF unit root tests were applied to time series data and variables were found to be integrated of order one. Imports have been found to Granger cause exports while exports Granger cause imports as well. Johansen Cointegration test shows that exports and imports are cointegrated, however using the VAR model, the error correction term was insignificant, discarding the existence of a longrun relationship. Exports levels are affected by its past values and also past values of imports significantly. Imports are also affected by historical exports significantly. Improvement in export policy is critical, value addition to exports, market fetching through regionalism and import substitution is essential to manage the trade balance.
F62|What Remains of Cross-Country Convergence?|We examine the record of cross-country growth over the past 50 years and ask if developing countries have made progress on closing income gap between their per capita incomes and those in the advanced economies. We conclude that, as a group, they have not and then survey the literature on absolute convergence with particular emphasis on that from the last decade or so. That literature supports our conclusion of a lack of progress in closing the income gap between countries. We close with a brief examination of the recent literature on cross-individual distribution of income which finds that, despite the lack of progress on cross-country convergence, global inequality has tended to fall since 2000.
F62|Are we heading towards a global economic collapse?|The recent developments in the global market are a reasonable evidence of the growing inability of the WTO to sustain integrated economic performance of its member countries. The latest trade dispute between the USA and China cannot be restricted to an apparent analysis of the flaws in the WTO mechanism. This dispute should be viewed as a tip of the iceberg in the context of a growing disequilibrium in the entire globe, caused by complex socio-economic and geo-political factors. These factors are so deep rooted that they are to be treated with certain fundamental reforms. But to ascertain the definition and direction of such reforms we need to agree and understand that the unfortunate process of global economic collapse has already begun. This paper presents the intangible intricacies of this process of collapse by connecting the socio-economic factors with the geo-political factors. In other words, this paper is an attempt to integrate various micro issues to bring out a realistic macro picture of the global economic collapse. This paper defines the fearful journey of socio-economic deterioration, based on author’s impartial view of the world economy and the serious undercurrents in five different socio-cultural groups defining the globe. These five groups are further influenced by a few important economies, which have been causing the overall socio-economic turbulence leading towards an unprecedented global collapse.
F62|An Acceleration Mechanism of Within-Country Inequality by Globalization|This paper examines the possibility that the increases in within-country economic inequality that were observed in many countries since the 1980s were caused by deepening globalization through uneven capital accumulation across households by constructing a model based on the concept of sustainable heterogeneity. The model indicates that unless a government strengthens social welfare measures appropriately as globalization deepens (i.e., increases transfers from more-advantaged households to less-advantaged households), the level of within-country economic inequality will continue to increase. This result indicates the recent increases in within-country economic inequality may have been caused at least partially by the inaction of governments in the face of increasing globalization.
F62|Inclusive Growth and Macroeconomic Situations in South Asia: An Empirical Analysis|Inclusive growth is the main target of development economics, although developing countries have accelerated their overall economic growth but with less inclusiveness. This article has observed the impact of macroeconomic situation on inclusive growth in South Asia (Pakistan, India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh) over the period of 1991 to 2014. This article has used panel autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL), the unit root issue of the variables is checked with the help of Levin, Lin & Chu t*, ADF - Fisher Chi-square, Im, Pesaran and Shin W-stat and PP-Fisher Chi-square unit root tests. The results of the study show that per capita income and level of education are reducing inclusiveness in South Asia. The study points out that macroeconomic situations, population growth and female labor force are promoting inclusive growth. The study recommends that for higher inclusive growth, South Asian countries would enhance level education, per capita income, female share in labor markets and control population growth with stable macroeconomic situations.
F62|Les transferts de fonds des migrants contribuent elles à l'inclusivité de la croissance en Afrique Subsaharienne?<BR>[Do remittances contribute to inclusive growth in Subsaharan Africa?]|The purpose of this study is to assess the contribution of remittances on the improvement of inclusive growth in sub-Saharan Africa. The role of institutions is highlighted through three indicators from International Country Risk Guide (IRCG) such as investment profile, control of corruption and law and order. Estimates of panel macroeconomic data over the period 1985-2014 with 5 years intervals are made using the System Generalized Method of Moment (SGMM). Inclusive growth is captured by the quality growth index (QGI) that we have calculated for the 24 countries of our sample, following closely the Mlachila et al (2014) approach. Our results suggest that remittances enhance inclusive growth in Sub Saharan Africa. More precisely, a 10% increase in remittances leads to a 0.2%; 0.15% and 0.33% increase in the quality growth index depending on different specifications. When taking into account institutional context, only “law and order” enhance the ability of remittances to promote inclusive growth in SSA. These results indicate that governments should not only create conditions in order to attract more remittances, but additional incentives (better institutions) are needed to get beneficiary households and individuals to use remittances productively and thus, they would better contribute to inclusive growth which is nowadays one of the most important solution to a deep reduction of poverty and inequality.
F62|Global Banking Network and Regional Financial Contagion|This paper investigates and tests the role of regional exposures in financial contagion from advanced to emerging market economies through the global banking network using data on cross-border bilateral bank claims and liability positions. It first examines whether an economy can become more susceptible to capital outflows, regardless of its own bank exposures, if economies in the same region are heavily exposed to crisis countries. Secondly, it tests whether the same region lenders tend to reduce exposures to the emerging market borrowers less than do different region lenders during crises.
F62|Rationale and Institution for Public–Private Partnerships|Private–public partnership (PPP) methods are considered to be an effective way to narrow the gap between demand and supply of social infrastructure. If successfully pursued, PPP can deliver benefits to users, governments, and the private sector, or the so-called triple wins. Enhancing efficiency by reducing cost and time overruns is beneficial to users and governments, and better quality of service is expected via PPP. It will also examine the factors that have been important for shaping the county’s PPP landscape, including fiscal soundness, unsolicited project proposals, and the refinancing and renegotiation of PPPs. PPPs are not a must-have solution but an option for building and upgrading infrastructure. In conclusion, PPPs are being promoted because it can mobilize needed resources from the private sector, maximize value for money, bring creativity and efficiency to a project, and be a source of fiscal stimulus. That said, countries should be clear on why they are promoting the PPP modality for infrastructure.
F62|Do Local Currency Bond Markets Enhance Financial Stability?|This paper empirically tests conventional wisdom on the stabilizing effect of LCBMs. To do so, it analyses and compare the financial vulnerability of developing countries during two episodes of financial stressâ€”global financial crisis and taper tantrum. During the two episodes, the paper finds a negative association between the growth of LCBMs and the degree of currency depreciation in emerging economies. Similar association is found of bank loans but not for the stock market.
F62|Assessing the Effectiveness of IMF Programs Following the Global Financial Crisis: How Did It Change Since the Asian Crisis?|The paper identifies key features of International Monetary Fund (IMF)â€“supported programs following the 2008 global financial crisis. The statistical analysis of a large sample of countries that borrowed from the IMF during 1997â€“2013 indicates that, compared to the amount of financing provided to crisis countries during the post-Asian crisis period, the amount was larger on average by more than 3 percentage points of GDP. Yet, the observed magnitude of adjustment in key macroeconomic variables, such as output, the exchange rate, and the current account balance, was just as large, even when the influence of less favorable global economic conditions was controlled for. The paper argues that the puzzle can be explained, in part, by the large-scale global financial deleveraging, as well as the large initial domestic imbalances observed during the post-global crisis period. The IMFâ€™s post-global crisis programs routinely allowed fiscal balance targets to be relaxed in the face of adverse shocks; some attempted to bail in private investors or accommodated the use of capital and exchange controls to limit capital outflows; and the IMF often collaborated with other donors to boost total official financing. It is reasonable to surmise that, without these innovations, the required macroeconomic adjustments would have been even greater.
F62|Capital accumulation and dynamic gains from trade|We compute welfare gains from trade in a dynamic, multicountry model with capital accumulation and trade imbalances. We develop a gradient-free method to compute the exact transition paths following a trade liberalization. We find that (i) larger countries accumulate a current account surplus, and financial resources flow from larger countries to smaller countries, boosting consumption in the latter, (ii) countries with larger short-run trade deficits accumulate capital faster, (iii) the gains are nonlinear in the reduction in trade costs, and (iv) capital accumulation accounts for substantial gains. The net foreign asset position before the liberalization is positively correlated with the gains. The tradables intensity in consumption goods production determines the static gains, and the tradables intensity in investment goods production determines the dynamic gains that include capital accumulation.
F62|Analysis of shock transmissions to a small open emerging economy using a SVARMA model|Using a parsimonious structural vector autoregressive moving average (SVARMA) model, we analyse the transmission of foreign and domestic shocks to a small open emerging economy under different policy regimes. Narrower confidence bands around the SVARMA responses compared to the SVAR responses, advocate the suitability of this framework for analysing the propagation of economic shocks over time. Malaysia is an interesting small open economy that has experienced an ongoing process of economic transition and development. The Malaysian government imposed exchange rate and capital control measures following the 1997 Asian financial crisis. Historical decomposition and variance decomposition allow contrast of shocks propagating under different policy regimes. Malaysia is highly exposed to foreign shocks, particularly under the managed float exchange rate system. During the pegged exchange rate period, Malaysian monetary policymakers experienced some breathing space to focus on maintaining price and output stability. In the post-pegged period, Malaysia's exposure to foreign shocks increased and in recent times are largely driven by world commodity price and global activity shocks.
F62|Financial and non-financial global stock market volatility shocks|We decompose global stock market volatility shocks into financial originated shocks and non-financial originated shocks. Global stock market volatility shocks arising from financial sources reduce substantially more global outputs and inflation than non-financial sources shocks. Financial stock market volatility shocks forecasts 16.85% and 16.88% of the variation in global growth and inflation, respectively. In contrast, the non-financial stock market volatility shocks forecasts only 8.0% and 2.19% of the variation in global growth and inflation. Beside this markable difference global interest/policy rate responds similarly to both shocks.
F62|Uneven growth in the extensive margin: explaining the lag of agricultural economies|This paper documents that growth in the extensive margin is on average lower in the agricultural sector than in other activities. We introduce this new fact into a simple model of trade to show its relevance for regions specialized in the lagging sector. Diversity-loving consumers endogenously reduce the share of their expenditure devoted to that sector. The region specialized in it receives a decreasing share of world income, which results in diverging income and welfare trajectories with respect to the rest of the world. Appropriating a decreasing share of world value pushes downward the relative wage of the agricultural re- gion and lowers the price of its exports relative to that of its imports, resulting in terms of trade deterioration. This result, supported by empirical evidence, separates our theoretical results from those obtained in a similar model of un- even output growth between sectors. We present empirical evidence for the main testable results of the model. Our model is the first replicating these facts with- out the need of heterogeneous consumers or products, nor resorting to political or institutional explanations.
F62|Capital Inflows, Equity Issuance Activity, and Corporate Investment|We use issuance-level data to study how equity capital inflows that enter emerging market economies affect equity issuance and corporate investment. We show that foreign inflows are strongly correlated with country-level issuance. The relation reflects the behavior of large issuers issuing in domestic equity markets and that of firms issuing in international markets. Those larger, more liquid, and highly valued firms are the ones more likely to raise equity when their country receives capital inflows. To identify supply-side shocks, we instrument capital inflows into each country with exogenous changes in other countries’ attractiveness to foreign investors. Shifts in the supply of foreign capital are important drivers of increased equity inflows. Instrumented inflows lead a subset of firms (large domestic issuers and foreign issuers) to raise new equity, which they use mainly to fund investment. Corporate investment increases between one-tenth and four-tenths the amount of foreign equity capital entering the country.
F62|Boom-and-bust cycles in emerging markets: How important is the exchange rate?|This paper examines the macroeconomic implications of exchange rate shocks in a sample of 13 emerging market and 6 advanced economies since the early 1990 s. Factor-augmented vector autoregressions are estimated with three separate factors identified. They are: real, monetary and financial factors. The main conclusion is that there is no ‘one size fits all’ when interpreting the domestic responses to an exchange rate shock. International policies that aim to define a particular exchange rate or exchange rate regime are unlikely to be able to deal with so many idiosyncratic responses. Nor is it the case that a particular monetary policy strategy, such as inflation targeting, can immunize a domestic economy against all external shocks. International cooperation should instead encourage individual economies to seek out the menu of policies that ensure that each one's house is in order.
F62|Offshoring and the polarisation of the demand for capital|While there is a consensus in the literature that offshoring has a polarising effect on the skill structure of labour demand, little is known about its impact on the capital side. In this paper, we analyse the effect of offshoring on the demand for capital by asset class using a rich country-sector panel dataset. Estimating a system of factor demand equations, we document that offshoring reduces the relative demand for non-ICT capital, thereby also polarising the demand for capital. Our results are robust against a wide range of specifications and methodological choices including an IV approach to address endogeneity concerns.
F62|Robots, reshoring, and the lot of low-skilled workers|We propose a theoretical framework to analyze the offshoring and reshoring decisions of firms in the age of automation. Our theory suggests that increasing productivity in automation leads to a relocation of previously offshored production back to the home economy but without improving low-skilled wages and without creating jobs for low-skilled workers. Since it leads also to increasing wages for high-skilled workers, automation induced reshoring is associated with an increasing skill premium and increasing inequality. Using a new measure of reshoring activity and data from the world input outputtable, we find evidence for a positive association between reshoring and the degree of automation. On average, within manufacturing sectors, an increase by one robot per 1000 workers is associated with a 3.5% increase of reshoring activity. We also provide evidence that reshoring is positively associated with wages and employment for high-skilled labor but not for low-skilled labor.
F62|Inequality and growth: Marxian and post-Keynesian/Kaleckian perspectives on distribution and growth regimes before and after the Great Recession|The re-distribution of income from labour to capital, from workers to top-managers, and from low income households to the rich has been an important feature of financedominated capitalism since the early 1980s. After the Great Financial Crisis and the Great Recession in 2007-9, the recovery has been sluggish so far, and this has given rise to a renewed discussion about stagnation tendencies in capitalist economies. In orthodox approaches income distribution only has a restricted role to play, if at all, but the interaction between distribution and growth is at the centre of Marxian and post-Keynesian/Kaleckian approaches when it comes to explaining medium- to long-run trends of economic growth - and stagnation. In this contribution we will thus provide Marxian and Kaleckian assessments of the distribution and growth regimes under finance-dominated capitalism, both before and after the recent crisis. Finally, we also sketch an interpretation of stagnation tendencies in a demand-led endogenous growth model with Kaleckian, Kaldorian and Marxian features.
F62|Understanding the cross-country effects of U.S. technology shocks|Business cycles are substantially correlated across countries. Yet, most existing models are not able to generate substantial transmission through international trade. We show that the nature of such transmission depends fundamentally on the features determining the responsiveness of labor supply and labor demand to international relative prices. We augment a standard international macroeconomic model to incorporate three key features: a weak short-run wealth effect on labor supply, variable capital utilization, and imported intermediate inputs for production. This model can generate large and significant endogenous transmission of technology shocks through international trade. We demonstrate this by estimating the model using data for Canada and the United States with limited-information Bayesian methods. We find that this model can account for the substantial transmission of permanent U.S. technology shocks to Canadian aggregate variables such as output and hours, documented in a structural vector autoregression. Transmission through international trade is found to explain the majority of the business cycle comovement between the United States and Canada.
F62|Portfolio Investment Response to U.S. Monetary Policy Announcements: An Event|We study how unconventional monetary policy announcements affect the entry of foreign investment in debt and equity in Mexico, placing special focus on announcements related to the third QE program and the taper tantrum episode. A novel dataset on daily debt and equity flows, that maps Balance of Payments data quite well, allows this paper to provide a better insight into movements of capital. The results suggest that both equity and debt flows appear to react immediately to unexpected U.S. monetary policy announcements, in particular if these are considered as bad news by investors. In turn, results using weekly data support the idea that investors interested in fixed income instruments move more prudently than those interested in equity who react quickly.
F62|L’industrie pharmaceutique française dans les chaînes de valeur mondiales|Les entreprises s’insèrent de plus en plus dans des « chaînes de valeur mondiales » : l’ensemble de leurs activités, depuis la conception jusqu’à la mise sur le marché du produit, sont réparties entre plusieurs intervenants, locaux ou étrangers. À partir de l’exemple de l’industrie pharmaceutique française, les indicateurs de commerce en valeur ajoutée permettent d’analyser cette insertion. Au cours de la période 2000-2014, l’industrie pharmaceutique française s’ouvre aux chaînes de valeur mondiales (CVM), comme en témoignent l’augmentation de la part de la valeur ajoutée importée dans ses exportations (+ 392 %) et celle de la valeur ajoutée nationale exportée (+ 185 %). Toutefois, ce processus d’intégration, particulièrement marqué entre 2007 et 2010, décélère depuis 2012 : la part de la valeur ajoutée étrangère dans les exportations étant plus faible en 2014 qu’en 2012. Le degré de participation aux CVM est hétérogène selon les entreprises : celles qui exportent utilisent davantage d’intrants importés et sont donc plus intégrées que celles produisant pour le marché national. Les entreprises multinationales étrangères présentes en France prennent davantage part aux CVM que les entreprises multinationales françaises produisant en France. L’ouverture de l’industrie pharmaceutique aux CVM s’accompagne d’une diversification des partenaires commerciaux et d’une intensification du partage de la production avec des zones en dehors des frontières européennes. Aujourd’hui, le partage international de la production de l’industrie s’effectue aussi bien avec les grands pays de la zone euro qu’avec le Royaume-Uni, la Suisse et les États-Unis ou la Pologne, qu’avec de grandes économies asiatiques comme la Chine. L’insertion de l’industrie pharmaceutique française dans les CVM va de pair avec une hausse des investissements directs, d’entreprises françaises à l’étranger et vice versa, et des revenus perçus par l’économie française dans le cadre de l’organisation de la production à l’étranger.
F62|The Globalisation of Inflation: The Growing Importance of Global Value Chains|Greater international economic interconnectedness over recent decades has been changing inflation dynamics. This paper presents evidence that the expansion of global value chains (GVCs), ie cross-border trade in intermediate goods and services, is an important channel through which global economic slack influences domestic inflation. In particular, we document the extent to which the growth in GVCs explains the established empirical correlation between global economic slack and national inflation rates, both across countries and over time. Accounting for the role of GVCs, we also find that the conventional trade-based measures of openness used in previous studies are poor proxies for this transmission channel. The results support the hypothesis that as GVCs expand, direct and indirect competition among economies increases, making domestic inflation more sensitive to the global output gap. This can affect the trade-offs that central banks face when managing inflation.
F62|International Inflation Spillovers through Input Linkages|We document that international input-output linkages contribute substantially to synchronizing producer price inflation (PPI) across countries. Using a multicountry, industry-level data set that combines information on PPI and exchange rates with global input-output linkages, we recover the underlying cost shocks that are propagated internationally via the global input-output network, thus generating the observed dynamics of PPI. We then compare the extent to which common global factors account for the variation in actual PPI and in the underlying cost shocks. Across a range of econometric tests, input-output linkages account for half of the global component of PPI inflation.
F62|An exorbitant privilege in the first age of international financial integration|The exorbitant privilege literature analyses the positive returns differential on net foreign assets enjoyed by the United States in the last quarter of the twentieth century as the issuer of the global reserve currency. In the first age of international financial integration (1871–1914), the global reserve currency was the British pound sterling. Whether the United Kingdom enjoyed a similar privilege is analysed with a new dataset, encompassing microdata on railroad and government financial securities. The use of microdata avoids the flaws that have plagued the US studies, particularly the use of incompatible aggregate variables. A monthly proxy for the British international investment position is constructed and estimates for capital gains and dividend yields obtained. The estimation points to an average privilege of 8.3% of GDP, with high variation. The finding supports the claim that in part exorbitant privilege is a general characteristic of the issuer of the global reserve currency and not unique to the late twentieth century US. Nonetheless, a decomposition of returns shows that there were fundamental differences between pre-war Britain and the late twentieth century US investment patterns and their response to the advantage presented by exorbitant privilege.
F62|Price Stabilizing Effects of the FTAs: The Case of Korea (in Korean)|This study empirically estimates how much FTAs affect domestic inflation rates. Most previous studies have been interested in the economic effects of FTAs such as the effects on economic growth, income distribution across industries, price competitiveness for international trade, trade volume, and the price of a commodity. The purpose of this study is an econometric estimation of the price stabilization due to FTAs and an analysis of how FTAs affect inflation rates based on panel data estimations. The main results are summarized as follows. First, from an analysis on 72 detailed items which estimates the pricing equations for the 72 detailed items, calculates the but-for-price after FTAs started, and gets the weighted price index, we find that FTAs reduce the CPI inflation rate by 0.76%p at an annual basis from the second quarter of 2004 to the second quarter of 2015. Second, the aggregate data analysis estimates the effect of FTAs on the CPI inflation rate as -0.52%p and the effect of the global financial crisis on the CPI inflation rate as -0.47%p. Third, the panel data analysis for the OECD countries also shows a significant and consistent inflation reduction effect of FTAs, such effect is more significant than the effect of traditional openness on inflation rates. The inflation reduction effect of FTAs is more significant in countries with a low level of openness.
F62|Bank Globalization and Monetary Policy Transmission in Small Open Economies|This paper investigates how the openness of banking sector inï¬‚uences the transmission channels of home and foreign monetary policy shocks in small open economies. For the analysis, I construct a small open economy DSGE model enriched with a banking sector. I consider two forms of bank globalization: international bank capital finance and foreign loan account import. From the analysis, I find that bank globalization leads to a significant attenuation of domestic monetary policy transmission. On the other hand, opening of the banking sector intensifies the impact of foreign interest rate shocks on the local bank activities.
F62|Techno-Globalisierung, Leitmärkte und Strukturwandel in wirtschaftspolitischer Sicht|Die Globalisierung der Wirtschaftsbeziehungen – inklusive hat in Verbindung mit der Digitalisierung der Wirtschaft neuen Anpassungsdruck erzeugt. Mit der zunehmenden grenzüberschreitenden Entwicklung von Forschungsaktivitäten von multinationalen Unternehmen und der grenzüberschreitenden Kooperation forschender Firmen – der Technoglobalisierung – hat die Globalisierung der Wirtschaft eine zusätzliche Dimension entwickelt. Chinas ökonomischer Aufstieg sorgt dabei für globale Mehrnachfrage, aber auch eine verschärfte internationale Innovationskonkurrenz und zumindest zeitweise wurde u.a. von daher auch der Anreiz zu internationaler F&E-Kooperation gerade in OECD-Ländern gestärkt. Die Internationalisierung gibt einer internationalen Auswahl von Leitmärkten für Produktinnovationen neue Optionen und zugleich stellt sich die Frage, wie die Politik auf die veränderte Dynamik reagieren soll. Am Beispiel Österreichs sieht man mit Blick auf die Technoglobalisierung, dass auch kleine Länder durch gezielte Innovationsinternationalisierung via mehr Direktinvestitionen technologisch und ökonomisch aufholen können – ein möglicher Ansatzpunkt für eine neue Wachstumspolitik etwa der ostdeutschen Länder, aber auch von osteuropäischen EU-Beitrittsländern bietet sich an. Für Deutschlands westliche Bundesländer wäre eine stärkere Weltmarktorientierung und Fokussierung der Innovationsförderung wichtig, insbesondere in NRW. Eine Schwäche Deutschlands ist das Zurückhängen beim digitalen Breitbandausbau. Österreichs Probleme in der EU-Passivhaus-Vermarktung zeigen exemplarisch ökologisch-industriepolitische Defizite im EU-Binnenmarkt bzw. bei der EU-Leitmarktpolitik und der EU2020-Agenda. Innovationsorientierte Beschaffungsprogramme in EU-Ländern sind bislang wenig untersucht, dürften allerdings am ehesten in Verbindung mit Cluster-Initiativen erfolgversprechend sein. Technoglobalisierung erscheint als ein anhaltender Prozess, in den Deutschlands Wirtschaft eingebunden ist – mit besonderen Chancen, wenn es gelingt, mehr Hochtechnologiefirmen aus dem Ausland anzuziehen.
F62|The globalisation of inflation: the growing importance of global value chains|Greater international economic interconnectedness over recent decades has been changing inflation dynamics. This paper presents evidence that the expansion of global value chains (GVCs), ie cross-border trade in intermediate goods and services, is an important channel through which global economic slack influences domestic inflation. In particular, we document the extent to which the growth in GVCs explains the established empirical correlation between global economic slack and national inflation rates, both across countries and over time. Accounting for the role of GVCs, we also find that the conventional trade-based measures of openness used in previous studies are poor proxies for this transmission channel. The results support the hypothesis that as GVCs expand, direct and indirect competition among economies increases, making domestic inflation more sensitive to the global output gap. This can affect the trade-offs that central banks face when managing inflation.
F62|The external risks of financial integration for emerging economies|The integration of emerging economies in world financial markets allowed these countries to import foreign capital. In some cases, however, the capital inflows have been interrupted by sudden reversals and severe financial crises. Although excessive borrowing is a necessary condition for a financial crisis, the dynamics leading to excessive borrowing and subsequent reversal can also be connected to external factors, that is, changes that take place in the rest of the world and are not under the control of the borrowing country (external risks). In this article I discuss some of these risks. In particular, I show how the growth of the financial sector in advanced economies can lead to the build up of imbalances that increase the financial fragility of emerging countries. I also discuss how the origin of the imbalances can sometimes be connected to the business cycle in industrialized countries.
F62|The external risks of financial integration for emerging economies|The integration of emerging economies in world financial markets allowed these countries to import foreign capital. In some cases, however, the capital inflows have been interrupted by sudden reversals and severe financial crises. Although excessive borrowing is a necessary condition for a financial crisis, the dynamics leading to excessive borrowing and subsequent reversal can also be connected to external factors, that is, changes that take place in the rest of the world and are not under the control of the borrowing country (external risks). In this article I discuss some of these risks. In particular, I show how the growth of the financial sector in advanced economies can lead to the build up of imbalances that increase the financial fragility of emerging countries. I also discuss how the origin of the imbalances can sometimes be connected to the business cycle in industrialized countries. ****** La integración de las economías emergentes en los mercados financieros internacionales ha permitido que estos países importen capital externo. No obstante, en algunos casos la afluencia de capitales se ha visto interrumpida por retornos repentinos y crisis financieras importantes. Si bien el préstamo excesivo es una condición necesaria para una crisis financiera, las dinámicas que conducen al préstamo excesivo y posterior retorno del capital podrían estar conectadas con factores externos, esto es, cambios que tienen lugar en otros lugares del mundo y se escapan del control del país prestatario (riesgos externos). En el presente artículo se debaten algunos de estos riesgos. En concreto se muestra cómo el crecimiento del sector financiero en las economías avanzadas podría generar desbalances que aumenten la fragilidad financiera de los países emergentes. También se debate acerca de cómo el origen de los desbalances podría estar vinculado al ciclo económico en los países industrializados.
F62|International Monetary Relations: Taking Finance Seriously|In this essay, we highlight the interactions of the international monetary system with financial conditions, not just with the output, inflation, and balance of payments goals usually discussed. We review how financial conditions and outright financial crises have posed difficulties for each of the main international monetary systems in the last 150 years or so: the gold standard, the interwar period, the Bretton Woods system, and the current system of floating exchange rates. We argue that even as the world economy has evolved and sentiments have shifted among widely different policy regimes, there remain three fundamental challenges for any international monetary and financial system: How should exchange rates between national currencies be determined? How can countries with balance of payments deficits reduce these without sharply contracting their economies and with minimal risk of possible negative spillovers abroad? How can the international system ensure that countries have access to an adequate supply of international liquidity—financial resources generally acceptable to foreigners in all circumstances? In concluding, we evaluate how the current international monetary system answers these questions.
F62|Global Value Chains, Trade Shocks And Jobs: An Application to Brexit|"This paper develops a gravity model with sector-level input-output linkages in production. In contrast to a traditional gravity approach, which relies on direct gross exports between bilateral trade partners, our model additionally includes (1) domestic and global value chain linkages between goods and services sectors, (2) bilateral tariffs that affect direct production for a final destination as well as indirect production (shipped via third countries) to a final destination and (3) value added rather than gross production. Including input-output linkages implies that domestic production of intermediates can serve as inputs in foreign products and subsequently be exported ""indirectly"" to a final destination. Our input-output model can be taken to the sectoral World Input Output Database (WIOD) and can be used to evaluate trade policy shocks. While our framework is entirely general, we use it to predict the impact of the UK's withdrawal from the European Union (""Brexit"") in terms of value added production and employment for every individual EU country involved. We find that Brexit hits the UK relatively harder than the EU-27. In contrast to other studies, we find EU-27 losses from Brexit to be substantially higher than hitherto believed."
F62|Engel's Law in the Global Economy: Demand-induced Patterns of Structural Change, Innovation, and Trade|Endogenous demand composition across sectors due to nonhomothetic demand (Engel's Law) affects i) sectoral compositions in employment and in value-added, ii) variations in innovation rates and in productivity change across sectors, iii) intersectoral patterns of trade across countries, and iv) migration of industries from rich to poor countries. This paper offers a unifying perspective on how economic growth and globalization affects the patterns of structural change, innovation and trade across countries and across sectors in the presence of Engel's Law. To this end, we develop a two-country model of directed technological change with a continuum of sectors under nonhomothetic preferences, which is rich enough to capture all these effects as well as their interactions. Among the main messages is that globalization amplifies, instead of reducing, the power of endogenous domestic demand composition differences as a driver of structural change.
F62|Sectoral interlinkages in global value chains: spillovers and network effects|This paper studies the role of global input-output linkages in transmitting economic disturbances in the international economy. Our empirical results suggest that these sectoral spillovers are both statistically significant and of economic importance. We also provide evidence that it is not the interlinkages per se that matter for the international transmission but rather the presence of global hub sectors that are either large suppliers or purchasers of other sectors' inputs. When the links between these sectors and the rest of the global value chain are severed, the spillovers diminish strongly and eventually become statistically insignificant. This highlights the importance of the structure of the network for enabling spillovers and the prominent role played by hub sectors in the global economy. JEL Classification: E30, E32, F44, F62
F62|Why should the world care? Analysis, mechanisms and spillovers of the destination based border adjusted tax|Members of the US House of Representatives have proposed a major overhaul of the US corporate tax system, the so-called “destination-based border-adjusted cash-flow tax” (DBCFT). The literature on the economic implications and spillovers of such a DBCFT is scarce. This paper aims to provide a comprehensive analysis of the mechanics of such a tax, its macroeconomic implications as well as its global spillovers using a fully structural global multi-country model. Our results suggest that the short term macroeconomic impact of the reform would depend primarily on how permanent agents perceive the policy to be. Robustness scenarios show that the magnitude of the short term impact will also depend on the extent to which exporters are reimbursed by their domestic costs; what categories of goods are excluded from the reform; how the government uses the revenues generated by the border adjusted tax; and the pricing system used by exporters. Moreover, global spillovers will depend on how easy it is to replace imported goods by domestic production; whether US trading partners retaliate, and how financial markets in emerging economies react. If there is disequilibrium in relative prices in the short term, global economic activity spillovers could be strongly negative and world trade could decline substantially. JEL Classification: C68, E47, F41, F44, F62, O41
F62|Macroeconomic Variables and Stock Market Returns: Panel Analysis from Selected ASEAN Countries|This paper aims to examine the effect of macroeconomic variables namely inflation, money supply (MS), and exchange rate (ER) on both conventional and Islamic stock market returns in the three selected ASEAN countries (Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia) by utilizing monthly data over the period of January 2005 to December 2015. Applying the panel least square regression techniques, the results show that both stock market returns are significantly affected by the ER and inflation rate. MS is found to be insignificant. The findings of this paper also conclude that inflation poses a greater effect and inversely related to the stock market returns. In this case, there is a need for amendment in monetary policy to ensure that inflation rate is set at a low level, since the results would be able to bring an impact to boost the capital market in the selected ASEAN countries
F62|International Value-Added Linkages in Development Accounting|Development accounting evaluates how much of the variation in per-worker incomes across countries can be attributed to quantifiable factor endowments, and how much is due to unobserved TFP differences. We use a standard trade model to generalise the development accounting framework to a setting in which countries are open to trade, and consume both domestic and foreign value added. In addition to differences in factor endowments and TFPs, the generalised framework highlights differences in relative factor costs as source of real-income variation across countries. In turn, countries' relative factor costs are determined by their trade linkages, and the international distribution of factor endowments and expenditures. We use information on value-added trade from international input-output tables for 40 major economies in the period 1995-2011 to back out their relative factor costs in a model-consistent manner. Incorporating this information into the development accounting equation reduces the variation in unobserved TFPs required to explain the distribution of per-worker incomes among our sample countries by more than one half. Our findings suggest that the large international TFP differences found in traditional development-accounting exercises are in part due to their implicit assumption that countries are closed.
F62|Upstreamness, exports, and wage inequality: Evidence from Chinese manufacturing data|In this paper we investigate within-firm wage inequality across heterogeneous industries that hold different positions in the domestic value chain, and across heterogeneous firms that have different exposure to trade. We find that the wage inequality problem is more severe in upstream industries than in downstream ones, and among firms with greater exposure to trade (i.e., larger export share of sales). Our findings support both classic and new new trade theories on wage inequality. In downstream industries where Chinese firms are typically engaged in processing and assembly work with intensive use of unskilled labor, trade leads to less wage inequality within firms. However, trade also introduces pro-competitive effects which usually benefit exporters and their skilled labor. The results hold after various checks and controls for robustness.
F62|Global slack and open economy Phillips curves – A province-level view from China|The “global slack hypothesis” implies that greater integration of the world economy, i.e. globalisation, should have made inflation more responsive to global than domestic economic slack. Many previous studies have accordingly estimated national inflation equations with measures of global output gaps. We use three and a half decades of subnational data from China's provinces to test the global slack hypothesis. Using tests for non-nested regressions, for many provinces we can reject a Phillips curve with a province-level measure of economic slack against a model with China's national output gap, which is consistent with the hypothesis. We also show that the real exchange rate matters for inflation dynamics in many Chinese provinces, in particular those most open to international trade. In addition to supporting the global slack hypothesis, our results emphasise the importance of cross-border factors for China's inflation developments.
F62|The G7 business cycle in a globalized world|Using a factor structural VAR for 14 countries out of the G20 group, we document that output innovations originating outside the G7 account for shares of 10 to almost 25 percent in the business cycle fluctuations of G7 GDP growth. Using auxiliary regressions, we additionally find that these innovations contribute noticeably, relative to G7 output innovations, to short-term fluctuations in important other national G7 variables such as employment, the current account balance, inflation, and inflation volatility, and in global macroeconomic indicators like the oil price, world stock market returns and exchange rate volatility. The results indicate that in a globalized world spillovers from emerging markets and industrial countries other than the G7 play a relevant role for major aspects of the G7 and world business cycle.
F62|The real effects of financial (dis)integration: A multi-country equilibrium analysis of Europe|Using data from 15 European Union economies, we quantify the real effects of supply-side frictions due to the financial disintegration of European countries since the 2008 financial crisis. We develop a multi-country general equilibrium model with heterogeneous countries and destination-specific financial frictions. Financial institutions allocate capital endogenously across countries, determining the cost of capital to firms and the wealth of nations. The cost of financial disintegration is reduced access to capital for firms which results in lower output. Financial disintegration leads to a 0.54% fall in output in Europe since the crisis. We also estimate benefits of further financial integration.
F62|The Impact of Global Uncertainty on the Global Economy, and Large Developed and Developing Economies|Global uncertainty shocks are associated with a sharp decline in global inflation, global growth and in the global interest rate. Over 1981 to 2014 global financial uncertainty forecasts 18.26% and 14.95% of the variation in global growth and global inflation respectively. Global uncertainty shocks have more protracted, statistically significant and substantial effects on global growth, inflation and interest rate than U.S. uncertainty shocks. U.S. uncertainty lags global uncertainty by one month. When controlling for domestic uncertainty, the decline in output following a rise in global uncertainty is statistically significant in each country, with the exception of the decline for China. The effects for the U.S. and for China are also relatively small. For most economies, a positive shock to global uncertainty has a depressing effect on prices and official interest rates. Exceptions are Brazil, Mexico and Russia, economies with large capital outflows during financial crises. Decomposition of global uncertainty shocks shows that global financial uncertainty shocks are more important than non-financial shocks.
F62|Global commodity prices and global stock volatility shocks: effects across countries|This paper investigates the time-varying dynamics of global stock volatility, commodity prices, and domestic output and consumer prices. The main empirical findings of this papers are: (i) stock volatility and commodity price shocks impact each other and the economy in a gradual and endogenous adjustment process; (ii) the impact of a commodity price shock on global stock volatility is far greater during the global financial crisis than at other times; (iii) the effects of global stock volatility on the US output are amplified by the endogenous commodity price responses; (iv) in the long run, shocks to commodity prices (stock market volatility) account for 11.9% (6.6%) and 25.1% (11.6%) of the variation in US output and consumer prices; (v) the effects of global stock volatility shocks on the economy are heterogeneous across nations and relatively larger in the developed countries.
F62|Recovery from Dutch Disease|Dutch Disease is thought to have ongoing negative effects on resource rich open economies. There is little evidence on how economies recover. We document the Australian case in the aftermath of the commodities price boom resulting from high input demand from China. We show that where the boom is contained in an export-oriented, small-employment sector of the economy and driven by external demand rather than price shocks, the economy recovers to its equilibrium relatively quickly. To show this we add a new tool to the SVAR toolbox which enables us to assess the source of deviations in the observed outcomes from an empirical steady-state implied by the model.
F62|The impact of global uncertainty on the global economy, and large developed and developing economies|Global uncertainty shocks are associated with a sharp decline in global inflation, global growth and in the global interest rate. Over 1981 to 2014 global financial uncertainty forecasts 18.26% and 14.95% of the variation in global growth and global inflation respectively. Global uncertainty shocks have more protracted, statistically significant and substantial effects on global growth, inflation and interest rate than U.S. uncertainty shocks. U.S. uncertainty lags global uncertainty by one month. When controlling for domestic uncertainty, the decline in output following a rise in global uncertainty is statistically significant in each country, with the exception of the decline for China. The effects for the U.S. and for China are also relatively small. For most economies, a positive shock to global uncertainty has a depressing effect on prices and official interest rates. Exceptions are Brazil, Mexico and Russia, economies with large capital outflows during financial crises. Decomposition of global uncertainty shocks shows that global financial uncertainty shocks are more important than non-financial shocks.
F62|Exploring the Nexus between Inflation and Globalization under Inflation Targeting through the Lens of New Zealand’s Experience|We investigate empirically the inflation dynamics in New Zealand, a small open economy and a pioneer in inflation targeting, under various open-economy Phillips curve specifications. Our forecasting exercise suggests that open-economy Phillips curves under standard measures of global slack do not help forecast domestic inflation, possibly indicating measurement problems with global slack itself. In turn, under a stable inflation target we still find that (i) global inflation or (ii) global inflation or oil prices have information content for headline CPI and core CPI inflation over the 1997:Q3-2015:Q1 period and appear to be reliable proxies for global slack in forecasting inflation.
F62|Upstreamness of employment and global financial crisis in Poland: the role of position in the global value chains|The emergence of global value chains leads to fragmentation of the production processes and reallocation of those processes across countries. With increasing number of production stages, the manufacturing process is located increasingly further away from the consumer. Literature suggests that fragmentation of production increases the international transmission of shocks. The global financial crisis is believed to lead to consolidation and shortening of global value chains and amplification of demand shocks along the global value chains, the so-called bullwhip effect. In this paper we study the effects of global financial crisis on employment, focusing specifically on the role of the distance from final demand (upstreamness) in this adjustment. We find that upstreamness matters for both labor demand and adjustment in employment during the periods of crisis, but this relationship is heterogeneous across countries. While the reaction to the crisis is indeed amplified further away from final demand, contrary to our expectations it is mostly channeled through lower job creation rates rather than faster job destruction. Moreover, the adverse effects of the crisis are lower in foreign firms, this difference does not depend on the distance from final demand.
F62|Fragmentation and Wage Inequality: Insights from a Simple Model|"We develop a simple model to study how globalization affects wage inequalities. The model features three goods, one is an ""international"" good, and two are local non-tradable goods. The non-tradable goods are produced by local labor, either skilled or unskilled, while labor of all types and all origins contribute to the production of the international good. We find that increasing participation of the South in global production and consumption lead to an increase in wage inequalities in the North. Higher South integration into global value chains reduces North-South wage inequalities."
F62|Capital Openness and Income Inequality: Smooth Sailing or Troubled Waters?|The 2008 Financial Crisis and subsequent financial turbulence has triggered economists and policymakers to revisit the extent to which capital account liberalization is optimal for all countries at all levels of development. While that literature has largely concluded that capital account liberalization may have detrimental effects on growth and accentuate financial instability in emerging markets, relatively little literature has examined the impacts of capital account liberalization on inequality—a subject that has also been under intense study over the past decade as well. In this paper, we attempt to build upon and bridge these two literatures to examine the extent to which capital account liberalization is associated with income inequality. We confirm earlier studies that show there is such a relationship between increased capital account openness and increases in inequality, and that capital account regulations are associated with less inequality—at least for emerging market economies. We expand on these findings to learn that there are differential impacts of capital account liberalization on inequality during booms and busts, being financial development a key factor. During normal times, we find that there are positive impacts on income inequality, whereas during busts, capital account liberalization appears to exacerbate inequality, calling for active policies.
F62|Different interpretations of the automotive industry and its role in three semi-peripheral regions of the EU|The paper investigates the role of the automotive industry in the Baltic, Visegrád and Iberian region, summarizing the relevant literature. In the analysis of each country, the study discusses the importance of the automotive industry in the national economy and the role of individual countries in the global trade. Based on the literature there are different approaches regarding the activities belonging to the automotive industry. The vehicle production is vertically integrated, therefore the industry involves many other activities that sell their products to other industries as well. On the other hand economic contribution of the automotive industry can be interpreted in a broad way including downstream activities related to the use of the motor vehicle, and the socioeconomic employment as well. The broader definition of automotive industry in this paper is based on this previous approach. The study defines the automotive spillovers on the basis of the NACE nomenclature to show how these activities contribute to employment, production and value added in the examined countries.
F62|The effects of globalization and technology on the elasticity of substitution|Abstract The elasticity of substitution between capital and labor ( $$\sigma$$ σ ) is usually considered a “deep parameter”. This paper shows, in contrast, that $$\sigma$$ σ is affected by both globalization and technology, and that different intensities in these drivers have different consequences for the OECD and the non-OECD economies. In the OECD, we find that the elasticity of substitution between capital and labor is below unity; that it increases along with the degree of globalization; but it decreases with the level of technology. Although results for the non-OECD area are more heterogeneous, we find that technology enhances the substitutability between capital and labor. We also find evidence of a non-significant impact of the capital-output ratio on the labor share irrespective of the degree of globalization (which would be consistent with an average aggregate Cobb–Douglas technology). Given the relevance of $$\sigma$$ σ for economic growth and the functional distribution of income, the intertwined linkage among globalization, technology and the elasticity of substitution should be taken into account in any policy makers’ objective function.
F62|“Thirlwall’s Law” reconsidered|Abstract Thirlwall’s Law is found to be the necessary but not sufficient condition for balanced long-run growth. A simple equation is considered whose empirical analysis could confirm—or reject—the validity of the Law. The analysis, conducted by means of econometric co-integration using the Dynamic Ordinary Least Squares method applied to data for 59 countries covering the years 1960–2012, suggests that Thirlwall’s Law may not hold for the decisive majority of countries.
F62|Exploring the Nexus Between Inflation and Globalization Under Inflation Targeting Through the Lens of New Zealand’s Experience|We investigate empirically the inflation dynamics in New Zealand, a small open economy and a pioneer in inflation targeting, under various open-economy Phillips curve specifications. Our forecasting exercise suggests that open-economy Phillips curves under standard measures of global slack do not help forecast domestic inflation, possibly indicating measurement problems with global slack itself. In turn, under a stable inflation target we still find that (i) global inflation and (ii) global inflation and oil prices have information content for headline CPI and core CPI inflation over the 1997:Q3-2015:Q1 period and appear to be reliable proxies for global slack in forecasting inflation.
F62|Trade-Induced Structural Change and the Skill Premium|This paper proposes and quantifies a novel mechanism through which trade integration can affect the skill premium. When complementarities across sectors are strong, trade integration in low-skilled intensive sectors reduces the employment share of these sectors and rises the skill premium. We document that, in a broad set of countries over the past three decades, the share of domestically produced goods in absorption has declined dramatically in low-skill labor intensive sectors and remained roughly constant in high-skill labor intensive sectors. Using a quantitative multi-country, multi-sector model of trade and labor heterogeneity, we show that these changes in trade patterns account for roughly half of the decline in the share of goods-producing sectors in gross output. In our baseline calibration, this generates a 4 percent increase in the skill premium in the average country of our sample, as well as in the US. The increase in the skill premium is much larger in developing countries where the highly traded sectors are particularly unskilled-intensive.
F62|The Financing of Local Government in China: Stimulus Loan Wanes and Shadow Banking Waxes|China’s four-trillion-yuan stimulus package fueled by bank loans in 2009 has led to the rapid growth of shadow banking activities after 2012. Local governments financed the stimulus through bank loans in 2009, and resorted to non-bank debt financing after 2012 given the rollover pressure from bank debt coming due, a manifestation of the stimulus-loan-hangover effect. Cross-sectionally, provinces with greater bank loan growth in 2009 experienced more Municipal Corporate Bonds issuance during 2012-2015, together with more shadow banking activities including Entrusted loans and Wealth Management Products. We highlight the market forces behind the regulation changes on local government debt post 2012.
F62|Financial stress, regime switching and spillover effects: Evidence from a multi-regime global VAR model|The globalization process leads to increasing synchronization of business cycles among different countries. As a consequence, many policy makers and Central Banks are afraid of vulnerabilities of their countries arising from external risk drivers. In this paper we develop a multi-regime global VAR model to study the spillover effects in financial markets, in goods markets and between financial markets and goods markets across countries, which are assumed to be either in a high financial stress regime or in a low financial stress regime. It turns out that in both the high and the low stress regimes financial shocks to a country, big or small one, can have large and persistent impacts on financial markets of other countries, and only in the high stress regime financial shocks to a country can have some negative output effects on other countries. In the high stress regime output shocks of a big country can have larger effects on financial conditions than those of a small country, while in the low stress regime output shocks of a country, big or small, have little impact on financial conditions. Further, we study the effects of global and regional shocks, as well as the spillover effects of national monetary policies and internationally coordinated policies on the financial and real sectors.11This paper had been presented as an invited paper in a special session on Carl Chiarella at the CEF Conference, June 28–30, 2017 New York. The paper is dedicated to Carl Chiarella’s work. It is exploring in a large scale regime change model the real-financial interaction that Carl had pursued in much of his work for lower dimensional systems, see Chiarella et al. (2015) and Charpe et al. (2011)). Here we thank the anonymous reviewers for constructive comments and suggestions in shaping the final version.
F62|International Currencies Past, Present, and Future: Two Views from Economic History|Conventional economic wisdom has long held that the world's dominant economic power tends to possess the world's dominant currency, and that the dominance of that currency can continue even after other, more dynamic economics powers surpass the issuer of it. The paradigmatic example is Great Britain, which had the world's biggest economy and the dominant currency in the nineteenth century. Yet even as it faded relative to the US and Germany, the pound sterling remained the world's reserve currency well into the twentieth century. Only massive systemic shocks like the Great Depression and World War Two could knock the pound from its perch. The story of the US economy and the dollar after the war is a similar one, and many expect that the dollar will eventually lose its pre-eminence to Chinese the renminbi at some point after the Chinese economy surpasses the US economy in size. China is certainly a clear rival to the US, but as Barry Eichengreen, Marc Flandreau, Arnaud Mehl and Livia Chitu argue, economics is not a zero-sum game. In International Currencies, Past, Present, and Future, they draw from innovative data sets to argue that several national currencies can play an important role in the global economy all at once. Rather than focusing on how one currency dominates, then, we should look at currency systems as networks. While there may be a clear leader, that does not meant that other major currencies cannot serve as international reserve hedges. Indeed, even in the late twentieth century, when US power was at a geopolitical apex, roughly 40 percent of global foreign exchange reserves were not in dollar form. The late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries were similarly multipolar with regard to foreign exchange reserve holdings, with the mark, the franc, and the dollar all playing important roles in a system in which the pound led. If past is prologue, we can look forward to a multipolar system in which the dollar and euro will continue to be important international currencies even if the renminbi surpasses the dollar--and the jury is out on that. Deeply informed by history, this powerfully revisionist account of how the international monetary system operates will not only transform our understanding of the past, but also force us to reconsider our expectations of how the system will evolve in future decades.
F62|The varying relevance of impact factors in gravity models: An explanation of the delayed development towards global trade|Factors in uencing bilateral trade between OECD members vary over time. The change in the relevance of binary variables with progressive globalisation can be attributed to individuals' decisions. These are aggregated as utility functions of heterogeneous agents to justify the delay towards global trade.
F62|Tax and financial reporting aggressiveness: evidence from Europe|This study examines the relation between financial and tax aggressive reports on public companies from Europe-15, over the period of 2001-2015. Also, it pretends to analyse if the link between tax and financial aggressiveness gets weaker after IFRS adoption in Europe. To run empirical work, I use discretionary accruals calculated by modified-Jones model (Dechow, Sloan, and Sweeney 1995) as a proxy of financial aggressiveness (DFIN) and discretionary permanent differences as a measure of tax aggressiveness (DTAX) (used by Mary Frank, Luann Lynch and Sonja Rego, 2009), which I estimate using EGLS cross section weights for year and Fama- French 12 industries. To prove that firms with aggressive tax report tend to be financial aggressive and that the link between tax and financial aggressiveness is more significant before IFRS implementation I analyse Pearson and Spearman correlation. Additionally, I estimate relation between DTAX and DFIN when controlling for firm size, earnings management and tax planning incentives using OLS and apply the same model with period restriction for before and after IFRS adoption. Results suggest that financial aggressive firms tend to also be tax aggressive and the link between these two aggressive reports is weaker after IFRS adoption
F62|A Theory on the Economic Impacts of Immigration|The standard view on the economic impact of immigration has been criticized for its inability to solve the “immigration policy puzzle.” It also has a problem in that the “net” income of heterogeneous workers is equalized. These problems arise because the standard view generally depends on a production function in which the elasticity of substitution between heterogeneous workers is constant. This paper constructs an alternative production function in which the elasticity of substitution between heterogeneous workers is not constant and is instead based on a model of total factor productivity. The alternative view presented based on this production function indicates that an “open door” policy is not necessarily economically optimal for host countries under some conditions
F62|Surging Populism around the Globe: Do we see a reversal?|Populism has been a buzzword around the world today. Various recent elections in industrialized parts of the world turned out to be a hot arena of debate on surging populism and demagogues made the best use of their populist agenda to reap rich dividend in electoral mandates. Once they come into power, they retract on their populist rhetoric and act on ways that endanger the underpinnings of the very democracy that begets them. The present article tries to analyse the causes of surging populism around the world and examines a reversal trend in populism in the year 2017.
F62|Openness and Government Size:The Compensation and Efficiency Hypotheses Considered for Nigeria|This paper investigates the relationship among financial openness, trade openness and government size in Nigeria. The study employed the autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) approach to cointegration to investigate the relationship among the variables. Empirical estimates revealed that financial openness is significantly and negatively related to government size in line with the conventional wisdom that capital mobility may undermine the ability of governments to tax and raise revenue to finance government expenditure which is termed as the efficiency hypothesis. In addition, a positive relationship was reported between trade openness and government size which implies that there is evidence to support compensation hypothesis. The findings of the study suggest that openness has made the country highly vulnerable to external risk and there is need for the government to increase government expenditure and most especially, devote more funds to social welfare expenditure. This will help cushion the negative effects openness and its associated risks has on the country’s citizens.
F62|Impact of Foreign Direct Investment on Economic of Afghanistan|The present study attempts the impact of foreign direct investment on gross domestic product (GDP) of Afghanistan by taking a time- series data for the period of 2001-2014. It is applied ordinary least square (OLS) method through simple regression. T-statistic is significant and P-value is also significant at 5% level. The F-test was also significant at 5% level so the overall model is significant. The results indicated that there is positive significance relationship between foreign direct investment and gross domestic product (GDP) in Afghanistan. The study suggests that Government may focus on to attracting foreign direct investment and improve its agriculture and mine sector latest technology and Machineries for better economic growth.
F62|Skilled-unskilled wage asymmetries as an outcome of skewed international trade patterns in the South|The paper tries to find out the impact of trade liberalization on income inequality. The literature suggests that trade favors one segment of the society over other and cause uneven development. For example, one possible way through which inequality is suspected to seep into the economy through processes of liberalization is by increasing the relative wages of skilled labor as compared to the unskilled ones. Empirical evidence is provided to this effect by employing Theil Wage inequality Index and up to 28 different concepts of openness/ trade policy. OLS as well as 2SLS regressions with numerous specifications were run. It is found out that openness not only causes wage inequality but the relationship is significant for the developing countries. Additionally, the study also suggests that human capital, which is accrued from liberalization processes, is responsible for amplifying wage inequality.
F62|An Assessment of the Economic Impact of Globalization In Ethiopia: A Co-Integration Analysis|Nowadays the issue of globalization has received huge attention from researchers in different areas for the fact that we always hear about it but there exists little evidences of convergences. While some researchers argue pro globalization others pointed out the costs of globalization being outweighs its benefits and it fails to meet its potentials of benefiting both developing and developed world. This study has attempted to investigate the economic impact of globalization on Ethiopia using the annual data covering from 1980 to 2015 and by employing a co-integration analysis. The empirical result revealed that economic growth of Ethiopia is being affected by globalization both in the short-run and long-run. Thus economic growth and globalization have a long-run relationship which is found to be both positive and significant. Therefore, Ethiopia can be benefited more provided that if the economy of country is integrated and opened to competitions from the rest of the world.
F62|Drivers and impact of food inflation in India| Average food inflation in India during 2006–2013 was one of the highest among emerging market economies, and nearly double the inflation witnessed in India during the previous decade. In this paper, we analyse the behaviour and determinants of food inflation over the recent past. Our main findings include that recent surge in food inflation in India is a result of various factors. On the cost side, agricultural wage inflation is found to be a universal driver of food commodities inflation, as well as the aggregate food inflation. The contribution of agricultural wages has increased significantly in the post Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Act era. Fuel inflation has a moderate impact on food inflation and the effects vary across commodities. Our analysis indicates limited role of fuel and international prices, except for in tradeables. Finally, results suggest significant pass-through effects from food to non-food and to the headline inflation.
F62|Estonia in Global Value Chains|Abstract In this study, we analyse Estonia’s position in global value chains using World Input-Output Data and firm-level data. We find that 69% of Estonia’s total exports are intermediate goods and services, exceeding the EU average (65%). Two-thirds of Estonian imports are intermediates. Our findings suggest that Estonia is heavily involved in vertically and geographically fragmented production even though its most significant trading partners are its neighbouring countries. We also analyse the value chains of two significant companies operating in the Estonian economy along with their GDP contributions. According to our findings, the GDP contributions generated by the exports of these two companies vary significantly from one another. The euros generated from exports do not contribute equally to the national economy.
F62|A Contagion through Exposure to Foreign Banks during the Global Financial Crisis|Although the global financial crisis of 2008 took root in the advanced countries, its shocks spread through the emerging economies, reflecting the increasingly interconnected global financial system. This paper develops an empirical methodology to test the contagion effect at the country level using bilateral data on bank claims between countries. It measures the direct and indirect exposures of emerging economies to crisis countries and tests whether these matter for capital outflows from emerging economies. The paper measures these exposures to the crisis-affected countries by using bilateral foreign claims sourced from Bank for International Settlements (i) consolidated banking statistics foreign claims on immediate counterparty and ultimate risk bases and (ii) locational banking statistics cross-border total claims. Findings show that emerging market economies more exposed directly or indirectly to banks in the crisis-affected countries suffered more capital outflows during the global financial crisis.
F62|Globalization and the Labor Share in National Income|Contradicting the conventional wisdom of constant factor shares, the portion of national income accruing to labor has been trending downward in the last three decades. This decline must have contributed to rising inequality as labor income is more evenly distributed than capital income. This study contributes to the literature on income inequality by exploring the role of globalization in driving the labor share. In particular, we focus on the impacts of trade openness and foreign direct investments (FDI) on the labor share. Using country-level panel data for 1980–2010, the study finds that trade is a significant and robust determinant of labor share. Generally speaking, export depresses while import increases the labor share. The impact of FDI, however, is insignificant. These results are similar for both developed and developing countries.
F62|Can we put a price on extending the scope of the GPA? First quantitative assessment|The aim of this paper is to analyse the impact of domestic preferences elimination in government procurement agreement (GPA) parties. For this purpose, in a first attempt, I use the newly created public procurement database and modelling extension of the Global Trade Analysis Project (GTAP) model. The shock design of the modelling scenarios is based on insights from empirical literature and is calculated as a difference between private and government sector import penetration. Depending on the scenario, the GPA parties’ GDP increases between $4-5 billion. Implications with regard to economic welfare, however, are more important, the equivalent variation measure points to welfare gains in the range of $8-10 billion. The current research, being the first modelling application paper of the newly created database, and model suggest that further expansion of the scope and coverage of the GPA can bring sizeable economic benefits.
F62|Modelling Effects of Tariff Liberalisation on Indiaâ€™s Key Export Sectors: Analysis of the EUâ€“India Free Trade Agreement|Trade agreements are increasingly being negotiated between developed and emerging economy partners. An example is the EUâ€“India Free Trade Agreement (FTA) for which negotiations began in 2007. There has been a debate on the potential effects of the proposed FTA and how this can impact on Indiaâ€™s key export sectors. Our study addresses this aspect from a global computable general equilibrium (CGE) modelling perspective. Using the Global Trade Analysis Project (GTAP) framework, we analyse trade and welfare impacts of the proposed FTA between the EU and India. Two scenarios are modelled: first, complete and immediate elimination of tariff on all goods traded and second, selective tariff elimination on textiles, wearing apparel and leather goodsâ€”products in which India has a comparative advantage. Results under both scenarios show that India enjoys positive welfare effects though there is a possibility of trade diversion. Under scenario 1, India loses due to a negative terms of trade (ToT) effect. Under scenario 2, with selective sectoral liberalisation, gains are mainly concentrated in the textiles, wearing apparel and leather sectors. There is a positive output effect from change in demand for factors of production, suggesting that the proposed FTA could lead to relocation of labour-intensive production to India. JEL Classification: F15, F47, F62
F62|Global Commodity Prices and Domestic Inflation: A Case Study of Pakistan|The surge in global commodity prices in 2007-08 sent an inflationary shock across the world. The collapse in global prices in 2014 resulted in significant disinflation in many countries and even deflation in some countries. We have explored the linkages between global commodity prices’ fluctuations and inflation in a small open economy, Pakistan. Global price fluctuations are found to be dominant source of inflation in Pakistan during July 1992 to June 2014. Food inflation and overall inflation in Pakistan is linked to changes in international food prices. Increase in global oil price results in non-food and administered prices’ inflation in Pakistan. For core inflation, changes in global prices of metal and cotton matter most. Global commodity prices’ changes impact overall inflation in Pakistan rather quickly compared to impact of changes in monetary aggregates. Core inflation takes longer to respond to all types of shocks, including global prices’ fluctuations.
F62|International inflation spillovers - the role of different shocks|We analyze how the transmission of international inﬂation spillovers depends on the nature of the underlying shocks that drive inﬂation abroad. We ﬁnd evidence for substantial heterogeneity in the magnitude of spillovers to domestic inﬂation related to the fundamental source of international price ﬂuctuations and the corresponding monetary policy reactions. Indeed, it turns out that the relative conduct of monetary policy varies depending on the source of these price ﬂuctuations, and so does the role of the exchange rate as a shock absorber. We show this by looking at international inﬂation spillovers to Switzerland through the lenses of a Bayesian structural dynamic factor model relating a large set of disaggregated prices to key macroeconomic factors. Being a small open economy with an independent monetary policy, Switzerland is a particularly suitable subject for studying the role of monetary policy in the transmission of foreign shocks. However, our results more broadly indicate that inﬂation spillovers need to be analyzed in a framework allowing for diﬀerent transmission channels.
F62|Impact of China on World Commodity Prices and Commodity Exporters|We study the effect of a domestic shock in China on the real economy and financial markets of a commodity exporting country. We estimate a dynamic factor model using Bayesian methods to identify a China factor and a global factor using monthly macroeconomic data from China and rest of the world. We, then, assess implications of the China factor on global commodity prices and macroeconomy of a commodity exporting nation in a reduced form Bayesian VAR. A negative China shock causes fall in global commodity prices leading to output loss and stock market fall in these countries. China shock affects output of only a subset of countries in our sample compared to US shock, which affects all countries. Stock markets of commodity dependent countries respond strongly and more quickly to China shock than to US shock. China shock also has more persistent effect on commodity prices than US shock.
F62|Global Commodity Prices and Global Stock Volatility Shocks: Effects across Countries|This paper investigates the time-varying dynamics of global stock volatility, commodity prices, and domestic output and consumer prices. The main empirical findings of this paper are: (i) stock volatility and commodity price shocks impact each other and the economy in a gradual and endogenous adjustment process; (ii) the impact of a commodity price shock on global stock volatility is far greater during the global financial crisis than at other times; (iii) the effects of global stock volatility on US output are amplified by the endogenous commodity price responses; (iv) in the long run, shocks to commodity prices (stock market volatility) account for 11.9% (6.6%) and 25.1% (11.6%) of the variation in US output and consumer prices; (v) the effects of global stock volatility shocks on the economy are heterogeneous across nations and relatively larger in the developed countries.
F62|The causality between economic growth and immigration in EU/EFTA member states|The EU/EFTA Member States attract yearly a large population of immigrants. Economists, demographers, historians and sociologists generally agree that the need to fill labor market gaps and the income differences between host and sending countries explain migration into industrialized nations. They also recognize that demographic changes that occur through immigration have important economic effects. However, regarding the existence of economic repercussions of migration, there is no conclusive evidence on the relationship between economic growth and immigration. To this end, the Granger Long-run causality based on the Error Correction Model (ECM) and Johansen cointegration technique and Granger Causality Test were applied to Eurostat database for EU/EFTA nations.
F62|Financialisation and tendencies towards stagnation: The role of macroeconomic regime changes in the course of and after the financial and economic crisis 2007-9|This paper argues that the re-emergence of stagnation tendencies in modern capitalism can be related to financialisation and its macroeconomic failures leading to the recent crises, and in particular to the macroeconomic responses towards the crisis and the respective regime shifts in mature capitalist economies. The focus of the paper is on the latter, and it examines the regime changes for six mature capitalist economies, the two liberal Anglo-Saxon economies of the US and the UK, a representative country from the Nordic welfare states, Sweden, the three important Eurozone countries France, Germany and Spain, as well as the core Eurozone (EA-12) as a whole. The concept of macroeconomic regimes under the conditions of financialisation is recapitulated, applied to the period before the crisis, and finally the regime changes during and after the crisis are examined. It is shown that a dominant tendency towards export-led mercantilism, in particular in the Eurozone and its main member countries, imposes an aggregation problem on the global economy and thus contributes to stagnation and rising global macroeconomic risks. Finally, short- and long-run alternative policies to deal with these problems are suggested.
F62|U.S. Agricultural Export Competitiveness and Export Market Diversification| This paper examines the structural relationship between U.S. agricultural exports, foreign GDP growth, and real exchange rate volatility, and the impact of exogenous shocks on the evolution of export growth to examine the sector's international competitiveness and opportunities for export extensification. The long- and short-run dynamics of export demand are analyzed within the structural cointegrating vectorautoregressive framework. Principal findings are that: 1. Exports of high-value processed agricultural products are more sensitive to changes in foreign income and exchange rate fluctuations than exports of low-value grains and bulk commodities. Specifically, a 10% growth in trade-adjusted GDP across all importing countries leads to a 7.8% increase in U.S. exports of bulk commodities compared to 33% increase in exports of high-value processed commodities. Similarly, a 10% increase in the value of the trade-weighted exchange rate (i.e., an appreciation of the U.S. dollar) reduces bulk exports by 8.4% compared to a whopping 35% decline in high-value processed food exports; 2. In response to exogenous shocks, deviations from the predicted equilibrium level of exports are corrected at a much faster rate for grains and other bulk commodity exports than export of high value commodities. For example, more than 75% of the disequilibrium in aggregate bulk commodity exports is corrected within one year; less than 15% of the disequilibrium in high-value processed exports is corrected within a year. 3. The present concentration of U.S. agricultural commodity exports to a few developed countries is increasingly problematic, U.S. agricultural exports may benefit not only from policies intended to increase trade with existing developing country importers but also from policies that aim to export agricultural commodities to emerging markets. Our paper also highlights the importance of including the long-run relationship when modeling the short-run dynamics.
F62|Quantifying the productivity effects of global sourcing|This work analyses the effect of the global sourcing of intermediate goods on productivity growth. To identify the impact of global sourcing, we employ the methodology proposed in a different context by Rajan and Zingales (1998). In particular we interact the length and the width of sectoral production chains with a measure of the intensity of countries’ intermediate imports. We find evidence indicating that off-shoring significantly increases labour productivity and total factor productivity at the sector level in countries that rely on global sourcing. The driver of total factor productivity growth depends on the structure of the global value chain that intermediates are sourced from: long chains trigger technology improvements while wide chains cause a reallocation of resources towards more productive firms within the same sector.
F62|The Tax System Of Belarus|This paper provides a comprehensive analysis of taxation in Belarus. I compare the dynamics of the tax rates and the tax revenue in Belarus to the world averages and to other countries of the Eurasian Union. The paper studies the the harmonization of the rates within the union and the efficiency of tax collection. Finally, the two possible reforms of taxation in Belarus and its possible consequences are discussed: an increase of VAT; reintroduction of the progressive personal income tax.
F62|Globalization, market structure and inflation dynamics|The decline in the sensitivity of inflation to domestic slack observed in developed countries since the mid 1980’s has been often attributed to globalization. However, this intuition has so far not been formalized. I develop a general equilibrium setup in which the sensitivity of inflation to marginal cost decreases when international trade costs fall. In order to do so, I add three ingredients to an otherwise standard two-country new-Keynesian model. Strategic interactions generate a time varying desired markup; endogenous entry and heterogeneous productivity engender a self-selection of the most productive firms (also the largest ones) in international trade. Hence the weight of large firms in domestic production increases. These firms transmit less marginal cost fluctuations to price adjustments, rather absorbing them into their desired markup in order to protect their market share. At the aggregate level, domestic inflation reacts less to real activity fluctuations.
F62|The Gains from Input Trade with Heterogeneous Importers|Firms differ substantially in their participation in foreign input markets. We develop a methodology to measure the aggregate effects of input trade that takes such heterogeneity into account. We provide a theoretical result that holds in a variety of settings: the firm-level data on value added and domestic expenditure shares in material spending is sufficient to compute the change in consumer prices due to a shock to the import environment. We characterize the bias of approaches that rely on aggregate statistics. In an application to French data, input trade reduces the prices of manufacturing products by 27 percent.
F62|France’s pharmaceutical industry in global value chains|Companies are increasingly engaged in global value chains (GVCs). All of their activities, from design to bringing products to market, are spread across a variety of domestic and foreign participants. Taking the example of the French pharmaceutical industry, we use trade in value added indicators to examine this phenomenon. Over the 2000-2014 period, the French pharmaceutical industry opened up to GVCs, as reflected in the 392% increase in the share of imported value added in its exports and the 185% increase in the share of exported domestic value added. After being especially pronounced between 2007 and 2010, however, this integration process has slowed since 2012: the share of foreign value added in exports was smaller in 2014 than in 2012. The degree to which companies participate in GVCs is heterogeneous: exporting firms make greater use of imported inputs and are thus more integrated than those that produce for the domestic market. Foreign multinational businesses operating in France participate to a larger extent in GVCs than French multinationals producing in France. The opening up of the pharmaceutical industry to GVCs has been accompanied by greater diversification in trade partners and increased production sharing with zones outside Europe’s borders. Today, international production sharing within the industry involves the major euro area countries but also the UK, Switzerland, the USA, Poland, as well as the large Asian economies such as China. Integration of the French pharmaceutical industry in GVCs has gone hand in hand with rising direct investment, both outward by French firms and inward by foreign firms in France, and an increase in income earned by the French economy within the framework of the international organisation of production.
F62|Shedding Light on Price- and Non-price-competitiveness Determinants of Foreign Trade in the Four Largest Euro-area Countries|Since the mid-2000s standard price-competitiveness indicators for some European countries have been providing conflicting signals, particularly in Italy. Against a broad stability of the producer price (PPI)-based measure, the manufacturing unit labour cost (ULCM)-deflated indicator points to a major cumulated loss of competitiveness in Italy. We find that this discrepancy mostly reflects the divergence of ULCM and PPI trends in competitor countries while in Italy they have actually progressed hand in hand. Owing to the internationalization of production processes and to the subsequent fading representativeness of labour in respect of overall costs, seen to a different degree across countries, price-based indicators are arguably more appropriate than those based on ULCMs to assess external competitiveness and external performance. We provide empirical evidence that points in the same direction. In Italy ULC-based indicators play a less important role relative to price-deflated measures in explaining both export and import trends; this result does not hold for Germany and France. Moreover, a proxy for non-price competitiveness proves important in explaining Italian, German and, in particular, Spanish exports.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F62|Schumpeterian Macroeconomic Production Function for Open Economies: A New Endogenous Knowledge and Output Analysis|The macroeconomic production function is a traditional key element of modern macroeconomics, as is the more recent knowledge production function which explains knowledge/patents by certain input factors such as research, foreign direct investment or international technology spillovers. This study is a major contribution to innovation, trade, FDI and growth analysis, namely in the form of a combination of an empirically relevant knowledge production function for open economies - with both trade and inward FDI as well as outward foreign direct investment plus research input – with a macro production function. Plugging the open economy knowledge production function into a standard macroeconomic production function yields important new insights for many fields: The estimation of the production potential in an open economy, growth decomposition analysis in the context of economic globalization and the demand for labor as well as long run international output interdependency of big countries; and this includes a view at the asymmetric case of a simple two country world in which one country is at full employment while the other is facing underutilized capacities. Finally, there are crucial implications for the analyis of broad regional integration schemes such as TTIP or TPP and a more realistic and comprehensive empirical analysis.
F62|Amérique latine, des années 1950 à aujourd’hui, mutations, essor et nouvelles dépendances|After experiencing a significant growth in their industry, most of the major Latin American countries knows a deindustrialization coupled with a return toward international specialization on commodities. Their insertion into the international division of labour for 15 years is from a reprimarisation of their economies (except Mexico and Central America). That favors a premature deindustrialization, a lethargy of their growth (except for Andean countries). In other words, while the number of Asian economies is towards more industrial density per capita and more industry in GDP (except India) and a strong growth, Latin American countries remain confined to a situation where industrial density increases little and the weight of their industry in GDP has declined. Strange return of history of success and failures, this regression could explain the crisis that these countries are going through today? Classification JEL: F14, F62, F63, O10, O54.
F62|Wealth and Politics: Studies on Inter Vivos Transfers and Partisan Effects|Die Dissertation behandelt in sechs eigenständigen Studien Themen zu Vermögensübertragungen zwischen Generationen sowie zum Einfluss von ideologischer Orientierung und Wahlen auf Einkommensungleichheit, Haushaltskonsolidierung, Finanzplanung und Politikberatung. Die erste Studie untersucht die Einflussgrößen von Schenkungen von Betriebsvermögen. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, dass bei größeren Unternehmen und bei Unternehmen mit guter Geschäftslage die Schenkungswahrscheinlichkeit stieg. Auch durch die im Zuge der Erbschaftsteuerreform 2009 eingeführten Verschonungsabschläge für Betriebsvermögen ist die Schenkungswahrscheinlichkeit gestiegen. Die zweite Studie geht allgemeiner der Frage nach, wie die Steuerreform 2009 das Schenkungsverhalten der Deutschen beeinflusst hat. Im Ergebnis zeigt sich keine signifikante Steigerung der Wahrscheinlichkeit von Schenkungen innerhalb der Kernfamilie, wohingegen die Wahrscheinlichkeit von Schenkungen an andere nahe Verwandte und nicht verwandte Personen um ca. 30 Prozent gestiegen ist. Die dritte Studie behandelt das Zusammenspiel von Regierungsideologie, Globalisierung und dem Einkommensanteil der obersten Perzentile der Einkommensverteilung in OECD-Ländern. Die vierte Studie zeigt auf, dass Worte und Taten deutscher Landespolitiker und -regierungen in Bezug auf Haushaltskonsolidierung und Schuldenbremsen voneinander abgewichen haben. Die fünfte Studie beschreibt, wie deutsche Landesregierungen ihre mehrjährige Finanzplanung im Vorfeld von Wahlen strategisch gestaltet haben. In ostdeutschen Bundesländern wurde die Staatsquote in Vorwahljahren systematisch unterschätzt. Die sechste Studie untersucht, inwiefern unterschiedliche ideologische Orientierungen der deutschen Wirtschaftsforschungsinstitute die Politikberatung in der Gemeinschaftsdiagnose beeinflusst haben.
F62|Mögliche Auswirkungen der Transatlantischen Handels- und Investitionspartnerschaft (TTIP) auf Entwicklungs- und Schwellenländer|TTIP wird, aufgrund der schieren Größe der transatlantischen Volkswirtschaft, Auswirkungen auf Entwicklungs- und Schwellenländer haben. Einerseits sollten höhere Einkommen in der EU und den USA die Nachfrage nach Gütern und Dienstleistungen der Drittstaaten steigern, was letzteren zu Guten kommt. Anderseits ist damit zu rechnen, dass das Abkommen Handelsströme der TTIP Partner von den Drittstaaten weglenkt, was ihnen schadet. Per Saldo wird es unter den Entwicklungsländern Gewinner, aber auch Verlierer geben. Für beide Gruppen sind die Effekte allerdings klein. Und es existieren zahlreiche Stellschrauben, um die Gruppe der Gewinner möglichst groß werden zu lassen. In dieser Studie untersucht das ifo Institut München gemeinsam mit dem IAW Tübingen, wie Gefahren für Entwicklungsländer minimiert und Chancen maximiert werden können, so dass das Abkommens zum Keim eines neuen und fairen Welthandelssystems werden kann.
F62|Market Integration and Global Crashes|We develop an equilibrium model of real and financial market integration in which real firms and financial investors independently decide on their investment into different locations (countries). We show that, in the presence financial frictions, firms' real investment choices become strategic complements, leading to multiple, self-fulfilling equilibria. This fragility may lead to a global crash in which severe underinvestment into countries with under-developed financial markets spills over to countries connected to them by real investment linkages. We show that such global crashes are particularly severe when frictions are sufficiently symmetric across countries. By contrast, with enough asymmetry, the economy is likely to end up in a local crash equilibrium in which countries with low real investment barriers suffer the most.
F62|World Textile, Clothing, Leather And Footwear Industry. 2000–2015 Short Outlook|The article provides a succinct evolution of the global textile, clothing, leather and footwear industry, highlighting the major trends during 2000-2015. In the first part, the authors present the evolution of products world trade for global textile, clothing, leather and footwear industry, emphasizing the valences of new technologies in developing the major tendencies. Next, the article shows the influence of regulation on the world light industry and on the structural changes of the major actors in the field, emphasizing the impact of structural changes in the global economy. Further benchmarks of world global textile, clothing, leather and footwear industry in the global context are developed. Finally, the article offers guidelines on the forecast of the global textile, clothing, leather and footwear industry. The article is based primarily on exploratory research and statistical calculation.
F62|La globalización y sus relaciones con la tributación, una constatación para América Latina y la OCDE|En este artículo se revisan los principales retos que implica la globalización para los sistemas tributarios en el mundo y se propone un ejercicio econométrico que incluye a países de la OCDE y América Latina para identificar qué impuestos se han afectado. Se acude al índice de globalización de Dreher por ser una medición más acorde con la naturaleza multidimensional del fenómeno. Se encuentra que la recaudación de los impuestos sobre la renta personal y el comercio internacional se asocian negativamente con el avance de la globalización, pero no ocurre así con los impuestos a la renta empresarial, al consumo o al capital, ni con la presión tributaria. ***** This paper considers the main challenges of globalization on tax systems and presents an econometric exercise that takes into account OECD and Latin American countries aiming at identifying which taxes have been particularly affected. We use the KOF index because it is a multidimensional measurement of globalization. Our findings suggest that revenue for taxes on personal income and international trade are related (negatively) to globalization; on the other hand, tax burden and taxes on corporate income, consumption and capital are not.
F62|Colombia en las cadenas globales de valor: utilización de insumos importados con énfasis en la Alianza del Pacífico|"Ante la creciente importancia de las denominadas “cadenas globales de valor”, término que hace referencia a la globalización de la producción, el comercio de insumos intermedios es cada vez más significativo. Para entender una dimensión del fenómeno, se propone una caracterización de las importaciones de bienes intermedios en Colombia. Combinando estadísticas de comercio con herramientas del análisis insumo-producto, es posible identificar no solamente el origen sectorial de los insumos, sino también su destino en términos de sectores domésticos de utilización. El análisis se centra en el rol de los países de la Alianza del Pacífico, para estudiar cuál es el grado de complementariedad productiva con Colombia. Los resultados indican que estos relacionamientos son bajos. ******* With the growing importance of the so-called ""global value chains"", a term referring to the globalization of production, trading has become more significant in intermediate inputs. In order to understand one dimension of this phenomenon, a characterization of imports of intermediate goods in Colombia is proposed. Through the combination of trade statistics and input-output analysis tools, it is possible to identify not only the sectoral origin of inputs, but also its destination in terms of domestic sectors of use. The analysis focuses on the role of the countries of the Pacific Alliance to study the degree of productive complementarity with Colombia. The results indicate that such interrelationships are low."
F62|Efectos de los cambios de la tasa de interés de Estados Unidos sobre Colombia, Perú y Chile|En este documento se exploran los efectos de la política monetaria de Estados Unidos sobre las economías de Colombia, Perú y Chile. Se hace uso de modelos SVAR-X Se encuentra que la política monetaria estadounidense tiene efectos de escasa magnitud y diversos sobre las economías estudiadas. En Colombia, una política monetaria contractiva externa está acompañada de un leve incremento de la actividad económica dos meses después de su implementación, un escaso descenso de la inflación y una apreciación del tipo de cambio nominal sin persistencia. En Chile y Perú, solo son significativos los impactos sobre el nivel de producción, aunque estos van en sentidos opuestos en cada economía.
F62|Los determinantes de las exportaciones manufactureras de la economía colombiana. El papel de la Inversión Extranjera Directa en el sector. 2000-2014|El objetivo del artículo es capturar los determinantes que explican en el largo plazo el desempeño de las exportaciones manufactureras colombianas durante el período 2000-2014 usando un modelo de series de tiempo multivariado. Los resultados muestran que el PIB de la Comunidad Andina, PIB de Estados Unidos, tipo de cambio real, términos de intercambio, productividad laboral, índice de producción manufacturero e índice de salario real cointegran en el largo plazo con las exportaciones manufactureras. Además, el VAR demuestra que la IED dirigida al sector manufacturero impacta indirectamente a este tipo de exportaciones a través de mejoras en la productividad laboral.
F62|Incorporation of services in natural resource-intensive goods: description and measurement of the phenomenon|South American countries play a key role in international markets of the so called Natural Resource Intensive Goods (NRIGs), in particular mining and food. It has been argued that this specialization pattern has disadvantages in terms of economic development, and both policy makers and academia repeatedly sustain the need to search for new international insertion schemes. In this paper we argue that one such avenue could be based on these comparative advantages themselves, and we ask how services can add value to the production and exports of NRIGs. To measure the relevance of economic infrastructure services on the competitiveness of NRIGs we develop a sectoral approach using domestic input-output tables for six Latin American countries. In particular, we measure Services value added incorporated in NRIGs, and we also analyse the impacts of productivity changes in infrastructure services on NRIGs producer prices. Results allow to identify which services are more important to each NRIG in each country. They also highlight that new instruments in trade and industrial policy must be develop to promote the specialized products services in NRIG. It is necessary to know the nature of the process that generates this new comparative advantage.
F62|Market Integration and Global Crashes|We develop an equilibrium model of real and financial market integration in which real firms and financial actors independently decide on their investment into different locations (countries). We show that, in the presence of financial frictions, firms' real investment choices may become strategic complements, leading to multiple, self-fulfilling equilibria, as well as to real fragility, whereby a small change in one country's fundamentals triggers a large large change in real investment everywhere. This fragility may lead to a global crash in which severe underinvestment into countries with under-developed financial markets spills over all other countries. We show that such global crashes are particularly severe when frictions are sufficiently symmetric across countries. By contrast, with enough asymmetry, the economy is likely to end up in a local crash equilibrium in which countries with low real investment barriers suffer the most.
F62|The Effect of Innovation Performance on Dimensions of the Globalization|Developments such as deployment of local and nationalistic perspectives to a broader outlook of an interconnected and interdependent world with free transfer of capital, goods, and services across national frontiers are associated with Globalization phenomenon. Although globalization is not new it is used more commonly and associated with a new subject every day. Globalization is frequently associated with economic growth via expanding international trade, cross-border transfer of financial resources, increased foreign investments, growing multinational enterprises and joint ventures. However this new world of globalization resulted in greater international competition for the countries and obliged them to be innovative in order to remain at the forefront in the global competition environment. It is generally accepted that there is a strong relationship between innovation and globalization. However globalization doesn’t influence high income and low income countries same way. Furthermore different dimensions of globalization is affected by the innovation in a different way. In this paper innovation performance of the countries and the relationship between the dimension of globalization is investigated. The data is extracted from INSEAD Innovation Indexes and KOF Globalization Index and tested using panel regression analysis. The results have shown that except political globalization the relation connection between innovation and economic and social dimensions of globalization is significant and positive.
F62|Limited Risk Sharing and International Equity Returns|I study international risk sharing with limited stock market participation and preference heterogeneity in each country. An incomplete market model jointly generates high cross-country equity return correlation and low aggregate consumption growth correlation, while matching salient features of asset prices. The model further generates several implications that I show in the data: 1) The stockholders' cross-country consumption growth correlation is considerably higher than that of the aggregate; 2) International bond flows help agents share the labor income risk only, while the country-specific financial income fluctuations are negatively correlated with equity inflows only; 3) The stockholders' consumption risk is priced in both the home and foreign equity markets. I show that the financial integration significantly improves the stockholders' welfare without benefiting the non-stockholders.
F62|Mediation Effects of Firm Leverage in Malaysia: Partial Least Squares - Structural Equation Modeling|In theory, capital structure determinant is a cause-effect model. We investigate the simultaneously of cause-effect framework on the impact of specific attributes on firm’s financial performance through leverage which acts as a mediation variable. We use the partial least squares - structural equation modeling that capable of providing a greater understanding of the prediction for the construct relationship among each other with simultaneous techniques with only one time process (Chin, 1998). We endeavor to examine in a complex model that consists with 14 construct (LVs) and 33 indicators in Malaysia for the period from 1990 to 2010. The implication is that the Malaysian firms could attempt to choose less risky route, as Malaysia is recognized as a “market-based oriented.” In addition, we find that some attributes could influence the relationship to firm’s financial performance by indirect effect (leverage). Thus, firms tend to act with partial action on their capital structure, which believe to attain a sustainable performance.
F62|Measuring openness to trade|In this paper we derive a new measure of openness—trade potential index—that quantifies the potential gains from trade as a simple function of data. Using a standard multicountry trade model, we measure openness by a country׳s potential welfare gain from moving to a world with frictionless trade. In this model, a country׳s trade potential depends on only the trade elasticity and two observable statistics: the country׳s home trade share and its income level. Quantitatively, poor countries have greater potential gains from trade relative to rich countries, while their welfare costs of autarky are similar. This leads us to infer that rich countries are more open to trade. Our trade potential index correlates strongly with estimates of trade costs, while both the welfare cost of autarky and the volume of trade correlate weakly with trade costs. Thus, our measure of openness is informative about the underlying trade frictions.
F62|Comments on “Measuring openness to trade” by M.E. Waugh and B. Ravikumar|No abstract is available for this item.
F62|The role of globalization on the recent evolution of energy demand in India: Implications for sustainable development|Using annual data for the period 1971–2012, this study explores the relationship between globalization and energy consumption for India by endogenizing economic growth, financial development and urbanization. The cointegration test proposed by Bayer–Hanck (2013) is applied to estimate the long-run and short-run relationships among the variables. After confirming the existence of cointegration, the overall results from the estimation of an ARDL energy demand function reveal that in the long run, the acceleration of globalization (measured in three dimensions — economic, social and overall globalization) leads to a decline in energy demand in India. Furthermore, while financial development is negatively related to energy consumption, economic growth and urbanization are the key factors leading to increased energy demand in the long run. These results have policy implications for the sustainable development of India. In particular, globalization and financial development provide a win–win situation for India to increase its economic growth in the long run and become more environmentally sustainable.
F62|Financial globalisation and monetary policy effectiveness|In theory financial globalisation has an ambiguous effect on monetary policy effectiveness. On the one hand, exposure to global financial cycles dampens the output effect of a tightening in monetary policy in financially integrated economies and thereby reduces monetary policy effectiveness. On the other hand, another salient feature of financial globalisation is that economies have become increasingly net long in foreign currency, which amplifies monetary policy effectiveness: economies experience larger valuation losses and wealth effects on their external balance sheets in response to an exchange rate appreciation when monetary policy is tightened, hence triggering stronger output effects. We quantify empirically the net impact of financial globalisation on monetary policy effectiveness through these two opposing channels. We find that since the 1990s the second channel has dominated so that financial globalisation has amplified monetary policy effectiveness in the typical advanced and emerging market economy. By our estimates, the output effect of a tightening in monetary policy has increased by 25% due to financial globalisation. Our results imply that financial globalisation has modified the transmission of monetary policy by strengthening the importance of the exchange rate channel.
F62|The composition of trade flows and the aggregate effects of trade barriers|A widely used class of quantitative trade models implicitly assumes that patterns of comparative advantage take a specific form such that they have no influence over the effect of trade barriers on aggregate trade flows and welfare. In this paper, I relax this assumption, developing a framework in which to analyze the role of interactions among countries' patterns of comparative advantage in determining the aggregate effects of trade barriers. My model preserves much of the tractability of standard aggregate quantitative trade models while allowing for the effects of any pattern of comparative advantage, across many products and countries, to be taken into account. After fitting my model to product-level trade data, I find that the composition of trade flows is quantitatively important in determining the welfare gains from trade and the aggregate effects of trade barriers. A key finding is that the welfare gains from trade tend to be larger and more skewed in favor of low-income countries than an aggregate model would suggest.
F62|The relation between sovereign credit rating revisions and economic growth|A country’s economic growth exhibits a significant response to sovereign rating changes: a one-notch upgrade (downgrade) causes an increase (decline) of about 0.6% (0.3%) in re-rated countries’ five-year average annual growth rates. The results hold after accounting for other determinants of economic growth and potential endogeneity problems, and are robust to the use of quarterly data. Changes in country rating affect economic growth via the interest-rate and capital-flow channels: narrower sovereign bond yield spreads and increased capital inflows are associated with upgrades, which stimulate re-rated countries’ economic performance, and the converse holds for downgrades.
F62|Output spillovers from changes in sovereign credit ratings|This research examines how a sovereign rating revision of one country influences the economic growth rates of other countries. Rating revisions have significant output spillover effects: A one-notch upgrade (downgrade) prompts on average a significant downward revision of about 0.03% (0.07%) in the consensus forecast of annual economic growth rates of other countries in the two-month period after the event. The spillovers are transmitted through direct and indirect trade and financial linkages between event and non-event countries. The evidence indicates that a predominance of differential (common) spillovers leads upgrades (downgrades) to produce adverse output effects for other countries.
F62|Globalization and inflation: A threshold investigation|We use a threshold methodology to investigate the importance of non-linear effects in the analysis of the inflation globalization hypothesis. Accounting for potential non-linearities in the Phillips Curve, we show that trade openness is not rejected as a threshold variable for the effects of domestic and foreign slack on inflation in many advanced economies, and we find a switch of the output gap slopes from one regime to the other that is consistent with the key predictions of the inflation globalization hypothesis. For some countries the threshold Phillips Curve model also leads to improvements in out-of-sample forecast over the linear Phillips models, especially at longer horizons. Contrary to most of the previous literature which ignores such non-linearities, our new approach provides some interesting empirical evidence supportive of the effect globalization has on a country’s inflation dynamics.
F62|Does the global trade slowdown matter?|Since the Global Financial Crisis, world trade growth has been subdued and lagging slightly behind GDP growth. Trade is growing more slowly not only because global GDP growth is lower, but also because trade itself has become less responsive to GDP. This article reviews the reasons behind the changing trade−income relationship and then investigates its consequences for economic growth. On the demand side, sluggish world import growth may adversely affect individual countries’ economic growth as it limits opportunities for their exports. On the supply side, slower trade may diminish the scope for productivity growth through increasing specialization and diffusion of technologies. We find preliminary evidence that the changing trade−income relationship matters, although the quantifiable effects do not appear to be large.
F62|Institutions, Foreign Direct Investment, and Domestic Investment: Crowding Out or Crowding In?|Studies of the relationship between FDI and domestic investment reach contradictory findings. We argue that some of the conflicting evidence may be explained by the use of poor proxies for the theoretical concepts and questionable methodological choices. We review the paper of Morrissey and Udomkerdmonkol published in this journal in 2012. Improvements in the construction of the proxies and refinements in the estimation methodology reverse the finding of Morrissey and Udomkerdmonkol that FDI inflows crowd out domestic investment. Furthermore, there is no strong evidence that “good governance” actually encourages domestic investment.
F62|Global uncertainty and the global economy: Decomposing the impact of uncertainty shocks|We constructed a new index of global uncertainty using the first principal component of the stock market volatility for the largest 15 economies. We evaluate the impact of global uncertainty on the global economy using the new global database from Global Economic Indicators (DGEI), Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. Global uncertainty shocks are less frequent than those observed in data on the U.S. economy. Global uncertainty shocks are associated with a sharp decline in global inflation, global growth and in the global interest rate (based on official/policy interest rates set by central banks). Our decomposition of global uncertainty shocks shows that global financial uncertainty shocks are more important than non-financial shocks. Over the period 1981 to 2014 global financial uncertainty forecasts 18.26% and 14.95% of the variation in global growth and global inflation respectively. The non-financial uncertainty shocks have insignificant effects on global growth. The model for global variables shows more protracted and substantial negative effects of uncertainty on growth and inflation than does a panel model estimating associations of local country-level variables. This outcome is reversed for the effect of uncertainty on official interest rate.
