F63|Enhancing ICT for Quality Education in Sub-Saharan Africa|This research assesses the relevance of information and communication technology (ICT) in primary education quality in a panel of 49 Sub-Saharan African countries for the period 2000-2012. The empirical evidence is based on Two Stage Least Squares (2SLS) and Instrumental Quantile regressions (IQR). From the 2SLS: (i) mobile phone and internet penetration rates reduce poor quality education and enhancing internet penetration has a net negative effect of greater magnitude. From the IQR: (i) with the exception of the highest quantile for mobile phone penetration and top quantiles for internet penetration, ICT consistently has a negative effect on poor education quality with a non-monotonic pattern. (ii) Net negative effects are exclusively apparent in the median and top quantiles of internet-related regressions. It follows that enhancing internet penetration will benefit countries with above-median levels of poor education quality while enhancing internet penetration is not immediately relevant to reducing poor education quality in countries with below-median levels of poor education quality.
F63|Enhancing ICT for Quality Education in Sub-Saharan Africa|This research assesses the relevance of information and communication technology (ICT) in primary education quality in a panel of 49 Sub-Saharan African countries for the period 2000-2012. The empirical evidence is based on Two Stage Least Squares (2SLS) and Instrumental Quantile regressions (IQR). From the 2SLS: (i) mobile phone and internet penetration rates reduce poor quality education and enhancing internet penetration has a net negative effect of greater magnitude. From the IQR: (i) with the exception of the highest quantile for mobile phone penetration and top quantiles for internet penetration, ICT consistently has a negative effect on poor education quality with a non-monotonic pattern. (ii) Net negative effects are exclusively apparent in the median and top quantiles of internet-related regressions. It follows that enhancing internet penetration will benefit countries with above-median levels of poor education quality while enhancing internet penetration is not immediately relevant to reducing poor education quality in countries with below-median levels of poor education quality.
F63|Working Paper 308 - The Diaspora and Economic Development in Africa|While the dominant collective belief asserts that brain drain is detrimental to the development of small economies, new studies hold the reverse view. This paper aims at studying the role of the African Diaspora in the economic development of Africa. It analyzes both the overall effect and the specific effect of emigration according to the level of education of emigrants. Then, through a deeper investigation, the paper analyzes the main channels through which the Diaspora influences economic development in Africa. The results show that the African Diaspora contributes positively, significantly and robustly to the improvement of real per capita income in Africa. These findings challenge the dominant collective belief since the higher the educational level of the emigrants, the greater the impact of the Diaspora on the level of economic development. Improvements in human capital, total factor productivity and democracy are effective transmission channels of this impact. Finally, the results show that while high-skilled emigrants have an overall greater impact on economic development and democracy, those with a low level of education contribute more to remittances to Africa. The establishment of an annual African Diaspora Summer School (ADSS) by the AfDB in partnership relevant international and regional stakeholders as a channel for the transfer of knowledge, technology and experience would further strengthen the role of the Diaspora in Africa’s economic development.Keywords: International migration, Economic development, Africa. JEL classification: F22, F63, O55
F63|Remittances, the Diffusion of Information and Industrialisation in Africa|This study examines the role of information and communication technology (ICT) on remittances for industrialisation in a panel of 49 African countries for the period 1980-2014. The empirical evidence is based on three simultaneity-robust estimation techniques, namely: (i) Instrumental Fixed Effects (FE) in order to control for the unobserved heterogeneity; (ii) Generalised Method of Moments (GMM) to account for persistence in industrialisation; and (iii) Instrumental Quantile Regressions (QR) to control for initial levels of industrialisation. Our best estimators are from FE and QR estimations because the GMM regression outputs largely fail post-estimation diagnostic tests. The following findings are established: (i) There are positive marginal effects from the interaction between remittances and ICT in the FE regressions whereas there are negative marginal impacts from the interaction between remittances and ICT; (ii) Interactions between remittances and mobile phone penetration are positive in the bottom and 90th quantiles whereas the interaction between internet penetration and remittances is positive in the bottom and top quantiles of the industrialisation distribution. Overall, the role of ICT in remittances for industrialisation is much more apparent when existing levels of industrialisation are accounted for. The findings contribute to the debates on the importance of external flows and information infrastructure in economic growth as well as the relevance of remittances in driving economic development in environments where institutions are weak. The value of the study to scholars and policy makers also builds on the fact that the potential for ICT and remittances in Africa can be leveraged to address development challenges on the continent such as the low level of industrialisation.
F63|From Local to Global: External Validity in a Fertility Natural Experiment|We study issues related to external validity for treatment effects using over 100 replications of the Angrist and Evans (1998) natural experiment on the effects of sibling sex composition on fertility and labor supply. The replications are based on census data from around the world going back to 1960. We decompose sources of error in predicting treatment effects in external contexts in terms of macro and micro sources of variation. In our empirical setting, we find that macro covariates dominate over micro covariates for reducing errors in predicting treatments, an issue that past studies of external validity have been unable to evaluate. We develop methods for two applications to evidence-based decision-making, including determining where to locate an experiment and whether policy-makers should commission new experiments or rely on an existing evidence base for making a policy decision.
F63|International Buyers' Sourcing and Suppliers' Markups in Bangladeshi Garments|Large international buyers play a key role in global value chains. We exploit detailed transaction-level data on the usage of material inputs to study how Bangladeshi garment suppliers’ markups vary across international buyers. We find substantial dispersion in markups across export orders of a given seller for the same product. Buyer effects explain a significant share of this variation, while destination effects do not. Buyers adopting relational sourcing strategies pay higher markups than non-relational buyers. This pattern holds within seller-product-year combinations, is robust to controlling for the buyer’s size, traded volumes, and quality, and, together with larger volumes, implies higher profits for suppliers dealing with relational buyers.
F63|Globalización y desigualdad: el caso del fútbol internacional|Este artículo hace dos cosas. Primero, usa una base de datos original, basada en los albúmenes de Panini de los mundiales de fútbol, para estudiar la creciente globalización en el mercado de jugadores. Segundo, muestra, con base en una serie de indicadores sencillos, que la globalización coincidió con una doble desigualdad, la desigualdad entre ligas (cuatro ligas europeas amplían su dominio) y la desigualdad al interior de las principales ligas europeas. Los resultados sugieren la existencia de fenómenos similares en otras industrias (la industria del entretenimiento, la industria de software e información, la industria farmacéutica, etc.) en las cuales los mercados laborales tienen un alcance global.
F63|International Buyers' Sourcing and Suppliers' Markups in Bangladeshi Garments|Large international buyers play a key role in global value chains. We exploit detailed transaction-level data on the usage of material inputs to study how Bangladeshi garment suppliers' markups vary across international buyers. We find substantial dispersion in markups across export orders of a given seller for the same product. Buyer effects explain a significant share of this variation, while destination effects do not. Buyers adopting relational sourcing strategies pay higher markups than non-relational buyers. This pattern holds within seller-product-year combinations, is robust to controlling for the buyer's size, traded volumes, and quality, and, together with larger volumes, implies higher profits for suppliers dealing with relational buyers.
F63|The Limits of Lending: Banks and Technology Adoption across Russia|We exploit historical and contemporaneous variation in local credit markets across Russia to identify the impact of credit constraints on firm-level innovation. We find that access to bank credit helps firms to adopt existing products and production processes that are new to them. They introduce these technologies either with the help of suppliers and clients or by acquiring external know-how. We find no evidence that bank credit also stimulates firm innovation through in-house R&D. This suggests that banks can facilitate the diffusion of technologies within developing countries but that their role in pushing the technological frontier is limited.
F63|Trade, Technology and the Great Divergence|"This paper develops a model that captures the key features of the Industrial Revolution and the Great Divergence between the industrializing \North"" and the lagging \South."" In particular, a convincing story is needed for why North-South divergence occurred so dramatically during the late 19th Century, a good hundred years after the beginnings of the Industrial Revolution. To this end we construct a trade/growth model that includes both endogenous biased technologies and intercontinental trade. The Industrial Revolution began as a sequence of unskilled-labor intensive innovations which initially incited fertil- ity increases and limited human capital formation in both the North and the South. The subsequent co-evolution of trade and technological growth however fostered an inevitable di- vergence in living standards - the South increasingly specialized in production that worsened their terms of trade and spurred even greater fertility increases and educational declines. Biased technological changes in both regions only reinforced this pattern. The model high- lights how pronounced divergence ultimately arose from interactions between specialization from trade and technological forces."
F63|Misallocation Under Trade Liberalization|This paper incorporates firm-level distortions into a Melitz model and characterizes welfare under misallocation. We derive an analogue to the well-known ACR result in an economy with distortions. We highlight a channel through which trade can reduce welfare by exacerbating misallocation. A key statistic to infer welfare is the gap between input and output shares. Using Chinese manufacturing data for quantitative analysis, we show that trade integration can lead to a 18% welfare loss coming from a reduction in allocative efficiency. The overall gains to trade is substantially smaller than implied by standard calculations.
F63|The gains from catch-up for China and the US: An empirical framework|As China becomes more closely entwined with the US, positive shocks in the US translate into positive outcomes for China, but the extent of gain for the US during the convergence process is less clear. We develop an empirical framework of two interacting open economies in which Chinese GDP per capita moves towards convergence and cointegration with the US, resulting in a time-varying structural VAR model. As a result, the impulse responses of the two countries to shocks are sensitive to the timing of the shock. The changing effects of US shocks are evident in the analysis, which shows that over the convergence process both the US and China unambiguously benefit from the catch-up process.
F63|Rent seeking for export licenses: Application to the Vietnam rice market|The paper develops a model to examine rent seeking in innovation and export licenses, with an application to Vietnam rice exports. Firms can lobby for export restrictions or for free trade. Innovation is introduced as a cost-reducing technology. The analysis focuses on the innovation incentives of the firm lobbying for export restrictions, and the determinants of lobbying incentives. The analysis shows that firms lobbying for export restrictions may have lower incentives to adopt technological innovations under export restrictions than under free trade. The findings can help to identify economic inefficiency when the political elites use export restrictions to seek rents.
F63|Enhancing ICT for Quality Education in Sub-Saharan Africa|This research assesses the relevance of information and communication technology (ICT) in primary education quality in a panel of 49 Sub-Saharan African countries for the period 2000-2012. The empirical evidence is based on Two Stage Least Squares (2SLS) and Instrumental Quantile regressions (IQR). From the 2SLS: (i) mobile phone and internet penetration rates reduce poor quality education and enhancing internet penetration has a net negative effect of greater magnitude. From the IQR: (i) with the exception of the highest quantile for mobile phone penetration and top quantiles for internet penetration, ICT consistently has a negative effect on poor education quality with a non-monotonic pattern. (ii) Net negative effects are exclusively apparent in the median and top quantiles of internet-related regressions. It follows that enhancing internet penetration will benefit countries with above-median levels of poor education quality while enhancing internet penetration is not immediately relevant to reducing poor education quality in countries with below-median levels of poor education quality.
F63|Remittances, the Diffusion of Information and Industrialisation in Africa|This study examines the role of information and communication technology (ICT) on remittances for industrialisation in a panel of 49 African countries for the period 1980-2014. The empirical evidence is based on three simultaneity-robust estimation techniques, namely: (i) Instrumental Fixed Effects (FE) in order to control for the unobserved heterogeneity; (ii) Generalised Method of Moments (GMM) to account for persistence in industrialisation; and (iii) Instrumental Quantile Regressions (QR) to control for initial levels of industrialisation. Our best estimators are from FE and QR estimations because the GMM regression outputs largely fail post-estimation diagnostic tests. The following findings are established: (i) There are positive marginal effects from the interaction between remittances and ICT in the FE regressions whereas there are negative marginal impacts from the interaction between remittances and ICT; (ii) Interactions between remittances and mobile phone penetration are positive in the bottom and 90th quantiles whereas the interaction between internet penetration and remittances is positive in the bottom and top quantiles of the industrialisation distribution. Overall, the role of ICT in remittances for industrialisation is much more apparent when existing levels of industrialisation are accounted for. The findings contribute to the debates on the importance of external flows and information infrastructure in economic growth as well as the relevance of remittances in driving economic development in environments where institutions are weak. The value of the study to scholars and policy makers also builds on the fact that the potential for ICT and remittances in Africa can be leveraged to address development challenges on the continent such as the low level of industrialisation.
F63|The volatility effect of diaspora's location|Remittances can transmit volatility from host to home countries for some common patterns of diaspora's geographical distribution. In a migration portfolio model, the overall risk of volatility of any set of diaspora location is decomposed into a contagion and a concentration risks: a diaspora located in more volatile destinations induces a higher contagion risk, while a diaspora located in few destination countries increases the concentration risk. A series of estimations on a large panel of developing countries over 1995–2015 provide evidence for these two risks. Estimation of a structural model confirms that the geography of diaspora has an indirect impact on the origin country's aggregate instability through remittances.
F63|Intellectual Monopoly in Global Value Chains|More than two decades of scholarship on global value chains (GVCs) has reshaped our understanding of the global economy while tracking the international fragmentation of productive process and its socioeconomic consequences. In this paper we focus on the effort by lead firms to capture market power in the provision of and production of intangible assets. The analysis builds on Pagano’s (2014) notion of “intellectual monopoly”, where government protections of intellectual property have the effect of locking in the monopoly power from intangible asset creation. We extend it to the presence of scale economies and network externalities associated with the production of intangible assets.
F63|Shocks, economic policy and technology choice of heterogenous producers|This article introduces a new Melitz-type model of heterogeneous producers with decreasing returns to scale and different productivities. Different to previous models, it describes smallholder producers in rural areas of developing countries in the context of environment and development economics. The model enables a socially sensitive policy analysis considering poverty and distributional effects. In this model, the production input causes a negative environmental externality. External shocks, e.g., caused by climate change, and economic policies affect the producers' endogenous choice between market entry or exit and between simple or advanced technology. In the first step, various shocks and policies are analyzed theoretically. A novel type of the rebound effect (Jevons paradox) is identifed for the production input that occurs when market entry is incentivized by productivity improvements. In the second step, the model is calibrated by applying it to coffee production in rural Vietnam. The simulation results show that secondary effects of the shocks, such as employment effects, can be substantially larger than the original impact. The support of market entry or of the advanced technology creates adverse distributional effects.
F63|Access to Imported Intermediates and Intra-Firm Wage Inequality|We use Chinese firm-level data from the World Bank Investment Climate Survey to examine the link between importing intermediates and intra-firm wage inequality. Our results show that intermediate input importers not only have a significant wage premium but also have a greater intra-firm wage dispersion than non-importing firms. This pattern is robust when we control for productivity and use trade costs as the instruments. We further investigate the mechanism of how importing intermediates might contribute to both inter-firm and intra-firm wage inequality. Our evidence is consistent with three important channels. First, imported intermediate inputs complement skilled labour. Second, intermediates importers are more likely to use performance pay. Third, imported inputs complement innovation and employee training.
F63|New Technology and Increasing Returns: The End of the Antitrust Century?|The advance of digital technology is changing the nature of markets, enhancing the capacity of corporations to extract more consumers' surplus and lower the wages paid to workers. The rise of new technology has also diminished the efficacy of traditional laws to regulate firms and corporations. This is best illustrated by antitrust laws. With the new technology, there is greater returns to scale in production, and further, it is possible to have different components of the same final good be produced by different firms in faraway places. Unlike in earlier times the n firms in one industry, say the automobile industry, would all be producing cars, now the n firms in that industry produce n different parts of the product, thereby getting enormous returns to scale. Such markets are described as vertically serrated markets and their equilibria are characterized. Traditional antitrust law does not apply to these markets because the high returns to scale are natural and not artificially induced. This compels us to look for novel ways to regulate such markets. This paper discusses, in particular, laws that compel firms to have widely dispersed share holdings.
F63|Misallocation Under Trade Liberalization|This paper incorporates firm-level distortions into a Melitz model and characterizes welfare under misallocation. We derive an analogue to the well-known ACR result in an economy with distortions. We highlight a channel through which trade can reduce welfare by exacerbating misallocation. A key statistic to infer welfare is the gap between input and output shares. Using Chinese manufacturing data for quantitative analysis, we show that trade integration can lead to a 18% welfare loss coming from a reduction in allocative efficiency. The overall gains to trade is substantially smaller than implied by standard calculations.
F63|Trade Liberalization and Labor Market Adjustment in Botswana|We study the effects of domestic trade liberalization on labor markets in Botswana. South Africa is the dominant member of the Southern Africa Customs Union. As such, when South Africa liberalized trade in the 1990s, this induced large and plausibly exogenous tariff reductions for the other customs union members, including Botswana. Using labor force surveys from Botswana spanning a decade, we find that trade liberalization did not affect the relative size of industries in terms of employment. However, trade liberalization had effects within industries. We find an increase in the prevalence of working in an informal firm and self-employment, but mixed evidence of effects on unemployment. Hours worked decreased in response to trade liberalization, partially driven by the movement of workers to informal firms. Despite large increases in aggregate income, trade liberalization is associated with a reduction in monthly income, but the results are imprecise. Our results also suggest that a positive export demand shock, the 2000 African Growth and Opportunities Act, is associated with a reduction in employment in informal firms in the clothing industry.
F63|Blended Finance Funds and Facilities: 2018 Survey Results|The OECD Survey on Blended Finance Funds and Facilities represents a major step forward to consolidate evidence and provide further policy guidance in support of the OECD DAC Blended Finance Principles, whose focus is unlocking commercial finance for the Sustainable Development Goals.This working paper presents findings from the 2018 survey edition relating to the management, capital structure, investment strategy and portfolio allocation of the surveyed blended finance funds and facilities. The quantitative analysis is complemented by the OECD statistics on private finance mobilised by official development interventions and by information provided by Convergence. It will be followed by another OECD Development Co-operation working paper discussing the development strategy, performance tracking and evaluation approach.The 180 responses received illustrate to what extent blended finance funds and facilities vary widely in characteristics and functioning. Collectively, the managing organisations reported over USD 60.2 billion invested in 111 developing countries at the end of 2017. This new evidence confirms trends observed on the broader blended finance market (priority sectors, geographical coverage, targeted SDGs), while shedding light on additional aspects (e.g. investors, clients and investment instruments).
F63|Helping SMEs internationalise through trade facilitation|Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) play an important role in generating economic activity and employment in developing and developed countries. However, partly due to remaining at-the-border trade costs, SMEs continue to be less represented in international trade – as direct exporters or importers – than larger firms. Drawing on cross-country data from the World Bank Enterprise Survey (WBES), together with the OECD Trade by Enterprise Characteristics (TEC), this paper looks at the relationship between the trade facilitation environment – as measured through the OECD Trade Facilitation Indicators (TFIs) – and various measures of international engagement of SMEs. While there are differentiated impacts across firm size for different trade facilitation areas, the analysis shows that firms of all sizes across both developed and developing economies benefit from improvements in the overall trade facilitation environment, helping them export and import. However, on aggregate, smaller firms benefit more from improvements in the overall trade facilitation environment relative to large firms. The analysis also suggests that some trade facilitation measures matter more in addressing fixed versus variable costs for SMEs and provides some guidance as to what trade facilitation policy reforms might be prioritised.
F63|Fostering participation in digital trade for ASEAN MSMEs|This paper provides a broad overview of some of the issues that digital trade raises for ASEAN countries and its MSMEs, including new opportunities that digitalisation presents for ASEAN firms to increase trade. However, it shows that adoption of relatively simple digital tools, such as webpages, remains relatively low, constraining the ability of ASEAN SMEs to engage in trade as exporters and importers. The paper argues that, to benefit from digital trade, policy makers need to consider issues related to accessing digital networks jointly with a range of old and new trade issues.
F63|Participation and benefits of SMEs in GVCs in Southeast Asia|Although global value chain (GVCs) participation in Southeast Asia has been growing, little is known about whether the benefits from participation are accruing to larger firms or if small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs), which make up the majority of companies and employ the bulk of the domestic workforce, are also able to take advantage of the new opportunities on offer. This paper uses detailed firm level data from Southeast Asian countries to split the OECD Trade in Value Added database and map how SMEs have been participating in GVCs. It then identifies the benefits associated with this participation and looks into the policy levers that can help make GVC participation in the region more inclusive. It suggest that policy makers focus on: i) reducing trade costs that hit SMEs hardest; including tariffs, trade agreements and trade facilitation; ii) creating an enabling environment to promote domestic linkages so that SMEs can create partnerships with larger firms and multinationals to export indirectly; and iii) reducing non-tariff measures that are especially onerous for SMEs through wider ASEAN regulatory harmonisation and adopting more flexible rules of origin.
F63|Age of Marriage and Women's Political Engagement: Evidence from India|Although decades have passed since most women in the democratic world gained the right to vote and run for elections, a large gender gap in political participation persists today, particularly in developing democracies. This short paper considers an important --- and heretofore overlooked --- factor limiting the political engagement of many women in the developing world: her age of marriage. Drawing on nationally representative data from India and instrumenting marriage age with menarche age, we find substantial positive effects of delaying marriage on women's participation in everyday politics. A standard deviation increase in marriage age makes a woman 36.2 percent more likely to attend a village meeting, and 6.2 percent more likely discusses politics with her husband. Exploring mechanisms, we show that education and time --- rather than employment and mobility --- are the main channels of impact. These findings underscore the importance of early marriage as a critical barrier to women's participation in the political sphere.
F63|Do sustainable energy policies matter for reducing greenhouse gas emissions?|Yes, they matter. To reply to this question, we assess the impact of energy efficiency and renewable energy policies on six different air pollutants: carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxides (N2O), non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOCs), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulphur dioxide (SO2) in the case of the Italian provinces in the decade 2005-2015. The empirical analysis is performed in a panel data context by means of propensity score matching with multiple treatment, since our framework is characterized by the presence of two treatments, corresponding to the two different energy policies analyzed, i.e. energy efficiency policy and renewable policy. These two policies can be applied by each province as mutually exclusive strategies or as joint strategies. Our results show that renewable policies are the most efficient in terms of climate goals especially when planned on a local scale, while energy efficiency policies alone are ineffective. Moreover, the success of these policies depends on the type of pollutant to be reduced. Finally, we note that the effect of these two policies was reinforced by the counter-cyclical fiscal policies implemented to contrast the Global Financial Crisis in 2008.
F63|Development Analysis of Global Competitiveness Index of ASEAN-7 Countries and Its Relationship on Gross Domestic Product|The objectives of the research are: (1) to investigate the development of global competitiveness index (GCI) of ASEAN-7 countries as an illustration of economic performance and potentiality, (2) to investigate which factors or pillars are drivers for the improvement of GCI ASEAN-7 countries, and (3) to analyze the effect of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) on GCI of ASEAN-7 countries. The analysis method used in calculating the weight of the contribution of each pillar to changes in the competitiveness index, and determining the effect of GDP on GCI, a Semi-Logarithmic Regression analysis is used. The result shows that during the period of year 2008/2009 to the year of 2016/2017, the rank and index of GCI of each ASEAN-7 countries continue to increase. The pillars of the basic requirement subindex still dominate the largest contribution to the improvement of the competitiveness index for Indonesia, Philippines, Thailand, Cambodia, and Vietnam. As for Malaysia and Singapore sub-indexes of efficiency enhancers and innovation-sophistication have been able to give the largest contribution to the improvement of GCI. The GDP of ASEAN-7 countries has a positive and significant impact on the improvement of global competitiveness index, except for Thailand. The most problematic factors in improving the competitiveness index are corruption, inadequately educated labour, access to financing, tax regulations, and inefficient government bureaucracy.
F63|Public Service and Micro-Small Enterprise Developments in Indonesia|This study aims to analyze the influence of public service on the Micro-Small Enterprise (MSE) developments in Indonesia. The study method used was regression analysis panel data with fixed effect approach; because of the limited data availability, the data was only taken from 2013-2015. The study findings show that public service and education projected by gross participation data have a positive influence on the development of MSE, while the economic growth and minimum wage policy have a negative influence on the development of MSE in Indonesia. Based on those findings, this study concludes that the public service in the form of government spending allocation policy, especially on the service and economic functions, will stimulate the increase of MSE numbers.
F63|The impact of Brexit on Francophone Africa|Whereas the impact of Brexit on Anglophone Africa was a major issue in the controversial British discussions on the pros and cons of Brexit, possible repercussions on French-speaking Africa have been rarely mentioned up to now. If at all, mostly indirect general effects were declared, both concerning the former British Empire in Africa and a fortifori for the former French colonies as well. Yet, the range of possible Brexit effect is impressive. It spreads from direct influence on farm-gate cocoa-prices in the CFA-currency regions and subsequent percussions on the state budget of these countries, over more indirect effects, e.g. on the cooperation between CEMAC, WAEMU and the EU concerning EDF-programs of which Great Britain has been a major contributor so far, as well as enforced re-negotiation of controversial EPAs, to the revival of progressive social networks in Francophone Africa. The latter are already demanding more political and economic sovereignty, for example with respect to the increasingly anachronistic F CFA currency. Yet, in view of the lack of countervailing power of Britain within the EU in the case of Brexit, the murky network of Françafrique could be re-vitalized and consolidated as well. Besides, there could develop also direct effects of the Brexit. For example, on coca-farmers in Francophone West Africa, because their product is traditionally traded in Pound Sterling. Thus, any fall in the value of the Pound Sterling against the Euro once Britain leaves the EU would have damaging consequences, not only for the producers but also for public finances, because cocoa is priced in Sterling and the CFA franc is linked to the Euro. This impacts also on the revival of the long-standing controversy on the ill-adapted and increasingly anachronistic F CFA. African activists already demand a genuine African debate and a referendum on these issues similar to the Brexit vote.
F63|CPTPP: Implications for Malaysia’s Merchandise Trade Balance|A mega regional Free Trade Agreement like the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) has the potential to impact countries which are inside as well as those which are outside the agreement. This paper provides empirical estimates of potential changes in Malaysia’s merchandise balance of trade if it joins the CPTPP and compares it to its trade balance if it does not join this free trade agreement (FTA). A positive balance of merchandise trade is important for Malaysia as it is a net importer of services. However, since 2010, Malaysia’s merchandise imports have been growing much faster than its exports. Using SMART simulations, the estimates show that if Malaysia joins the CPTPP its imports will rise much more than its exports leading to a worsening of its trade balance by around US$2.4 billion per annum. Imports of vehicles from the CPTPP countries will increase including that of plastics and its articles. Exports to the CPTPP partner countries will rise only marginally as Malaysia already has free trade agreements with its top three export markets, i.e., Japan, Singapore and Australia, which together account for 84% of its exports to the CPTPP countries. Remaining out of the CPTPP will also adversely impact Malaysia’s exports to the CPTPP countries but this decline in exports is much smaller compared to the rise in its imports if it joins the CPTPP. The estimated tariff revenue loss to Malaysia of joining the CPTPP is estimated at US$1.6 billion per annum. The paper argues that along with the traditional indicators of trade competitiveness like trade balance developing countries now need to give importance to preserving their policy space in free trade agreements since the fourth digital industrial revolution is changing the ways products are manufactured and exported.
F63|Enhancing ICT for Quality Education in Sub-Saharan Africa|This research assesses the relevance of information and communication technology (ICT) in primary education quality in a panel of 49 Sub-Saharan African countries for the period 2000-2012. The empirical evidence is based on Two Stage Least Squares (2SLS) and Instrumental Quantile regressions (IQR). From the 2SLS: (i) mobile phone and internet penetration rates reduce poor quality education and enhancing internet penetration has a net negative effect of greater magnitude. From the IQR: (i) with the exception of the highest quantile for mobile phone penetration and top quantiles for internet penetration, ICT consistently has a negative effect on poor education quality with a non-monotonic pattern. (ii) Net negative effects are exclusively apparent in the median and top quantiles of internet-related regressions. It follows that enhancing internet penetration will benefit countries with above-median levels of poor education quality while enhancing internet penetration is not immediately relevant to reducing poor education quality in countries with below-median levels of poor education quality.
F63|"Parameter variation in the ""log t"" convergence test"|"This paper estimates a local linear version of the model used in Phillips and Sul's (2007, 2009) ""log t"" convergence test. It documents the economically and statistically significant within-sample variation in the estimated value of the key parameter of that test when applied to data for 18 OECD countries during the 20th century. This variation suggests the substantial waxing and waning of the forces driving convergence, possibly due to low-frequency shocks and changes in the level economic integration."
F63|The impact of governance on poverty reduction : Are there regional differences in Sub-saharan Africa ?|This article attempts to explore the relationship between governance and poverty reduction. Throughout this work, we have tried to clearly answer the following questions: What is the effect of governance indicators on poverty reduction in sub-Saharan Africa? In this framework, the basic assumption was the existence of a direct effect of governance on poverty reduction. The study of this hypothesis was formulated in a static model applied to the data available on the countries of sub-Saharan Africa between 1996-2016. The results of our regressions show that governance indicators have a positive and negative effect on poverty reduction in sub-Saharan African countries. This result implies that governance factors play an important role in poverty and the primary role of government effectiveness. The relationship between governance and poverty reduction varies by stage of development. But notes significant differences between African regions. This supports our contention that governance has more impact on poverty reduction in the poorer regions than in rich sub-Saharan Africa. For example, the relationship between government effectiveness and poverty reduction is positive and significant for Central and Eastern Africa, it is not significant in Southern Africa is negative and significant in west Africa.
F63|Pre-Feasibility Study of Sarawak-West Kalimantan Cross-Border Value Chains|This pre-feasibility study on Sarawak-West Kalimantan cross-border value chains covers six topics: It analyzes existing trade patterns and competitive advantages of Sarawak and West Kalimantan, as well as government objectives in promoting cross-border commercial activities. It proposes a border economic area spread over a wide geographic area that covers a network of interrelated activities and provides a fully integrated approach to the border economic area design and implementation. It identifies potential cross-border value chains that can serve as high-profile projects for the border economic area. It determines the preference orderings of project features by key stakeholders such as government and development partners, commercial entities, and the local population. It estimates the net monetary returns for the project portfolio, a cost-effectiveness analysis of the stand-alone capacity-building projects, ranks stakeholders’ non-monetary preferences, and incorporates the the preference ranking order into the project portfolio’s net monetary returns. It provides an overall program appraisal for the set of projects. Based on pre-feasibility results, it lays out a plan for implementation of the border area development program.
F63|Measuring Macroeconomic Uncertainty in Zimbabwe|What matters to economic decision-making is whether the economy has become more or less predictable. People and businesses use information around them to form judgements about what might happen in the future. The rise in uncertainty might be associated with increased concern about extreme events, skewed towards worries about bad or disastrous events. The study seeks to measure macroeconomic uncertainty in Zimbabwe, using stock market indices - industrial index and mining index - for the period 2010M1 to 2019M3. Prevalence of macroeconomic uncertainty has been traced from the stock market index trend and stock market returns volatility. The squared residuals of the GARCH(1,1) regression model proxied macroeconomic uncertainty levels. The prevalence of significant macroeconomic uncertainty has been observed, with some periods highly uncertain. The study linked periods of uncertainty to some known political, social and economic events to derive meaning. The study found that some political, social and economic events have a contributing effect on the level of macroeconomic uncertainty. Good events and policies are accompanied by low levels of uncertainty while bad events and controversial policies match with high levels of uncertainty. The study recommends that to create a good economic climate, to attract investment and boost confidence in the economy, policymakers should dwell on reducing macroeconomic uncertainty. Reducing macroeconomic uncertainty require policy consistency, policy consultations, less frequent policy changes, avoiding numerous policies, avoiding policy reversals, among other measures. The observed macroeconomic uncertainty affects proper economic decision-making and is not conducive for high levels of investment for local and international investors; companies may struggle to hire labor, and employees and corporates may delay spending and saving pattern distorted.
F63|Halal recreation potential in Indonesia in improving tourists and the global economy|This study confirms that halal recreation is one form of the tourism industry that has contributed to the growth in the number of tourists and the national economy, even contributing to the improvement of the world economy, with evidence that Indonesia has topped the Mastercard-Crescent Muslim Global Travel Index (GMTI) 2019 together with Malaysia. With a phenomenological approach, this study concluded that halal recreation in Indonesia has an important role in increasing the number of tourists and the global economy.
F63|The Mining Dynamics and Economic performance in South African Mineral Resources Using Quantile Regression|The paper analyses the performance of the South African mineral resources such as gold, coal, Platinum Group Metals (PGMs), iron ore, manganese and diamonds, by assessing the dynamics of commodity total production and sales over the period 1990-2018. The empirical evidence is based on Monge-Kantorovich Multivariate Quantile regression. The change in revenue, exchange rates, mining production oil prices, Producer Price Index (PPI) as well as the dummy variable which presents the shock of a global financial crisis, are proposed indicators of the study. The results are nevertheless ambiguous in some sectors. The findings provided that the depreciation of exchange rates is associated with positive and significant increases in total production and sales, particularly in the coal and diamond sectors. In particular, oil prices only contribute unfavorably to coal, PGMs and diamond production. The results might be interpreted to provide some useful implications for minerals and mining policy strategy.
F63|The Ordinal Input for Cardinal Output Approach of Non-compensatory Composite Indicators: The PROMETHEE Scoring Method|Despite serious threats as to their soundness, the adoption of composite indicators is constantly growing alongside their popularity, especially when it comes to their adoption in policy-making exercises. This study presents a robust non-compensatory approach to construct composite indicators mainly based, at least with respect to the basic ideas, on the classic Borda scoring procedure. The non- compensatory indicators we are proposing can be seen as aggregation of ordinal non-compensatory preferences between considered units supplying a numerical cardinal comprehensive evaluation. For this reason we define our methodology, the ordinal input for cardinal output non-compensatory approach for composite indicators. To take into account hesitation, imprecision and ill-determination in defining preference relations with respect to the elementary indices, we adopt the PROMETHEE methods, whose net flow score can be seen as an extension to the fuzzy preferences of the Borda score. Moreover, we systematically deal with robustness of the results with respect to weighting and parameters such as indifference and preference thresholds, permitting to define preference relations of elementary indices. In this regard, we couple PROMETHEE methods with the recently proposed σ−μ approach, which permits to explore the whole domain of feasible preference parameters mentioned above, giving a synthetic representation of the distribution of the values assumed by the composite indicators in terms of mean, μ, and standard deviation, σ. μ and σ are also used to define a comprehensive overall composite indicator. Finally, we enrich the results of this analysis with a set of graphical visualizations based on principal component analysis applied to the PROMETHEE methods with the GAIA technique, providing better understanding of the outcomes of our approach. To illustrate its assets, we provide a case study of inclusive development evaluation, based on the data of the homonymous report produced by the World Economic Forum.
F63|The Impact of Unemployment on Economic Growth in China|Economic growth which is considered as one of the best indicator of measuring the robustness of every economy is essential in understanding its relationship with unemployment which is an important macroeconomic indicator that reflects the incompetence of any economy to make full use of its human resources. Hence, a macro-economic secondary and time series data was extracted from the World Development Indicator (WDI) for the period of 1991-2018 in China. In conducting the econometric analysis of the study, both the Augmented Dickey-Fuller Test and Phillips Perron Test were employed to test and confirm the stationary level of the variables of study; the Autoregressive Distributed Lagged (ARDL) cointegration and the ARDL Bounds test were employed to test for the short-run and the long-run cointegration of the variables of study since both variable were stationary at first difference I (1). The finding of the study reveals that there are negative short-run and a long-run relationship between unemployment and economic growth. However, Granger causality Test also reveals that both unemployment and economic growth do not impact each other.
F63|The Impact of Unemployment on Economic Growth in China|Economic growth which is considered as one of the best indicator of measuring the robustness of every economy is essential in understanding its relationship with unemployment which is an important macroeconomic indicator that reflects the incompetence of any economy to make full use of its human resources. Hence, a macro-economic secondary and time series data was extracted from the World Development Indicator (WDI) for the period of 1991-2018 in China. In conducting the econometric analysis of the study, both the Augmented Dickey-Fuller Test and Phillips Perron Test were employed to test and confirm the stationary level of the variables of study; the Autoregressive Distributed Lagged (ARDL) cointegration and the ARDL Bounds test were employed to test for the short-run and the long-run cointegration of the variables of study since both variable were stationary at first difference I (1). The finding of the study reveals that there are negative short-run and a long-run relationship between unemployment and economic growth. However, Granger causality Test also reveals that both unemployment and economic growth do not impact each other.
F63|The Employment Effects of Technological Innovation, Consumption, and Participation in Global Value Chains: Evidence from Developing Asia|Global value chains (GVCs) have been a vehicle for job creation in developing Asia, but there is mounting concern that more sophisticated and cost-effective technology could displace workers through automation or reshoring of production. We use the demand-based input–output approach in Reijnders and de Vries (2018) to examine how employment responded to consumption, trade, and technological advances in 12 economies that accounted for 90% of employment in developing Asia during the period 2005–2015. Structural decomposition analysis based on the Asian Development Bank Multiregional Input–Output Tables combined with harmonized cross-country occupation data indicates that, other things being equal, technological change within GVCs was associated with a decrease in labor demand across all sectors, and an increase in the share of nonroutine cognitive occupations. We also find that increased domestic consumption expenditures of goods and services generated an increase in labor demand large enough to offset the negative employment impact of technological change. Finally, we do not find evidence of major shifts in occupational labor demand due to reshoring.
F63|Determinants of Developing Countries' Export Upgrading: The Role of China and Productive Investment|This paper explores the determinants of developing countries' export upgrading measured by export sophistication. In particular, as a response to the recent debate on China's impact on developing countries' industrialisation, we examine a new hypothesis that the considerable growth in developing countries' trade with China may serve as a source of productive investment for their export upgrading. Dynamic panel estimations based on HS 6-digit export data on 62 developing countries during 1995-2014 show the positive effects of human capital, productive investment, and absolute gains from trade with China measured by income terms of trade vis-Â®Â§-vis China. Mediation analysis finds that the positive effect of trade with China on export upgrading takes effect largely through its enhancing effect on productive investment, which supports our hypothesis. By contrast, China's direct export-downgrading impact is minor. Our findings suggest that, for developing countries, China serves more as a stimulator of capital accumulation for industrial development than a competitor in manufacturing market or a predator of natural resources. This provides an alternative to the widespread argument of China's crowding-out and re-primarisation impact on developing countries. The priority for developing countries is therefore the appropriate use of the gains from trade for productive purposes.
F63|Trade Specialisation and Performance in Global Value Chains|This paper investigates whether trade specialisation explains economies’ trade performance within a Global Value Chain (GVC) context. We consider trade specialisation in natural resources, high and low tech manufacturing and business services, before and after the financial crisis. The aimed contribution of this paper is to shed light on the effects of trade specialisation as measured in domestic value added embodied in exports rather than gross exports. We add to the literature on GVCs by: (i) studying the role of the domestic productive structure in countries’ trade specialisation and performance, (ii) accounting for the rate of changes in trade specialisation as affecting GVC performance. We employ Balassa indexes based on value added flows in a GMM dynamic panel framework. We find that trade specialisation in low-tech manufacturing and natural resources have a negative impact on value added exported by countries. High-tech manufacturing and knowledge intensive services exhibit a positive effect during the crisis period. We discuss these findings in relation to the recent debates on the role of manufacturing and premature de-industrialisation in developing countries.
F63|Revisiting the Natural Resource ‘Curse’ in the Context of Trade in Value Added: Enclave or High-development Backward Linkages?|This paper puts forward and empirically tests the conjecture that specialisation in Natural Resource Industries (NRI) might not necessarily be a ‘curse’ for (developing) countries, if it provides opportunities for export diversification in backward linked sectors à la Hirschman. We first revisit the evolution of the debate around the NRI ‘curse’, including those from scholars sceptical of diversification based on beneficiation from NRI. We then empirically test whether NRI might represent a sufficient “domestic representative demand” à la Linder for backward linked sectors such as Knowledge Intensive Business Services (KIBS) or high tech manufacturing that might provide new opportunities for export diversification led by virtuous pathways of domestic structural change. We find empirical support for this conjecture and discuss some implications that revisit the NRI curse debate.
F63|Enforcing higher labour standards within developing country value chains: Consequences for MNEs and informal actors in a dual economy|The 2013 Rana Plaza disaster led external stakeholders to insist on higher labour standards in apparel global value chains (GVCs). Stakeholders now expect MNEs to take 'full-chain' responsibility. However, the increased monitoring and enforcement costs of a large network of suppliers have been non-trivial. MNEs instead implement a 'cascading compliance' approach, coupled with a partial re-internalisation. Elevated costs are further exacerbated in developing countries where the informal and formal sector are linked, and cost competitiveness greatly depends on this duality. Monitoring actors in the informal sector is difficult, and few informal actors can achieve compliance. GVCs have therefore reduced informal sector engagement by excluding non-compliant actors and investing in greater automation. By seeking to strictly enforce compliance, MNEs are attenuating some of the positive effects of MNE investment, particularly the prospects for employment creation (especially among women), and enterprise growth in the informal sector. I discuss how these observations might inform other cross-disciplinary work in development, ethics, and sociology. Finally, I note implications for IB theory from the disparities between the ownership, control and responsibility boundaries of the firm.
F63|A comment on the multifaceted relationship between multinational enterprises and within-country inequality|The capacity of Multinational Enterprises (MNEs) to upgrade economic activity in the host country is a key objective of an MNE-assisted development agenda, arguably having contributed to reducing income inequalities between countries. However, the limited evidence available suggests the gains of FDI are rarely evenly distributed within recipient countries. How do MNEs affect the extant within-country inequalities? Whether by direct or indirect action (or by inaction), MNEs can have both a positive and a negative effect on within-country social and economic inequality. We broaden our engagement with inequality beyond income levels, as this is just one aspect of inequality that shapes or impedes human development. We believe it is necessary - for both MNEs and policymakers - to have a more nuanced understanding of how, and under what circumstances, the presence of MNEs affects inequality in host economies. We therefore highlight some key issues and avenues for future research.
F63|Chinese regional inequality and sectoral foreign direct investment|Following the 1978 economic reforms, China gradually became first amongst developing countries and the second in the world, after the USA, in terms of stock of inward Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). Sustained GDP growth, a high rate of capital return and brisk economic development made China one of the best destinations for foreign capital; however, the benefits of this spectacular growth have not been evenly distributed throughout the various Chinese regions. There are many low-income and poor economic performing provinces in China although poverty is mainly concentrated in the inland regions. Since the beginning of the 2000s, a series of policies have been designed and implemented by the Chinese government to encourage foreign company investment in central and western provinces to help decrease the regional inequality with limited successes. This paper uses Panel Least Squares method to empirically analyze the impact of industrial sector FDI on Chinese regional inequality during 2003-2013. The resulting analysis shows the connection between FDI in industrial sectors and regional inequality in China. In particular, regional inequality affects FDI location choices. The findings show that economic and non-economic indicators such as human capital, infrastructure, per capita income, and government policies affect regional inequality and foreign firms' location choices. Despite government policies to support inland regional economic development, foreign firms still prefer to invest in coastal provinces further illustrating the effects of clusters in this region.
F63|Drehstuhlschnittstellen der deutschen Industrie: Befunde auf Basis einer explorativen Unternehmensbefragung|eBusiness-Standards ermöglichen die reibungslose inner- und überbetriebliche Kommunikation und sind damit die Enabler der Digitalisierung. Auch wenn Standards eingesetzt werden, kann es bei nicht flächendeckenden und interoperablen Standardeinsatz zu Friktionen kommen, etwa wenn eine Drehstuhlschnittstelle vorliegt. Dies ist dann der Fall, wenn manuell Daten aus einem IT-System in ein anderes IT-System übertragen werden müssen. Eine explorative Unterneh-mensbefragung zeigt, dass die Wahrscheinlichkeit hoch ist, in deutschen Unternehmen solche Drehstuhlschnittstellen vorzufinden. Aus Experteninterviews geht hervor, wie wichtig Standards sind, um diese Schnittstellenproblematik zu verringern beziehungsweise zu lösen.
F63|A Study on Regime Type and Globalization in Simultaneous Equation Framework|In this study we build a simultaneous equation model in which the measures of different aspects of globalization (attributable to KOF) and different aspects of democracy (attributable to EIU) are related in seven structural equations. A bi-directional relationship between democracy and globalization is visualized. The model is estimated by the conventional 2-SLS as well as a modified 2-SLS in which Shapley value regression is used at the second stage of 2-SLS. On the basis of our analysis, we document several findings. First, we find that democracy and globalization promote each other and hence there is a bi-directional causality with positive relationships running both ways between democracy and globalization. At a national level, there may be various intermediary conditions that modify the relationship as well as set in motion a complex of positive and/or negative feedbacks to accelerate or retard the pace of globalization and democratization in a country-specific manner. However, when a large number of countries are studied, a clear relationship emerges out. Second, there is a need to estimate the structural coefficients of the model cautiously since the regression equations may be suffering from collinearity among the predictor variables. The Shapley value regression based 2-SLS has performed better than the conventional regression in estimating the structural parameters of the model. Third, the system methods of estimation of the model gives better results than what are obtained by the single equation methods of estimation of structural parameters of the model.
F63|Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) and the Digital Economy: challenges and issues|The digital economy, undoubtedly, has contributed to the immense task of clearly identifying, ascertaining, and accounting for sources, rationales, and audit trails relating to tax transactions. This is not only evident owing to difficulties associated with cross-border transaction regulations which govern different jurisdictions as well as the enforcement of such regulations, but also in respect of risks associated with the present global financial environment – all having generated from the rise in automation, increased and improved sophisticated technologies, globalization, and conglomeration. This chapter not only seeks to highlight the extent, contribution, and significance of the digital economy in respect of those risks associated with base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) but also amongst other aims and objectives to recommend measures whereby regulations can be better enforced as a means of addressing practices associated with BEPS.
F63|A Simultaneous Equation Model of Globalization, Corruption, Democracy, Human Development and Social Progress|This study builds a simultaneous equation model that establishes inter-connections among the measures of globalization, measures of democracy, human development, corruption perception index and per capita income, which in turn jointly influence social progress. The model has eleven equations in which the response variables and the predictor variables are log-linearly related. The empirical data used for estimation of the model pertain to the period 2006-2016 for 116 countries distributed over all the continents. The model has been estimated by the conventional Two-Stage Least Squares (2-SLS) and alternatively by a modified 2-SLS in which, at the second stage, Shapley value regression has been used to ameliorate the detrimental effects of collinearity among the predictor variables. It has been found that the modified 2-SLS outperforms the conventional 2-SLS. Empirically, it has been established that globalization, democracy, human development and low level of corruption are reinforcing each other and they together explain social progress quite well.
F63|Choix du régime de change et croissance économique : Une analyse empirique sur des données de panel africaines<BR>[Exchange Rate Regime Choice and Economic Growth: An Empirical Analysis on African Panel Data]|The story of the choice of exchange rate regimes has not yet come to a consensus. Between early works on the subject (Mundell, 1961; McKinnon, 1963) and the most recent (Frenkel, 2017; Guzman et al., 2017), no superiority of a foreign exchange regime on the others is established ad vitam aeternam. It’s case by case. The purpose of this paper is then twofold. It first tests on panel data concerning 30 African countries the thesis of currency neutrality and attempts to rank, in case of rejection of this thesis, exchange rate regimes according to their economic performances by referring to economic growth rate. Next, it aims to list the internal structural characteristics of the panel countries which, by crossing them with exchange rate regimes, are the most favorable to economic growth. The paper concludes the absence of currency neutrality in case of African countries and an outperformance of intermediate regimes. The latter are more conductive to economic growth in the case of countries experiencing positive terms of trade shocks and benefiting from FDI inflows. On the other hand, the opening of capital account is incompatible with intermediate regimes, and external indebtedness doesn’t favor economic growth regardless of the exchange rate regime adopted. These results remain robust by testing several alternative econometric specifications (long-term estimate on five years’ window data, estimates by controlling regional effects and by adopting finer aggregations of exchange rate regimes).
F63|Choix du régime de change et croissance économique : Une analyse empirique sur des données de panel africaines<BR>[Exchange Rate Regime Choice and Economic Growth: An Empirical Analysis on African Panel Data]|The story of the choice of exchange rate regimes has not yet come to a consensus. Between early works on the subject (Mundell, 1961; McKinnon, 1963) and the most recent (Frenkel, 2017; Guzman et al., 2017), no superiority of a foreign exchange regime on the others is established ad vitam aeternam. It’s case by case. The purpose of this paper is then twofold. It first tests on panel data concerning 30 African countries the thesis of currency neutrality and attempts to rank, in case of rejection of this thesis, exchange rate regimes according to their economic performances by referring to economic growth rate. Next, it aims to list the internal structural characteristics of the panel countries which, by crossing them with exchange rate regimes, are the most favorable to economic growth. The paper concludes the absence of currency neutrality in case of African countries and an outperformance of intermediate regimes. The latter are more conductive to economic growth in the case of countries experiencing positive terms of trade shocks and benefiting from FDI inflows. On the other hand, the opening of capital account is incompatible with intermediate regimes, and external indebtedness doesn’t favor economic growth regardless of the exchange rate regime adopted. These results remain robust by testing several alternative econometric specifications (long-term estimate on five years’ window data, estimates by controlling regional effects and by adopting finer aggregations of exchange rate regimes).
F63|Globalization, economic growth, and spillovers: A spatial analysis|This paper seeks to deepen our understanding of the globalization-growth nexus as it extends the investigation to using a spatial econometric approach, hitherto has been rarely used in the globalization literature. The objective of the paper is to uncover not only the significant growth-effects of globalization, but also the possible spillover effects of globalization onto neighbouring countries. Using a panel dataset of 83 countries and 30-year period and via a spatial autoregressive panel data method, this paper estimates a standard growth model augmented with a parameter to capture the countries’ spatial dependence, whilst controlling for globalization indices. The findings indicate a positive effect of economic globalization and the effect is dependent upon the political settings in the countries under study. The spillover effects of globalization across neighbouring countries are shown, both in geographical and institutional spheres. The paper concludes with some policy recommendations.
F63|"Labour policy and multinational firms: the ""race to the bottom"" revisited"|"This paper revisits the ""race to the bottom"" phenomenon in a simple game theoretic framework. We consider two countries and one multinational firm, which requires two inputs that are imperfect substitutes. In the benchmark model the labour of each country specializes in a distinct input. Seeking to maximize their labour incomes, countries simultaneously announce wages following which the firm chooses its labour employment in each country. We show that ""race to the bottom"" (countries setting minimum possible wages) is never an equilibrium. Moreover there are equilibria with ""race to the top"", that is, countries set maximum possible wages. This result is robust in an extended model where prior to competing in wages, each country can make input-specific investments to make its labour available for one or both inputs. Provided the production function of the firm is not asymmetrically intensive in either one of the two inputs, there are equilibria of the extended game with specialization (that is, countries invest in distinct inputs) as well as ""race to the top""."
F63|Remittances, ICT and Doing Business in Sub-Saharan Africa|This study examines how linkages between information and communication technology (ICT) and remittances affect the doing of business. The focus is on a panel of 49 sub-Saharan African countries for the period 2000-2012. The empirical evidence is based on Generalised Method of Moments. While we establish some appealing results in terms of net negative effects on constraints to the doing of business (i.e. time to start a business and time to pay taxes), some positive net effects are also apparent (i.e. number of start-up procedures, time to build a warehouse and time to register a property). We also establish ICT penetration thresholds at which the unconditional effect of remittances can be changed from positive to negative, notably: (i) for the number of start-up procedures, an internet level of 9.00 penetration per 100 people is required while (ii) for the time to build a warehouse, a mobile phone penetration level of 32.33 penetration per 100 people is essential. Practical and theoretical implications are discussed. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to assess linkages between ICT, remittances and doing business in Sub-Saharan Africa.
F63|Britain & Africa: heading for the Brexit rocks|High-flying illusions on the part of the proponents and grim predictions of the sceptics characterize the controversy about Brexit. The article analyses five issues at stake for the Post-Brexit relationships between Britain, the EU and Africa with a focus on the Commonwealth Sub-Saharan Africa: market access, FDI, aid, security and partnership . The British government’s vision of a ‘Global Britain’ relies heavily on a reinforced co-operation with Commonwealth nations. However, most likely this would be possible only at the expense of the poor in Africa and elsewhere. Concerning security cooperation with Africa, London apparently exaggerated its defence input in order to enhance its bargaining position with the EU. It will be crucial for both the EU and UK to find post-Brexit agreements to stem irregular migration and the growth of jihadist groups and terrorism. In a nutshell, the analysis of these different policy field shows that expectations of Brexiteers and African politicians alike concerning an enhanced, partner-like Post-Brexit Commonwealth relationship are largely unfounded.
F63|Britain and Africa: heading for the Brexit rocks|High-flying illusions on the part of the proponents and grim predictions of the sceptics characterize the controversy about Brexit. The article analyses five issues at stake for the Post-Brexit relationships between Britain, the EU and Africa with a focus on the Commonwealth Sub-Saharan Africa: market access, FDI, aid, security and partnership . The British government’s vision of a ‘Global Britain’ relies heavily on a reinforced co-operation with Commonwealth nations. However, most likely this would be possible only at the expense of the poor in Africa and elsewhere. Concerning security cooperation with Africa, London apparently exaggerated its defence input in order to enhance its bargaining position with the EU. It will be crucial for both the EU and UK to find post-Brexit agreements to stem irregular migration and the growth of jihadist groups and terrorism. In a nutshell, the analysis of these different policy field shows that expectations of Brexiteers and African politicians alike concerning an enhanced, partner-like Post-Brexit Commonwealth relationship are largely unfounded.
F63|Assessing the Impact of Ease of Doing Business and Corruption on Economic Growth for Africa Free Trade Zone (AFTZ) Member States|A positive economic growth is one crucial macroeconomic objective of every nation. Many countries have formed regional as well as international trading blocs in an attempt to enhance economic growth and maximise welfare of each member state, the AFTZ member states are not an exception. This paper seeks to investigate the impact of ease of doing business and corruption on economic growth of AFTZ member states. The study employed a panel data analysis for the period 2010-2016, using Stata Statistical Software. The study findings for the bloc, indicated that corruption, trading across borders, getting credit, registration of property, dealing with construction permits, and starting business have a significant impact on the bloc’s economic growth; with insolvency resolving and investor protection of concern as well. Paying attention to country effects test, with the quest for efficient results, the study further divided the AFTZ bloc into 3 groups using average GDP as the determining variable. The usual 3 panel models were run for each group, with efficiency noted from the reported adjusted R-squared and overall R-squared. The study recommends each member state to pay particular attention to the identified affecting variables for improved economic growth. The onus to improve economic wellbeing of each state does not lie on the bloc only but on individual efforts as well, since individual differences prevail. All this will enable the broader efficacy and vision of AFTZ to be realised.
F63|Интернет, Гражданская Культура И Эволюция Механизмов Координации<BR>[Internet, civic culture and the evolution of coordination mechanisms]|A hypothesis is being advanced and discussed that, with a high initial level of civic culture, the introduction of the Internet contributes to its further development and the expansion of the role of mechanisms for positive collaboration, while at a low initial level, collaboration often turns out to be negative, degenerates into mechanisms of power and intensifies competition between groups of interacting agents. The plausibility of this hypothesis is confirmed by an analysis of the results obtained by different authors. In particular, we consider the links between the spread of electronic social networks and the elements of civil culture, which are prerequisites for collaboration, such as generalized trust, tolerance, altruism and cosmopolitanism.
F63|Britain and Africa: heading for the Brexit rocks|High-flying illusions on the part of the proponents and grim predictions on the part of the sceptics have characterised the controversy around Brexit. The article assesses five key issues at stake for post-Brexit relationships between Britain, the EU, and Africa: market access, foreign direct investment (FDI), aid, security, and the nature of the partnership. The analysis focuses on those sub-Saharan African countries that belong to the Commonwealth, as the British government’s vision of a “Global Britain” relies heavily on its reinforced cooperation with Commonwealth nations. The review of potential developments in these different policy fields shows that the expectations of Brexiteers and African politicians alike concerning an enhanced, partnership-like post-Brexit Commonwealth relationship are largely unfounded. Although the post-Brexit United Kingdom will increase African countries’ choices regarding preferred trading partners, it remains questionable whether London could offer something new that other global players with increasing interest in Africa, such as China, do not already have on their agenda.
F63|Are we heading towards a global economic collapse?|The recent developments in the global market are a reasonable evidence of the growing inability of the WTO to sustain integrated economic performance of its member countries. The latest trade dispute between the USA and China cannot be restricted to an apparent analysis of the flaws in the WTO mechanism. This dispute should be viewed as a tip of the iceberg in the context of a growing disequilibrium in the entire globe, caused by complex socio-economic and geo-political factors. These factors are so deep rooted that they are to be treated with certain fundamental reforms. But to ascertain the definition and direction of such reforms we need to agree and understand that the unfortunate process of global economic collapse has already begun. This paper presents the intangible intricacies of this process of collapse by connecting the socio-economic factors with the geo-political factors. In other words, this paper is an attempt to integrate various micro issues to bring out a realistic macro picture of the global economic collapse. This paper defines the fearful journey of socio-economic deterioration, based on author’s impartial view of the world economy and the serious undercurrents in five different socio-cultural groups defining the globe. These five groups are further influenced by a few important economies, which have been causing the overall socio-economic turbulence leading towards an unprecedented global collapse.
F63|L' Angleterre, le Brexit et l'Afrique<BR>[Britain, Brexit and Africa]|High-flying illusions on the part of the proponents and grim predictions on the part of the sceptics have characterised the controversy around Brexit. The article assesses five key issues at stake for post-Brexit relationships between Britain, the EU, and Africa: market access, foreign direct investment (FDI), aid, security, and the nature of the partnership. The analysis focuses on those sub-Saharan African countries that belong to the Commonwealth, as the British government’s vision of a “Global Britain” relies heavily on its reinforced cooperation with Commonwealth nations. The review of potential developments in these different policy fields shows that the expectations of Brexiteers and African politicians alike concerning an enhanced, partnership-like post-Brexit Commonwealth relationship are largely unfounded. Although the post-Brexit United Kingdom will increase African countries’ choices regarding preferred trading partners, it remains questionable whether London could offer something new that other global players with increasing interest in Africa, such as China, do not already have on their agenda.
F63|Relevance of governance quality on the effect of foreign direct investment on economic growth: new evidence from African countries|Despite the large volume of studies on the direct impact of foreign direct investment on economic growth, the results remain inconclusive. This has led researchers to examine the channels through which FDI affects economic growth. Evidence suggests that institution quality can improve economic growth by increasing foreign direct investment in the host countries. As governance quality is improving in African countries during the last decade, the aim of this study is to investigate the relationship between foreign direct investment, governance quality and economic growth in 51 African countries over the period 1998-2015. The empirical evidence is based on Generalized Method of Moments. The following findings are established. First, there is an unconditional positive effect of foreign direct investment on economic growth in African countries. We also find a positive and significant relationship between governance quality and economic growth. Second, these findings are still robust when we use the composite governance quality indicators. Three, when regards at interaction terms between governance quality and foreign direct investment, we find a convincing evidence that governance quality moderate favorably the effect of FDI on economic growth. Four, the moderate effect of governance quality on foreign direct investment and growth nexus still robust with composite governance quality indicators. Overall this study has established net direct positive and significant effect of foreign direct investment on economic growth and that this effect is enhanced by good governance. The major implication from our study is that African countries should improve their governance quality to benefit more from FDI in terms of achieving better growth outcomes.
F63|Exploring the Linkage between Corruption and Economic Development in The Case of Selected Developing and Developed Nations|Corruption is like an epidemic that has the power to destroy a country’s socioeconomic, financial, human and political environment. It has severe consequences in developing countries. This study has examined the impact of existing human, political, financial and economic factors on corruption for a set of panel countries. The data from 1995 to 2004 is used to serve this purpose. For examining the stationarity of the variables, Levin- Lin-Chu (2002), Fisher-ADF and Fisher-PP tests are applied. Pedroni Residual based Co-integration and FMOLS by Phillips and Hansen (1990) test has been used for examining the co-integration among the variables of the model. The speed of adjustment and short-run relationship has been tested through VECM. The estimated results show that exports, GDP per capita and political stability have a negative impact on corruption, whereas imports, financial development, human development index, bureaucracy, democracy and the rule of law have a positive relationship with corruption. The simplified procedures of import and export will help reduce the practice of bribes and corruption. The governments should take steps not only to increase the income, but also to improve the people’s standard of living. There should be improvements in the political system. Democracy is also helpful to get rid of corruption.
F63|Les transferts de fonds des migrants contribuent elles à l'inclusivité de la croissance en Afrique Subsaharienne?<BR>[Do remittances contribute to inclusive growth in Subsaharan Africa?]|The purpose of this study is to assess the contribution of remittances on the improvement of inclusive growth in sub-Saharan Africa. The role of institutions is highlighted through three indicators from International Country Risk Guide (IRCG) such as investment profile, control of corruption and law and order. Estimates of panel macroeconomic data over the period 1985-2014 with 5 years intervals are made using the System Generalized Method of Moment (SGMM). Inclusive growth is captured by the quality growth index (QGI) that we have calculated for the 24 countries of our sample, following closely the Mlachila et al (2014) approach. Our results suggest that remittances enhance inclusive growth in Sub Saharan Africa. More precisely, a 10% increase in remittances leads to a 0.2%; 0.15% and 0.33% increase in the quality growth index depending on different specifications. When taking into account institutional context, only “law and order” enhance the ability of remittances to promote inclusive growth in SSA. These results indicate that governments should not only create conditions in order to attract more remittances, but additional incentives (better institutions) are needed to get beneficiary households and individuals to use remittances productively and thus, they would better contribute to inclusive growth which is nowadays one of the most important solution to a deep reduction of poverty and inequality.
F63|Growing Potential Business opportunity for Climate Friendly Goods and Technologies in Asia since 1997|This paper examines empirical relationships, analyses determinants of CFGT trade in the pre-crisis period and predict bilateral trade flows using the gravity model in Asia. Income level, geographical distance, and developmental position of both trading partners, and country characteristics, economic policy reforms and available infrastructure are important determinants of CFGT trade and its sub-categories. Through trade gap, this paper estimates the value of trade opportunity of CFGT in Asia, identifies potential trading partners, and also suggests CFGT trade among the trade partners.
F63|Financial Globalization and Instability in the Early 21st Century|This article provides the figures of the volatility of economic growth in poor and rich countries and analyzes it. The conclusion is that while volatility has declined almost everywhere in advanced countries, the picture is much more mixed in developing countries. This article then examines the case of India, where GDP volatility has been declining for the last twenty years. The figures show that by moving away from an agricultural economy, the Indian economy has stabilized. Increased financial depth and the favorable evolution of the terms of trade had a similar effect. Finally, this article examines the relationship between economic instability and insecurity at the global level.
F63|Economic and Social Upgrading in Global Value Chains: Insights from Philippine Manufacturing Firms|This study explores the 2012 Survey on Adjustments of Establishments to Globalization (SAEG) to analyze the economic and social upgrading experience of Philippine manufacturers inside global value chains (GVCs). Three broad patterns emerge from the data. First, firms with stronger GVC linkages tend to have better labor indicators than purely domestic producers. Second, the majority of manufacturers either experienced or missed economic and social upgrading simultaneously. Lastly, almost all social upgrading is accompanied by economic upgrading but economic upgrading may take place without a social component. Against this background, this study uses bivariate probit regression to model the joint determination of the two separate but interconnected upgrading outcomes. The estimation results show that the covariates in the model can be grouped into three based on their statistical significance—purely economic (i.e., employment size, unit labor cost, high skill intensity, and the Kaitz dummy), purely social (i.e., training, female intensity and foreign equity), and both (i.e., contractualization and process and product innovations). These results have several important implications. First, GVC firms’ notion of social upgrading are closer to the softer components of working conditions than to traditional measurable indicators such as employment, wages and efficiency. Second, the results suggest direct and indirect channels through which technological upgrading may generate desirable social outcomes. The direct channel highlights that innovation should be accompanied by skills development to sustain higher value creation while the indirect channel underlines the potential of innovation to create upward spirals in output, productivity, and ultimately labor conditions. Lastly, there are some indications that the social benefits of economic upgrading may not be evenly distributed among different types of employment. Overall, the above results emphasize the need for a holistic upgrading experience that shifts the country’s comparative advantage from cheap labor to innovative local industries and highly-skilled workers.
F63|Is Employment Globalizing?|The paper investigates the claim that national labor markets have become more globally interconnected in recent decades. It is done so by deriving estimates over time of three different notions of interconnection: (i) the share of labor demand that is export induced (i.e., all labor demand created by foreign entities buying products exported by the home country)â€”The paper provides estimates for 40 countries; (ii) the share of workers employed in sectors producing tradable goods or servicesâ€”68 countries; and (iii) the ratio of the number of jobs that are either located in a tradable sector, or that are involved in producing services that are required by these tradable sectors, to all jobs in the economy, which it calls the trade-linked employment shareâ€”40 countries. The paper estimates lead to the conclusion that the evidence of a large increase in the interconnections between national labor markets is far weaker than commonly asserted: levels of interconnectivity, and the direction of changes over time, vary across notions of interconnection and countries.
F63|Export Boom and Economic Performance: Bolivia 2004-2015|The supercycle of high commodity prices has had profound impacts on the Bolivian economy. We have investigated the relations of commodity prices with the main indicators of macroeconomic performance. We have found significant ties in our statistical analysis. An important question that we address concerns the consequences of the transitory export boom on the long term rate of growth of the economy. Also, given the importance of fiscal linkages with windfall income, we examined the procyclality of public expenditures based on an analysis of correlations of the cyclical components. We find positive but weak correlations. With export booms, consumption increases but also saving rates. Savings have been invested in foreign assets and, to a large extent, in construction. We find that commodity prices and per capita value added in the construction sector are co-integrated, suggesting a long term relationship. Also we looked into the real linkages of the hydrocarbons sector with other sectors of the economy through an Input-Output analysis. Finally, we have conducted a set of simulations, with a small Computable General Equilibrium Model adapted to the Bolivian conditions, to trace the domestic price and quantity effects of the commodity price increases.
F63|Implications of Brexit for developing countries’ agri-food trade|Brexit (the UK’s exit from the European Union) will have important repercussions for the agri-food trade of developing countries because of the UK’s size (it is the sixth largest economy in the world) and its important role as an importer of agri-food products (it accounts for 12% of the EU’s imports from developing countries). These effects will occur through a variety of different channels: the consequences of higher trade costs on UK-EU27 trade; possible changes in future UK tariff and trade policy after Brexit; possible changes in UK and EU27 agricultural policy; impacts on UK agricultural production capacity; and macroeconomic channels such as changes in future UK economic growth and the value of sterling. This paper reviews the potential significance of these changes, and makes recommendations as to how developing countries might respond to these changes
F63|The Diaspora And Economic Development In Africa|While the dominant collective belief asserts that brain drain is detrimental to the development of small economies, new studies hold the reverse view. This paper aims at studying the role of the African Diaspora in the economic development of Africa. It analyzes both the overall effect and the specific effect of emigration according to the level of education of emigrants. Then, through a deeper investigation, the paper analyzes the main channels through which the Diaspora influences economic development in Africa. The results show that the African Diaspora contributes positively, significantly and robustly to the improvement of real per capita income in Africa. These findings challenge the dominant collective belief since the higher the educational level of the emigrants, the greater the impact of the Diaspora on the level of economic development. Improvements in human capital, total factor productivity and democracy are effective transmission channels of this impact. Finally, the results show that while high-skilled emigrants have an overall greater impact on economic development and democracy, those with a low level of education contribute more to remittances to Africa. The establishment of an annual African Diaspora Summer School (ADSS) by the AfDB in partnership relevant international and regional stakeholders as a channel for the transfer of knowledge, technology and experience would further strengthen the role of the Diaspora in Africa’s economic development.
F63|Lessons Learned in Developing Productive Capacity: Fourteen Case Studies|Least developed countries (LDCs) are characterized by limited productive capacities, which constrains their efforts towards structural transformation and sustainable development. At the same time, the actual policy choices countries that have graduated or have made significant progress towards graduation from the LDC category provide a wide range of lessons other LDCs and the international community can learn from. Whereas countries can be on different pathways towards graduation, a diverse set of social, macroeconomic, financial, agricultural and industrial policies can be effective. However, good development governance is the key factor for successfully expanding productive capacity.
F63|Push no one behind|One of the pillars of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is the pledge to ‘leave no one behind’. This paper argues that we must recognise that many people throughout the world are not just being left behind. They are being pushed even further behind, and their levels of well-being are falling, often in ways from which it is impossible to fully recover. Indeed, many are confronted with forces that lead to their avoidable premature deaths. Thus, development policies should have as their first priority to ensure that no one is pushed behind. The paper argues that this could be secured through a different way of framing economic policy, that focuses on the obligations of states to respect, protect and fulfil economic, social and cultural rights. The paper also highlights the ways in which deprived people are using the human rights system to claim their rights.
F63|Modern industrial policy and public-private councils at the sub-national level: Mexico's experience in an international perspective|In recent years, the need for modern industrial policies has been increasingly acknowledged in the literature and by the praxis of developed and developing countries, including much of Latin America. Whether a country should have an industrial policy is no longer in question; rather, the issue is how to do it right. Nevertheless, research is still incipient on the experience with the specific institutional arrangements and governance structure required for effective modern industrial policy, and this is especially true in large countries with developed subnational governance structures. One institutional mechanism considered vital to effective modern industrial policy is the modality of public-private dialogue and problem solving that supports a search for obstacles and solutions to agreed development objectives. This paper addresses the institutional foundations of industrial policy at the subnational level, with new empirical evidence from a large federal state-Mexico. It presents a detailed analysis of the governance of 32 newly created public-private State Productivity Commissions. All evidence analysed point to the fact that most of these commissions were in a rudimentary state of development after more than three years since the federal law promulgated them. Problems of governance in many ways mirrored issues that often emerge in national councils, but were graver in their depth and covered even the most rudimentary elements. Moreover, the peculiarity of the CEPs emerging out of a federal labour law appears to have generated overly narrow agendas. Central government's entities have a major challenge to provide and mobilise technical, administrative, and possibly financial support for the sub-national commissions.
F63|Services liberalization and GVC participation: New evidence for heterogeneous effects by income level and provisions|Participation in global value chains (GVCs) is a key element in the industrialization strategies of many developing nations. Many studies look at the determinants of GVC participation but most focus on domestic regulatory environments, the cost of doing business, and trade policy. This paper investigates the possibility that services also matter by empirically testing for a link between higher GVC participation and services liberalization. Using the gravity framework, I examine the impact of services trade agreements on gross trade and GVC-trade (backward and forward participation). I find that services trade agreements promote both, but especially GVC-trade, although the effects are heterogeneous: the impact is bigger for developing nation exporters. Moreover, I find that services agreements that allow the export of services without local presence (non-establishment rights) are particularly important in fostering GVC participation.
F63|Structural Change, Trade and Global Production Networks|An ‘Appropriate Industrial Policy’ for Peripheral and Catching-up Economies The global economy has been undergoing rapid structural change the impressive development processes in a range of emerging economies have induced strong shifts in global trade shares; international production networks (IPNs) are characterising regional and global trading relationships and we observe also persistent changes in the positions of countries in global value chains due to rather rapid technological and human capital upgrading. The aim of this paper is to assess these developments, but also discuss the importance of – what we call – ‘appropriate industrial policy’ (AIP) for countries at different developmental stages to support their position in the current global context. We emphasise in particular the role of AIP for European low- and medium-income economies (LMIEs) as the recent financial and economic crisis has shown that they are particularly vulnerable with respect to ‘structural external imbalances’ and thus policies to support their tradable sectors are of great importance.
F63|Economic Policy Implications of the Belt and Road Initiative for CESEE and Austria|The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), a vision to revive the ancient ‘Silk Road’ by means of massive infrastructure investments throughout Eurasia and Africa, was first presented by China’s President Xi Jinping in 2013. China has identified the region of Central East and Southeast Europe (CESEE) as the gateway to Western European markets. This was manifested by the investment in the Port of Piraeus (Greece) and the diplomatic initiative ‘16+1’, comprising eleven EU Member States and five Western Balkan countries, which is interesting for Austria due to its strong economic relations with this region. The Policy Brief analyses the most recent developments in trade and investment activities of China, Austria and the EU in CESEE, which are compared to the state of infrastructure in the region in the areas of transport, energy, information and communication technology as well as finance. Overall, CESEE has a high need for infrastructure investments, particularly in the transport sector. Chinese loans and investments in the region are becoming more important, especially for the Western Balkan countries, which have limited access to EU grants. The paper concludes with seven policy areas for future cooperation between Austria and China. The Policy Note is based on a study conducted for the Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in Austria. It is available upon request. Please contact Ms ZHANG Yiran (yiran_zhang@mfa.gov.cn) or Mr CHEN Lin (Chen_lin@mfa.gov.cn).
F63|Asian Experiences with Global and Regional Value Chain Integration and Structural Change|This research report investigates the relationship between the growing integration into global and regional value chains (VCs) and structural change in the South and South East Asian (SEA) region. The analysis includes a sample of 60 developed and developing countries covered in the OECD’s Inter-Country Input-Output Tables. Focusing on the SEA region, we find the usual inverted U-shaped relationship between the manufacturing share and per capita income. With regards to the impact of growing VC integration, the econometric results suggest a small positive effect of the overall VC integration on the change in the manufacturing share at the global level. Very similar patterns are found for the South and South East Asian region, however, with a large degree of country heterogeneity. The main beneficiaries from VC integration in the region in terms of the relative importance of manufacturing in the economy include for example Korea and Thailand. Unexpectedly, no significant differences in the (manufacturing-related) structural impacts of regional and global VCs could be identified.
F63|"Labour policy and multinational firms: the ""race to the bottom"" revisited"|"This paper revisits the ""race to the bottom"" phenomenon in a simple game theoretic framework. We consider two countries and one multinational firm, which requires two inputs that are imperfect substitutes. In the benchmark model the labour of each country specializes in a distinct input. Seeking to maximize their labour incomes, countries simultaneously announce wages following which the firm chooses its labour employment in each country. We show that ""race to the bottom"" (countries setting minimum possible wages) is never an equilibrium. Moreover there are equilibria with ``race to the top"", that is, countries set maximum possible wages. This result is robust in an extended model where prior to competing in wages, each country can make input-specific investments to make its labour available for one or both inputs. Provided the production function of the firm is not asymmetrically intensive in either one of the two inputs, there are equilibria of the extended game with specialization (that is, countries invest in distinct inputs) as well as ""race to the top""."
F63|L’Angleterre, le Brexit et l’Afrique|High-flying illusions on the part of the proponents and grim predictions on the part of the sceptics have characterised the controversy around Brexit. The article assesses five key issues at stake for post-Brexit relationships between Britain, the EU, and Africa: market access, foreign direct investment (FDI), aid, security, and the nature of the partnership. The analysis focuses on those sub-Saharan African countries that belong to the Commonwealth, as the British government’s vision of a “Global Britain” relies heavily on its reinforced cooperation with Commonwealth nations. The review of potential developments in these different policy fields shows that the expectations of Brexiteers and African politicians alike concerning an enhanced, partnership-like post-Brexit Commonwealth relationship are largely unfounded. Although the post-Brexit United Kingdom will increase African countries’ choices regarding preferred trading partners, it remains questionable whether London could offer something new that other global players with increasing interest in Africa, such as China, do not already have on their agenda.
F63|The role of FDI in structural change: Evidence from Mexico|Foreign direct investment (FDI) flows to Mexico are substantial and play an important role in the Mexican economy since the mid-1990s. These investments reflect the activities of multinational firms that shape to some extent the economic landscape and sectoral structure in this host country. We illustrate that there is considerable variation in the amounts of FDI and structural change within the country and across time. Based on this, the paper's main purpose is to analyze whether there is a significant impact of FDI on structural change. We conduct an empirical analysis covering the period 2006-2016. We use the fixed-effects estimator where the unit of observation is a Mexican state for which we calculate structural change from the reallocation of labor between sectors. The results suggest that (if any) there is a positive effect from FDI on growth-enhancing structural change. This effect depends critically on the lag structure of FDI. Moreover, there is some evidence that the positive effect (i) arises from FDI flows in the industry sector and (ii) is present for medium- and low-skilled labor reallocation.
F63|The new global agenda and the future of the multilateral development bank system|The authors assess the role of the multilateral development system and the reforms needed to support the new global agenda. There is an urgency to the reforms. The coming decades will see the largest urban expansion in history. More infrastructure needs to be built in the next 15 years than the existing stock of infrastructure in the world. Multilateral development banks (MDBs) are uniquely placed to support policy and institutional reforms and build institutional capacity, enhance the quality of projects and programs, and scale up for transformative change. They are the best mechanism today for leveraging public resources. By our calculations, each dollar of paid-in capital could reasonably translate into $50 of public investments if properly allocated. Despite these inherent strengths, MDBs are constrained by their financial and institutional capacities, effectiveness of instruments, and unclear mandates and governance shortcomings. The authors suggest MDBs do more in three client groups: (i) fragile states; (ii) high-debt countries; and (iii) upper middle-income countries, adjusting strategies and use of instruments in each case. With so many issues on the table, they believe that the greatest risk to the system lies in active inertia, a tendency to make changes on the margin that fall short of a collective response that is scaled to the task at hand. Individual MDBs each perform well, according to evaluation results, but their impact could be enhanced if they cooperated more as a system and developed scalable platform approaches. Major expansion is not feasible under current business and financial models. Shareholders need to reach consensus on capital and governance to unlock the financial potential and effectiveness of the MDB system.
F63|Structural conditions for currency internationalization: international finance and the survival constraint| This paper examines the relationship between currency internationalization and economic structure. It argues that the hierarchical and asymmetric architecture of the international monetary system imposes a ‘survival constraint’ upon non-center countries that obliges them to generate net inflows of the international center currency to finance their payment commitments. It outlines why management of this constraint has historically been associated with a development approach that prioritizes exports and investment over domestic consumption and illustrates how this development approach creates economic structure subject to path dependence and network effects, which perpetuates the role of non-center countries as users of the international currency and the role of the center country as supplier of the international currency. On this basis, it is argued that currency internationalization cannot be pursued in isolation from broader economic policy, but rather requires economic structural change, political mediation and accommodative balance of payments management. Specifically, raising the international profile of the Chinese renminbi would require rebalancing of the Chinese economy towards domestic demand, whereas the status of the US dollar is intimately intertwined with the international openness of the US economy.
F63|The role of FDI in structural change: Evidence from Mexico|Foreign direct investment (FDI) flows to Mexico are substantial and play an important role in the Mexican economy since the mid-1990s. These investments reflect the activities of multinational firms that shape to some extent the economic landscape and sectoral structure in this host country. We illustrate that there is considerable variation in the amounts of FDI and structural change within the country and across time. Based on this, the paper's main purpose is to analyze whether there is a significant impact of FDI on structural change. We conduct an empirical analysis covering the period 2006-2016. We use the fixed-effects estimator where the unit of observation is a Mexican state for which we calculate structural change from the reallocation of labor between sectors. The results suggest that (if any) there is a positive effect from FDI on growth-enhancing structural change. This effect depends critically on the lag structure of FDI. Moreover, there is some evidence that the positive effect (i) arises from FDI flows in the industry sector and (ii) is present for medium- and low-skilled labor reallocation.
F63|E-commerce and developing country-SME participation in global value chains|Two far-reaching developments have increased the trade opportunities for SMEs in developing countries. Firstly, the rise of the internet and advances in ICT have reduced trade-related information and communication costs. Secondly, the international fragmentation of production has increased the opportunities for SMEs to specialize in narrow activities at various stages along the production chain. Using firm-level data from the World Bank's Enterprise Survey, we test whether digital connectivity, as captured by whether a firm has a website or not, facilitates the participation of manufacturing SMEs from developing countries in global value chains (GVCs). We find robust evidence that digital connectivity facilitates the participation of manufacturing SMEs in GVCs in terms of both backward and forward linkages. SMEs with a website tend to import a higher share of their inputs used for production and export a higher share of their sales as compared to SMEs without a website. Furthermore, the findings indicate that the effect of having a website on GVC participation is stronger for SMEs than for large firms. Beyond digital connectivity at the firm level, we also assess the role of a country's ICT infrastructure in facilitating GVC participation of SMEs. We find that SMEs tend to participate more in GVCs in countries where a higher share of the population has fixed broadband subscriptions. This result also holds if we control for other country-level factors such as the quality of logistics services, rule of law and access to finance. Our findings can provide guidance for policy makers in developing countries about the importance of investing in ICT infrastructure, creating a regulatory and policy environment conducive to e-commerce, and providing SMEs and workers with the digital skills and knowledge to use ICT technologies efficiently.
F63|Gender, Informal Employment and Trade Liberalization in Mexico| We study how trade liberalization affects labour reallocation in formal and informal jobs across gender. We link the Mexican labour force survey with data on tariffs at the 4-digit level from 1993 to 2001, and find that a tariff reduction increases the probability of holding a formal job for both men and women within industries. Constructing a regional tarif measure, we show that local effects of changes in trade policy differ between gender and industries. At the regional level, trade liberalization decreases the probability of working formally for women, but increases the probability of working formally for high- skilled men. Then, controlling for sectoral differences, we find that in the manufacturing sector, men benefit more from the formalization of jobs induced by trade liberalization. While in the service sector, workers, especially low- skilled women, have higher chances to work informally.
F63|Remittances, ICT and Doing Business in Sub-Saharan Africa|Purpose – This study examines how linkages between information and communication technology (ICT) and remittances affect the doing of business. Design/methodology/approach – The focus is on a panel of 49 sub-Saharan African countries for the period 2000-2012. The empirical evidence is based on Generalised Method of Moments. Findings – While we establish some appealing results in terms of net negative effects on constraints to the doing of business (i.e. time to start a business and time to pay taxes), some positive net effects are also apparent (i.e. number of start-up procedures, time to build a warehouse and time to register a property). We also establish ICT penetration thresholds at which the unconditional effect of remittances can be changed from positive to negative, notably: (i) for the number of start-up procedures, an internet level of 9.00 penetration per 100 people is required while (ii) for the time to build a warehouse, a mobile phone penetration level of 32.33 penetration per 100 people is essential. Practical and theoretical implications are discussed. Originality/value – To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to assess linkages between ICT, remittances and doing business in Sub-Saharan Africa.
F63|The Chinese are Here: Firm Level Analysis of Import Competition and Performance in Sub-Saharan Africa|This study uses firm level data on 19 Sub-Saharan Africa countries between 2004 and 2016 to provide a rigorous analysis on the impact of Chinese import competition on productivity, skills, and performance of firms., We measure import competition and ports accessibility at the city-industry level to identify the relevance of firms’ location in determining the impact of Chinese imports competition. To address endogeneity concerns, a time-varying instrument for Chinese imports based on the interaction between an exogenous geographic characteristic and a shock in transportation technology is developed. The results show that imports competition has a positive impact on firm performance, mainly in terms of productivity catch-up and skills upgrading. Of particular interest is the finding that the effects of import competition from China are stronger for more remote firms that have lower port accessibility, an indication that Chinese imports in remote areas improves productivity of laggard firms, employment, and intensity of skilled workers. Our findings indicate that African firms are improving their performance as a consequence of the higher Chinese import intensity, mainly through direct competition and the use of higher quality inputs of production sourced from China.
F63|Analysis on the Openness and Economic Welfare of North Korea (in Korean)|"North Korea's trade volume in 2016 was three times higher than in the mid-1990s. North Korea's external openness seems to have considerably increased, but it still faces difficulties in expanding its external openness due to economic sanctions by the international community. This study uses Arkolakis, Costinot and Rodriguez-Claire's model (ACR model), which measures the economic welfare effects of various international trade models. In the ACR model, the ""import penetration ratio,"" which is the ratio of imports to domestic demand, indicates the degree of external openness, and ""gains from trade"" is a measure of the real income growth rate that occurs when switching from a closed to an open economy. We estimated the import penetration rate and gains from trade of North Korea during 1996-2016 using North Korean foreign trade data from UN Comtrade, IMF DOTS and KOTRA as well as inter-Korean trade data from the Unification Ministry of Korea. The main results of this study are as follows. North Korea's import penetration rate has shown a gradual increase, indicating an expansion of international openness. This trend has become especially clear since 2000 when the North Korean economy began stabilizing after the end of â€œthe Hardship March,â€ although it faltered slightly from 2014 to 2016. In addition, it is estimated that gains from trade is in the range of 1.5%-4.5% based on real income, and the annual change trend is similar to that of the import penetration rate."
F63|The not-so-generalized effects of the Generalized System of Preferences|We use an empirical gravity equation approach to study how nonreciprocal trade preferences (NRTPs), enacted mainly through the Generalized System of Preferences, affect the exports of the beneficiary nations. In line with existing studies, the average trade effect stemming from nonreciprocal preferences is highly unstable across specifications. However, once we allow for heterogeneous effects, results become robust and economically important. Specifically, NRTPs have a strong effect on the exports of beneficiaries when they are members of the World Trade Organization and are very poor. Not-so-poor beneficiaries also expand foreign sales, but only if they are not WTO members. For all others, the average export effects of NRTPs are mute.
F63|International Buyers' Sourcing and Suppliers' Markups in Bangladeshi Garments|Large international buyers play a key role in global value chains. We exploit detailed transaction-level data on the usage of material inputs to study how Bangladeshi garment suppliers' markups vary across international buyers. We find substantial dispersion in markups across export orders of a given seller for the same product. Buyer effects explain a significant share of this variation, while destination effects do not. Buyers adopting relational sourcing strategies pay higher markups than non-relational buyers. This pattern holds within seller-product-year combinations, is robust to controlling for the buyer's size, traded volumes, and quality, and, together with larger volumes, implies higher profits for suppliers dealing with relational buyers.
F63|International Value-Added Linkages in Development Accounting|We generalise the traditional development-accounting framework to an open economy setting. In addition to factor endowments and productivity, relative factor costs emerge as a source of real-income variation across countries. These are determined by bilateral trade frictions (which underpin the patterns of “international value-added linkages”) and the global distribution of factor endowments and final expenditures. We use information on endowments, trade balances and value-added trade to back out the relative factor costs of 40 major economies in a theory-consistent manner. This reduces the variation in “residual” TFP required to explain the observed per-capita income differences by more than one half.
F63|Precipitation and Economic Growth|As the ongoing process of global warming goes along with changes in both mean precipitation and precipitation extremes, the scientific interest in the effects of rainfall on economic prosperity has recently grown significantly. However, the few existing empirical studies of short-run growth effects of precipitation deliver inconclusive results. The medium- and long-run growth perspective is yet mostly unexplored. In this paper we deliver a systematic analysis of the short- and long-run growth effects of rainfall based on a large panel dataset covering more than 150 countries over the period of 1951 to 2013. We find strong and highly robust empirical evidence for long-lasting negative growth effects of rainfall shortages in poor and underdeveloped countries, which are not driven by the subsample of Sub Saharan African countries.
F63|Determinants of Total Factor Productivity: The cases of the main Latin American and emerging economies of Asia (1960 - 2015)|No abstract is available for this item.
F63|Determinants of Total Factor Productivity: The cases of the main Latin American and emerging economies of Asia (1960 - 2015)|No abstract is available for this item.
F63|Determinantes de la productividad multifactorial: los casos de las principales economías latinoamericanas y emergentes de Asia (1960 - 2015)|Resumen: El objetivo de este trabajo fue explicar el mayor o menor ritmo de crecimiento de la productividad total de los factores (PTF) en las principales economías del este asiático y latinoamericanas entre 1960 y 2015. Encontramos evidencia econométrica favorable a una hipótesis: el aumento del gasto público de consumo, dada la evolución de otros factores, tiene un efecto negativo sobre la PTF. Otros resultados del ejercicio econométrico, aquellos relativos a hipotéticos efectos positivos de la inversión pública y de las importaciones sobre la PTF, no fueron, unos, tan robustos, ni, otros, tan confiables como hubiésemos esperado. / Abstract : The objective of this paper was to explain the greater or lesser growth rate of total factor productivity, TFP, in the main East Asian and Latin American economies between 1960 and 2015. We found econometric evidence favorable to this hypothesis: the increase in public consumption expenditures, given the evolution of other factors, reduces the TFP. Other results of the econometric exercise, those that are related to hypothetical positive effects of public investment and imports on TFP were not as robust or as reliable as we would have expected.
F63|Elementos para una política pública frente a la crisis de Venezuela|La inmigración de ciudadanos venezolanos se ha convertido en uno de los retos más importantes que enfrenta la economía colombiana en el presente. Se estima que para fines de 2018 había más de 1.200.000 ciudadanos venezolanos con vocación de permanencia en el país. Semejante flujo migratorio tiene importantes efectos en dimensiones tan relevantes como los salarios, el empleo, la distribución del ingreso, el crecimiento económico y las finanzas públicas. En este trabajo se hace un análisis del impacto económico del fenómeno migratorio venezolano. En este trabajo se hace un análisis del impacto económico del fenómeno migratorio venezolano hacia Colombia en el pasado reciente, analizando sus causas, su magnitud, sus características, y sus implicaciones económicas en el corto y el mediano plazo. Además de dimensionar los costos para el fisco nacional de atender las necesidades básicas de los migrantes, con base en la teoría y la experiencia internacional se identifican los efectos favorables que podría tener la migración en el mediano plazo, y se formulan recomendaciones de política para minimizar sus costos.
F63|China's “Great Migration”: The impact of the reduction in trade policy uncertainty|We analyze the effect of China's integration into the world economy on workers in the country and show that one important channel of impact has been internal migration. Specifically, we study the changes in internal migration rates triggered by the reduction in trade policy uncertainty faced by Chinese exporters in the U.S. This reduction is characterized by plausibly exogenous variation across products, which we use to construct a local measure of treatment, at the level of a Chinese prefecture, following Bartik (1991). This allows us to estimate a difference-in-difference empirical specification based on variation across Chinese prefectures before and after 2001. We find that prefectures facing the average decline in trade policy uncertainty experienced a 24% increase in their internal in-migration rate – this result is driven by migrants who are “non-hukou”, skilled, and in their prime working age. Finally, in those prefectures, working hours of “native” unskilled workers significantly increased, and internal migrants found employment in the places they migrated to.
F63|Tourism and Economic Development: Evidence from Mexico's Coastline|Tourism is a fast-growing services sector in developing countries. This paper combines a rich collection of Mexican microdata with a quantitative spatial equilibrium model and a new em- pirical strategy to study the long-term economic consequences of tourism both locally and in the aggregate. We find that tourism causes large and significant local economic gains relative to less touristic regions that are in part driven by significant positive spillovers on manufacturing. In the aggregate, however, these local spillovers are largely offset by reductions in agglomeration economies among less touristic regions, so that the national gains from trade in tourism are mainly driven by a classical market integration effect.
F63|Firm performance and participation in public procurement: Evidence from Sub-Saharan Africa|This paper exploits a firm-level dataset for nineteen Sub-Sharan African countries that provides information on the share of total sales to government entities to provide new insights into the relative importance of participation in public procurement activity for different types of firms. We investigate whether participation in public procurement is associated with realization of the types of goals that underlie industrial policy – an improvement in measures of firm performance – and find that firms that sell a larger share of their output to government entities have better productivity performance. This is most strongly the case for domestically-owned firms, especially small companies, firms engaged in manufacturing activities and those located in the capital city. A positive relationship between participation in public procurement and performance is not observed for foreign-owned firms or companies that are in the service sector.
F63|E-Commerce Integration and Economic Development: Evidence from China|The number of people buying and selling products online in China has grown from practically zero in 2000 to more than 400 million by 2015. Most of this growth has occurred in cities. In this context, the Chinese government recently announced the expansion of e-commerce to the countryside as a policy priority with the objective to close the rural-urban economic divide. As part of this agenda, the government entered a partnership with a large Chinese e-commerce firm. The program invests in the necessary logistics to ship products to and sell products from tens of thousands of villages that were largely unconnected to e-commerce trading. The firm also installs an e-commerce terminal at a central village location, where a terminal manager assists households in buying and selling products through the firm's e-commerce platform. This paper combines a new collection of survey and administrative microdata with a randomized control trial (RCT) that we implement across villages in collaboration with the e-commerce firm. We use this empirical setting to provide evidence on the potential of e-commerce integration to foster economic development in the countryside, the underlying channels and the distribution of the gains from e-commerce across households and villages.
F63|The real exchange rate, innovation and productivity : regional heterogeneity, asymmetries and hysteresis|We evaluate manufacturing firms' responses to changes in the real exchange rate (RER) using detailed firm-level data for a large set of countries for the period 2001-2010. We uncover the following stylized facts: In export-oriented emerging Asia, real depreciations are associated with faster growth of firm-level TFP, higher sales and cash-flow, and higher probabilities to engage in R&D and to export. We find negative effects for firms in other emerging economies, which are relatively more import dependent, and no significant effects for firms in industrialized economies. Motivated by these facts, we build a dynamic model in which real depreciations raise the cost of importing intermediates, affect demand, borrowing-constraints and the profitability of engaging in innovation (R&D). We decompose the effects of RER changes on productivity growth across regions into these channels. We estimate the model and quantitatively evaluate the different mechanisms by providing counterfactual simulations of temporary RER movements and conduct several robustness analyses. Effects on physical TFP growth, while different across regions, are non-linear and asymmetric.
F63|The not-so-generalized effects of the Generalized System of Preferences|We use an empirical gravity equation approach to study how nonreciprocal trade preferences (NRTPs), enacted mainly through the Generalized System of Preferences, affect the exports of the beneficiary nations. In line with existing studies, the average trade effect stemming from nonreciprocal preferences is highly unstable across specifications. However, once we allow for heterogeneous effects, results become robust and economically important. Specifically, NRTPs have a strong effect on the exports of beneficiaries when they are members of the World Trade Organization and are very poor. Not-so-poor beneficiaries also expand foreign sales, but only if they are not WTO members. For all others, the average export effects of NRTPs are mute.
F63|Structural transformation to manufacturing and services: what role for trade?|Understanding how and why economies structurally transform as they grow is crucial for sound national policy making. Typically analysts of this issue focus on sectoral shares of GDP and employment. This paper extends that to include exports, including of services. It also considers mining in addition to agriculture and manufacturing, and recognizes some of the products of those four sectors are nontradable. The theory section’s general equilibrium model provides hypotheses about structural change in different types of economies as they grow, and tests them econometrically with annual data for a sample of 117 countries for the period 1991-2014. The results point to the futility of adopting protective policies aimed at slowing de-agriculturalization and subsequent de-industrialization in terms of sectoral shares, since those trends inevitably will accompany economic growth. Fortuitously governments now have far more efficient and equitable ways of supporting the adjustments needed by people choosing or being pushed to leave declining industries.
F63|The Diaspora and Economic Development in Africa|While the dominant collective belief asserts that brain drain is detrimental to the development of small economies, new studies hold the reverse view. This paper aims at studying the role of the African Diaspora in the economic development of Africa. It analyzes both the overall effect and the specific effect of emigration according to the level of education of emigrants. Then, through a deeper investigation, the paper analyzes the main channels through which the Diaspora influences economic development in Africa. The results show that the African Diaspora contributes positively, significantly and robustly to the improvement of real per capita income in Africa. These findings challenge the dominant collective belief since the higher the educational level of the emigrants, the greater the impact of the Diaspora on the level of economic development. Improvement in human capital, total factor productivity and democracy are effective transmission channels of this impact. Finally, the results show that while high-skilled emigrants have an overall greater impact on economic development and democracy, those with a low level of education contribute more to remittances to Africa. The establishment of an annual African Diaspora Summer School (ADSS) by the AfDB in partnership relevant international and regional stakeholders as a channel for the transfer of knowledge, technology and experience would further strengthen the role of the Diaspora in Africa’s economic development.
F63|The effects of migration and remittances on development and capital in Caribbean Small Island Developing States|This paper puts forward a modified OLG framework for high migration countries such as Caribbean islands, to link economic growth and demographic features. Our theoretical model captures the potential effects of migration on the households' choices in terms of savings, fertility and education, and thus on the accumulation of human and physical capital. Through a numerical analysis we study specifically five countries. We find that households in Jamaica, Haiti and Dominican Republic invest more in education for future generations and increase their fertility rate. Thus due to migration, their economic growth is driven by accumulation of efficient units of labor. For Barbados or Trinidad and Tobago, the benefits from education are dwarfed respectively by a low migration premium or a low level of remittances. Their economic growth is therefore driven by a high accumulation of physical capital. Second, we introduce frictions on the capital market in order to account for the imperfections in the interest rate adjustments to the marginal productivity of capital. For the studied islands, physical capital accumulation on the one hand and economic growth on the other hand show trade-offs between short-run and long-run if the frictions are reduced.
F63|Heterogeneous Foreign Direct Investment and Local Innovation in Italian Provinces|Locations all over the world compete to attract Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in order to access knowledge, technology, and boost economic development. Although the literature shows a positive impact of FDI, little is known about (1) its effect on neighbouring regions and (2) which type of FDI generate relevant effects. To fill this gap, we investigate the FDI-innovation relationship in Italian provinces. By adopting the Pavitt taxonomy of manufacturing sectors, we suggest that only specific categories of FDI benefit local economies, whilst other types may produce negative outcomes. The evidence on the spatial implications of FDI remains limited.
F63|Does inward FDI influence the quality of domestic institutions? A cross-country panel analysis|Domestic institutions are recognized as important in attracting foreign direct investment (FDI) and spurring economic development in host countries, but FDI can also affect and shape domestic institutions. In this paper we use extensive data on the quality of institutions and on inward FDI in 127 countries over a period of 22 years to see whether attracting FDI improves the quality of institutions in the host economies. We distinguish between different types of institution, FDI and country, and we estimate a series of pooled ordinary least squares, fixed effects, and dynamic panel data models to address endogeneity. Our findings suggest that higher amounts of inward FDI improve the average quality of institutions in recipient countries. This holds particularly when the quality of institutions is measured in terms of political stability, regulatory quality and rule of law, and when host countries are developing or transition economies.
F63|Is Employment Globalizing?|We investigate the claim that national labor markets have become more globally interconnected in recent decades. We do so by deriving estimates over time of three different notions of interconnection: (i) the share of labor demand that is export induced (i.e., all labor demand created by foreign entities buying products exported by the home country)—we provide estimates for 40 countries; (ii) the share of workers employed in sectors producing tradable goods or services—68 countries; and (iii) the ratio of the number of jobs that are either located in a tradable sector, or that are involved in producing services that are required by these tradable sectors, to all jobs in the economy, which we call the trade-linked employment share—40 countries. Our estimates lead to the conclusion that the evidence of a large increase in the interconnections between national labor markets is far weaker than commonly asserted: levels of interconnectivity, and the direction of changes over time, vary across notions of interconnection and countries. The main reasons for this are labordisplacing productivity growth in tradable sectors of each economy and the diminishing fraction of national labor forces hired into manufacturing jobs worldwide. We also discuss the implications of our results for different policy debates that each of the three measures is associated with: international coordination of macroeconomic policies (export-induced labor demand), currency devaluations (share of workers producing tradables), and education and labor protection (trade-linked share).
F63|Is Panama Really Your Tax Haven? Secrecy Jurisdictions and the Countries They Harm|Secrecy jurisdictions provide services that enable the residents of other countries to escape the laws and regulations of their home economies, evade tax, or hide their legally or illegally obtained assets. Recent offshore leaks offer only a limited and biased view of the world of financial secrecy. In this paper we quantify which secrecy jurisdictions provide secrecy to which countries and assess how successful countries are in targeting these jurisdictions with their policies. To that objective we develop the Bilateral Financial Secrecy Index (BFSI) and estimate it for 86 countries by quantifying the financial secrecy supplied to them by up to 100 secrecy jurisdictions. We then evaluate two major recent policy efforts by comparing them with the results of the BFSI. First, we focus on the blacklisting process of the European Commission and find that most of the important secrecy jurisdictions for EU member states have been identified by the lists. Second, we link the results to data on active bilateral automatic information exchange treaties to assess how well-aimed are the policymakers’ limited resources. We argue that while low-secrecy jurisdictions’ gains are maximized if a large share of received secrecy is covered by automatic information exchange, tax havens aim not to activate these relationships with countries to which they supply secrecy. Our results show that so far, some major secrecy jurisdictions successfully keep their most prominent relationships uncovered by automatic information exchange, and activating these relationships may thus be an effective tool to curb secrecy.
F63|The Chinese are Here: Firm Level Analysis of Import Competition and Performance in Sub-Saharan Africa| This study uses firm level data on 19 Sub-Saharan Africa countries between 2004 and 2016 to provide a rigorous analysis on the impact of Chinese import competition on productivity, skills, and performance of firms., We measure import competition and ports accessibility at the city-industry level to identify the relevance of firms’ location in determining the impact of Chinese imports competition. To address endogeneity concerns, a time-varying instrument for Chinese imports based on the interaction between an exogenous geographic characteristic and a shock in transportation technology is developed. The results show that imports competition has a positive impact on firm performance, mainly in terms of productivity catch-up and skills upgrading. Of particular interest is the finding that the effects of import competition from China are stronger for more remote firms that have lower port accessibility, an indication that Chinese imports in remote areas improves productivity of laggard firms, employment, and intensity of skilled workers. Our findings indicate that African firms are improving their performance as a consequence of the higher Chinese import intensity, mainly through direct competition and the use of higher quality inputs of production sourced from China.
F63|The Local Impact of Containerization|We investigate how containerization impacts local economic activity. Containerization is premised on a simple insight: packaging goods for waterborne trade into a standardized container makes them dramatically cheaper to move. We use a novel cost-shifter instrument -- port depth pre-containerization -- to contend with the non-random adoption of containerization by ports. Container ships sit much deeper in the water than their predecessors, making initially deep ports cheaper to containerize. Consistent with New Economic Geography models, we find that counties near container ports grow an additional 70 percent from 1950 to 2010. Gains predominate in counties with initially low population density and manufacturing.
F63|"China's ""Great Migration'': The impact of the reduction in trade policy uncertainty"|"We analyze the effect of China's integration into the world economy on workers in the country and show that one important channel of impact has been internal migration. Specifically, we study the changes in internal migration rates triggered by the reduction in trade policy uncertainty faced by Chinese exporters in the U.S. This reduction is characterized by plausibly exogenous variation across sectors, which we use to construct a local measure of treatment, at the level of a Chinese prefecture, following Bartik (1991). This allows us to estimate a difference-in-difference empirical specification based on variation across Chinese prefectures before and after 2001. We find that prefectures facing the average decline in trade policy uncertainty experience an 18 percent increase in their internal in-migration rate -- this result is driven by migrants who are ``non-hukou"", skilled, and in their prime working age. Finally, in those prefectures, working hours of ``native'' unskilled workers significantly increase -- while the employment rates of neither native workers nor internal migrants change."
F63|Do Migrants Transfer Productive Knowledge Back to Their Origin Countries?| This paper analyses whether international migrants contribute to increasing technological advances in developing countries by inducing a transfer of productive knowledge from developed countries back to migrants’ home countries. Using the Economic Complexity Index as a proxy for the amount of productive knowledge embedded in each countries and bilateral migrant stocks of 20 OECD destination countries, we show that international migration is a strong channel of technological transmission. Diasporas foster the local adoption of new technologies by connecting high technology countries with low ones, reducing the uncertainty surrounding their profitability. Our empirical results support the hypothesis that technological transfers are more likely to occur out of more technologically advanced destinations and when emigration rates are particularly high.
F63|Can Developing Countries Gain from Defying Comparative Advantage? Distance to Comparative Advantage, Export Diversification and Sophistication, and the Dynamics of Specialization|Since the 1990’s, developing countries have tried to promote export diversification and sophistication, notably by attracting vertical FDI and by supporting the emergence of new industries whose factor content is distant from the country’s endowment. We investigate whether defying comparative advantage has prompted a more sophisticated and diversified export basket in a large panel of countries over the period 1992–2012. We find that developing countries that defy their comparative advantage tend to export more manufactured items and manufacturing goods that are more sophisticated. As for export diversification, the impact is heterogeneous across development levels: although defying comparative advantage seems to help diversify the export baskets of middle-income and resource-rich countries, it tends to concentrate those of lower-income economies. Moreover, we find that the impact of the distance to comparative advantage on productive transformation is strongly conditioned by the size of FDI stocks and by the country’s specialization in the lower added-value productive tasks of global value chains (GVCs). More specifically, our results suggest that defying comparative advantage by attracting FDI may be a dangerous strategy in the long-term since it tends to bring only partial and artefact industrialization, with manufacturing exports increasing while the manufacturing value-added actually decreases.
F63|The French Curse? On the Puzzling Economic Consequences of French Colonization|More than 50 years after independence, the majority of countries in Sub-Saharan Africa remain poor with limited rates of economic growth. One of the most striking features of economic development on the sub-Saharan subcontinent is the remarkably poor performance of French colonies relative to British ones. While British and French colonies had similar GDP per capita shortly after independence, their economic trajectories have increasingly diverged, with particularly large gaps in the post-2000 period. Neither measures of human capital, geography nor measures of institutional quality appear to explain this gap, suggesting that colonialism affected deeper societal factors that are crucial for economic growth but that are not captured in standard macroeconomic variables.
F63|Resilience to Economic Shrinking: A Social Capability Approach to Processes of Catching up in the Developing World 1951-2016|This paper highlights and assesses the importance of the role of economic shrinking for the long-term growth process in the developing world over the period 1951-2016. On the basis of descriptive analysis it shows that resilience to shrinking, even among the miracle economies in Pacific Asia, plays a more important role for successful catching up than economic growth per se. The paper then proposes and elaborates on a novel way of how to understand resilience to shrinking and argues that five interrelated social capabilities are of special significance: inclusive and broad based economic growth; engagement in more complex and transformative economic activities; generation of social arrangements for conflict resolution; the state’s autonomy against vested interests; and the state’s accountability in delivering public goods. The implication of the paper is that economic development would be better encouraged by strengthening these social capabilities rather than focusing on the short-term growth rate.
F63|Innovative Business Models In The Strategic Adaptation Of Multinationals To Emerging Economy Environment|The purpose of this paper is to investigate the frequently neglected role of business model innovation (BMI) as a key instrument of strategic adaptation of Western multinational enterprises to emerging economy enviroment. Despite an abundance of studies on BMI, prior works have paid little attention to how specific characteristics of emerging economy environment force MNEs to change their business models. In order to fill this gap the author developed the analytical framework allowing to trace potential directions of this changing impact, and suggested a typological classification of respective innovative business models responding to concrete challenges posed by emerging economies to MNEs. The paper identifies the main directions of influence exerted by emerging economy environment on various building blocks of MNEs’ business models, thus enabling related innovative activities. These growing BMI activities entail very serious implications for MNEs’ strategy and organization, and innovation governance mechanisms, which are increasingly required to enhance their abilities to support multiple business models adapted to specific environment in all major host countries
F63|The Impact of Foreign Aid on Aggregate Welfare Measures: A Panel Data Analysis|Does foreign aid enhance aggregate human welfare? This paper attempts to answer this question by using a panel of twenty-eight countries, covering the period from 1990 to 2014. It explores intra-country variation by splitting the sample into low-income and middle-income countries. Combined with the fixed effects estimator, these approaches sought to control for the heterogeneity of the effects of aid on welfare measures. Perhaps suprisingly, there was no evidence that foreign aid contributes to the reduction of infant mortality or increase of human development index.
F63|Indian companies’ technological investments in the EU with a special focus on Central and Eastern Europe|India is one of the fastest growing economies in the world whose global share in “outward foreign direct investment” (OFDI) among the developing countries increased from a low level to second only to China. It has not only been a spectacular rise in Indian overseas investment activity, but the nature and the structure of Indian OFDI have also changed in the last decades. In the following paper we will examine the reasons and driving forces behind this spectacular rise, concentrating mostly on those host country characteristics that are the pull factors in attracting Indian investments. We follow the most recent literature on global value-chain specialization as much of Indian outward foreign investment is following a technology-seeking strategy currently. We choose Central and Eastern Europe as our case study because the region combines attributions of both advanced and developing countries in attracting Indian investment.
F63|Globalisation and the Gender Earnings Gap: Evidence from Sri Lanka and Cambodia 1992-2015|This paper focuses on how the forces of globalisation, specifically the Multi-Fibre Arrangement (MFA), have affected women's wages in the apparel sector in developing countries. Using household and labour force surveys from Cambodia and Sri Lanka, we find large positive wage premiums and a closing of the male-female wage gap during the MFA period, but smaller premiums and a widening wage gap after the end of the MFA. Our results suggest that apparel exports continued to benefit women in developing countries post-MFA.
F63|The Effects of Fair Trade Certification: Evidence from Coffee Producers in Costa Rica|We study the effects of Fair Trade (FT) certification of coffee on producers and households in Costa Rica. Examining the production dynamics of the universe of Costa Rican coffee mills from 1999–2014, we find that FT certification is associated with a higher sales price, greater sales, and more revenues. These effects are greater when global coffee prices are lower and the FT guaranteed minimum price is binding. Looking at households, we find robust evidence that FT is associated with higher incomes for farm owners. Part of this is due to a transfer of incomes from farm owners to intermediaries whose incomes decrease due to FT. We find no effect of FT on unskilled workers, who are the more disadvantaged group within the coffee sector.
F63|Connecting the Countryside via E-Commerce: Evidence from China|This paper estimates the impact of the first nation-wide e-commerce expansion program on rural households. To do so, we combine a randomized control trial with new survey and administrative microdata. In contrast to existing case studies, we find little evidence for income gains to rural producers and workers. Instead, the gains are driven by a reduction in cost of living for a minority of rural households who tend to be younger, richer and in more remote markets. These effects are mainly due to overcoming logistical barriers to e-commerce, rather than to additional investments to adapt e-commerce to the rural population.
F63|The Production of Cognitive and Non-cognitive Human Capital in the Global Economy|A country’s welfare depends on its ability to accumulate cognitive and non-cognitive human capital. In this paper, we model the productions of cognitive and non-cognitive human capital in general equilibrium. We use revealed comparative advantage to infer countries’ non-cognitive and cognitive productivities without a direct measure for the non-cognitive dimension. Our model also delivers analytical expressions for how non- cognitive and cognitive productivities can be aggregated into a single human-capital quality index, or HCQI, and how HCQI relates to output per worker. Our model allows us to obtain the values of non-cognitive and cognitive productivities and HCQI, using publically available data for a sample of mostly high-income countries. We find that: 1. many countries with low test scores have high non-cognitive productivities; 2. the hard-to-measure non-cognitive human capital is important for HCQI, and HCQI is important for output per worker; 3. the trade-o¤ between cognitive- and non-cognitive productivities can be visualized and analyzed using an iso-HCQI curve: e.g. uneven cognitive and non-cognitive productivities tend to lower HCQI; 4. this trade-o¤ can be quantified, and has policy implications: e.g. excessive attention to test scores may decrease aggregate output; 5. international trade matters, theoretically, for HCQI, because the gains from trade help to compensate a country for uneven productivity across human capital types: e.g. the iso-HCQI curve would have a very different shape under free trade.
F63|Intellectual Monopoly in Global Value Chains<BR>[Monopolisation intellectuelle dans les chaines globales de valeur]|More than two decades of scholarship on global value chains (GVCs) has reshaped our understanding of the global economy while tracking the international fragmentation of productive process and its socioeconomic consequences. In this paper we focus on the effort by lead firms to capture market power in the provision of and production of intangible assets. The analysis builds on Pagano’s (2014) notion of “intellectual monopoly”, where government protections of intellectual property have the effect of locking in the monopoly power from intangible asset creation. We extend it to the presence of scale economies and network externalities associated with the production of intangible assets.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F63|Decentralisation in a Globalised World: Consequences and Opportunities|Globalisation accompanied by the growing importance of information technology and knowledge-based production pose challenging problems for federations. We summarise the difficulties that traditional decentralised federations face in addressing problems of competitiveness, innovation and inequality brought on by globalisation. Adapting to these challenges involves rethinking the roles of various levels of government and rebalancing them appropriately. On the one hand, responding to inequality enhances the policy role of the federal government. On the other hand, state and local governments must respond to the imperative of providing education and business services to equip citizens and firms to compete in the knowledge economy. Perhaps most important, large urban governments are best placed to provide the physical and social capital to support innovation hubs. A key challenge for fiscal federalism is to facilitate the decentralisation of responsibilities to urban governments. This entails new thinking about revenue decentralisation, policy harmonisation and the structure of intergovernmental transfers so that cities can implement their policies effectively and accountably.
F63|Cabo Verde Transition Finance Country Pilot|A transition finance country pilot was initiated by the OECD Development Assistance Committee (DAC) in partnership with the government of Cabo Verde. The study aims to capture the challenges facing Cabo Verde following graduation from Least Developed Country (LDC) to Lower Middle Income Category (LMIC), including the shifting financing for sustainable development landscape, the mounting risk of debt distress and the economic and environmental vulnerabilities as a Small Island Developing States (SIDS). In line with the Addis Ababa Action Agenda (AAAA), the pilot study proposes a new “ABC” approach targeted to assess all available sources of financing (ODA, OOF, private investment, domestic resources, and remittances), identify emerging SDG financing gaps and promote better alignment of resources with national financing for sustainable development strategies.
F63|Leave No One Behind: How are Development Assistance Committee members answering the pledge of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development?|In 2015, UN Member States and the international community more broadly endorsed the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Agenda’s commitment to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals for everyone to leave no one behind. This working paper presents and analyses the findings of a survey circulated to members of the OECD’s Development Assistance Committee (DAC) between April and May 2018. The survey investigated the level and extent of commitment to leave no one behind in development co-operation policies, strategies and programming. It also gathered views and evidence from DAC members about the comparative advantage, opportunities, challenges and strategies for answering this pledge of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The findings presented in this paper inform the analysis of the 2018 Development Co-operation Report: Joining Forces to Leave No One Behind.
F63|Out of the Frying Pan into the Fire? Migration from Fragile States to Fragile States|Fragile states contributed 18 million migrants and 8 million refugees in 2000. More than 20% of these migrants and more than half of the refugees settle in other fragile states. Thus, migration is likely to be both a consequence and a possible cause of conflict and fragility. This paper asks why people from fragile states would want to move to another fragile state. Is it simply a question of jumping out of the frying pan into the fire – that migrants from fragile states have no other options than to settle in another fragile state? To investigate this question I analyse a new set of global data on the sources and destinations of migrants. This analysis generates genuinely new research for INCAF, and reveals that economic factors, such as the pull of higher incomes in destination countries, are important. The paper concludes by discussing how migration from fragile states in search of higher incomes and greater wellbeing is an important development strategy that should be supported. The research suggests that a new concept of development may be needed which looks beyond national borders to the countries where the migrants end up. This will require policies to ensure public acceptability in the host countries, however, such as bilateral agreements, temporary status for immigrants and restricting immigration to specific jobs or perhaps regions.
F63|Financing for Stability in the post-2015 era|This study and its associated guidance contribute to advancing thinking and understanding about one of the most significant challenges that the international community faces in fragile contexts: how to provide the right financing.The paper summarises new and emerging instruments and approaches in financing stability and resilience, and points to some of the gaps and challenges that remain in the fragility, resilience and stability space. It is not intended as holistic policy guidance on “how to” engage effectively across international and domestic, public and private instruments in fragile contexts. Instead, the paper is complemented by separate guidance on financing strategies: approaches to better align financing to support the delivery of results at the country-level.The research acknowledges that there are many high-level strategic debates which have yet to be resolved, which concern the comparative advantage and future role of Official Development Assistance (ODA) within a more diverse division of labour in financing, as well as a huge range of technical and capacity challenges ahead. The analysis, observations and conclusions put forward in this study should be interpreted therefore as preliminary contributions to what is a live and dynamic process of debate and adaptation.
F63|Financing for stability: Guidance for Practitioners|This guidance outlines the process for developing financing strategies for fragile contexts: financing for stability. The process includes the concrete steps to take to deliver the financing strategy, accompanied by financing principles, and a range of tactical investments, that allow financing actors to use financing to incentivise certain behaviours and priority investments, and to invest in enabling conditions and public goods.
F63|The 2030 Agenda and Development Co-operation Results|Providers of development co-operation can benefit from the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), targets and indicators for use in their results frameworks. The paper examines the SDG outcome and performance targets and indicators that fit with the goals of individual providers. It presents a menu of 60 SDG targets and indicators that can strengthen providers’ results frameworks, facilitate data collection and use, and offer improved platforms for dialogues on development co-operation results. The concept of “menu” recognises that individual providers and their partners prioritise different aspects of the 2030 Agenda. They can select and apply SDG targets and indicators to their existing results frameworks in accordance with their respective priorities. Results information is used for accountability and communication and hence tied to political goals for development co-operation. With clearer links to the SDGs, results information can also be used for strategic direction and learning by providers.
F63|At the roots of China's striking performance in textile exports: a comparison with its main Asian competitors|This paper analyzes the determinants of China's striking performance in textile exports in the time period 2001-2016. We integrate the analysis by Lall and Albaladejo (World Development, 2004), based only on China and its main Asian competitors' market share dynamics, by estimating an extended version of a traditional export function, derived from the imperfect substitute model, including a proxy of non-price competitiveness. The key long-run elasticities for each Asian exporter are thus computed and discussed in a panel-data framework, and the different export performances are examined taking into account the interaction between the estimated parameters and the growth rates of relative prices, world income and product quality. Lastly, we decompose the textile export growth differences between China and its rivals into the three main channels of trade competition, i.e. price, quantity and quality. Our findings show that China is crowding out most of its rivals with a competitive strategy based on a mix of low and decreasing relative prices and non-price policies aiming at stimulating export volumes. However, certain weaknesses in the Chinese trade prospects emerge when quality improvement is considered.
F63|Anti-globalisation, poverty and inequality in Indonesia|Since the 1997-99 Asian Financial Crisis (AFC), the rate of poverty reduction in Indonesia has slowed and economic inequality has increased. At the same time, protectionism also increased, both at the global level and within Indonesia. The objective of this paper is to find the extent, if any, that protectionism, both at the global level and within Indonesia, explains the observed slowing down in poverty reduction and rising We do this using a general equilibrium model of the Indonesian economy which enables detailed calculation of the poverty and inequality impacts of policy changes and external shocks. We conclude that increased protection had harmful effects on both poverty reduction and inequality, but that its impact was relatively small. It was not the major cause of either the slowdown in poverty reduction or increased inequality.
F63|Structural Transformation to Manufacturing and Services: What Role for Trade?|Understanding how and why economies structurally transform as they grow is crucial for sound national policy making. Typically analysts of this issue focus on sectoral shares of GDP and employment. This paper extends that to include exports, including of services. It also considers mining in addition to agriculture and manufacturing, and recognizes some of the products of those four sectors are nontradable. The theory section's general equilibrium model provides hypotheses about structural change in different types of economies as they grow, and tests them econometrically with annual data for a sample of 117 countries for the period 1991-2014. The results point to the futility of adopting protective policies aimed at slowing de-agriculturalization and subsequent de-industrialization in terms of sectoral shares, since those trends inevitably will accompany economic growth. Fortuitously governments now have far more efficient and equitable ways of supporting the adjustments needed by people choosing or being pushed to leave declining industries.
F63|Assessment of the State of Implementation of Excellence Model Common Assessment Framework (CAF) 2013 by the National Institutes of Research – Development – Innovation in Romania|The paper highlights the part of the results of a research based on a questionnaire conducted at the National Institutes for Research, Development and Innovation (NIRDI) of Romania, under the coordination, under the authority or the subordination of the National Agency for Scientific Research and Innovation (NASRI), goals being pursued: Assess the current status of implementation of the Common model of excellence Self-Assessment framework (CAF) in 2013 by NIRDI in Romania; Determining the impact that the implementation of one or more management systems has on achieving excellence in research and innovation; Capacity assessment CAF 2013 model of excellence to provide enlightening information on the most important risks and challenges facing the entity being (self-) evaluation. The research was conducted in July 2016 to a representative sample of 51 of the 53 INCDI, under the coordination, under the authority or subordinate NASRI. It appears that although there is a high degree of fulfillment of the 9 criteria of the excellence model CAF 2013 NIRDI have not assimilated the spirit and the purpose of the excellence model induced by the principles of total quality management by importance (percentage) given to each criterion and sub-criterion. It appears real progress criteria results on customers and processes, products and services. At the same time there are serious shortcomings in the criteria results on the organization and results on the staff. On the one hand, based on the results analyzed, it was determined that to achieve excellence in research is not sufficient to implement two or more management systems, on the other hand it was confirmed that the results of (self-) evaluation stage of implementation of the model of excellence CAF 2013 provides significant and enlightening information to identify the principal risks and deficiencies faced by the entity (self) assessed.
F63|Who is Afraid of the Brain Drain? A Development Economist’s View|In “Debating Brain Drain”, Brock and Blake (2015) discuss the pros and cons of high-skill mobility prevention to curb the brain drain from developing countries from a legal and political perspective. I complement this discussion with the insights from recent economic research on brain drain, globalization and development. Two main results are emphasized: the fact that educational investments are higher when high-skill migration is not constrained, and the role of skilled diasporas in promoting the integration of migrants’ home countries into the global economy. Both results strengthen the rationale for letting skilled people go.
F63|Engel's Law in the Global Economy: Demand-induced Patterns of Structural Change, Innovation, and Trade|Endogenous demand composition across sectors due to nonhomothetic demand (Engel's Law) affects i) sectoral compositions in employment and in value-added, ii) variations in innovation rates and in productivity change across sectors, iii) intersectoral patterns of trade across countries, and iv) migration of industries from rich to poor countries. This paper offers a unifying perspective on how economic growth and globalization affects the patterns of structural change, innovation and trade across countries and across sectors in the presence of Engel's Law. To this end, we develop a two-country model of directed technological change with a continuum of sectors under nonhomothetic preferences, which is rich enough to capture all these effects as well as their interactions. Among the main messages is that globalization amplifies, instead of reducing, the power of endogenous domestic demand composition differences as a driver of structural change.
F63|The revenge of the places that don't matter (and what to do about it)|Persistent poverty, economic decay, and lack of opportunities are at the root of considerable discontent in declining and lagging-behind areas the world over. Poor development prospects and an increasing belief that these places have 'no future' â€“ as economic dynamism has been posited to be increasingly dependent on agglomeration economies â€“ have led many of these so-called 'places that don't matter' to revolt against the status quo. The revolt has come via an unexpected source: the ballot-box in a wave of political populism with strong territorial, rather than social foundations. I will argue that the populist wave is challenging the sources of existing well-being in both the less-dynamic and the more prosperous areas and that better, rather than more, place-sensitive territorial development policies are needed in order to find a solution to the problem. Place-sensitive development policies need, however, to stay clear of the welfare, income-support, and big investment projects of past development strategies if they are to be successful and focus on tapping into untapped potential and on providing opportunities to those people living in the places that 'don't matter'.
F63|Does Safeguards Need Saving? Lessons from the Ukraine–Passenger Cars Dispute|The Panel Report in Ukraine - Passenger Cars provides an opportunity to revisit an old debate over the role of safeguard measures in the WTO. With regard to the legal findings, the panel followed the established jurisprudence in this area, and found a number of violations of the Safeguards Agreement. With regard to the economics, we delve more deeply into the economic and political background of the safeguards investigation. Ukraine was hit by the economic crisis shortly after its WTO accession that significantly liberalized import tariffs on passenger cars. Next, we offer a de novo look at the injury and causation issues in this case, and discuss the challenges of an industry reliant on offshored production that sees a safeguard as a mechanism to attract FDI for production. We conclude with an assessment of the operation of the WTO?s safeguards regime, along with some tentative suggestions for reform. Overall, our examination of the economic analysis by the investigating authority and the legal review by the WTO panel raises questions about particular aspects of the domestic and WTO processes, but concludes that the system worked well in this case.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F63|International Value-Added Linkages in Development Accounting|Development accounting evaluates how much of the variation in per-worker incomes across countries can be attributed to quantifiable factor endowments, and how much is due to unobserved TFP differences. We use a standard trade model to generalise the development accounting framework to a setting in which countries are open to trade, and consume both domestic and foreign value added. In addition to differences in factor endowments and TFPs, the generalised framework highlights differences in relative factor costs as source of real-income variation across countries. In turn, countries' relative factor costs are determined by their trade linkages, and the international distribution of factor endowments and expenditures. We use information on value-added trade from international input-output tables for 40 major economies in the period 1995-2011 to back out their relative factor costs in a model-consistent manner. Incorporating this information into the development accounting equation reduces the variation in unobserved TFPs required to explain the distribution of per-worker incomes among our sample countries by more than one half. Our findings suggest that the large international TFP differences found in traditional development-accounting exercises are in part due to their implicit assumption that countries are closed.
F63|Democracy-growth nexus and its interaction effect on human development: A cross-national analysis|This paper examines the democracy-growth nexus and its interactive effect on human development by using cross-national panel data spanning over 20 years incorporating the effect of democratization process. We find evidence that the effect from democracy to human development is nonlinear and varies depending on the levels of growth and democracy. The results confirm that the interaction effect of democracy-growth nexus has a positive impact on human development but the effect is sensitive to democratization process and the level of a country's economic development. It is established that democracy is more crucial in developed countries, whereas economic growth is vital in developing countries. The findings imply that the role of democracy in enhancing human development should not be overemphasized as economic growth is vital in the developing countries.
F63|Services trade policy and manufacturing productivity: The role of institutions|We study the effect of services trade restrictions on manufacturing productivity for a broad cross-section of countries at different stages of economic development. Decreasing services trade restrictiveness has a positive impact on the manufacturing sectors that use services as intermediate inputs in production. We identify a critical role of institutions in importing countries in shaping this effect. Countries with high institutional quality benefit the most from lower services trade restrictions in terms of increased productivity in downstream industries. We show that the conditioning effect of institutions operates through services trade that involves foreign establishment (investment), as opposed to cross-border arms-length trade in services.
F63|Mind the Gap: Analyzing the Impact of Data Gap in Millennium Development Goals’ (MDGs) Indicators on the Progress toward MDGs|This paper analyzes the impact of data gap in Millennium Development Goals’ (MDGs) performance indicators on actual performance success of MDGs. Performance success, within the MDG framework, is quantified using six different ways proposed in the existing literature, including both absolute and relative performance and deviation from historical transition paths of MDG indicators. The empirical analysis clearly shows that the data gap in performance measurement is a significant predictor of poor MDG performance in terms of any of the six progress measures. Larger the data gap or weaker the performance measurement system, lesser is the probability of MDG performance success. The empirical methodology used in the paper combines a Heckman correction and instrumental variable estimation strategies to simultaneously account for potential endogeneity of the key data gap variable and bias due to sample selection. This result holds true even after controlling for overall national statistical capacity and a variety of socioeconomic factors. The paper underlines the need to strengthen the performance measurement system attached to the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the associated Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This paper is the first attempt at empirically evaluating the value of data in the context of international development goals and gives empirical evidence for the need to harness the “data revolution” for sustainable development.
F63|Features of Social and Economic Transformations in the Globalization Era|The article looks into some of the features of social and economic transformations in the globalization era. Due to a number of economic and political processes encompassing all countries, it becomes obvious that the humankind faces the beginning of the drastic historical changes and the world new integrity. The main idea of the article is the idea of principal impossibility of social and economic processes of absolute unification, averaging and simplification of the social systems in the globalization era. The authors’ conviction is based on understanding the fact that in the globalization era the social relations system is being formed, where due to essential processes the different forms of social times and socio-spatial formations interact. Even a cursory glance reveals the whole specter of social organisms represented by both present and past history: ranging from the primitive forms to the semi-feudal one, from the quite traditional relations to the industrial and post-industrial ones. Despite great difference all existing countries while interacting with each other create social context of globalization. In the frame of this process the new integrity of the modern state of the society as the universum is happening. In terms of the social philosophy this universum is understood as active non-line environment where various social spheres emerge and evolve: modern integrative production, information flows including high technology industry, business and other components where the culture is to play the leading role as the way of life of a human being and society. The authors insist, the genesis of modern social systems is extremely interesting scientific issue, its consideration may be not only significant for the science itself, but can be applied in particular for the social relations management.
F63|The Role of Human Factors in the Bank Capital Evaluation Framework|The article assesses various versions of «Bank capital» definitions, and the own bank capital definition is suggested by authors. It assumes that bank capital is a monetary value of the bank’s debts and equities. Milestones of managing the bank capital such as formation and application are provided in the paper. Two groups of bank capital users such as external and internal stakeholders are highlighted. The key-note of the paper is defining the role of human capital in evaluating the bank capital. Human capital is suggested to play positive and negative role through the whole bank capital evaluation. Both subjective pros and cons of the human factor are revealed in the paper. Typical errors such as low-skilled staff, non-flexible mind, inconsistent risk policy in decision-making, deficient analytical framework, lack of useful forecasting are defined. Authors also defined a set of advantages of the human factors such as: quality education, professional skills, professional development, and diplomatic, highly analytical and independent mind, stress tolerance, and so on. The paper highlights the concept that entities’ benefits which are in evaluating the bank capital could be structured in importance and effect of the parties concerned. The hierarchical framework of interests completely depends on the person arranging the framework. The paper stresses that interests of the parties concerned should be listed in the bank capital’s evaluation policy. A set of key indicators such as capital profitability rate, adequacy ratio to highlight stakeholders’ interests are defined. Key features of bank capital management are described. Objectives of internal and external stakeholders’ activity are defined. The set of factors indicating the impact of human factors on evaluating the bank capital are discussed.
F63|The Development of Cluster Relations within the State and Business Structures in Terms of Strategy of Non-Primary Sector Import-Substitution|The main aim of the article is to determine how the implementation of the strategy of import substitution in non-primary sector of the Russian economy can be insured. Rostov region and other Southern regions of Russia were selected as the subjects of the study by the authors. Research particularly focuses on the main areas of socio-economic development as well as the process of implementation of the import substitution policy. The authors also analyzed the possibility of solving the problems of import substitution in the non-primary sector of the regional economy, formulated algorithmic bases of realization of cluster interaction of state and business structures. The authors have presented some promising industry clusters far the South of Russia Region. This article contains suggestions for the creation of regional clusters in terms of import substitution. As a result authors concluded that within the non-primary development of regional economy the principle of cluster interaction of state and business structures allows for efficient implementation of the import substitution strategy in the industrial sector.
F63|Research and Development Intensity in Business: Russia and EU|The present study is devoted to the investigation of the intensity of research and development importance in Russian Federation and EU. The authors selected economics of EU and Russian Federation countries as the object of the study. The subject of research is the intensity of research and development in Russian Federation and EU in the context of the priority sectors: state sector, scientific sector, business sector. In the given article the authors consider the semantic definition of «the intensity of research and development», the dynamics of research intensity indicators and development in Russia and EU, the authors’ assessment of the choice of priorities for research and development sectors is also given. According to the results of the study authors indicated the problem zone, discussion points and priorities for the further research. The authors also give recommendations for the Russian practice.
F63|Nigeria’s Investment Environment: Issues of Economic Growth and Development|In this study, the researchers examine the Nigerian investment environment and assess its contributions or otherwise to the economic growth and development of the country. The study adopted ex post facto and secondary data research designs, using time series data obtained from various editions of CBN Statistical Bulletins. Some environment-specific factors such as the growth rate of RGDP (as dependent variable) and Exchange Rate (ER), Inflation Rate (IFR), Prime Lending Rate (PLR), and Total Government Expenditure (TGE), as independent variables. Augmented Dickey Fuller (ADF) test was carried out to test for stationarity of the variables Johansen’s cointegration test was also conducted to ascertain the nature of relationship among the variables and on the whole, Ordinary Least Square regression technique was adopted in the analysis of the variables and model used in the study. The ADF results obtained showed that RGDPgr and PLR were stationary at level while ER, IFR, and TGE were stationary at first difference. Also, Trace test indicates 2 cointegrating equations at 5 percent level of significance. The OLS result showed positive relationship between ER, PLR and the RGDPgr but a negative relationship between IFR, TGE and RGDPgr. They recommend that Government through appropriate agencies should reduce prime lending rate to encourage borrowing for investment or other productive activities and that the unexpected negative relationship between government expenditure and economic growth which may be as a result of government spending in unproductive ventures, should be weighed and appropriately channelled.
F63|Integration along the Abuja road map: A progress report|This paper reviews integration among the eight African Regional Economic Communities by comparing their characteristics and progress with three other South–South Regional Integration Arrangements. Three conclusions emerge: (i) slow progress towards meeting overly ambitious objectives; (ii) small changes in the destination of trade across all Regional Economic Communities, indicative of persistent high trade costs and few new manufactures products destined for geographically close markets; and (iii) compared with other South–South Regional Integration Arrangements, the Regional Economic Communities include a high number of provisions not covered in Word Trade Organization negotiations, but these have low legal enforceability. Reasons for this slow progress are explored in the paper.
F63|Trade Related Institutions and Development|The paper focuses on the role played by Trade Related Institutions (TRIs) in shaping trade flows and their development impact in low-income countries and how these TRIs are shaped by international trade. Three types of TRIs are examined: i) trade agreements; ii) trade promotion organizations; and iii) private TRIs, i.e. fair trade labelling, trading platforms and reputation mechanisms. Recent research reviewed for each type of TRI is then followed by suggestions for further work.
F63|Trade Related Institutions and Development|The paper focuses on the role played by Trade Related Institutions (TRIs) in shaping trade flows and their development impact in low-income countries and how these TRIs are shaped by international trade. Three types of TRIs are examined: i) trade agreements; ii) trade promotion organizations; and iii) private TRIs, i.e. fair trade labelling, trading platforms and reputation mechanisms. Recent research reviewed for each type of TRI is then followed by suggestions for further work.
F63|The Effect of Fertility on Mothers’ Labor Supply over the Last Two Centuries|This paper documents the evolving impact of childbearing on the work activity of mothers between 1787 and 2014. It is based on a compiled data set of 429 censuses and surveys, representing 101 countries and 46.9 million mothers, using the International and U.S. IPUMS, the North Atlantic Population Project, and the Demographic and Health Surveys. Using twin births (Rosenzweig and Wolpin 1980) and same gendered children (Angrist and Evans 1998) as instrumental variables, we show three main findings: (1) the effect of fertility on labor supply is small and often indistinguishable from zero at low levels of income and large and negative at higher levels of income; (2) these effects are remarkably consistent both across time looking at the historical time series of currently developed countries and at a contemporary cross section of developing countries; and (3) the results are robust to other instrument variation, different demographic and educational groups, rescaling to account for changes in the base level of labor force participation, and a variety of specification and data decisions. We show that the negative gradient in female labor supply is consistent with a standard labor-leisure model augmented to include a taste for children. In particular, our results appear to be driven by a declining substitution effect to increasing wages that arises from changes in the sectoral and occupational structure of female jobs into formal nonagricultural wage employment as countries develop.
F63|The gravity model, global value chain and the brazilian states|"The WTO and the OECD along with many other organizations, suggest trade in value-added is a “better” measuring system than gross value in order to better understand the impact of trade on employment, growth and production . When it comes to the ""domestic"" value chain and internal specializations, internal trade statistics are rarely available. In this work we use a gravity model based on the estimation of exports of the Brazilian states, considered as trade entities, both in traditional terms of gross value and in terms of value-added. Our method is based on an Input-Output table for 2008. The results of the bilateral gravity model for the Brazilian states' exports show that the main determinants (GDP, distance etc.) are fairly similar when exports are estimated in gross or value-added terms. _________________________________ L'OMC et l'OCDE ainsi que de nombreuses organisations internationales, suggèrent que l’évaluation du commerce en valeur ajoutée est «meilleure» que celle en valeur brute car elle permet de mieux saisir l'impact du commerce sur l'emploi, la croissance et la production. Quand il s’agit de la chaîne de valeur ""domestique"" les statistiques commerciales internes sont rarement disponibles. Dans ce travail, nous utilisons un modèle de gravité qui estime les exportations des États brésiliens, considérés comme des entités commerciales, à la fois en termes traditionnels de valeur brute et en termes de valeur ajoutée. Notre méthode est basée sur une table d'entrées-sorties pour 2008. Les résultats du modèle de gravité pour les exportations des États brésiliens montrent que les principaux déterminants du commerce (PIB, distance, etc.) ont des élasticités similaires lorsque les exportations sont estimées en valeur brute ou en valeur ajoutée."
F63|Trade Performance of Free Trade Zones|Free trade zones (FTZ) have become widespread with the liberalisation of international trade and investment. They are a key player in the deepening of the global value chain (GVC). However, little is known about their contribution to world trade due to a lack of information on their location and status. This paper sets out to improve knowledge in this area by analysing the trade performance of FTZ countries at macro-level with a focus on FTZ externalities and distortive costs. We have built an original database of FTZs where we define them as processing zones benefiting from import tariff incentives. We show that FTZs raise trade only by easing the negative impact of protection. As importers of components and raw materials, they raise the rest of the world’s exports. This confirms the contribution of FTZs to the GVC. This result is robust to a change in the model specification, errors and bias due to data collection issues and sample composition. _________________________________ Les zones de libre-échange (ZFE) ont proliféré avec la libéralisation du commerce et de l’investissement. Elles jouent un rôle clé dans l’approfondissement de la chaîne mondiale de valeur. Toutefois, leur contribution au commerce international est peu connue, du fait du manque d’informations sur leur localisation et leur statut. Cet article tente d’améliorer leur connaissance en analysant les performances commerciales des pays abritant des ZFE avec un focus sur les externalités et les coûts dus aux distorsions. Nous avons ainsi construit une base de données originale sur les ZFE définies comme des zones de transformation industrielle bénéficiant d’incitations sur les droits de douane. Nous montrons que les ZFE ne contribuent à augmenter le commerce du pays qu’en réduisant l’impact négatif du protectionnisme. En tant qu’importateurs de composants et de matières premières, elles augmentent les exportations des autres pays, ce qui confirme la contribution des ZFE à la chaîne globale de valeur. Ce résultat est robuste avec d’autres spécifications du modèle, les erreurs et les biais dus aux problèmes de collecte des données et de composition de l’échantillon.
F63|Earnings, savings, and job satisfaction in a labor-intensive export sector: Evidence from the cut flower industry in Ethiopia|While labor-intensive export-oriented industries typically bring positive economic benefits to countries through employment generation, the effects of employment in these industries on various aspects of workers’ welfare are less well-studied. This paper considers the case of the cut flower industry in Ethiopia to provide such quantitative evidences. We collected workers’ primary data and conducted incentivized experiments to measure their cognitive abilities, risk preference, and other behavioral characteristics. Based on propensity-score matching and doubly robust estimations to facilitate rigorous comparisons, we find that production workers in the cut flower sector earn significantly more than similar workers in other sectors, most probably due to the flower farms’ interest to reduce costly worker turnovers. In addition, workers in the sector save more regularly than workers in other sectors who have similar characteristics, and the amount saved relative to the income level is also higher, after controlling for the frequency of wage payment and employment status. The subjective valuation of their jobs is also higher in the cut flower sector, particularly in terms of the income level, stability, and future prospect, but workers in the sector are not necessarily more satisfied with the type of work they do. Unlike other sectors where wage payment decreases with worker’s age, wage in the flower sector does not vary with age. Risk-averse individuals are more satisfied in the cut flower sector, while work experience reduces the satisfaction level on future prospect more in this sector relative to other sectors.
F63|Export And Population Dynamics In The States Of Baja California, Mexico And California, United States, Exportacion Y Dinamica Poblacional En Los Estados De Baja California, Mexico Y California, Estados Unidos|Internationalization is an invaluable tool to expand markets. the investment flows and relocation processes productive. However, under a systemic optic, the incursion into foreign markets requires government cooperation, business determination and social participation. The tendency of an economy to internationalize is mainly reflected in the relations of public and private companies abroad through products, services or investments. The results must be reflected in population welfare. This study determines exports per capita in the states of Baja California (Mexico) and California (United States), seeking to infer their impact on revenues distribution and economic development
F63|Inequality and Globalization: A Review Essay|"As normally measured, ""global inequality"" is the relative inequality of incomes found among all people in the world no matter where they live. Francois Bourguignon and Branko Milanovic have written insightful and timely books on global inequality, emphasizing the role of globalization. The books are complementary: Milanovic provides an ambitious broad-brush picture, with some intriguing hypotheses on the processes at work; Bourguignon provides a deep and suitably qualified economic analysis. This paper questions the thesis of both books—that globalization has been a major driving force of inequality between or within countries. The paper also questions the robustness of the evidence for declining global inequality, and notes some conceptual limitations of standard measures in capturing the concerns of many observers in the ongoing debates about globalization and the policy responses."
F63|Internationalization of Indian multinational enterprises - motivations, strategies and regulation from the experience of Indian investments - a focus on Europe|This paper makes a critical assessment of Indian companies’ internationalization experience. It introduces a new theoretical framework in order to go beyond classical notion based on western companies’ global aspirations. Besides the theoretical modifications the paper provides an empirical collection about those successful Indian internationalization projects that sought to enter the European market. The question to be answered here is whether Indian firms are able to compete out dominant western companies in an increasingly multipolar world economy in the future. By applying the modified method on the question of internationalization from developing companies’ point of view, the aim of the paper is to detect future world economic trends to which Indian companies will need to accommodate themselves.
F63|On the Implications of Immigration Policy Restricting Citizenship: Evidence from the Dominican Republic|In 2010, an amendment to the Dominican constitution weakened the concept of jus soli citizenship by denying Dominican nationality to individuals born on Dominican soil to irregular immigrants. A few years later, in 2013, the Dominican High Court denationalized large numbers of individuals by reinterpreting language in the prior constitution to, in effect, apply the newer citizenship requirements retroactively to 1929. We gauge the impacts of changes to Dominican citizenship laws on Haitian immigrants and their descendants, to whom, many believe, these policies were directed. We find that the constitutional amendment affected informal employment of some Haitians and their descendants. Furthermore, the High Court's ruling resulted in a significant reduction in the share of Haitian-descendant youth registered in school. Non-attendance was attributed primarily to lack of appropriate documents. Given the rise of nationalist sentiments and discussions to further restrict and revoking citizenship in various regions of the world today, it is important to further explore how these policies ultimately impact targeted and vulnerable populations.
F63|Better management practices and their outcomes in shrimp farming : evidence from small-scale shrimp farmers in Southern Vietnam|Despite the growth of aquaculture exports from developing countries in recent years, a high percentage of these products are rejected at developed countries' ports because of non-compliance with international standards. This paper presents a case study of the shrimp aquaculture sector in Vietnam to examine the factors behind the persistence of such port rejections. In particular, we focus on why the so-called Better Management Practices (BMPs) are not appropriately adopted by many farmers and examine whether the number and types of information sources matter in farmers' decisions on BMP adoption and whether BMP adoption actually leads to better performances. On the basis of our estimation using primary data collected in Southern Vietnam, we find that information sources and training experiences indeed matter in the adoption of a higher number of BMPs and that BMP adoption indeed reduces the possibility of disease outbreaks. These results prove the effectiveness of BMPs and suggest the importance of disseminating knowledge regarding them to farmers through experts.
F63|Trade and investment in Cambodia|Openness to international trade and foreign direct investment (FDI) has contributed to the recent growth of the Cambodian economy. This paper documents patterns of international trade and FDI in Cambodia. First, both export and import increased substantially in recent periods. The major export partners are mainly developed countries including the U.S., the U.K., Germany, and Japan. The major import partners are mainly East Asian countries including China, Thailand, Vietnam, and Hong Kong. Second, fabrics and manmade staple fibers are the major import commodities whereas apparels, clothing, and footwear are the major export commodities. Third, inward FDI stock increased substantially from 1.7 billion US dollars in 2001 to 7.8 billion US dollars in 2012, suggesting a substantial growth of economic activity by foreign-owned firms.
F63|Peripherality, Inequality, and Economic Development in Latin American Countries|In this study, we analyse new peripheral features of Latin American Countries (LACs), conceptualized by neo-structuralism and the triangular relation between peripherality, inequality, and economic development. We analyse the following as peripheral features: primary commodity dependence, low level of technological progress, poor formation of global value chains (GVCs). On the basis of this triangular relation, we empirically analyse how and to what extent peripherality and inequality affect the income levels in LACs during 1995 to 2014. We find that LACs exhibit a virtuous cycle between a decrease in inequality and an increase in income levels. We also find that although primary commodity dependence, technological progress, and GVC integration directly increase the income levels, they also indirectly decrease the income levels through increasing inequality. Additionally, the increasing effects on inequality is mitigated if a country is integrated into GVCs with higher levels of technological progress.
F63|Trade-Induced Structural Change and the Skill Premium|This paper proposes and quantifies a novel mechanism through which trade integration can affect the skill premium. When complementarities across sectors are strong, trade integration in low-skilled intensive sectors reduces the employment share of these sectors and rises the skill premium. We document that, in a broad set of countries over the past three decades, the share of domestically produced goods in absorption has declined dramatically in low-skill labor intensive sectors and remained roughly constant in high-skill labor intensive sectors. Using a quantitative multi-country, multi-sector model of trade and labor heterogeneity, we show that these changes in trade patterns account for roughly half of the decline in the share of goods-producing sectors in gross output. In our baseline calibration, this generates a 4 percent increase in the skill premium in the average country of our sample, as well as in the US. The increase in the skill premium is much larger in developing countries where the highly traded sectors are particularly unskilled-intensive.
F63|FDI and Capital Formation in Developing Economies: New Evidence from Industry-level Data|We contribute to the long debated issue of whether inward foreign direct investment (FDI) can stimulate investment in developing countries by introducing a novel measure of FDI, based on industry-level data. Our results suggest a positive impact of FDI on total investment – measured as the ratio of gross fixed capital formation to GDP – but only if multinational enterprises engage in manufacturing production; the same does not hold for other business activities. Moreover, we find evidence of a more beneficial impact of foreign investors from advanced economies compared to developing ones. Our results are robust to alternative measures of FDI, as well as to instrumental variable approaches accounting for the potential endogeneity of FDI.
F63|The Financing of Local Government in China: Stimulus Loan Wanes and Shadow Banking Waxes|China’s four-trillion-yuan stimulus package fueled by bank loans in 2009 has led to the rapid growth of shadow banking activities after 2012. Local governments financed the stimulus through bank loans in 2009, and resorted to non-bank debt financing after 2012 given the rollover pressure from bank debt coming due, a manifestation of the stimulus-loan-hangover effect. Cross-sectionally, provinces with greater bank loan growth in 2009 experienced more Municipal Corporate Bonds issuance during 2012-2015, together with more shadow banking activities including Entrusted loans and Wealth Management Products. We highlight the market forces behind the regulation changes on local government debt post 2012.
F63|Real exchange rate policies for economic development|This paper analyzes the role of real exchange rate (RER) policies in promoting economic development. Markets provide a suboptimal amount of investment in sectors characterized by learning spillovers. We show that a stable and competitive RER policy may correct for this externality and other related market failures. The resulting development of these sectors leads to overall faster economic growth. A system of effectively multiple exchange rates is required when spillovers across different tradable sectors differ. The impact of RER policies is increased when they are complemented by traditional industrial policies that increase the elasticity of the aggregate supply to the RER. Among the instruments required to implement a stable and competitive RER are interventions in the foreign exchange market and regulation of capital flows. We also discuss the trade-offs associated with alternative stable and competitive RER policies and the relationship between the use of exchange rate policies for macro-stability and for development.
F63|Heterogeneous economic integration agreements' effects, gravity, and welfare|It is now widely accepted that economic integration agreements (EIAs) and other trade-policy liberalizations contribute to nations' economic growth and development and help alleviate poverty. However, the economic effects of such policies vary across countries' economic structures; importing developing countries face higher market-entry costs (partly due to poorer international networks). In this paper, we address how the trade and welfare effects of EIAs are sensitive to the levels of country-pairs' variable and fixed trade costs. It is now well established that the (variable-cost) 'trade elasticity' typically estimated using gravity equations of international trade flows is central to computing general equilibrium impacts on trade and economic welfare of trade-policy liberalizations using the new quantitative trade models. However, this trade elasticity is generally assumed to be an exogenous parameter, such as the elasticity of substitution in consumption or an index of heterogeneous productivities; moreover, most studies have ignored the role of the fixed-export-cost trade elasticity for trade-policy liberalizations (when not ignored, assumed parametric). This paper offers three potential contributions. First, we extend a standard Melitz general equilibrium trade model with firm heterogeneity to show how variable-cost and fixed -cost trade elasticities associated with trade liberalizations are heterogeneous and endogenous to levels of country-pairs' bilateral policy and non-policy, variable and fixed trade costs even allowing for CES preferences and an untruncated Pareto distribution of productivities. Using associated comparative statics, we provide explicit predictions of the heterogeneous (variable- and fixed-cost) bilateral extensive-margin, intensive-margin, and trade elasticities. Second, a modification of the state-of-the-art panel-data methodology to estimate consistent average treatment effects of economic integration agreements (that liberalize variable and fixed trade-policy costs) provides empirical support for the theoretical hypotheses. Consistent with a growing empirical literature, trade elasticities vary across particular settings; such variation is especially pronounced for North-South EIAs. Third, we demonstrate the relevance of these theoretical and empirical results for welfare calculations using the new quantitative trade models. We show empirically that 83-94 percent of the welfare (or probability) estimates of economic integration agreement liberalizations between 2,266 North-North, North-South, and South-South country-pairs can be explained by our heterogeneous economic integration agreement partial treatment effects.
F63|Decentralisation to promote Regional Development in Indonesia|In 1998 Indonesia embarked on an ambitious course of decentralisation. Over a period of a few years, facilitated by financial transfers from the central government, responsibility for many public services and administrative tasks were devolved to local authorities. This process is continuing. Regional development is now very much in the hands of the four sub-national tiers of government. However, the speed of the devolution means that much is being done without the required accompanying skills, technical capacities, resources and oversight. As a result, while good progress has been made nationally along a number dimensions, outcomes in health, education, infrastructure, corruption and the provision of other social services have not improved as quickly as was hoped, and the variance in results across the regions has been enormous. Rather than simply devolving more and more responsibilities to sub-national authorities, the central government needs to take a more strategic view of regional economic development. This includes monitoring the performance of sub-national governments, providing them with technical assistance where needed, encouraging them to emulate the best performers and in the short- to medium-term using grants to direct spending to priority areas. The inter-governmental transfer framework also would benefit from better oversight and a strategic vision. Moreover, the perverse incentives it embodies are driving rent-seeking and the fragmentation of local jurisdictions. In the longer term the objective should be tax autonomy and transfers based exclusively on block grants although this should be conditional on adequate oversight and administrative capacities within the sub-national authorities. Conflicting and overlapping laws and regulations across levels of government are also inhibiting regional development by obstructing private business development and investment. This Working Paper relates to the 2016 OECD Economic Survey of Indonesia (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-indonesia.htm).
F63|Getting the most out of trade in Estonia|Estonia is highly integrated into the global trade system: it exports approximately 80% of GDP and around half of domestic employment is sustained by foreign demand. Given that international trade and foreign direct investment are considered as major channels of technology diffusion and productivity growth, this bodes well for reviving income convergence. To capitalize on the country’s high trade intensity, policymakers need to remove remaining trade barriers and improve policies fostering knowledge diffusion as well as talent retention and attraction. At the same time, to ensure that benefits of more trade are shared across the population, the social safety net should be bolstered, and participation in upskilling programmes and their labour-market relevance increased. This Working Paper relates to the 2017 OECD Economic Survey of New Zealand (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-estonia.htm).
F63|Mapping the participation of ASEAN small- and medium- sized enterprises in global value chains|Participation in global value chains (GVCs) can be a pathway for economic development. It is associated with growing productivity, exporting more sophisticated products and a less concentrated export basket (Kowalski et al., 2015). However, it is often argued that these benefits accrue mainly to larger firms and/or multinationals, leaving small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs), which tend to employ the largest share of workers, struggling to benefit from the opportunities offered by the evolving GVC landscape. This paper identifies how SMEs in ASEAN economies participate in GVCs by combining firm level data with the Trade in Value Added (TiVA) database. SMEs in the region might face more constraints than large firms in sourcing competitive inputs, limiting their ability to benefit from GVCs, as indicated by the lower share of foreign value added in their exports. That said, SMEs also tend to export intermediate goods to GVCs either directly, or, importantly, indirectly, through sales to larger domestic or multinational firms which then export. Policies seeking to integrate SMEs into GVCs could aim to address importing constraints through continued unilateral or regional liberalisation or sustained support for trade facilitation and connectivity. At the same time programmes aimed at promoting domestic and international production linkages should allow SMEs to better identify new opportunities and exploit their comparative advantage in the production of intermediate goods and services and integrate, directly or indirectly, into regional and global value chains.
F63|GVC Participation and Economic Transformation: Lessons from three sectors|Integration into Global value chains (GVCs) provides opportunities for economic growth and development. However, the nature and extent of these opportunities differ across countries and sectors, and participation in GVCs can support processes of economic transformation in a variety of ways depending on the type of GVC. This paper explores some of the linkages between GVC participation and economic transformation at the sectoral level, with a view to assisting countries in assessing the various policy options for maximising their comparative advantages and their benefits from GVC participation. Three aspects of the relationship between GVC participation – defined as the use of foreign intermediates and integration into international production networks – and economic transformation are explored: i) sectoral differences in upgrading dynamics; ii) the role of services; and iii) resilience to external shocks. A range of qualitative and empirical approaches are used to explore and test the robustness of the relationship for three sectors presenting different characteristics in terms of their trade dynamics and links with economic transformation: mining and quarrying; motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers; and transport and storage services.
F63| Crecimiento y desindustrialización prematura en Perú. Un análisis kaldoriano| El objetivo de este estudio es mostrar si la industria manufacturera peruana mantiene su liderazgo en el proceso de crecimiento económico y en el aumento de la productividad del trabajo, después de veinticinco años de reformas y política neoliberales. El enfoque del trabajo es Kaldoriano-Keynesiano, según el cual el crecimiento económico está determinado fundamentalmente por factores de demanda. Se evalúan estadística y econométricamente las leyes de Kaldor, según las cuales el crecimiento de la manufactura impulsa el crecimiento del PBI, el crecimiento de la productividad laboral en la propia manufactura y en la economía en su conjunto. El período de análisis cubre 65 años de 1950 a 2015, que incorpora tanto el periodo de industrialización dirigida por el Estado como los veinticinco años de neoliberalismo también dirigido por el Estado. JEL Classification-JEL: E12, F63, L69, O11, O14, O15, O47, O54
F63|Methodological Approach to the Study of International Economic Integration Influence on Development of the EAEU Members|Research background: In modern conditions the international integration processes act as pledge of a sustainable development of the states, activization of investment cooperation, implementation of joint perspective projects. The emergence of new international economic integration organizations predetermines the need to rethink the patterns of development models of international economic integration processes, especially in the context of their impact on the economies of the participating countries. The analysis methods for assessing the effects of the international economic integration (Bergeijk, Brakman (2010), Blomstrom, Kokko (1997), Kepaptsoglou, Karlaftis, Tsamboulas (2010), Michalopoulos, Tarr (1997), Plummer, Cheong, Hamanaka (2010), Zwinkels, Beugelsdijk (2010), Vinokurov (2010) shows that none of them alone doesn’t allow a comprehensive assessment of the regional integration effects. Therefore, in the presence of statistical and other relevant information necessary to use the methods of quantitative analysis in the complex, taking into account their strengths and weaknesses, opportunities and constraints. Purpose of the article: The purpose of the study is to develop the theoretical foundations and development of methodology for assessing the impact of international economic integration in the socio-economic development of the participating countries (for example, the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU)). Methodology/methods: The authors created methodological approach to the study of influence of international economic integration on development of the EAEU members based on reaching of target indexes of international movement of goods, services and factors of production. Findings & Value added: Depending on the value of the integral indicator, the authors list four levels of the economic potential of the countries participating in the EAEU. The presented methodological approach allows to early diagnose problem areas and to choose from a variety of management solutions for its improvement.
F63|Global Infrastructure Projects as the Factor of National Economies’s Development (the case of the Turkish Stream Gas Pipeline)|The current stage of the economy’s development differs from the past ones in that the role of global infrastructure projects acquires ever more importance and that forming and designing of such programs becomes now a much more sophisticated process, all of this has led to a situation where we have to revise our system of economic methods of the evaluation benefits of a global infrastructure project for all involved countries. The existing methods and ways of evaluation influence global infrastructure projects on socio-economic development of the participating countries are to be complemented by new approaches reflecting the market changes and the advent of new financial instruments and stratagems. The aim of the paper is to evaluate influence the global infrastructure project on socio-economic development of the participating countries in the globalized world economy with respect to its main economic and social consequences and synergy effects (the case of the Turkish Stream gas pipeline). The aim of the paper is to evaluate influence the global infrastructure project on socio-economic development of the participating countries in the globalized world economy with respect to its main economic and social consequences and synergy effects (the case of the Turkish Stream gas pipeline). The authors crated methodological approach to the study of infrastructure projects influence on socio-economic development of the members based on the identification, evaluation and prediction of the influence of factors external and internal environment on the changing economic potential of the infrastructure projects participants. Adequate investment in the development of infrastructure is an important driver of long-term economic growth. Traditionally, infrastructure has been funded mostly through public investment. However, in view of scarcity of budgetary resources and lack of capacity within the government to implement these ambitious programs, the strategy of the government relies significantly on promoting investment through a combination of public investment and private participation (include foreign investors). The presented methodological approach allows to define and early diagnose the global infrastructure projects which facilitate a multiplication effect within the national economy.
F63|Global Infrastructure Projects as the Factor of National Economies’s Development (the case of the Turkish Stream Gas Pipeline)|The current stage of the economy’s development differs from the past ones in that the role of global infrastructure projects acquires ever more importance and that forming and designing of such programs becomes now a much more sophisticated process, all of this has led to a situation where we have to revise our system of economic methods of the evaluation benefits of a global infrastructure project for all involved countries. The existing methods and ways of evaluation influence global infrastructure projects on socio-economic development of the participating countries are to be complemented by new approaches reflecting the market changes and the advent of new financial instruments and stratagems. The aim of the paper is to evaluate influence the global infrastructure project on socio-economic development of the participating countries in the globalized world economy with respect to its main economic and social consequences and synergy effects (the case of the Turkish Stream gas pipeline). The aim of the paper is to evaluate influence the global infrastructure project on socio-economic development of the participating countries in the globalized world economy with respect to its main economic and social consequences and synergy effects (the case of the Turkish Stream gas pipeline). The authors crated methodological approach to the study of infrastructure projects influence on socio-economic development of the members based on the identification, evaluation and prediction of the influence of factors external and internal environment on the changing economic potential of the infrastructure projects participants. Adequate investment in the development of infrastructure is an important driver of long-term economic growth. Traditionally, infrastructure has been funded mostly through public investment. However, in view of scarcity of budgetary resources and lack of capacity within the government to implement these ambitious programs, the strategy of the government relies significantly on promoting investment through a combination of public investment and private participation (include foreign investors). The presented methodological approach allows to define and early diagnose the global infrastructure projects which facilitate a multiplication effect within the national economy.
F63|The Risk Involved in Implementation of Innovations in the Real Estate Market|Research background: In this paper a short overview of the types of innovations and their innovative forms of investing in the real estate market, such as reverse mortgage, flipping, building for rent, system condo and crowdfunding was presented. Purpose of the article: The aim of the paper is to present risk factors in innovative activities in the real estate market and evaluation of their activity in this market. The study proposed the hypothesis that a specific level of development in the real estate market corresponds to a certain level of investment risk reflected by the rate of return. Methodology/methods: The questionnaire survey in the local real estate market participants (investors, employees in enterprises that provide services for the real estate market, external appraisers, real estate brokers and counsellors) was conducted for the purposes of evaluation of risk factors in the investment innovative activities. Findings: Analysis of the results of questionnaire survey supported the following thesis: (1) as an effect of a strong inflow of capital and disturbed balance between demand and supply, return rates represent the reaction to the previous market behaviours, (2)decline in the rates of return points to the increase in the investment risk in the real estate market. It was found that the particularly high contribution to the risk level is from market risk, which is little transparent in Poland and is characterized by high variability of the conditions of operation.
F63|USA trade policy agenda perspectives in international trade|International trade means the exchange of goods or services along international borders. This type of trade allows for a greater competition and more competitive pricing in the market. Probably the most important single insight in all of international economics is that there are gains from trade - that is, when countries sell goods and services to each other, this exchange is almost always to their mutual benefit. Importing and exporting of goods is big business in today's global economy thus international trade is supposed to be beneficial for a particular economy even for the USA. The question is arising if Americans shouldn’t buy American goods whenever possible, to help create jobs in the United States. Paper deals with issues such as the U.S. international trade characteristics in terms of territorial and commodity structure, the U.S. export trade promotion strategy, the impact of trade on the US economy and international trade development as well as President’s Obama strategy regarding the U.S. international trade strategy. This study is analyzing the US trade policy agenda and discussing the impact of foreign trade on the U.S. economy and its current status in international economic relations. To accomplish this goal, methods such as analysis, comparison, synthesis and logical deduction are to be used; facts from scientific and professional publications, periodical and non-periodical press. International trade of the United States is one of the world's most significant economic markets. The country is among the top three global importers and exporters. USA has trade relations with many other countries. Through efficiency, competition, and relationships the international trade can increase economic growth and allow for all countries to benefit from it.
F63|The Most Valuable Global Brands and Condition of Economies: a Spatial Approach|Research background: Brands are considered to be the most valuable asset of a company. Some of them achieve spectacular global results. The significance of global brands is proved by the fact that their value is often greater than the sum of all company’s net assets. Purpose of the article: The aim of this article is to highlight that brand value does not only create company’s value but also leverages economies. We claim that even though global brands are sold worldwide they more strongly contribute to the development of economies in the countries where these brands’ owners are located. Methodology/methods: Based on 500 Brandirectory, the most Valuable Global Brands ranking powered by Brand Finance, we have discovered a spatial-economic autocorrelation to illustrate the potential interdependency between GDP and brand value which constitutes a foundation for further construction of a spatial regression model. Because the ranking data was only available for the year 2014, the analyses were performed for 33 selected countries. Findings: Our findings confirm the hypothesis that assumptive spatial dependencies matter for the investigated relationship between brand value and GDP. The evidence is based on the spatial error and the spatial lag model, although the former has a slightly better performance than the latter alternative.
F63|The Role of SMEs in International Trade: Selected Aspects|Research background: International trade is an important stimulant for economic development that simultaneously ensures free access to raw materials, goods, services and technologies. It essentially involves trade in goods, yet what is also significant is the invisible trading sphere (tourism, transport, financing sources). Being a vital factor in macro-economic policies pursued by contemporary national economies, SMEs build the single market, which integrates the European economy, through trade development that directly fosters economic growth. Purpose of the article: The article strives to answer the question whether EU-based SMEs enjoy benefits and greater stability as well as state support when operating in foreign markets. The article presents the contribution of SMEs to international trade conducted by selected EU countries and Poland. The results of the author’s own research relate to the share of SMEs in the sectoral and geographical structure. Methodology/methods: The research findings are based on source data from annual reports and publications that have been produced and made available by financial market institutions and on the author’s own research concerning Polish entrepreneurs. The volume and structure of SME imports and exports in the various markets are outlined by means of analyses, figures and comparisons. Findings: The author’s own research shows that Polish entrepreneurs operating in international markets are primarily driven by: (1) profitability of transactions, (2) prospects for establishing long-term cooperation, and (3) high demand for products originating in their country in foreign markets. The ongoing standardisation and unification with respect to internationalisation should be supported by the state along with forms of financial security and contract insurance. What SMEs expect most is support as regards co-financing investments that are a necessary and costly element of the international activity development process.
F63|Halal Tourism Industry in Indonesia: Potential and Prospects|This study confirms that halal tourism is a tourism industry which has contributed to economic growth in Indonesia, although the world economy slows down. In Indonesia, halal tourism has long been grown in the form of a pilgrimage undertaken by people with religious motivation. Along with the development of the global Islamic economy, then this type of tourism is undergoing a metamorphosis that requires a change in modern ranging from attractions, hotels, up to marketing. The paper combines descriptive of halal tourism industry and practices of Islamic law in Indonesia. This approach found that halal tourism industry can not be separated from the religious practices of the majority of Muslims in Indonesia, but also economically contribute to the local community, and tourist sites that display the beauty and hospitality for tourists Muslims and non-Muslims. This study concludes that halal tourism has become part of the national tourism industry to position Indonesia as a center for halal tourism in the world in the future.
F63|Industri Wisata Halal di Indonesia: Potensi dan Prospek<BR>[Halal tourism industry in Indonesia: Potential and prospects]|This study confirms that halal tourism is a tourism industry which has contributed to economic growth in Indonesia, although the world economy slows down. In Indonesia, halal tourism has long been grown in the form of a pilgrimage undertaken by people with religious motivation. Along with the development of the global Islamic economy, then this type of tourism is undergoing a metamorphosis that requires a change in modern ranging from attractions, hotels, up to marketing. With the phenomenological approach, this study concludes that halal tourism has become part of the national tourism industry to position Indonesia as a center for halal tourism in the world in the future.
F63|Causes And Effects Of Corruption: What Has Past Decade'S Empirical Research Taught Us? A Survey|Corruption has fierce impacts on economic and societal development and is subject to a vast range of institutional, jurisdictional, societal, and economic conditions. It is this paper's aim to provide a reassessment and a comprehensive stateâ€ ofâ€ theâ€ art survey of existing literature on corruption and its causes and effects. A particularly strong focus is put on presenting and discussing insights resulting from empirical research and contrasting recent with older findings.
F63|The Effect of Fertility on Mothers' Labor Supply over the Last Two Centuries|This paper documents the evolving impact of childbearing on the work activity of mothers between 1787 and 2014. It is based on a compiled data set of 429 censuses and surveys, representing 101 countries and 46.9 million mothers, using the International and U.S. IPUMS, the North Atlantic Population Project, and the Demographic and Health Surveys. Using twin births (Rosenzweig and Wolpin 1980) and same gendered children (Angrist and Evans 1998) as instrumental variables, we show three main findings: (1) the effect of fertility on labor supply is small and often indistinguishable from zero at low levels of income and large and negative at higher levels of income; (2) these effects are remarkably consistent both across time looking at the historical time series of currently developed countries and at a contemporary cross section of developing countries; and (3) the results are robust to other instrument variation, different demographic and educational groups, rescaling to account for changes in the base level of labor force participation, and a variety of specification and data decisions. We show that the negative gradient in female labor supply is consistent with a standard labor-leisure model augmented to include a taste for children. In particular, our results appear to be driven by a declining substitution effect to increasing wages that arises from changes in the sectoral and occupational structure of female jobs into formal non-agricultural wage employment as countries develop.
F63|Immigration barriers and net brain drain|Education and employment histories of more than 650 thousand scientists contained in ORCID data can shed light on the patterns of brain drain and brain gain in over 200 countries (and territories) over the last 40 years. The incidence of brain drain and brain gain is positively correlated across space and time. More restrictive immigration policy towards skilled workers and students is associated with lower levels of skilled emigration (brain drain), consistent with competition of domestic and foreign scientists for a limited number of domestic academic posts. However, after controlling for time and country heterogeneity, increased barriers to immigration are associated with a relatively larger effect on the inflow of skilled immigrants (brain gain), so more restrictive policy is associated with net brain drain.
F63|Indonesia towards 2030 and beyond: A Long-Run International Trade Foresight|One of the most important variables in the emerging economies like Indonesia is the stability of the exchange rate. Unstable exchange rates make it almost impossible for all business ventures to plan the business. The higher the depreciation of the Rupiah the higher the inflation rate and this will decrease people's purchasing power. In the balance of payments, the stability of the exchange rate and capital account are strongly influenced by the current account balance. A study found that in Indonesia, in the long run (Johansen Procedure) Indonesia current account balance affects the real exchange rate while in the short run (VECM) it affects the nominal exchange rate. The study also found that in the current account balance the one that affecting the exchange rate is the trade balance. Indonesia's trade balance relies on a surplus of trade in goods, especially agricultural products, petroleum and gas. The price of products in the primary sector is very vulnerable because of the volatility of primary products due to that of world’s oil and gas price. Indonesia's current account balance is highly dependent on manufacturing product trade. Another study found that in real-world, manufacturing trade influences more the capital flows than vice versa. Therefore, in order to maintain a positive long-term economic growth and stable exchange rate, Indonesia must increase its trade competitiveness, especially in the manufacturing sector. This paper will explore the challenges and opportunities of international trade in Indonesia towards 2030 and afterwards.
F63|Missing the Peace Train in 2006: Economic and political dynamics of India Pakistan hostility?|The paper discusses the dynamics of peace initiatives made by Pakistan in 2006 and their importance in changing the regional dynamics in favour of increased economic cooperation in the light of the study undertaken by Murshed & Mamoon (2007) which has analysed the multiple determinants of conflict between India and Pakistan. The paper highlights the importance of peace in the region especially for Pakistan where the development potential of the country have been stifled greatly due to a long history of political and economic volatility while linking Pakistan’s progress with that of its neighbours through conflict mitigation process. The paper also presents the possibility of such dyadic economic and conflict trade off in 1990s where India may have utilised hostilities to curtail Pakistani economic potential to pressurise Pakistan to forego its support of insurgency in Indian held Kashmir. Pakistani peace initiatives in 2006 made the country as a leading factor in South Asia with a valid possibility of determining the pace and potential to realise long sought process of regional progress through greater integration of interests. However, the tangible response from Indian side was not forthcoming leading to loss of opportunities and thus creating a good explanation of Hawkish Indian behaviour 10 years down the time line in 2017.
F63|Trends and Features of Research on Foreign Aid: A Literature Review|This paper reviews the economics literature on foreign aid. Aid supporters tend to emphasize results, while its detractors tend to highlight the incentives it provides (although they may still acknowledge some of aid’s positive results, particularly on public health). Like the modes to deliver it, research on foreign aid has evolved over the years. From the traditional aid-growth regressions research has refocused towards micro issues, including institutional inefficiencies or sector-specific bottlenecks. This tendency is positive, in so far as it can lead to useful policy advice that improves the way aid is given. Great gaps in knowledge remain, though. Notably, the aid market is poorly understood in aspects such as donors’ interaction with the recipient government or donors’ coordination. In terms of political economy, recipient countries’ decision making with regards to aid fungibility or the incentives provided by new types of aid (notably China’s) have been largely unexplored. Moreover, the types of public goods that improve households’ living standards are little understood. The scarcity of research on these questions is greatly due to lack of data – or even data opacity; if aid is to be better understood and improved, far greater efforts must be made in terms of collecting and sharing data.
F63|Government Regulation and Policy trumps Courts in determining Economic Growth|The paper evaluates the relative role of institutions and policy structure for a larger sample of developed and developing countries in determining economic growth. The paper finds that regulation and government effectiveness in formulating fiscal and monetary policy is closely related with economic growth more than the efficacy of rule of law. Unlike Rodrik et al (2004), social institutions that invest in human capabilities also matter equally if not more than independent judiciary. Globalization also works to the benefit of domestic polity and economy in income generation.
F63|Governance over Economics: Making Globalisation Good for the Poor|The paper employs different definitions of inequality/ equality and investigates how globalisation is associated with these welfare measures. The nations’ proximity to post modernism development culture through international cooperation may enable countries to strengthen their social, economic, legal and political institutions. We find that adopting well developed institutional governance practices as matter of greater integration with modern 21st century governance culture creates thriving middle classes in developing countries enabling a downward pressure on inequality of incomes and wages. In contrast, integration of goods and services with world markets puts upward pressure on the wages of skilled in contrast with the unskilled causing industrial wage inequalities in both developed and developing countries. The paper recommends in line with the recent literature on pre mature de industrialisation phenomenon that countries may protect their local industries to provide jobs to locals and thus enable the gains of trade to be more equally distributed among the populations. This can be done by choosing the second best option towards global integration and that is to promote regionalism within geographical clusters.
F63|Are Democratic Regimes Antithetical to Globalization?|In this study we have made an attempt to investigate into the relationship between political regime type (that ranges from authoritarian to democratic) and the extent of globalization, which of late has been considered as a path to development. We have made use of the Democracy index (and its constituent indicators) provided by the Economist Intelligence Unit and the globalization index (and its constituent indicators) of the KOF. Applying canonical correlation analysis on the data we have made an attempt to look into the response of globalization to the quantitative measures of democratic (versus authoritarian) practices of the governments in 116 countries distributed over Asia, Africa, Australia/Oceania, Europe and the Americas. We have also tested the Lee thesis in the context of globalization as a path to development. Our findings indicate that the empirical support to Lee’s thesis if extended to globalization as a path to development is superficial and does not withstand critical analysis. Contrary to Lee’s thesis, democracy promotes globalization. In African countries political discordance (at the national as well as international level) is not much favourable while in the Asian countries, political will, irrespective of regime type, is more or less in concordance with globalization. Therefore, rather illusively, it so appears that democracies thwart development as well as globalization as a means to development by implication, while the reality is very different.
F63|An Assessment of the Economic Impact of Globalization In Ethiopia: A Co-Integration Analysis|Nowadays the issue of globalization has received huge attention from researchers in different areas for the fact that we always hear about it but there exists little evidences of convergences. While some researchers argue pro globalization others pointed out the costs of globalization being outweighs its benefits and it fails to meet its potentials of benefiting both developing and developed world. This study has attempted to investigate the economic impact of globalization on Ethiopia using the annual data covering from 1980 to 2015 and by employing a co-integration analysis. The empirical result revealed that economic growth of Ethiopia is being affected by globalization both in the short-run and long-run. Thus economic growth and globalization have a long-run relationship which is found to be both positive and significant. Therefore, Ethiopia can be benefited more provided that if the economy of country is integrated and opened to competitions from the rest of the world.
F63|A New Kind of Two-Stage Least Squares Based on Shapley Value Regression|The Two-Stage Least squares method for obtaining the estimated structural coefficients of a simultaneous linear equations model is a celebrated method that uses OLS at the first stage for estimating the reduced form coefficients and obtaining the expected values in the arrays of current exogenous variables. At the second stage it uses OLS, equation by equation, in which the explanatory expected current endogenous variables are used as instruments representing their observed counterpart. It has been pointed out that since the explanatory expected current endogenous variables are linear functions of the predetermined variables in the model, inclusion of such expected current endogenous variables together with a subset of predetermined variables as regressors make the estimation procedure susceptible to the deleterious effects of collinearity, which may render some of the estimated structural coefficients with inflated variance as well as wrong sign. As a remedy to this problem, the use of Shapley value regression at the second stage has been proposed. For illustration a model has been constructed in which the measures of the different aspects of globalization are the endogenous variables while the measures of the different aspects of democracy are the predetermined variables. It has been found that the conventional (OLS-based) Two-Stage Least Squares (2-SLS) gives some of the estimated structural coefficients with an unexpected sign. In contrast, all structural coefficients estimated with the proposed 2-SLS (in which Shapley value regression has been used at the second stage) have an expected sign. These empirical findings suggest that the measures of globalization are conformal among themselves as well as they are positively affected by democratic regimes.
F63|An Analysis on BCG Growth Sharing Matrix|In the 21st century, sustainable improvement of business faces various challenges for the global economic competition. But, these challenges can be overcome by the efficient business strategies. The Boston Consulting Group (BCG) helps the business organizations to develop their efficiency for the successful operation of their business activities. To develop the efficiency of marketing decision making, the BCG Matrix plays an effective tool for strategic planning of product performance in industry and company level. It analyses to identify which strategic business units to invest in, which to sell off, and which to shut down. It helps a company to distribute their available resources through the efficient business management. It is one of the most popular and helpful consulting firms. The paper tries to provide a guideline to the business organizations to choose the best business policies by the use of BCG matrix.
F63|Industrial Policy of BRICS Countries as an Instrument of State Capitalism|The article deals with industrial policy in the BRICS countries, which is an important instrument of their development. First, the importance of industrial policy is stated. There are numerous approaches to it: the extreme ones are the neoliberal approach, advocating no interventions of the state in the market; the other extreme is interventions either directly by subsidies to chosen branches or indirectly by building institutional surroundings which are comfortable for industrial development. The development of theoretical approaches to industrial policy is also discussed: from structuralists to new structuralists, who try to connect a market as the main mechanism with an industrial policy. Industrial policies practised in Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa are then described. Some statistical data are given which illustrate the position of the BRICS countries in the present-day world as for their industrial performance. China seems to be the relatively most successful in this respect. Finally, some questions concerning state capitalism and industrial policy are discussed.
F63|Corruption and Economic Development|This study investigates the impact of openness to trade and corruption on economic development for a cross-section of 143 countries for the year 2000 by analysing the effects of trade openness and corruption on income, productivity, innovation, and income inequality. Institutional, cultural and geographical factors, and country size are controlled for in the analysis. An instrumental variable approach has been adopted in order to address the endogeneity of corruption and openness to trade. The age of democracy and gravity-based predictors are chosen as the instruments for corruption and openness to trade, respectively. The estimates show that corruption negatively affects income per capita, productivity, and innovation, while it does not significantly impact income inequality (Gini). The control of corruption and the openness to trade affect output per worker through the total factor productivity. Both the control of corruption and openness to trade are statistically significant determinants of the 90/10 income gap. Landlockedness affects Gini Index directly, even after controlling for trade and corruption. These findings have important policy implications. For example, on the basis of the estimates, if Botswana improved its control of corruption to reach the level of Finland, its per capita income would rise by 2.7 times.
