F66|The drivers of income inequality in rich countries|Rising income inequality has recently come centre-stage as a core societal concern for rich countries. The diagnosis of the forces driving inequality upwards and their relative importance remains hotly contested, notably with respect to the roles of globalization versus technology and of market forces versus institutions and policy choices. This survey provides a critical review and synthesis of recent research. The focus is on income inequality across the entire distribution, rather than only on what has been happening at the very top. We pay particular attention to including what has been learned from the analysis of micro-data, to ensuring that the coverage is not unduly US-centric, and to analyses of the interrelations between the different drivers of inequality. The marked differences in inequality trends across countries and time-periods reflect how global economic forces such as globalisation and technological change have interacted with differing national contexts and institutions. Major analytical challenges stand in the way of a consensus emerging on the relative importance of different drivers in how income inequality has evolved in recent decades.
F66|Immigrant Entrepreneurs and Innovation in the U.S. High-Tech Sector|We estimate differences in innovation behavior between foreign versus U.S.-born entrepreneurs in high-tech industries. Our data come from the Annual Survey of Entrepreneurs, a random sample of firms with detailed information on owner characteristics and innovation activities. We find uniformly higher rates of innovation in immigrant-owned firms for 15 of 16 different innovation measures; the only exception is for copyright/trademark. The immigrant advantage holds for older firms as well as for recent start-ups and for every level of the entrepreneur’s education. The size of the estimated immigrant-native differences in product and process innovation activities rises with detailed controls for demographic and human capital characteristics but falls for R&D and patenting. Controlling for finance, motivations, and industry reduces all coefficients, but for most measures and specifications immigrants are estimated to have a sizable advantage in innovation.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F66|Trade and deskilling: how the post-referendum sterling depreciation hurt workers|The unexpected result of the Brexit referendum, working through the rapid depreciation of sterling, had a sizable negative impact on UK workers. New CEP work by Rui Costa, Swati Dhingra and Stephen Machin shows that the big drop in the value of the pound caused a rise in import prices, which has led to a fall in both wages and training for employees in the most heavily hit sectors.
F66|Trade and Worker Deskilling|Abstract This paper presents new evidence on international trade and worker outcomes. It examines a big world event that produced an unprecedentedly large shock to the UK exchange rate. In the 24 hours in June 2016 during which the UK electorate unexpectedly voted to leave the European Union, the value of sterling plummeted. It recorded the biggest depreciation that has occurred in any of the world's four major currencies since the collapse of Bretton Woods. Exploiting this variation, the paper studies the impact of trade on wages and worker training. Wages and training fell for workers employed in sectors where the intermediate import price rose by more as a consequence of the sterling depreciation. Calibrating the estimated wage elasticity with respect to intermediate import prices to theory uncovers evidence of a production complementarity between workers and intermediate imports. This provides new direct evidence that, in the modern world of global value chains, it is changes in the cost of intermediate imports that act as a driver of the impact of globalization on worker welfare. The episode studied and the findings add to widely expressed, growing concerns about poor productivity performance relating to skills and to patterns of real wage stagnation that are plaguing contemporary labour markets.
F66|Globalization, Gender, and the Family|This paper shows that globalization has far-reaching implications for the economy's fertility rate and family structure because they influence work-life balance. Employing population register data on new births, marriages, and divorces together with employer-employee linked data for Denmark, we show that lower labor market opportunities due to Chinese import competition lead to a shift towards family, with more parental leave taking and higher fertility as well as more marriages and fewer divorces. This pro-family, pro-child shift is driven largely by women, not men. Correspondingly, the negative earnings implications of the rising import competition are concentrated on women, and gender earnings inequality increases. We show that the choice of market versus family is a major determinant of worker adjustment costs to labor market shocks. While older workers respond to the shock rather similarly whether female or not, for young workers the fertility response takes away the adjustment advantage they typically have-if the worker is a woman. We find that the female biological clock-women have difficulties to conceive beyond their early forties-is central for the gender differential, rather than the composition of jobs and workplaces, as well as other potential causes.
F66|Trade and Worker Deskilling|This paper presents new evidence on international trade and worker outcomes. It examines a big world event that produced an unprecedentedly large shock to the UK exchange rate. In the 24 hours in June 2016 during which the UK electorate unexpectedly voted to leave the European Union, the value of sterling plummeted. It recorded the biggest depreciation that has occurred in any of the world's four major currencies since the collapse of Bretton Woods. Exploiting this variation, the paper studies the impact of trade on wages and worker training. Wages and training fell for workers employed in sectors where the intermediate import price rose by more as a consequence of the sterling depreciation. Calibrating the estimated wage elasticity with respect to intermediate import prices to theory uncovers evidence of a production complementarity between workers and intermediate imports. This provides new direct evidence that, in the modern world of global value chains, it is changes in the cost of intermediate imports that act as a driver of the impact of globalization on worker welfare. The episode studied and the findings add to widely expressed, growing concerns about poor productivity performance relating to skills and to patterns of real wage stagnation that are plaguing contemporary labour markets.
F66|Technology-Induced Trade Shocks? Evidence from Broadband Expansion in France|In this paper, we document the presence of “technology-induced” trade in France between 1997 and 2007 and assess its impact on consumer welfare. We use the staggered roll-out of broadband internet to estimate its causal effect on the importing behavior of affected firms. Using an event-study design, we find that broadband expansion increases firm-level imports by around 25%. We further find that the “sub-extensive” margin (number of products and sourcing countries per firm) is the main channel of adjustment and that the effect is larger for capital goods. Finally, we develop a model where firms optimize over their import strategy and which yields a sufficient statistics formula for the quantification of the effects of broadband on consumer welfare. Interpreted within this model, our reduced-form estimates imply that broadband internet reduced the consumer price index by 1.7% and that the import-channel, i.e. the enhanced access to foreign goods that is allowed by broadband, accounts for a quarter of that effect.
F66|Working Conditions In Global Value Chains.Evidence For European Employees|This paper investigates how involvement in Global Value Chains (GVCs) affects working conditions. We use linked employer-employee data from the Structure of Earnings Survey merged with industry-level statistics on GVCs based on the World Input-Output Database. The sample consists of almost 9 million workers in 24 European countries in 2014. Given the multidimensional nature of the dependent variable, we compare the estimates resulting from a Mincerian wage model with zero-inflated negative binomial regressions that analyse other aspects of working conditions (overtime work and bonus payments). As to the impact of production fragmentation on social upgrading, wages prove to be negatively related to sectoral GVC involvement. Workers in sectors more deeply involved in GVCs have lower and less stable earnings, meaning worse working conditions; on the other hand, they are also less likely to have to work overtime, which one may see as a sign of better labour standards.
F66|The Evolution of Tradable and Non Tradable Employment: Evidence from France|The objective of this paper is to investigate the evolution of employment in the tradable and non-tradable sectors in France over 1999-2015. We find that tradable employment makes up the minority of French employment and has decreased over this period, dropping from 27.5% to 23.6% of total employment. There has been significant restructuring within the sector: tradable services jobs now make up the majority of tradable jobs and have grown sharply, while employment has declined in the rest of the tradable sector (manufacturing, agricultural and mining industries). We also identify a large wage and labor productivity gap between tradable and non-tradable sectors. Finally, we examine the distribution of tradable jobs across French local labor markets, and how their development affects non-tradable employment locally. Using the empirical approach developed by Moretti (2010), we find that for every 100 tradable jobs created in a French employment area between 2008 and 2016, 80 additional non-tradable jobs were created within the same area. JEL Classification: F16, F66, O52, R15, R23
F66|Technology-induced Trade Shocks? Evidence from Broadband Expansion in France|In this paper, we document the presence of ''technology-induced'' trade in France between 1997 and 2007 and assess its impact on consumer welfare. We use the staggered roll-out of broadband internet to estimate its causal effect on the importing behavior of affected firms. Using an event-study design, we find that broadband expansion increases firm-level imports by around 25%. We further find that the ''sub-extensive'' margin (number of products and sourcing countries per firm) is the main channel of adjustment and that the effect is larger for capital goods. Finally, we develop a model where firms optimize over their import strategy and which yields a sufficient statistics formula for the quantification of the effects of broadband on consumer welfare. Interpreted within this model, our reduced-form estimates imply that broadband internet reduced the consumer price index by 1.7% and that the import-channel, i.e. the enhanced access to foreign goods that is allowed by broadband, accounts for a quarter of that effect.
F66|Trade and jobs: a description of Swedish labor market dynamics|We perform a granular analysis of Swedish labor market dynamics, using matched employer employee and firm level trade data for Sweden over a 15-year period. The employment share in firms that are directly exposed to international trade has decreased, due to a shift in employment towards personal and public services. Analyzing the dynamics, we find that workers in firms that change export status are slightly less likely to obtain the same wage rise as their peers. However, workers that stay in the same job in trading firms are less affected by changes in export and offshoring volumes, with the exception of high-skilled workers in manufacturing firms who face a downward pressure on wages from services offshoring, but higher wages from services exports. Finally, we find that exports and offshoring of goods and services stimulate labor demand. While exports and offshoring of services increase relative demand for skilled workers, exports and offshoring of goods stimulate relative demand for middle and low skilled workers.
F66|Access to Imported Intermediates and Intra-Firm Wage Inequality|We use Chinese firm-level data from the World Bank Investment Climate Survey to examine the link between importing intermediates and intra-firm wage inequality. Our results show that intermediate input importers not only have a significant wage premium but also have a greater intra-firm wage dispersion than non-importing firms. This pattern is robust when we control for productivity and use trade costs as the instruments. We further investigate the mechanism of how importing intermediates might contribute to both inter-firm and intra-firm wage inequality. Our evidence is consistent with three important channels. First, imported intermediate inputs complement skilled labour. Second, intermediates importers are more likely to use performance pay. Third, imported inputs complement innovation and employee training.
F66|Workers in the Crowd: The Labour Market Impact of the Online Platform Economy|In this paper, we compare wages and labor market conditions of individuals engaged in online platform work and in traditional occupations by exploiting individual-level survey data on crowdworkers belonging to the largest micro-task marketplaces, focusing on evidence from the United States and Europe. To match similar individuals, survey responses of crowdworkers from the US and EU have been harmonised with the American Working Conditions Survey (AWCS) and the European Working Conditions Survey (EWCS). Our findings indicate that traditional workers retain a significant premium in their earnings with respect to online platform workers, and that those differences are not affected by the observed and unobserved ability of individuals. This holds true also taking into account similar levels of routine intensity and abstractness in their jobs, as well as the time spent working. Moreover, labour force in crowdworking arrangements appears to suffer from high levels of under-utilisation, with crowdworkers being more likely to be left wanting for more work than comparable individuals.
F66|Upstreamness, Wages and Gender: Equal Benefits for All?|This paper provides first evidence on the impact of a direct measure of firm-level upstreamness (i.e. the steps before the production of a firm meets final demand) on workers' wages. It also investigates whether results vary along the earnings distribution and by gender. Findings, based on unique matched employer-employee data relative to the Belgian manufacturing industry for the period 2002-2010, show that workers earn significantly higher wages when employed in more upstream firms. Yet, the gains from upstreamness are found to be very unequally shared among workers. Unconditional quantile estimates suggest that male top-earners are the main beneficiaries, whereas women, irrespective of their earnings, appear to be unfairly rewarded. Quantile decompositions further show that these differences in wage premia account for a substantial part of the gender wage gap, especially at the top of the earnings' distribution.
F66|Offshoring and Skill-Biased Technical Change in the Context of US Protectionism|We discuss the effects of offshoring on the labor market in a matching model with endogenous adjustment of educational skills. We carry out a comparative statics analysis and show that offshoring leads to a restructuring of the economy through skill-biased technical change (SBTC) where overall welfare is improved. In a policy exercise we show that, if offshoring were to be opposed by a protectionist agenda, labor market flexibility can bring about the same welfare gain. In addition, we offer an empirical analysis aimed at verifying the correlation be- tween offshoring and SBTC in US manufacturing industries in recent years. Our results show that different offshoring strategies affect SBTC differently. In particular, the evidence suggests that while high-skill offshoring strategies open the skill gap, low-skill offshoring strategies tend to work in the opposite direction.
F66|The China Shock and Employment in Portuguese Firms|This paper considers the effects of Chinese import competition on firm-level labor market outcomes in Portugal. We examine direct competition in the Portuguese market and indirect competition Portugal's largest export markets in Western Europe. Using rich employer-employee data matched to firm-level trade transactions, we measure the degree to which different Portuguese firms faced Chinese import competition, based on firm product mix and distribution of sales across countries. We find economically and statistically significant employment declines in firms with more exposure to Chinese competition in European export markets, but minimal effects of direct competition in Portugal. Our findings also suggest a centrally important role for Portugal's stringent labor market regulations in limiting firms' ability to adjust to competitive shocks. In our earlier sample period (1995-2000), firms have limited ability to adjust employment, hours, or wages, and the primary adjustment margin is firm exit. In the later period (2000-2007), when more flexible temporary contracts comprise a larger share of employment, we find employment reductions among more exposed firms. Those employment reductions are entirely accounted for by changes in temporary employment, with no effect on permanent employment. We expect these findings to be informative for other peripheral European countries that had specialized in labor-intensive manufacturing industries operating under inflexible labor market regimes.
F66|Export destinations and skill premium: Evidence from chinese manufacturing industries|This paper examines the relationship between average income of export destinations and skill premium using data of Chinese manufacturing industries from 1995 to 2008. To do so, we construct weighted average GDP per capita across destinations employing within-industry export share to each destination as weight, and then link it with industry-level wages and skill premium. We find that industries that export more to high-income destinations tend to pay a higher skill premium, suggesting that on average, skilled workers benefit more from high-income exports than unskilled workers. Our IV estimates confirm a causal relationship and the results are robust to various specifications. Our paper contributes to the understanding of the influence of export destinations on the uneven distributional effects of globalisation for different types of workers.
F66|Do old and new labour market risks overlap? Automation, offshorability, and non-standard employment|This article analyses whether automation and offshorability risks overlap with non-standard employment. The research uses data from Spain, as this is a country with one of the highest temporary employment rates across the world since the 1990s. In general, the analysis shows that automation risks affect slightly more to those with non-standard work arrangements. However, higher educational level is crucial to be much less exposed to automation risks, irrespective of the type of contract or the working time. The offshorability risk also has a small overlap with non-standard employment, but has the opposite relationship with the educational level. The results suggest that specific training policies attending to those with lower educational levels in non-standard employment would be advisable to protect some workers against automation risks, but not against offshorability.
F66|Integration in Global Value Chains and Employment in Europe|This chapter aims at revisiting the empirical evidence on the recent trends of countries’ integration in global value chains in Europe. It investigates two potential sources of unbalances that these processes might relate to: (i) the sectoral specialization of the patterns of international fragmentation, whether high technology manufacturing or knowledge intensive services (KIBS); (ii) the occupational categories that have benefited or been penalized by these trends. A rich empirical mapping of these trends in the European countries is provided, based on OECD ICIO and EU ISCO data. The results on the overall and sectoral-specific trends of integration in GVCs and the associated changes in the shares of managers and manual workers show a dual-speed and qualitatively different integration patterns in Europe, with Eastern European (EE) countries rapidly integrating in high tech manufacturing, and the core of western countries strengthening their mutual integration in the KIBS area. Despite the relatively “good quality” integration of EE countries, the evidence does not seem to reveal a mirroring upgrading of employment structures. While this empirical contribution does not attempt to identify causal relationships, the picture provided in the chapter shows that, overall, integration in GVC seems to reproduce and perhaps exacerbate the initial asymmetries in the sectoral and employment structure, with manual workers occupation reducing overall and knowledge intensive occupations concentrating in western Europe.
F66|The Effect of Exports on Labor Informality : Evidence from Argentina|This paper explores the causal impact of exports on the share of informal labor in the Argentinean manufacturing sector. Using an instrumental variable approach to address potential endogeneity concerns, I show that an exogenous 10 percentage points increase in export intensity induces a reduction of the informality rate of 2.2 percentage points. Then, I explore the channel through which exports affect informality. By differentiating exports according to the income group of their destinations, I find that the aggregate effect of exports is explained by the sales to high-income countries. Moreover, the effect is partially explained by an increase in the complexity of the tasks performed in the jobs. Overall, the evidence suggests that under an increase in the demand of higher quality exports, the manufacturing firms increase their productivity by reducing their share of informal workers.
F66|Job automation risk, economic structure and trade: a European perspective|Recent studies report that technological developments in machine learning and artificial intelligence present a significant risk to jobs in advanced countries. We re-estimate automation risk at the job level, finding sectoral employment structure to be key in determining automation risk at the country level. At the country level, we find a negative relationship between automation risk and labour productivity. We then analyse the role of trade as a factor leading to structural changes and consider the effect of trade on aggregate automation risk by comparing automation risk between a hypothetical autarky and the actual situation. Results indicate that trade increases automation risk in Europe, although moderately so. European countries with high labour productivity see automation risk increase due to trade, with trade between European and non-European nations driving these results. This implies that the high productivity countries do not, on the balance, offshore automation risk, but rather import it.
F66|Proprietà e controllo delle grandi imprese: un’interpretazione del resistibile declino italiano|Il capitalismo italiano si presenta nel dopoguerra con un ampio settore di grandi imprese pubbliche che garantiscono una separazione estrema fra proprietà e controllo e altrimenti con imprese, anche di grande dimensione, solo a conduzione familiare. Diversamente da altri paesi capitalistici, è assente nel settore privato del capitalismo italiano una modalità organizzativa che consenta di gestire le imprese a persone capaci ma prive della ricchezza necessaria per controllarle. Le privatizzazioni, fatte senza una adeguata riforma del governo societario delle grandi imprese private, hanno paradossalmente confermato l’importanza delle imprese pubbliche per il contesto italiano. Il capitalismo privato italiano non solo non riesce a generare un numero soddisfacente di grandi imprese , ma finisce con il gestire peggio dello Stato le imprese pubbliche che vengono privatizzate. Al contrario, le imprese trasformate in società per azioni, di cui lo Stato ha mantenuto direttamente o indirettamente il controllo, sono ora meno gravate da obiettivi politici impropri e riescono a tornare al loro iniziale obiettivo di separare proprietà e controllo, favorendo così l’affermarsi di organizzazioni di grande dimensione. Il declino italiano è dovuto a una struttura di imprese troppo piccole, a regole che non incentivano il passaggio a grandi imprese manageriali, alla convinzione che la piccola dimensione fosse il futuro della cosiddetta economia della conoscenza e alla incapacità di comprendere che le privatizzazioni avrebbero aggravato questi problemi dimensionali. In assenza di lavori qualificati offerti da grandi imprese, molti giovani italiani sono stati costretti a emigrare. Il resistibile declino italiano può solo essere fermato con politiche che tengano conto delle lezioni che ci ha fornito la nostra storia più recente.
F66|Public Employment Decline in Developing Countries in the 21st Century: The Role of Globalization|"The impact of globalization on developing countries has been debated: While the ""compensation hypothesis"" suggests that globalization increases the need for public employees, the ""efficiency hypothesis"" states that the size of government should be smaller while competing with the world. We are the first to re-visit the debate for 2000-2016 using panel data for 92 developing countries and new innovative bureaucracy and globalization indicators to find robust evidence for the ""efficiency hypothesis”."
F66|Walls and Fences: A Journey Through History and Economics|Throughout history, border walls and fences have been built for defense, to claim land, to signal power, and to control migration. The costs of fortifications are large while the benefits are questionable. The recent trend of building walls and fences signals a paradox: In spite of the anti-immigration rhetoric of policymakers, there is little evidence that walls are effective in reducing terrorism, migration, and smuggling. Economic research suggests large benefits to open border policies in the face of increasing global migration pressures. Less restrictive migration policies should be accompanied by institutional changes aimed at increasing growth, improving security and reducing income inequality in poorer countries.
F66|Should unemployment insurance be centralized in a state union?|Our study compares the efficiency of centralized and decentralized unemployment insurance programs in a state union. We use a model of two countries with collective bargaining for regional gross wages. The labor force and the firms are partially mobile across the member states of the state union, which gives rise to distortive migration incentives. If unemployment insurance is organized centrally, trade unions negotiate inefficiently high wages due to a vertical fiscal externality. The central government generally cannot provide the second-best unemployment insurance as long as migration is costly. In contrast, decentralized unemployment insurance in the member states is second-best irrespective of the degree of mobility and regional asymmetries. Furthermore, efficiency depends on the federal context. If the wage bargaining process on the labor markets is decentralized, then decisions about unemployment insurance made at the state level are superior to centralized public insurance. For the efficiency of a centralized unemployment insurance, it matters whether decisions in related institutions like cooperative wage bargaining are also centralized.
F66|Birthplace diversity and team performance|We present a simple model to illustrate how birthplace diversity may affect team performance. The model assumes that birthplace diversity increases the stock of available knowledge due to skill complementarities and decreases effciency due to communication barriers. The consequence of these two opposing effects is a humpshaped relationship between birthplace diversity and team performance. To verify this prediction, we exploit self-collected data on the first division of German male soccer. Our data set covers 7,028 matches and includes information about 3,266 players coming from 98 countries. We propose two different instrumental variable approaches to identify the effect of birthplace diversity on team performance. Our findings suggest that an intermediate level of birthplace diversity maximizes team performance.
F66|Regional Divergence and Import Competition|For the last decades, regions in the United States have been diverging. More skill-intensive regions have experienced a higher wage and skill premium growth and have become even more skill-intensive. In this paper, I show that this may be driven in part by trade with China. One of the main findings of this paper is that the consequences on local labor markets of higher income competition are highly heterogeneous. In particular, I focus on how consequences of imports from Chinese manufacturers are different depending on the share of college-educated workforce in the regions. Conditional to be exposed to the same level of import competition, effects in terms of wages and growth of college-educated population growth are especially negative for less educated regions. However, this finding does not mean just an attenuation of negative effects for some educated areas. Instead, I find that import competition has net positive effects among more college-educated regions. Indeed, among more skill-intensive regions, a greater exposure to import competition attracts college-educated workers and increases college-wages and skill premium; whereas it has opposite effect among less skill-intensive regions.
F66|Immigrants, Labor Market Dynamics and Adjustment to Shocks in the Euro Area|We analyze the role of labor mobility in cushioning labor demand shocks in the Euro Area. We find that foreign born workers’ mobility is strongly cyclical, while this is not the case for natives. Foreigners’ higher population to employment elasticity reduces the variation of overall employment rates over the business cycle: thanks to them, the impact of a one standard deviation change in employment on employment rates decreases by 6 per cent at the country level and by 7 per cent at the regional level. Additionally, we compare Euro Area mobility to that of another currency union, the US. We find that the population to employment elasticity estimated for foreign-born persons is similar in the Euro Area and the US, while EA natives are definitely less mobile across countries than US natives are across states in response to labor demand shocks. This last result confirms that in the Euro Area there is room for improving country specific shocks absorption through higher labor mobility. It also suggests that immigration helped labor market adjustments.
F66|Elitism in Higher Education and Inequality: Why Are the Nordic Countries So Special?|Abstract Countries in which there are two channels of education may have a separating equilibrium in which individuals with high abilities learn in elite universities and individuals with low ability learn in standard ones. Elite universities have higher budgets, better scholars, better labs and a better student network, resulting in the human capital of these students having a higher productivity in the more competitive tradable sector.
F66|Should Unemployment Insurance be Centralized in a State Union?|This paper compares the decentral organization of unemployment insurance in member states of a state union with the central organization at the upper union’ level. In a model of two countries the labor force and the firm owners can migrate between the states. Labor markets exhibit unemployment due to trade union’s bargaining about the wage rate. In a decentral scenario the states organize independently unemployment insurance and decide about the rate on wages contributed to the insurance budget. Due to open borders they have to take account of migration effects. However, with perfect mobility between the states each government chooses a socially optimal contribution rate such that workers are fully insured against unemployment. In the central scenario the governments overestimate the costs of insurance when bargaining about the contribution rate and observing the common insurance budget of both countries. This leads to a less than socially optimal contribution rate.
F66|Looking for the Bright Side of the China Syndrome: Rising Export Opportunities and Life Satisfaction in China|"China's increased export capacity in recent decades has disrupted developed-country labor markets and the well-being of workers exposed to foreign competition. We here attempt to complete the assessment of the social and human consequences of globalization by exploring the other side of this ""China syndrome"". We evaluate the extent to which increased export opportunities have influenced well-being in China using panel data on approximately 25,000 adults across 122 Chinese localities in 2010, 2012 and 2014. The results show that perceived life satisfaction rises significantly as local export markets grow. This effect goes beyond higher local GDP per capita and individual incomes."
F66|Techies, Trade, and Skill-Biased Productivity|We study the impact of firm level choices of ICT, R&D, exporting and importing on the evolution of productivity and its bias towards skilled occupations. We use a novel measure of the propensity of a firm to engage in technology investment and adoption: its employment of workers with STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) skills and experience who we call “techies”. We develop a methodology for estimating firm level productivity that allows us to measure both Hicks-neutral and skill-augmenting technology differences, and apply this to administrative data on French firms in the entire private sector from 2009 to 2013. We find that techies and importing of intermediate inputs raise skill-biased productivity, while imports also raise Hicks-neutral productivity. We also find that higher firm-level skill biased productivity raises low-skill employment even as it raises the ratio of skilled to unskilled workers. This is because of the cost-reducing effect of higher productivity. The techie and trade effects are large, and can account for much of the aggregate increase in skilled employment from 2009 to 2013.
F66|Competition and the Racial Wage Gap: Testing Becker's Model of Employer Discrimination|According to Becker's (1957) theory of taste-based employer discrimination, pure economic rents are necessary for discrimination to be observed in the labor market. Increased competition and reduced rents in the market for final goods should therefore lead to reduced labor market discrimination. We look at the natural experiment represented by the Brazilian trade liberalization from the early 1990s to study the effect of increased competition in the market for final goods on racial discrimination in the labor market. Changes in tariffs and initial employment structures are used to show that, in locations where there were relatively larger increases in exposure to foreign competition between 1990 and 1995, there were also relatively larger declines in the conditional racial wage gap between 1991 and 2000. As predicted by theory, the initial wage gap and its decline were more pronounced in regions with more employment in concentrated sectors. The effect of increased competition on the racial wage gap was not driven by changes in returns to productive attributes, in the structure of employment, or in other labor market outcomes. We find robust evidence of a negative effect of increased competition in the market for final goods on discrimination in the labor market.
F66|Globalization, Gender, and the Family|This paper shows that globalization has far-reaching implications for the economy’s fertility rate and family structure because it influences work-life balance. Employing population register data on new births, marriages, and divorces together with employer-employee linked data for Denmark, we show that lower labor market opportunities due to Chinese import competition lead to a shift towards family, with more parental leave taking and higher fertility as well as more marriages and fewer divorces. This pro-family, pro-child shift is driven largely by women, not men. Correspondingly, the negative earnings implications of the rising import competition are concentrated on women, with gender earnings inequality increasing. The market versus family choice turns out to be a major determinant of worker adjustment costs to labor market shocks. While older workers respond to the shock rather similarly whether female or male, for young workers the fertility response takes away the adjustment advantage they typically have–if the worker is a woman. We find that the female biological clock–women having difficulties to conceive beyond their early forties–is of central importance, rather than the composition of jobs and workplaces, as well as other potential causes.
F66|Is Employment Globalizing?|We investigate the claim that national labor markets have become more globally interconnected in recent decades. We do so by deriving estimates over time of three different notions of interconnection: (i) the share of labor demand that is export induced (i.e., all labor demand created by foreign entities buying products exported by the home country)—we provide estimates for 40 countries; (ii) the share of workers employed in sectors producing tradable goods or services—68 countries; and (iii) the ratio of the number of jobs that are either located in a tradable sector, or that are involved in producing services that are required by these tradable sectors, to all jobs in the economy, which we call the trade-linked employment share—40 countries. Our estimates lead to the conclusion that the evidence of a large increase in the interconnections between national labor markets is far weaker than commonly asserted: levels of interconnectivity, and the direction of changes over time, vary across notions of interconnection and countries. The main reasons for this are labordisplacing productivity growth in tradable sectors of each economy and the diminishing fraction of national labor forces hired into manufacturing jobs worldwide. We also discuss the implications of our results for different policy debates that each of the three measures is associated with: international coordination of macroeconomic policies (export-induced labor demand), currency devaluations (share of workers producing tradables), and education and labor protection (trade-linked share).
F66|The Heterogeneous Effects of Global and National Business Cycles on Employment in U.S. States and Metropolitan Areas|The growth of globalization in recent decades has increased the importance of external factors as drivers of the business cycle in many countries. Globalization affects countries not just at the macro level but at the level of states and metro areas as well. This paper isolates the relative importance of global, national and region-specific shocks as drivers of the business cycle in individual U.S. states and metro areas. We document significant heterogeneity in the sensitivity of states and metro areas to global shocks, and show that direct trade linkages are not the only channel through which the global business cycle impacts regional economies.
F66|Illegal immigration, unemployment, and multiple destinations|We develop a multicountry model of illegal immigration with equilibrium unemployment. Two geographic cases are considered. One has two destinations adjacent to the source country while the other has just one destination country adjacent to it. In both cases, the equilibrium border control proves insufficient compared with the joint optimum, calling for enforcement by federal authorities. Absent such authorities, delegating border control to the country with a larger native labor force can improve each destination country’s welfare. In contrast, the equilibrium internal enforcement policy is efficient, obviating enforcement by supranational authorities.
F66|Labor Market Conditions and Geographic Mobility in the Eurozone|Abstract The Eurozone crisis has sparked renewed interest in the literature about optimum currency areas, in particular in the role of labor mobility as a mechanism of adjustment to shocks. We study the response of mobility in the Eurozone to national labor market conditions. We measure mobility by using data on stocks of foreign population by nationality. We find that mobility in the Eurozone is relatively low. It responded to national differences in unemployment during the crisis, but neither to national differences in wages nor to national differences in GDP per capita.
F66|The Impact of Immigration on Firm-Level Offshoring|This paper studies the relationship between immigration and offshoring by examining whether an influx of foreign workers reduces the need for firms to relocate jobs abroad. We exploit a Danish quasi-natural experiment in which immigrants were randomly allocated to municipalities using a refugee dispersal policy and we use the Danish employer-employee matched data set covering the universe of workers and firms over the period 1995-2011. Our findings show that an exogenous influx of immigrants into a municipality reduces firm-level offshoring at both the extensive and intensive margins. The fact that immigration and offshoring are substitutes has important policy implications, since restrictions on one may encourage the other. While the multilateral relationship is negative, a subsequent bilateral analysis shows that immigrants have connections in their country of origin that increase the likelihood that firms offshore to that particular foreign country.
F66|What is the Cost of Privatization for Workers?|The world is in the midst of a new wave of privatization, with record dollar amounts raised in both developed and developing countries. Using rich Swedish registry data covering two decades from the mid-1990s, we show that privatizations increased unemployment incidence by almost a fifth, and duration by a quarter, relative to peers who remained employed by a state-owned enterprise. This led to almost one million extra days of unemployment for the workers affected. Wages and labor force participation remain unchanged. Furthermore, we show that privatizations have been costly for workers, and therefore for society, only if they took place during recessions. These results shed new light on the welfare costs of privatization and how they can be mitigated.
F66|Hollowing Out or Filling In? Impacts of Multinational Enterprises on Domestic Plant Turnover and Job Growth in Factory Asia|Recently multinational enterprises (MNEs) originating from Asian countries such as China and Korea have rapidly expanded their global operations, but the employment effect of these MNEs in their home countries has rarely been studied. Using Korean firm–plant matched data over 2008–2013, we examine the effects of MNEs on domestic plant turnover and job growth. We find that Korean MNEs are more likely than non–MNEs to not only close down their domestic manufacturing plants but also open new plants. Along with active plant turnover, Korean MNEs exhibit greater active job reallocation across their domestic manufacturing plants within firms; however, this does not result in net job loss. This suggests that Korean MNEs participating in Factory Asia restructured their domestic manufacturing bases rather than hollowing them out.
F66|Brain-Circulation Network: The Global Mobility of the Life Scientists|Global mobility and migration of scientists is an important modern phenomenon with economic and political implications. As scientists become ever more footloose it is important to identify general patterns and regularities at a global scale. At the same time cities, and especially global cities, have become impor- tant loci of economic and scientific activity. Limiting research to international migration, would disregard the importance of local innovation systems. The analysis of the mobility and brain circulation patterns at global scale remains challenging, due to difficulties in obtaining individual level mobility data. In this work we propose a methodology to trace intercity and international mobility through bibliographic records. We reconstruct the intercity and international mobility network of 3.7 Million Life Scientists moving between 9,745 cities. We present several features of the extracted network, offer evidence that the international innovation system is marked by national borders and linguistic similarity and show that international mo- bility largely contributes to the scientific output of national research systems. Moreover we find evidence to suggest that global cities attract highly productive scientist early in their careers.
F66|How do Automation and Offshorability Influence Unemployment Duration and Subsequent Job Quality?|We analyze the effect of automation and offshorability on unemployment duration and post-unemployment outcomes such as wages and employment stability. Our rich administrative data allow us to evaluate the importance of providing unemployment training in this context. Employing a multivariate mixed proportional hazard model to deal with selectivity, we find that both the routine content in tasks as well as the probability of off-shoring negatively affects the re-employment possibilities. Labor market training is helping workers to ameliorate these negative effects and is remarkably on the spot. For workers who find re-employment, our results show that offshorability (but not automation) affects future job duration and wages positively. Our analysis reveals interesting differences by gender.
F66|Inward Greenfield FDI and Patterns of Job Polarization|The unprecedented growth in foreign direct investment in the last few decades has caused drastic changes in the labor markets of the host countries. The major part of FDI takes place in low-tech industries, where the wages and skills are low, or in high-tech, where they offer a wage premium for the highly skilled workers. This mechanism may increase the polarization of employment into high-wage and low-wage jobs, at the expense of middle-skill jobs. This paper looks at the effects of two types of FDI inflows, namely foreign investment in high-skill and low-skill activities, on job polarization. We match data on greenfield FDI aggregated by country and sector with data on employment by occupational skill to investigate the extent to which different types of greenfield FDI are responsible for skill polarization. Our results show that low-skill foreign investment shifts employment from high- to medium- and low-skill jobs, while skill-intensive FDI generally leads to skill upgrading. Only FDI in information and communication technology (ICT) is associated with job polarization, but only when accounting for the plurality of job polarization patterns across European sectors.
F66|Collateral Damage? Labour Market Effects of Competing with China - at Home and Abroad|The increased range and quality of China's exports is a major ongoing development in the international economy with potentially far-reaching effects. In this paper, we examine the impact of the China's integration in international trade in the Portuguese labour market. On top of the direct effects of increased imports from China studied in previous research, we focus on the indirect labour market effects stemming from increased export competition in third markets. Our findings, based on matched employer-employee data in the 1991-2008 period, indicate that workers' earnings and employment are significantly negatively affected by China's competition, but only through the indirect 'market-stealing' channel. In contrast to evidence for other countries, the direct effects of Chinese import competition are mostly non-significant. The results are robust to a number of checks, and the negative impacts of indirect competition are found to be stronger for women, older and less educated workers, and workers in domestic firms.
F66|Globalisation and the Gender Earnings Gap: Evidence from Sri Lanka and Cambodia 1992-2015|This paper focuses on how the forces of globalisation, specifically the Multi-Fibre Arrangement (MFA), have affected women's wages in the apparel sector in developing countries. Using household and labour force surveys from Cambodia and Sri Lanka, we find large positive wage premiums and a closing of the male-female wage gap during the MFA period, but smaller premiums and a widening wage gap after the end of the MFA. Our results suggest that apparel exports continued to benefit women in developing countries post-MFA.
F66|Capital market integration and gender inequality|This study explores the effects of globalization on gender inequality. Specifically, we describe how, in terms of capital market integration, globalization alters the gender gap in wage rates through changes in labor demand for capital‐intensive sectors. Consequently, via changes in the bargaining positions of men and women, globalization leads to opposite effects on the couple's labor supply and fertility decisions in capital‐importing and capital‐exporting countries. Moreover, by considering the properties of the industrial structures of capital‐importing and capital‐exporting countries, we show that globalization induces empirically observed declines in fertility rates throughout the world.
F66|Can RTA labor provisions prevent the deterioration of domestic labor standards? : the cases of statutory minimum wages and employment protection regulations|This study investigates whether labor clauses in regional trade agreements (RTAs) are effective to maintain or improve the domestic labor standards in the signatory countries. The effects of RTA labor clauses on two measures of labor standards, statutory minimum wages and the strictness of employment protection, are empirically analyzed using a unique dataset that classifies the population of effective RTAs into those with and without labor clauses, together with multi-year data on minimum wages and the indicator of employment-protection strictness for a wide variety of countries. The result shows that having labor-clause-free RTAs with more or larger trading partners are associated with lower statutory minimum wages although this negative association is not found for labor-clauseinclusive RTAs. The separate estimation for countries in different income groups further demonstrates that this result is chiefly driven by middle-income countries that sign RTAs with high-income partners, implying that signing RTAs with more or larger high-income trading partners would create to the government of a middleincome country, which has a comparative advantage over the high-income partners in labor-intensive sectors, a downward policy pressure on statutory minimum wages whereas labor clauses could alleviate such a negative policy effect of RTAs on minimum wages. This finding is also contrasted with the case of actual wages for which no evidence is found for the impact of RTAs with or without labor clauses to reaffirm that labor-clause-free RTAs could create downward policy pressure on statutory minimum wages but RTAs might not bring market pressure on actual wages regardless of whether or not the RTAs include labor clauses. Finally, unlike this case of statutory minimum wages, the empirical analysis finds no clear evidence for the potential impacts of RTAs either with or without labor clauses on the strictness of employment protection in the signatory countries.
F66|Globalization and Income Inequality in Latin America: A Review of Theoretical Developments and Recent Evidence|Although Latin American countries (LACs) experienced an increase in income inequality after their integration into global economy in the1980s and 1990s, they experienced a decrease in income inequality in the 2000s. This study attempts to identify the channels through which globalization has affected the increase and decrease in income inequality in LACs, based on a review of theoretical developments and empirical evidence. This study finds that the Stolper–Samuelson effects, within-industry skill-biased technological change, offshoring from developed countries, and technology or quality upgrading of high-productivity firms are the major channels for the increasing income inequality. This study also finds that the reduction in inequality in the 2000s can be mainly explained by an increase in the relative supply of skilled workers in Mexico, while it can be explained by the Stolper–Samuelson effect in South American countries such as Brazil and Chile.
F66|Employment Shocks and anti-EU Sentiment|Euroscepticism and the rise of populist parties have often been linked to economic insecurity. This paper identifies regional employment changes as causal factors for forming attitudes towards the European Union and voting for eurosceptic parties in European Parliament elections. To do so, I combine industry-specific employment data for roughly 260 European NUTS II regions with individual-level Eurobarometer survey data for the past 20 years and regional voting results. I apply panel data and instrumental variable methods; for the latter I construct a Bartik-style instrument, which predicts employment changes on the basis of regional industry specialization and Europe-wide sector specific employment growth rates. The effect of employment changes on attitudes towards the EU is particularly strong for unemployed and low-skilled workers in regions with a high share of migrants from other European member states, which supports the narrative that ‘losers of globalization’ tend to be more skeptical towards economic and political integration.
F66|Upstreamness, social upgrading and gender: Equal benefits for all?|This paper examines social upgrading related to firms’ participation in Global Value Chains (GVCs) from a developed countries’ perspective. Merging detailed matched employer-employee data relative to the Belgian manufacturing industry with unique information on firm-level upstreamness, we investigate whether workers on the upstream stage of GVCs benefit from higher wages. We also enrich our analysis with a gender dimension. Unconditional quantile regressions and decomposition methods reveal that firms’ upstreamness fosters workers’ social upgrading. Nevertheless, gains are found to be unequally shared among workers. Male top-earners are the main beneficiaries; whereas women, irrespective of their earnings, appear to be unfairly rewarded.
F66|The Production of Cognitive and Non-cognitive Human Capital in the Global Economy|A country’s welfare depends on its ability to accumulate cognitive and non-cognitive human capital. In this paper, we model the productions of cognitive and non-cognitive human capital in general equilibrium. We use revealed comparative advantage to infer countries’ non-cognitive and cognitive productivities without a direct measure for the non-cognitive dimension. Our model also delivers analytical expressions for how non- cognitive and cognitive productivities can be aggregated into a single human-capital quality index, or HCQI, and how HCQI relates to output per worker. Our model allows us to obtain the values of non-cognitive and cognitive productivities and HCQI, using publically available data for a sample of mostly high-income countries. We find that: 1. many countries with low test scores have high non-cognitive productivities; 2. the hard-to-measure non-cognitive human capital is important for HCQI, and HCQI is important for output per worker; 3. the trade-o¤ between cognitive- and non-cognitive productivities can be visualized and analyzed using an iso-HCQI curve: e.g. uneven cognitive and non-cognitive productivities tend to lower HCQI; 4. this trade-o¤ can be quantified, and has policy implications: e.g. excessive attention to test scores may decrease aggregate output; 5. international trade matters, theoretically, for HCQI, because the gains from trade help to compensate a country for uneven productivity across human capital types: e.g. the iso-HCQI curve would have a very different shape under free trade.
F66|Immigrants, labor market dynamics and adjustment to shocks in the Euro Area|We analyze the role of labor mobility in cushioning labor demand shocks in the Euro Area. We find that foreign-born workers’ mobility is strongly cyclical, while this is not the case for natives. Foreigners’ higher population to employment elasticity reduces the variation in overall employment rates over the business cycle: thanks to foreigners, the impact of a one standard deviation change in employment on employment rates decreases by 6 per cent at country level and by 7 per cent at regional level. In addition, we compare Euro Area mobility with that of another currency union, the US. We find that the population to employment elasticity estimated for foreign-born persons is similar in the Euro Area and the US, while Euro Area natives are definitely less mobile across countries than US natives are across states in response to labor demand shocks. This latter result confirms that in the Euro Area there is room for improving country-specific shock absorption through higher labor mobility. It also suggests that immigration has helped labor market adjustments.
F66|Techies, Trade, and Skill-Biased Productivity|We study the impact of firm level choices of ICT, R&D, exporting and importing on the evolution of productivity and its bias towards skilled occupations. We use a novel measure of the propensity of a firm to engage in technology investment and adoption: its employment of workers with STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) skills and experience who we call “techies”. We develop a methodology for estimating firm level productivity that allows us to measure both Hicks-neutral and skill-augmenting technology differences, and apply this to administrative data on French firms in the entire private sector from 2009 to 2013. We find that techies and importing of intermediate inputs raise skill-biased productivity, while imports also raise Hicks-neutral productivity. We also find that higher firm-level skill biased productivity raises low-skill employment even as it raises the ratio of skilled to unskilled workers. This is because of the cost-reducing effect of higher productivity. The techie and trade effects are large, and can account for much of the aggregate increase in skilled employment from 2009 to 2013.
F66|Labour share developments over the past two decades: The role of technological progress, globalisation and “winner-takes-most” dynamics|Over the past two decades, real median wage growth in many OECD countries has decoupled from labour productivity growth, partly reflecting declines in labour income shares. This paper analyses the drivers of labour share developments using a combination of industry- and firm-level data. Technological change in the investment goods-producing sector and greater global value chain participation have compressed labour shares, but the effect of technological change has been significantly less pronounced for high-skilled workers. Countries with falling labour shares have witnessed both a decline at the technological frontier and a reallocation of market shares toward “superstar” firms with low labour shares (“winner-takes-most” dynamics). The decline at the technological frontier mainly reflects the entry of firms with low labour shares into the frontier rather than a decline of labour shares in incumbent frontier firms, suggesting that thus far this process is mainly explained by technological dynamism rather than anti-competitive forces.
F66|Linguistic Distance, Languages of Work and Wages of Immigrants in Montreal|We use the Levenshtein linguistic distance measure to explore whether the distance between an immigrant’s mother tongue and a Canadian official language (English or French) has an impact on his/her economic integration into the labour market. Using microdata from the master files of the 2001 and 2006 Canadian censuses and from the 2011 National Household Survey, we investigate the relationship between linguistic distance and the intensity of use of English and French at work in the Montreal metropolitan area. That region is characterized by the presence of sizeable French and English speaking communities, as well as of a large number of immigrants from a wide variety of linguistic backgrounds. Those elements of linguistic diversity interact in the context of English being the lingua franca. We find that linguistic distances between immigrants’ mother tongues and English and French have an important impact on the relative intensities of use of the two Canadian official languages at work. We further investigate the role of the languages used at work on the earnings of immigrants by estimating earnings functions. We find that the use of both French and English are remunerated in the labour market, but that using English at work has a larger impact on earnings.
F66|The Drivers of Inequality in Rich Countries|Rising income inequality has recently come centre-stage as a core societal concern for rich countries. The diagnosis of the forces driving inequality upwards and their relative importance remains hotly contested, notably with respect to the roles of globalization versus technology and of market forces versus institutions and policy choices. This survey provides a critical review and synthesis of recent research. The focus is on income inequality across the entire distribution, rather than only on what has been happening at the very top. We pay particular attention to including what has been learned from the analysis of micro-data, to ensuring that the coverage is not unduly US-centric, and to analyses of the interrelations between the different drivers of inequality. We conclude by highlighting key gaps in knowledge and clarifying what stands in the way of a consensus emerging about the contribution of the various forces affecting how income inequality has evolved in recent decades.
F66|The return of religious Antisemitism? The evidence from World Values Survey data|1) Background: This paper addresses the return of religious Antisemitism by a multivariate analysis of global opinion data from 28 countries. 2) Methods: For the lack of any available alternative we used the World Values Survey (WVS) Antisemitism study item: rejection of Jewish neighbors. It is closely correlated with the recent ADL-100 Index of Antisemitism for more than 100 countries. To test the combined effects of religion and background variables like gender, age, education, income and life satisfaction on Antisemitism, we applied the full range of multivariate analysis including promax factor analysis and multiple OLS regression. 3) Results: Although religion as such still seems to be connected with the phenomenon of Antisemitism, intervening variables such as restrictive attitudes on gender and the religion-state relationship play an important role. Western Evangelical and Oriental Christianity, Islam, Hinduism and Buddhism are performing badly on this account, and there is also a clear global North-South divide for these phenomena. 4) Conclusions: Challenging patriarchic gender ideologies and fundamentalist conceptions of the relationship between religion and state, which are important drivers of Antisemitism, will be an important task in the future. Multiculturalism must be aware of prejudice, patriarchy and religious fundamentalism in the global South.
F66|Proliferation of Globalization and its Impact on Labor Markets in Advanced Industrial Nations and Developing Nations|The purpose of this paper is to provide insights into how the proliferation of globalization has impacted labor markets both in advanced industrialized nations and well as developing nations. Insightful analysis will be drawn from Oatley (2011) on division of labor, Jaumotte and Tytell (2007) on labor compensation, Hahn and Narjoko (2013) on the impact on South Asian Countries, Basu (2016) on wage as a share of GDP and Wallace, Gauchat and Fullerton (2011) on the impact of globalization and labor markets on inequality.
F66|Economic and Social Upgrading in Global Value Chains: Insights from Philippine Manufacturing Firms|This study explores the 2012 Survey on Adjustments of Establishments to Globalization (SAEG) to analyze the economic and social upgrading experience of Philippine manufacturers inside global value chains (GVCs). Three broad patterns emerge from the data. First, firms with stronger GVC linkages tend to have better labor indicators than purely domestic producers. Second, the majority of manufacturers either experienced or missed economic and social upgrading simultaneously. Lastly, almost all social upgrading is accompanied by economic upgrading but economic upgrading may take place without a social component. Against this background, this study uses bivariate probit regression to model the joint determination of the two separate but interconnected upgrading outcomes. The estimation results show that the covariates in the model can be grouped into three based on their statistical significance—purely economic (i.e., employment size, unit labor cost, high skill intensity, and the Kaitz dummy), purely social (i.e., training, female intensity and foreign equity), and both (i.e., contractualization and process and product innovations). These results have several important implications. First, GVC firms’ notion of social upgrading are closer to the softer components of working conditions than to traditional measurable indicators such as employment, wages and efficiency. Second, the results suggest direct and indirect channels through which technological upgrading may generate desirable social outcomes. The direct channel highlights that innovation should be accompanied by skills development to sustain higher value creation while the indirect channel underlines the potential of innovation to create upward spirals in output, productivity, and ultimately labor conditions. Lastly, there are some indications that the social benefits of economic upgrading may not be evenly distributed among different types of employment. Overall, the above results emphasize the need for a holistic upgrading experience that shifts the country’s comparative advantage from cheap labor to innovative local industries and highly-skilled workers.
F66|Is Employment Globalizing?|The paper investigates the claim that national labor markets have become more globally interconnected in recent decades. It is done so by deriving estimates over time of three different notions of interconnection: (i) the share of labor demand that is export induced (i.e., all labor demand created by foreign entities buying products exported by the home country)â€”The paper provides estimates for 40 countries; (ii) the share of workers employed in sectors producing tradable goods or servicesâ€”68 countries; and (iii) the ratio of the number of jobs that are either located in a tradable sector, or that are involved in producing services that are required by these tradable sectors, to all jobs in the economy, which it calls the trade-linked employment shareâ€”40 countries. The paper estimates lead to the conclusion that the evidence of a large increase in the interconnections between national labor markets is far weaker than commonly asserted: levels of interconnectivity, and the direction of changes over time, vary across notions of interconnection and countries.
F66|Adjustment to Trade Opening: The Case of Labor Share in India's Manufacturing Industry|We study how manufacturing plants in India adjusted to trade liberalization during the period 1998–1999 to 2007–2008. We estimate how the labor share changed due to tariff reduction. Our results indicate that a decline in output tariffs led to an increase in the labor share of income. In contrast, a fall in input tariffs led to a decrease in the labor share. Controlling for factor intensity, we find that in technology-intensive and human capital resource-intensive sectors, both a decline in input and output tariff rates led to a decline in labor share. A fall in tariffs only led to an increase in labor share for labor-intensive and low-technology plants. Hence, India’s bias toward capital- and technology-intensive production explains the overall decline in labor share in the post reform period. Furthermore, the empirical results show that labor adjustment occurred more efficiently in Indian states with flexible labor laws.
F66|Family formation, gender and labour during the First Globalization in Montevideo, Uruguay|The aim in this research is to analyse the impact of institutions such as the family for a better comprehension of the status of women in the formation of Uruguayan society. Uruguay was a country with a large contingent of European immigrants who came mainly from Spain, followed by Italy. Although these two countries are not representative of the Western European Marriage Pattern, it will be argued that the immigration process caused a disruption of the original family patterns and led to more unstructured family formation and to weaker family ties and greater predominance of the nuclear family. Weaker family ties characterized by more egalitarian gender and intergenerational relations are supposed to allow for women to take on a less traditional role and stimulate higher female labour force participation. Our results show that the effects of migration cannot only be derived from the specific demographic, cultural and human capital profile of the immigrants, but also indirectly from the consequences of their decision to immigrate in their life courses and labour options.
F66|Understanding the Decline of U.S. Manufacturing Employment|U.S. manufacturing experienced a precipitous and historically unprecedented decline in employment in the 2000s. Many economists and other analysts—pointing to decades of statistics showing that manufacturing real (inflation-adjusted) output growth has largely kept pace with private sector real output growth, that productivity growth has been much higher, and that the sector’s share of aggregate employment has been declining—argue that manufacturing’s job losses are largely the result of productivity growth (assumed to reflect automation) and are part of a long-term trend. Since the 1980s, however, the apparently robust growth in manufacturing real output and productivity have been driven by a relatively small industry—computer and electronic products, whose extraordinary performance reflects the way statistical agencies account for rapid product improvements in the industry. Without the computer industry, there is no prima facie evidence that productivity caused manufacturing’s relative and absolute employment decline. This paper discusses interpreting labor productivity statistics, which capture many factors besides automation, and cautions against using descriptive evidence to draw causal inferences. It also reviews the research literature to date, which finds that trade significantly contributed to the collapse of manufacturing employment in the 2000s, but finds little evidence of a causal link to automation.
F66|Immigration and Offshoring|Two Forces of ‘Globalisation’ and Their Impact on Labour Markets in Western Europe 2005-2014 This paper investigates with a joint approach the impact of immigration and different measures of ‘offshoring’ on the labour demand and demand elasticities of native workers in four different occupational groups managers/professionals, clerks, craft workers and manual workers. It shows that of all measures of globalisation considered immigration has the most consistent and strongest negative effect on the employment of native workers, particularly on managers/professionals, clerks and manual workers. The employment effects of offshoring differ by the measure used and are positive for craft workers but, in contrast to what is typically found in the literature, negative for the high-skilled group of managers/professionals. Furthermore, immigration and offshoring both impact on natives’ labour demand elasticities but the effect differs by occupational group. Thus, while the immigration of craft workers reduces labour demand elasticities for native craft workers, the immigration of managers/professionals and clerks has the opposite effect on native workers in the same occupations. Furthermore, we test for cross effects of migration and outsourcing between the different occupational groups.
F66|The Impact of Immigration on Firm-Level Offshoring|This paper studies the relationship between immigration and offshoring by examining whether an influx of foreign workers reduces the need for firms to relocate jobs abroad. We exploit a Danish quasi-natural experiment in which immigrants were randomly allocated to municipalities using a refugee dispersal policy and we use the Danish employer-employee matched data set covering the universe of workers and firms over the period 1995-2011. Our findings show that an exogenous influx of immigrants into a municipality reduces firm-level offshoring at both the extensive and intensive margins. The fact that immigration and offshoring are substitutes has important policy implications, since restrictions on one may encourage the other. While the multilateral relationship is negative, a subsequent bilateral analysis shows that immigrants have connections in their country of origin that increase the likelihood that firms offshore to that particular foreign country.
F66|The economic effects of refugee return|"The recent surge in the number of forcibly displaced persons who cross international borders in search of protection has prompted interest in evaluating policies that achieve the possible ""end points"" of the phenomenon. As envisaged by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), these are the integration of the forcibly displaced persons in the country of destination, relocation in a third country, and return to the country of origin. The focus of this brief is on the third aspect, namely the appropriate conduct of return policy viewed from the perspective of the host country and, although the vast majority of forcibly displaced people are found in developing countries, the object here are policies in advanced countries."
F66|Harnessing the opportunities of inclusive technologies in a global economy|"In this paper the authors propose that G20 countries endorse and facilitate the creation of a T20 digital platform for ""Accelerating the Jobs of the Future"". In a world driven by a new wave of technological change, the platform would revalue the role of think tanks, research institutions and knowledge hubs to move the global agenda in an issue of central importance for the future of society: the creation of the jobs of the future. Building on and complementing existing experiences, the T20 platform would be a digital hub for producing knowledge, informing policies and connecting potential partners to accelerate the jobs of the future, within the context of an increasing integrated global economy. It would also contribute to the development of consensual views among the research community, allowing to discard extreme visions about the jobs of the future, dispelling both overly optimistic visions with no evidence base and unwarranted fears."
F66|Fall Siemens: Darf ein profitabler Weltkonzern Ost-Standorte schließen? Eine wirtschaftsethische Reflexion|Die Ankündigung des Siemens-Konzerns, trotz insgesamt guter Gewinnlage Arbeitsplätze in strukturschwachen Regionen Ostdeutschlands abzubauen, wurde quer durch das politische Parteienspektrum von namhaften Politikern skandalisiert. Meine wirtschaftsethische Reflexion dieses Falls tritt der Skandalisierung argumentativ entgegen. In Widerspruch zum öffentlich dominierenden Wahrnehmungsmuster entwickle ich zwei Thesen: (1) Es handelt sich nicht primär um einen Konflikt Arbeit versus Kapital, sondern um einen Konflikt Arbeit versus Arbeit. Und bei der Steuerung dieses Konflikts erfüllt das unternehmerische Gewinnprinzip eine Gemeinwohlfunktion. (2) Betriebsschließungen sind für strukturschwache Regionen als Unglück zu werten, nicht aber als Unrecht.
F66|Foreign Workers, Foreign Multinationals, and Wages after Controlling for Occupation and Sex in Malaysia’s Manufacturing Plants during the mid-1990s| This paper investigates the effects of foreign worker shares and MNE ownership on wages after controlling for worker sex and occupation in Malaysian manufacturing plants during 1994-1996, an important period during which use of foreign workers began to increase substantially. In a previous paper, I estimated similar wage equations separately for five occupation groups of both sexes in large heterogeneous samples of plants in many industries and more homogeneous samples of plants in seven industries. Results indicated that use of foreign workers generally had insignificant effects on plant wages for most occupation-sex-(and industry) combinations and that that MNE-local differentials were almost always insignificant in three industries and consistently significant in only one. Although separate estimation by sex and occupation has the strong advantage of accounting for worker characteristics relatively well, it has the disadvantages of complexity (10 results per sample) and being difficult to compare to more common approaches, which use sex and occupation as controls. The primary purpose of this paper is thus to see if using sex and occupation as independent variables generates results that differ from estimating wage equations separately for each sex-occupation cohort. Results suggest that the effects of foreign worker shares differ substantially among foreign worker occupations and among industries. Plants that have relatively large foreign manager shares tend to pay relatively high wages in most industries, but the effects of other foreign worker occupations are usually insignificant or inconsistent. Results that assume all foreign workers impart the same effects thus appear misleading, as do results assuming identical slope coefficients among industries. Similar to previous estimates, MNE-local wage differentials were consistently positive and significant in only two relatively small industries, chemicals and food, in marked contrast to previous results for 2000-2004, which did not account for the effects of foreign worker shares.
F66|Productivity Gap between Tradable and Non-Tradable Industries and Duality in Higher Education|Over the last decades, productivity in the tradable sector rose substantially, while in the non-tradable sector, output per worker has remained the same, despite a similar increase in human capital in both sectors. This paper emphasizes that duality in higher education as well as heterogeneous ability of individuals can explain the differences in labor productivity between tradable and non-tradable industries. The duality in the higher-education sector enables a separation of individuals by their ability, and in consequence, human capital in both industries is different. The heterogeneity in human capital can explain that despite an increase in human capital in both sectors, there is still a gap in productivity. In other words, the productivity gap between tradable and non-tradable sectors is fueled by the duality in higher education, leading to heterogeneity in human capital. In consequence, there is a contrast between on one hand, more mobility across countries, and on the other hand, less mobility between sectors.
F66|Import competition from and offshoring to low-income countries: Implications for employment and wages at U.S. domestic manufacturers|Using confidential linked firm-level trade transactions and census data between 1997 and 2012, we provide new evidence on how American firms without foreign affiliates adjust employment and wages as they adapt to import competition from low-income countries. We provide stylized facts on the input sourcing strategies of these domestic firms, contrasting them with multinationals operating in the same industry. We then investigate how changes in firm input purchases from low-income countries as well as domestic market import penetration from these sources are correlated with changes in employment and wages at surviving domestic firms. Greater offshoring by domestic firms from low-income countries correlates with larger declines in manufacturing employment and in the average production workers’ wage. Given the negative association, however, the estimated magnitudes are small, even for a narrow measure of offshoring that includes only intermediate goods. Import penetration of U.S. markets from these sources is associated with relatively larger changes in employment for arm’s length importing firms, but has no significant correlation with employment changes at firms that do not trade. Given differences in the degree of both offshoring and import penetration, we find substantial variation across industries in the magnitude of changes associated with low-income country imports.
F66|Services policy reform and manufacturing employment: Evidence from transition economies|Policy reforms targeting the services sectors are a neglected dimension of the process of structural transformation and economic development. The effects of such reforms on employment across industries as a function of their use of services as intermediate inputs are theoretically ambiguous and remain largely understudied. This paper uses sector‐level data for 24 transition economies for the 1990–2012 period to assess the impacts of services policy reforms on downstream manufacturing employment. We find a negative effect of services reforms on manufacturing sector employment. This is mostly associated with the process of transition to a market‐based economy. Controlling for transition‐specific dynamics, the data suggest a neutral effect of progress towards adopting “best practice” policies for upstream services on employment in downstream manufacturing. Furthermore, in line with the extant literature, we confirm that services policy reforms enhance productivity of downstream manufacturing industries. Finally, we find that the negative effects on downstream employment are mitigated in countries with better economic governance and human capital.
F66|Migration Policy: Lessons from Cooperatives|We propose an immigration policy based the model of cooperatives. Incoming migrants have to acquire a participation certificate. In exchange, the immigrants may enter the country of choice without danger. The revenue goes to the country of the recipient nation rather than to human smugglers. The cost would be much lower than today’s efforts to secure the borders. Asylum seekers get back the money paid for the certificate. Immigration is therewith regulated more efficiently than today. Not all entrance barriers and coercive measures to prevent illegal entry would disappear. However, the pressure of illegal migrants is strongly reduced.
F66|Globalization and Executive Compensation|This paper finds that globalization is contributing to the rapid increase in executive compensation over the last few decades. Employing comprehensive data on top executives at major U.S. companies, we show that their compensation is increasing with exports and foreign direct investment, as well as firm size and technology. Exogenous export shocks unrelated to managerial decisions also increase executive compensation, and there is little evidence that this is due to increasing market returns to talent. We do find that export shocks primarily affect discretionary forms of compensation of more powerful executives at firms with poor corporate governance, as one would expect if globalization has enhanced rent-capture opportunities. Overall, these results indicate that globalization has played a more central role in the rapid growth of executive compensation and U.S. inequality than previously thought.
F66|Trade and Labor Market: What Do We Know?|There is a large consensus in the economic literature suggesting the positive impact of globalization on the aggregate well-being of a country. However, a clear-cut conclusion has not been reached on winners and losers from globalization. For this reason, international trade is often accused of increasing wage inequality in both developing and developed countries. A first stream of literature focused on workers characteristics to identify winners and losers from globalization. Workers with characteristics (e.g., education levels) intensively used in import-competing sectors are likely to suffer from international trade; while workers having characteristics intensively needed in exporting sectors will gain. This is a clear-cut explanation but it does not fit the data as the reality is much more complex. Labor market shocks caused by trade openness are diffuse, and it is difficult to group those who suffer/gain into well-identified categories. The firm and the type of task in which workers are employed definitely contribute to identify winners and losers from globalization. Recent CEPII research outputs, based on detailed French firm and worker-level data, confirm that identifying who lost and who gained with globalization is a very difficult task.
F66|Cadenas globales de valor, empleo y servicios: evidencia para algunos países latinoamericanos|En este artículo se aborda el fenómeno de las Cadenas Globales de Valor desde la perspectiva del empleo, tomando el caso de algunos países latinoamericanos y observando con mayor detenimiento al sector Servicios. Para esto se utiliza una matriz de insumo-producto internacional la cual se combina con datos de empleo sectorial. Los resultados indican que el empleo generado por la demanda externa (final o intermedia) se origina principalmente en el sector Servicios, lo cual invita a prestar mayor atención a los efectos de las políticas comerciales sobre el mismo, el cual se ha considerado tradicionalmente como un sector de no-transables. Por otro lado, y como se ha mostrado desde otras perspectivas, se presenta evidencia acerca de la escasa participación de estos países en cadenas globales de valor. ****** This article deals with the phenomenon of Global Value Chains from the perspective of employment, taking the case of some Latin American countries and observing the Services sector more closely. For this, an international input-output matrix is used, which is combined with sectoral employment data. The results indicate that the employment generated by external demand (final or intermediate) originates mainly in the Services sector, which invites to pay more attention to the effects of trade policies on it, which has traditionally been considered as a non-tradable sector. On the other hand, and as has been shown from other perspectives, evidence is presented about the scarce participation of these countries in global value chains.
F66|Migration Policy: Lessons from Cooperatives|We propose an immigration policy based on the model of cooperatives. Incoming migrants have to acquire a participation certificate. In exchange, the immigrants may enter the country of choice without danger. The revenue goes to the country of the recipient nation rather than to human smugglers. The cost would be much lower than today’s efforts to secure the borders. Asylum seekers get back the money paid for the certificate. Immigration is therewith regulated more efficiently than today. Not all entrance barriers and coercive measures to prevent illegal entry would disappear. However, the pressure of illegal migrants is strongly reduced.
F66|Multinational enterprises and regional inequality in China|We examine spatial inequality in incomes and in the activities of multinational enterprises (MNE) in China from 1999 to 2013. We consider both interprovincial and urban-rural inequality using improved measurements of both regional average incomes and MNE activities. Although we find some common trends between spatial inequality in incomes and spatial inequality in MNE activities, our analysis of the determinants of urban-rural income inequality finds no evidence that MNEs are to blame for this type of inequality. We find limited evidence that MNEs reduce urban-rural income gaps, but mostly we conclude that they have no significant effect on these gaps.
F66|Industrialization and poverty reduction in East Asia: Internal labor movements matter|A number of developing East Asian countries have achieved both rapid economic growth and poverty reduction by effectively utilizing global value chains. An essential, but often neglected, condition for their economic development is smooth labor movements from the rural to urban sectors. This paper demonstrates that such labor movements have played an important role in the process of industrialization with global value chains. After conducting some international comparisons, we examine the case of Thailand for its massive labor movements until the mid–2000s as well as discussing stagnant moves in recent years.
F66|Domestic gains from offshoring? Evidence from TAA-linked U.S. microdata|We construct a new linked data set with over one thousand offshoring events by matching Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program petition data to U.S. Census Bureau microdata. We exploit these data to study the short- and long-term effects of offshoring on domestic firm-level employment, output, wages, and productivity in this large sample of offshoring events. As implied by heterogeneous firm models with high fixed costs of offshoring, we find that the average offshoring firm in the TAA sample is larger, more productive, older, and more likely to be an exporter, than the average non-offshorer. After initiating offshoring, TAA-certified offshorers experience large declines in employment (0.38 log points), output (0.33log points) and capital (0.25log points), and a concomitant increase in capital and skill intensity, relative to their industry peers. We find no significant change in average wages or productivity measures. Even six years after the initial offshoring event, we find no recovery in employment, output, or capital, and a higher probability of exit. We find similar results (including decline in output, and unchanged wages and productivity) for the aggregate of non-TAA certified plants of multi-plant offshoring firms. We find that the substitution of domestic activity by offshoring is stronger for relatively lower wage, lower capital intensity, lower productivity offshorers. Our results are consistent across two separate difference-in-differences (DID) approaches, and a number of robustness checks.
F66|Organizational Belief, Managerial Vision, and International Trade| In this paper, we develop a simple general-equilibrium trade model in which heterogeneous workers make an investment decision in acquiring advanced managerial skills and choose their optimal effort level based on their own individual organizational beliefs and CEO’s managerial vision. In doing so, we show how trade liberalization and/or changes in managerial vision of CEO may lead to non-monotonic income changes within firms due to the interaction between workers’ beliefs and CEO’s managerial vision. Whether a stronger (or weaker) CEO’s managerial vision benefits the firm or not depends on its extent relative to workers’ overall beliefs, and may involve some winners and losers within firms.
F66|The Effect of Fertility on Mothers’ Labor Supply over the Last Two Centuries|This paper documents the evolving impact of childbearing on the work activity of mothers between 1787 and 2014. It is based on a compiled data set of 429 censuses and surveys, representing 101 countries and 46.9 million mothers, using the International and U.S. IPUMS, the North Atlantic Population Project, and the Demographic and Health Surveys. Using twin births (Rosenzweig and Wolpin 1980) and same gendered children (Angrist and Evans 1998) as instrumental variables, we show three main findings: (1) the effect of fertility on labor supply is small and often indistinguishable from zero at low levels of income and large and negative at higher levels of income; (2) these effects are remarkably consistent both across time looking at the historical time series of currently developed countries and at a contemporary cross section of developing countries; and (3) the results are robust to other instrument variation, different demographic and educational groups, rescaling to account for changes in the base level of labor force participation, and a variety of specification and data decisions. We show that the negative gradient in female labor supply is consistent with a standard labor-leisure model augmented to include a taste for children. In particular, our results appear to be driven by a declining substitution effect to increasing wages that arises from changes in the sectoral and occupational structure of female jobs into formal nonagricultural wage employment as countries develop.
F66|The Labor Market Effects of Offshoring by U.S. Multinational Firms: Evidence from Changes in Global Tax Policies|Estimating the causal effect of offshoring on domestic employment is notoriously difficult because of the inherent simultaneity of domestic and foreign affiliate employment decisions. We use a model of endogenous offshoring to characterize this simultaneity and to derive an instrumental variables strategy allowing us to estimate the impact of offshore hiring on domestic employment. Our IV strategy exploits variation in offshoring costs across countries, industries, and time that results from the implementation of bilateral tax treaties, and uses Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) firm-level data for U.S. multinationals across two decades. We confirm that new treaties are unrelated to existing employment trends, and proceed to estimate the effects of offshoring on U.S. employment within multinational firms, industry-wide, and within local labor markets. We find that a 10 percent increase in foreign affiliate employment increases domestic U.S. employment for existing multinational firms by 1.4 percent, consistent with increased scale of production following a decline in global production costs. However, industry-wide U.S. employment increases by only one-third as much, as the opening of new offshore production facilities generates substitution for workers that had been hired domestically. We estimate slightly larger effects for local labor markets, suggesting there are possible spillovers across industries in the same location. Throughout the analysis, OLS estimates, which fail to account for the simultaneity of domestic and offshore employment, are more than 3 times larger than the preferred IV estimates. Overall, our results indicate that greater offshore activity raises net employment by U.S. firms.
F66|Upstreamness of employment and global financial crisis in Poland: the role of position in the global value chains|The emergence of global value chains leads to fragmentation of the production processes and reallocation of those processes across countries. With increasing number of production stages, the manufacturing process is located increasingly further away from the consumer. Literature suggests that fragmentation of production increases the international transmission of shocks. The global financial crisis is believed to lead to consolidation and shortening of global value chains and amplification of demand shocks along the global value chains, the so-called bullwhip effect. In this paper we study the effects of global financial crisis on employment, focusing specifically on the role of the distance from final demand (upstreamness) in this adjustment. We find that upstreamness matters for both labor demand and adjustment in employment during the periods of crisis, but this relationship is heterogeneous across countries. While the reaction to the crisis is indeed amplified further away from final demand, contrary to our expectations it is mostly channeled through lower job creation rates rather than faster job destruction. Moreover, the adverse effects of the crisis are lower in foreign firms, this difference does not depend on the distance from final demand.
F66|The political economy of income distribution: industry level evidence from 14 OECD countries|This article presents an econometric estimation of the determinants of the wage share, using sectoral data for 14 OECD countries for the period 1970- 2014. We present estimations for the wage share of high- and low-skilled workers and within manufacturing and service industries. We augment sectoral data with input-output tables and union density data to obtain detailed estimations of the effect of technological change, globalisation and bargaining power on the wage share. We find a significant negative effect of globalisation and we discover offshoring to emerging markets to be a robust driver of this process. Technological change had an impact which differs by skill group, but theoretical issues and lack of robustness of the results cast doubt on the hypothesis of skill-biased technological change as a key factor in the overall decline in the wage share. Furthermore, we find a robust effect of institutional factors such as union density and minimum wages on the wage share, lending strong support to the political economy approach to functional income distribution.
F66|Why is the wage share falling in emerging economies? Industry level evidence|This article presents an econometric analysis of the wage share in seven emerging economies. We focus on the effect of globalisation, captured by participation in global value chains and financial integration, indicators of bargaining power of labour and technological change on the wage share. We use input-output tables that allow us to obtain detailed measures of global value chain participation, and sectoral data to distinguish the effect on high- and low-skilled workers and within manufacturing and service industries. We find a negative effect of offshoring from advanced to emerging economies, as well as negative effects of financial integration. Our findings suggest that the transmission mechanism is a reduction in labours’ bargaining power vis-à-vis capital. We find a robust positive effect of union density on the wage share but no evidence of a negative effect of technological change.
F66|Ein stochastisches Prognosemodell internationaler Migration in Deutschland|Internationale Migration ist eines der gesellschaftlich am kontroversesten diskutierten Themen. Kritiker einer offenen Migrationspolitik sehen hohe Immigrationszahlen als großes Risiko für die Sicherheit und warnen vor möglichen Verdrängungseffekten am Arbeitsmarkt, während die Befürworter u.a. argumentieren, dass internationale Migration aus demografischer Sicht eine große Chance sei, die Folgen des Demografischen Wandels durch eine Erhöhung und Verjüngung der Bevölkerung auszubremsen und vor allem das Arbeitskräfteangebot in vom Fachkräftemangel bereits betroffenen Wirtschaftsbereichen zu erhöhen. Aus diesen Gründen ist es umso wichtiger, eine sachliche Diskussion auf Basis empirischer Ergebnisse zu führen. Eine quantitative Diskussionsgrundlage bildet in diesem Zusammenhang eine Prognose der zukünftigen Migrationsströme für Planungen in der Politik und dem Unternehmenskontext, was bisher nur unzureichend durchgeführt wird. Hierfür stellen wir einen Modellansatz für die Prognose der internationalen Nettomigration zwischen Deutschland und dem Ausland, differenziert nach Geschlecht, Alter und Nationalitätsgruppen, vor. Der Beitrag liefert stochastische Prognosen der zukünftigen Nettomigrationen auf Basis eines Hauptkomponenten-Zeitreihenmodells. Bei diesem Verfahren bilden Prognoseintervalle die Unsicherheit über die zukünftige Entwicklung ab.
F66|The gun-slave hypothesis and the 18th century British slave trade|The Gun-Slave Hypothesis is the long-standing idea that European gunpowder technology played a key role in growing the transatlantic slave trade. I combine annual data from the Transatlantic Slave Trade Database and the Anglo–African Trade Statistics to estimate a Vector Error Correction Model of the 18th century British slave trade that captures four versions of the Gun-Slave Hypothesis: guns-for-slaves-in-exchange, guns-for-slaves-in-production, slaves-for-guns-derived and the gun-slave cycle. Three econometric results emerge. (1) Gunpowder imports and slave exports were co-integrated in a long-run equilibrium relationship. (2) Positive deviations from equilibrium gunpowder “produced” additional slave exports. This guns-for-slaves-in-production result survives 17 placebo tests that replace gunpowder with non-lethal commodities imports. It is also confirmed by an instrumental variables estimation that uses excess capacity in the British gunpowder industry as an instrument for gunpowder. (3) Additional slave exports attracted additional gunpowder imports for 2–3 more years. Together these dynamics formed a gun-slave cycle. Impulse-response functions generate large increases in slave export in response to increases in gunpowder imports. I use these results to explain the growth of slave exports along the Guinea Coast of Africa in the 18th century.
F66|The Internal and External Effects of Offshoring on Job Security|In this paper, we investigate the effects of offshoring on workers' job security using matched employer-employee data from Sweden. For our observed period (1997-2011), while the share of firms engaged in offshoring fell during the period from around 25% to 22%, offshoring per worker within offshoring firms almost doubled. We make use of this variation to contribute to the literature on several fronts by examining both the internal (i.e., firms' own offshoring activities) and the external (i.e., neighboring firms’ offshoring activities) effects of offshoring on workers' employment spells. To deal with potential endogeneity, we use instruments based on world supply shocks for both the internal and external measures of offshoring. Our results suggest that external offshoring has a greater impact on job security than internal offshoring. In addition, having a university degree, being young, and being new to the job all reduce the risk of a job exit due to increased external offshoring. This result is indicative of a Schumpeterian job restructuring effect of offshoring, where old jobs are replaced by newer ones. Finally, the increased risk of a job exit from external offshoring is limited to workers in small firms that do not offshore themselves, suggesting a higher vulnerability of these firms to local shocks.
F66|Earnings, savings, and job satisfaction in a labor-intensive export sector: Evidence from the cut flower industry in Ethiopia|While labor-intensive export-oriented industries typically bring positive economic benefits to countries through employment generation, the effects of employment in these industries on various aspects of workers’ welfare are less well-studied. This paper considers the case of the cut flower industry in Ethiopia to provide such quantitative evidences. We collected workers’ primary data and conducted incentivized experiments to measure their cognitive abilities, risk preference, and other behavioral characteristics. Based on propensity-score matching and doubly robust estimations to facilitate rigorous comparisons, we find that production workers in the cut flower sector earn significantly more than similar workers in other sectors, most probably due to the flower farms’ interest to reduce costly worker turnovers. In addition, workers in the sector save more regularly than workers in other sectors who have similar characteristics, and the amount saved relative to the income level is also higher, after controlling for the frequency of wage payment and employment status. The subjective valuation of their jobs is also higher in the cut flower sector, particularly in terms of the income level, stability, and future prospect, but workers in the sector are not necessarily more satisfied with the type of work they do. Unlike other sectors where wage payment decreases with worker’s age, wage in the flower sector does not vary with age. Risk-averse individuals are more satisfied in the cut flower sector, while work experience reduces the satisfaction level on future prospect more in this sector relative to other sectors.
F66|Jobs, FDI and Institutions in Sub-Saharan Africa: Evidence from Firm-Level Data|Using firm-level data, we study the differences in the quantity and quality of jobs offered by foreign-owned and domestic firms in Sub-Saharan Africa, and identify how country-level institutional factors determine these differences. After controlling for numerous firm-level characteristics in regressions, we find that foreign-owned firms, especially those whose main business purpose is to serve the home or foreign markets, offer more stable and secure jobs than domestic firms. Specifically, they have more permanent full-time workers, a lower probability of offering temporary work and employ less temporary workers. The job stability and security advantage of foreign-owned firms is smaller in countries with higher firing costs and governance quality, where domestic firms are induced to offer more stable and secure jobs. In addition, foreign-owned firms are less likely to offer unpaid work and have less of these workers. They also invest more in training, especially of managers, and pay higher wages to non-production and managerial workers, particularly those firms whose main business purpose is to serve the home or foreign markets. A higher wage to production workers is paid only by those whose owners are from high-income countries. The wage premia of foreign-owned firms are lower in countries with higher governance and social policy standards, where domestic firms are induced to pay higher wages.
F66|On the Implications of Immigration Policy Restricting Citizenship: Evidence from the Dominican Republic|In 2010, an amendment to the Dominican constitution weakened the concept of jus soli citizenship by denying Dominican nationality to individuals born on Dominican soil to irregular immigrants. A few years later, in 2013, the Dominican High Court denationalized large numbers of individuals by reinterpreting language in the prior constitution to, in effect, apply the newer citizenship requirements retroactively to 1929. We gauge the impacts of changes to Dominican citizenship laws on Haitian immigrants and their descendants, to whom, many believe, these policies were directed. We find that the constitutional amendment affected informal employment of some Haitians and their descendants. Furthermore, the High Court's ruling resulted in a significant reduction in the share of Haitian-descendant youth registered in school. Non-attendance was attributed primarily to lack of appropriate documents. Given the rise of nationalist sentiments and discussions to further restrict and revoking citizenship in various regions of the world today, it is important to further explore how these policies ultimately impact targeted and vulnerable populations.
F66|Foreign Ownership and Intra-Firm Union Density in Germany|From a theoretical viewpoint the relationship between foreign ownership and unionization is ambiguous. On the one hand, foreign owners have better opportunities to undermine workers' unionization. On the other hand, workers of foreign-owned firms have an increased demand for the protection provided by unions. Which of the two opposing influences dominates can vary according to moderating circumstances. This study shows that firm size and industry-level bargaining play a moderating role. The relationship between foreign ownership and unionization is negative in larger firms whereas it is positive in smaller firms. Coverage by industry-level collective bargaining makes a positive relationship both stronger and more likely.
F66|Female Migration and Native Marital Stability: Insights from Italy|Abstract Previous research has noted that divorce rates tend to be higher when there is a surplus of marriageable women in the marriage market. This paper argues that the size and the composition of the female migrant population can affect the marital stability of natives. We tested such hypothesis taking Italy as a case-study because it exemplifies a male-breadwinner society and because it is a relatively new immigration country. We estimated discrete-time event history models predicting marital disruption on data from the nationally representative 2009 Family and Social Subjects survey. Our results illustrated that the increasing presence of first mover migrant women (coming from Central-South America and Eastern Europe) was associated with higher separation risks among natives, especially for couples with lower human capital. By advancing the relevance of foreigners as a potential driver of natives’ family life courses, our findings add to our understanding of partnership dynamics in recent immigration countries.
F66|Jobs, FDI and institutions in Sub-Saharan Africa evidence from firm-level data|Using a unique sample of foreign-owned and domestic firms in Sub- Saharan Africa, we study the differences in the quantity and quality of jobs that they offer, and identify how these differences are determined by country- level institutional factors. After controlling for numerous firm-level characteristics, we find that foreign-owned firms offer more stable and secure jobs than domestic firms, as evidenced by their higher and lower shares of permanent full-time and temporary employment, respectively. The job stability and security advantage of foreign-owned firms is smaller in countries with higher firing costs and better governance, where domestic firms are likely to offer more stable and secure jobs. In addition, foreign-owned firms are less likely to offer unpaid work and have a lower share of these workers. They also have a higher average training intensity and pay an average wage premium, as well as wage premia to production, non-production and managerial workers. The wage premia of foreign-owned firms are lower in countries with higher governance and social policy standards, where domestic firms are likely to pay higher wages. Finally, we show that the job quality advantage of foreign-owned firms depends on the location of their parents, the mode of their establishment, their main business purpose and the most critical investment incentive received from the host country.
F66|Offshoring and the Age-Skill Composition of Labour Demand|This paper is the first to study the impact of offshoring on the age-skill composition of labour demand. In doing so, it provides novel empirical evidence firmly supporting the argument that the age profile of a worker is at least as crucial a criterion as the skill to be taken into account by firms while they make optimal labour utilisation adjustments through offshoring. The analysis is conducted on a sample of manufacturing and service industries in 12 developed countries for the period 1995-2005. Its main findings are that material and service offshoring to high-income countries decrease the relative demands for older more skilled workers, while they increase the relative demands for the youngest less skilled. In addition, material and service offshoring to low/middle-income countries decrease the relative demands for the youngest workers, while they mostly increase the relative demands for older workers. These findings are explained by the relative abundance of offshoring destinations in skills and in aspects of employment associated with workers' age profiles, such as the level of human capital and expertise, the returns to training and the level of employment protection.
F66|The Labor Market Effects of Offshoring by U.S. Multinational Firms|Previous papers on the labor market effects of offshoring have found very different results in terms of both the sign and magnitude of the relationship. This is in large part because offshoring encompasses many different activities and likely affects different types of firms in different ways. We first present a model of global sourcing to show how the relationship between offshoring and domestic employment can be expected to vary within and across different types of firms. We then use firm-level data on offshoring by U.S. MNEs from the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) to test the model’s predictions at the firm, industry, and regional levels. Because the inherent simultaneity of multinational firms’ domestic and foreign affiliate employment decisions complicates causal identification, we introduce a new instrument for offshore employment: Bilateral Tax Treaties (BTTs). These treaties reduce the effective cost of offshore activity and their implementation is uncorrelated with existing employment trends. We find substantial heterogeneity in effects based on offshoring margin and firm organizational structure. A 10 percent BTT-induced increase in affiliate employment drives a 1.8 percent increase in employment at the U.S. parent firm, with smaller effects at the industry and regional levels. In contrast, increased foreign affiliate activity in vertically oriented multinational firms drives declining employment among non-multinationals in the same industry, and multinational firms opening new affiliates exhibit much smaller domestic employment growth than those expanding existing affiliates. Overall, our results indicate that greater offshore activity modestly raises net employment by U.S. firms, albeit with underlying job loss and employment reallocation.
F66|The Effect of Fertility on Mothers' Labor Supply over the Last Two Centuries|This paper documents the evolving impact of childbearing on the work activity of mothers between 1787 and 2014. It is based on a compiled data set of 429 censuses and surveys, representing 101 countries and 46.9 million mothers, using the International and U.S. IPUMS, the North Atlantic Population Project, and the Demographic and Health Surveys. Using twin births (Rosenzweig and Wolpin 1980) and same gendered children (Angrist and Evans 1998) as instrumental variables, we show three main findings: (1) the effect of fertility on labor supply is small and often indistinguishable from zero at low levels of income and large and negative at higher levels of income; (2) these effects are remarkably consistent both across time looking at the historical time series of currently developed countries and at a contemporary cross section of developing countries; and (3) the results are robust to other instrument variation, different demographic and educational groups, rescaling to account for changes in the base level of labor force participation, and a variety of specification and data decisions. We show that the negative gradient in female labor supply is consistent with a standard labor-leisure model augmented to include a taste for children. In particular, our results appear to be driven by a declining substitution effect to increasing wages that arises from changes in the sectoral and occupational structure of female jobs into formal non-agricultural wage employment as countries develop.
F66|A Theory on the Economic Impacts of Immigration|The standard view on the economic impact of immigration has been criticized for its inability to solve the “immigration policy puzzle.” It also has a problem in that the “net” income of heterogeneous workers is equalized. These problems arise because the standard view generally depends on a production function in which the elasticity of substitution between heterogeneous workers is constant. This paper constructs an alternative production function in which the elasticity of substitution between heterogeneous workers is not constant and is instead based on a model of total factor productivity. The alternative view presented based on this production function indicates that an “open door” policy is not necessarily economically optimal for host countries under some conditions
F66|The impact of “anti-political” parties after the restoration of democracy in Greece and the challenge of confronting the crisi|There have been almost 40 years after the restoration of democracy in Greece and a peculiar prosperity, which was consciously cultivated by the leaders of political and economic elites, was promoted before the onset of the financial crisis. However, from the beginning of the financial recession, the temporal illusions have been revealed and the need of a complete transformation of the financial policies has been expressed, while a significant transformation of the entire political culture has started. Parties such as SYRIZA, Independent Greeks(ANEL) and Golden Dawn took advantage of the growing social discontent by propagating themselves as exponents of ordinary people and of their concerns or their fears, as the expression of resistance against an avoidable sellout of public values. However, crisis has exposed a number of successive truths which were elaborately hiding in the underbelly of the detaining political and socioeconomic system. These truths were exteriorized once it became clear that the foundations on which the Greek society was based after the restoration of democracy, were weak and insufficient to lead country towards a modern future.
F66|Emigrant’s remittances, Dutch Disease and capital accumulation in Mekong countries|This paper examines the sectoral and intertemporal impacts of international emigrant remittances by using a vector auto-regression (VAR) estimation focusing on Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar and Vietnam (CLMV countries). The reason for targeting the CLMV countries is that they have still depended largely on remittance-earnings from their emigrant workers in their economies, and that the macroeconomic impacts of received remittances would be critical for their sustainable growth. The empirical study identified the decline in manufacturing-service ratio (the Dutch Disease effect) as a sectoral effect of remittances, and also the decline in investment-consumption ratio (the deteriorated capital accumulation effect) as their intertemporal effect, judging from the causalities and dynamic responses from remittances to both ratio in the VAR estimation outcomes. The strategic implication is that the CLMV countries should establish a framework to mobilize their remittance-earnings for more productive use.
F66|Career strategies of employees of MNC in the globalization reign|The paper analyses the pattern of career choice among the fresh recruits in multinational corporations. The paper finds that competence skills that are required within a borderless corporation tend to positively influence the employee satisfaction and expectation at the early stages of his/her career. The work environment prevalent at such peculiar and dominant corporations usually exceeds developing country corporate practices that are common within a local market landscape. We finally find that globalization favors the work culture to the benefit of its employees.
F66|Gender gap is a trade trap: The road ahead for international development|The paper provides an outline of effective gender parity policy in South Asia with a special reference to Pakistan. The need of gender parity as an economic goal is identified by linking gender empowerment as a need to create better trade policy framework. This may provide strong public sector commitment towards bringing and implementing such laws that focus on more female participation in formal schooling as well as skill development.
F66|Why International Trade Cause Inequality in Developing Countries|The recent evidence of rising wage inequalities in developing countries in favour of skilled labor has challenged the Hecksher-Ohlin model. After providing empirical evidence by employing 28 measures of trade integration that trade significantly cause inequality, the paper carries out a theoretical discussion to suggest that wage inequality between skilled and unskilled labor has factor endowment dimension. There are significant inequalities in education attainment in developing countries that exacerbate inequality when these countries trade in international markets in predominantly capital intensive products. A more trade among developing countries might benefit the unskilled as trade in local or regional clusters within the South may enable these countries to also export more labor intensive products and thus benefitting the unskilled.
F66|Skilled-unskilled wage asymmetries as an outcome of skewed international trade patterns in the South|The paper tries to find out the impact of trade liberalization on income inequality. The literature suggests that trade favors one segment of the society over other and cause uneven development. For example, one possible way through which inequality is suspected to seep into the economy through processes of liberalization is by increasing the relative wages of skilled labor as compared to the unskilled ones. Empirical evidence is provided to this effect by employing Theil Wage inequality Index and up to 28 different concepts of openness/ trade policy. OLS as well as 2SLS regressions with numerous specifications were run. It is found out that openness not only causes wage inequality but the relationship is significant for the developing countries. Additionally, the study also suggests that human capital, which is accrued from liberalization processes, is responsible for amplifying wage inequality.
F66|Globalization, political orientation and wage inequality: From Donald Trump’s election to Angela Merkal’s re-election|The recent election results in US, Germany, Japan and China and vote for BRIXIT in Britian suggest that political outcomes increasingly relate to the economic, political and social orientation in both developed and developing countries. Countries that have not promoted social and economic harmony in the country - democracy eventually puts the pressure through the discontent local polity resulting in election outcomes similar to US presidential elections in 2016. To avoid anti-globalization feelings among local population and its negative outcomes, improving political orientation towards greater participation of local polity and investments in education in developing countries would result in more equality. The research is applicable to countries like India, China, Pakistan, Argentina, Sub-Saharan Africa who have all liberalised but still need to draw lessons from East Asia for their Industrialisation and Growth Promotion with early emphasis on Social and Institutional Development.
F66|Automation Processes and Blockchain Systems|Blockchain Systems and Ubiquitous computing are changing the way we do business and lead our lives. One of the most important applications of Blockchain technology is in automation processes and Internet-of-Things (IoT). Machines have so far been limited in ability primarily because they have restricted capacity to exchange value. Any monetary exchange of value has to be supervised by humans or human-based centralised ledgers. Blockchain technology changes all that. It allows machines to have unique identities and hence a virtual presence. Blockchain technology even allows for automated verification by the network of machines itself. It permits machines to exchange value and introduce the element of discretion in the hands of Machines. This can form the basis for ultimately developing IoT going on to Artificial Intelligence. This paper deals with the various interplays of Blockchain with Automation processes. Firstly, the concept of cryptocurrencies (also referred to as cryptocoins in this paper) is explained. Then the concept of Regulated and Sovereign Backed Cryptocurrencies (RSBCs) is discussed. Later on, I explain how Blockchain systems are related to IoT. Then we discuss the concept of Smart Mining that will lead to advanced Blockchain activity and Machine intelligence. Finally, the paper concludes as to how Blockchain technology will impact automation processes.
F66|Migration, Social Capital, Financial Capital: How Migrants’ Family Relations Serve Internationally|Migration is a global phenomenon and has gained worldwide recognition for its socioeconomic impacts on host and home country. According to the literature, one of the most important emanations of migration are remittances. They facili-tate poverty reduction, education improvement, entrepreneurial investments and even the economic evolution of the home state. Globally, India and Paki-stan are in the top ten money receiving-countries. This paper provides an over-view about migration, and the worldwide remittance flow of migrants from India and Pakistan to their home countries. We sought to make a nonlinear model by dividing remittance per person with the number of immigrants from India and Pakistan worldwide, also focusing on the ratio of male and female immigrants in the population. The results show that remittance change exponentially over the years. This increase is stronger in the case of India than Pakistan and, more interestingly, gender ratios have influenced remittance per year.
F66|The Labor Market Effects of Offshoring by U.S. Multinational Firms: Evidence from Changes in Global Tax Policies|Estimating the causal effect of offshoring on domestic employment is difficult because of the inherent simultaneity of multinational firms’ domestic and foreign affiliate employment decisions. In this paper, we resolve this identification problem using variation in Bilateral Tax Treaties (BTTs), which reduce the effective cost of offshore activity by mitigating double taxation. We derive a panel difference-in-differences research design from a standard model of multinational firms, demonstrating the simultaneity problem and showing how to resolve it using BTTs as an instrument for offshore employment. We confirm that new treaty implementation is uncorrelated with existing employment trends, and use Bureau of Economic Analysis data on U.S. multinational firms to measure the domestic employment effects of offshore activity. {{p}} Overall, we find modest positive effects of offshore activity on domestic employment. A 10 percent BTT induced increase in affiliate employment drives a 1.8 percent increase in employment at the U.S. parent firm, with smaller effects at the industry and regional levels. Underlying these results is substantial heterogeneity based on offshoring margin and firm organizational structure. For example, increased foreign affiliate activity in vertically oriented multinational firms drives declining employment among non-multinationals in the same industry, and multinational firms opening new affiliates exhibit much smaller domestic employment growth than those expanding existing affiliates. Throughout the analysis, OLS estimates are much larger than the IV estimates, consistent with upward simultaneity bias. Overall, our results indicate that greater offshore activity raises net employment by U.S. firms, albeit with underlying job loss and reallocation of workers.
F66|What Determines Labour Movement from Turkey to Europe? Extent of the Situation and Implications|There are several different issues affecting migration on the global scale, which are commonly interconnected. These include work migration, lifestyle migration, ecological migration, workers’ wages abroad, transit migration, irregular global migration, forced and forced humanitarian migration, human trafficking, refugees, and the safety of displaced populations. This study analyzes causation and consequences of Turkish workforce migration. Social and cultural discourse analysis have used in the study. It is preferable to investigate the macroeconomic factors of each country, in order to assess the economic implications of immigration. The present study looks at immigration from an economic, as well as a cultural and social point of view. Apparently, immigration policies are unable to achieve their prespecified demographic targets, at least under most circumstances, because controlling the synthesis and volume of net migration poses a remarkable challenge. Apart from the economic crisis, certain factors that are unique to Turkey lately, such as social-legislative problems and unemployment, push large segments of the population to migrate to other countries, raising the fraction of immigration therefore. Demographic circumstances and effects of relevant policies work in tandem, and their combined influence alters the volume and makeup of the workforce in complex ways. Moreover, any undertaking to pinpoint the needs of the future work market in a decisive way, regarding immigration, and to optimize immigration strategies, appears to have modest results as well.
F66|Foreign Ownership and Intra-Firm Union Density in Germany|From a theoretical viewpoint the relationship between foreign ownership and unionization is ambiguous. On the one hand, foreign owners have better opportunities to undermine workers' unionization. On the other hand, workers of foreign-owned firms have an increased demand for the protection provided by unions. Which of the two opposing influences dominates can vary according to moderating circumstances. This study shows that firm size and industry-level bargaining play a moderating role. The relationship between foreign ownership and unionization is negative in larger firms whereas it is positive in smaller firms. Coverage by industry-level collective bargaining makes a positive relationship both stronger and more likely.
F66|Challenged by Migration: Europe’s Options|This paper examines the migration and labor mobility in the European Union and elaborates on their importance for the existence of the EU. Against all measures of success, the current public debate seems to suggest that the political consensus that migration is beneficial is broken. This comes with a crisis of European institutions in general. Migration and labor mobility have not been at the origin of the perceived cultural shift. The EU in its current form and ambition could perfectly survive or collapse even if it solves its migration challenge. But it will most likely collapse, if it fails to solve the mobility issue by not preserving free internal labor mobility and not establishing a joint external migration policy.
F66|The role of migration-specific and migration-relevant policies in migrant decision-making in transit|This paper examines the role of migration-specific and migration-relevant policies in migrant decision-making factors for onwards migration or stay in Greece and Turkey. In this paper we distinguish migration-specific policies from migration-relevant policies in transit and destination countries, and in each case distinguish favourable policies from adverse policies. We test this categorisation through an original survey of 1,056 migrants in Greece and Turkey from Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, Pakistan and Syria collected in 2015. The results indicate that, in transit countries, the policies that most strongly influence migrants' decision-making are adverse migration-specific and migration-relevant policies. By contrast, in destination countries favourable migration-specific policies appear to be more important than migration-relevant policies there in determining the choice of destination.
F66|Trade and Manufacturing Jobs in Germany|The German economy exhibits rising service and declining manufacturing employment, but this decline is much sharper in import-competing than export-oriented branches. We first document the individual-level job transitions behind those trends. They are not driven by manufacturing workers who smoothly switch to services. The observed shifts are entirely due to young entrants and returnees from non-employment. We then investigate if rising trade with China and Eastern Europe causally affected those labor flows. Exploiting variation across industries and regions, we find that globalization did not speed up the manufacturing decline in Germany. It even retained those jobs in the economy.
F66|Challenged by migration: Europe's options|This paper examines the migration and labour mobility in the European Union and elaborates on their importance for the existence of the EU. Against all measures of success, the current public debate seems to suggest that the political consensus that migration is beneficial is broken. This comes with a crisis of European institutions in general. Migration and labour mobility have not been at the origin of the perceived cultural shift. The EU in its current form and ambition could perfectly survive or collapse even if it solves its migration challenge. But it will most likely collapse, if it fails to solve the mobility issue by not preserving free internal labour mobility and not establishing a joint external migration policy.
F66|Migration for Development: From Challenges to Opportunities|This contribution investigates the opportunities of migration for developing countries. The benefits of migration for sending countries are often undervalued. But migrants may foster trade, remittances, innovations, investments back home, and even return home at some time with better human capital. Functioning diasporas can lead to stable factors of development. Policies in receiving developed countries towards migrants can enhance the positive impact of migration for development. Among those are measures to support the early integration of migrants into the educational systems and in the labor markets, including jobs for asylees. Dual citizenships and circular migration contracts are possible instruments. Migration policy can be an effective development policy.
F66|A globalisation challenge: Preventing a clash between the middle classes of the developed and emerging economies|"Tension is growing between the interests of the middle classes that are in decline in the mature economies and the rising ones in emerging markets. The aim of the public policies proposed in this paper is to impede such a clash by not threatening de-globalisation, avoiding protectionism, fostering inclusive technological innovation, compensating the losers of globalisation in developed economies and reassuring the winners in emerging economies. It argues that the G20 concept of ""inclusive growth"" must overcome the challenges that come with reduced inequalities between countries, growing inequality within countries and the disruptive impact that accompanies technological innovation."
F66|Bridging the digital divide in the G20: Skills for the new age|The digital divide in general, and between women and men in particular, is a manifestation of exclusion, poverty and inequality, and is likely to continue because of the effects of unemployment, poorly functioning digital skilling programmes and socio-cultural norms in some economies, and further depriving women equal access to digital services. Digital skills provide the poor a catalyst to break out of the cycle of poverty and empower themselves. This paper considers a three-pronged digital skills strategy that will be required for developing countries to break out of the digital divide trap: (1) Monitor the evolving set of digital skills required for employment (2) incorporate a holistic digital skills development strategy into national education programmes, and (3) contextualize skilling programs within prevailing socio-cultural norms that will shape the uptake and impact of digital skilling programs.
F66|Bridging the digital divide: Measuring digital literacy|To promote digital transformation, equal emphasis needs to be placed on digital skills development as to infrastructure development. Integral to investment in digital skills development is the subsequent management and evaluation of digital training programmes. This paper assesses mechanisms to ensure digital training programmes are adequately managed using a standardized data collection framework to measure an internationally accepted digital literacy index. Such an index must be defined by an agile definition of digital literacy responsive to the fluid nature of the digital economy. The paper also explores the extent to which a G20 advisory body may inform a nationally representative data collection strategy within the context of a data collection process that is cognizant of the evolving demands of businesses and users alike.
F66|The clash of rural-urban migrants and real estate investors on Phnom Penh's housing market: Prospects for garment workers|Housing markets of large cities around the world, particularly in so-called developing and emerging countries, are currently experiencing a clash: On the one hand, large numbers of labour migrants arrive from rural areas and need cheap rental housing. On the other hand, international real estate investment, particularly in the upper market segment, is strong. The resulting mismatch of housing demand and supply increases segregation, marginalises the vulnerable and leads to massive urban development problems. Phnom Penh illustrates this particularly well: Along with Cambodia's rapid globalisation in the last decades, hundreds of thousands of migrants, particularly garment workers, have moved to the capital. Housing for them is insufficient both in terms of supply and quality, though, because Phnom Penh's entrepreneurial mode of governance also attracts many investors, who focus on more profitable and prestigious real estate projects, often linked to speculation. These push land values up and push cheap rental housing further and further outside the city. This study carries out an indepth analysis of the prospects for rural-urban migrant workers on Phnom Penh's investor-driven housing market by firstly outlining both migration and real estate investment trends and by secondly examining the case of garment workers' housing. To complement the scarce literature on the topic, field research and expert interviews have been conducted. From these, an assessment of the status quo, of stakeholders' approaches to it and finally, proposals for action are derived.
F66|Service offshoring and firm employment|Major technological advances have recently spurred a new wave of offshoring in services, which used to be non-tradable. Should service workers in developed countries worry about their jobs? Trade theory has given a nuanced answer to this question, suggesting that efficiency gains from offshoring may counteract direct job losses, which leaves the predicted net effect ambiguous. This paper investigates the employment effects of service offshoring in a newly combined and exceptionally detailed panel dataset, covering almost the entire universe of German firms' service imports over the years 2001–2013. It exploits firm-specific export supply shocks by partner countries and service types as an instrumental variable to find that service offshoring has increased firm employment. In line with the canonical trade in tasks model, the employment gains are greater in firms with higher initial levels of service offshoring.
F66|International Trade And Labor‐Market Discrimination|Discrimination reduces the matching probability and output in the skill‐intensive differentiated‐product sector so that discrimination‐induced comparative advantage may overshadow technological comparative advantage in determining the pattern of trade. Trade liberalization generates a decrease in the skilled‐worker wage gap in the country that is an exporter of goods from the simple sector but increases it in the country that is a net exporter of differentiated products. Trade liberalization has an opposite effect on firms. In the country that is an exporter of simple goods, trade liberalization reduces the profits of the nondiscriminatory firms by more than those of the discriminatory firms. (JEL F16, F66, J71)
F66|Globale Rahmenvereinbarungen in der europäischen Automobilzulieferindustrie|"Die Entwicklung von Arbeits- und Beschäftigungsbedingungen in der Automobilzulieferbranche wird in erheblichem Maße vom Standortwettbewerb zwischen Hochlohn- und Niedriglohnstand-orten geprägt. Die deutschen Standorte stehen dabei insbesondere im Wettbewerbe mit Werken in Mittelosteuropa. Auf Basis von Fallstudien von sechs deutschen Automobilzulieferern und einer Befragung betrieblicher Arbeitnehmervertreter erörtert dieses Discussion Paper die Mög-lichkeiten und Strategien von Gewerkschaften und betrieblichen Arbeitnehmervertretern, mit-hilfe von Globalen Rahmenvereinbarungen (GRV) Mindeststandards im Bereich von Arbeits- und Beschäftigungsbedingungen zu schaffen. Dabei werden drei Fragen verfolgt: Welche Ziele und Motive verbinden die Akteure mit dem Abschluss einer GRV? Welche Auswirkungen können im europäischen Raum beobachtet werden? Und welche Faktoren beeinflussen diese Auswirkungen? Die hier diskutierten Daten und Befunde stammen aus dem von der Hans-Böckler-Stiftung geför-derten Forschungsprojekt ""Standortperspektiven in der Automobilzulieferindustrie"", das von Martin Krzywdzinski (WZB) und Axel Schröder (WZB) gemeinsam mit Martin Schwarz-Kocher und Heinz Pfäfflin (IMU Institut) sowie Inger Korflür und Ralf Löckener (Sustain Consult) durchgeführt wurde. In die vorliegende Ausarbeitung sind viele Anregungen aus gemeinsamen Diskussionen im Projektteam eingeflossen, für die wir allen Kolleginnen und Kollegen herzlich danken."
F66|Firm Dynamics, Job Turnover, and Wage Distributions in an Open Economy|This paper explores the combined effects of reductions in trade frictions, tariffs, and firing costs on firm dynamics, job turnover, and wage distributions. It uses establishment-level data from Colombia to estimate an open economy dynamic model that links trade to job flows and wages. Counterfactual experiments imply that Colombia's integration with global product markets increased its national income at the expense of higher unemployment, greater wage inequality, and increased firm-level volatility. In contrast, contemporaneous labor market reforms dampened the increase in unemployment and aggregate job turnover. The results speak more generally to the effects of globalization on labor markets. (JEL F13, F16, F66, J31, J63, O15, O19)
F66|Foreign Workers, Foreign Multinationals, and Wages by Occupation and Sex in Malaysia’s Manufacturing Plants during the mid-1990s| This paper investigates the effects of foreign worker shares and MNE ownership on wages paid to males and female in five occupation groups in Malaysian manufacturing plants during 1994-1996, an important period coinciding with the end of the decade-long economic boom that preceded the Asian financial crisis. Random effects estimates of Mincer-type equations by occupation group and sex in large samples of all industries and in seven industry-level samples both suggest that use of foreign workers generally had insignificant effects on plant wages for most occupation-sex-(and industry) combinations. When significant, these estimates suggested that plants with relatively large shares of same sex-same occupation foreign worker shares tended to pay relatively high wages to relatively high wages to high-wage workers but relatively low wages to low-wage workers. The few significant effects of foreign workers of the different sex and same occupation and in different occupations were less systematic. Conditional MNE-local wage differentials were almost always positive when significant. Results from large samples of all industries combined indicate a strong tendency for MNEs to pay relatively high wages. However, allowing all slope coefficients to vary among seven industry groups suggests that MNE-local differentials were almost always insignificant in three industries and consistently significant in only one.
F66|Global value chains: new evidence and implications|The workshop entitled 'Global Value Chains: new evidence and implications' was held in Rome on the 22nd of June 2015. The workshop presented the results of a research project carried out by a group of economists from the Bank's Directorate General for Economics, Statistics and Research. The first session focuses on the structure of global value chains and how they function in the euro area economies. The second and third sessions examine the implications of global value chains on competitiveness and economic performance, respectively. The last session concentrates on specific countries, regions and firms.
F66|Quantifying the productivity effects of global sourcing|This work analyses the effect of the global sourcing of intermediate goods on productivity growth. To identify the impact of global sourcing, we employ the methodology proposed in a different context by Rajan and Zingales (1998). In particular we interact the length and the width of sectoral production chains with a measure of the intensity of countries’ intermediate imports. We find evidence indicating that off-shoring significantly increases labour productivity and total factor productivity at the sector level in countries that rely on global sourcing. The driver of total factor productivity growth depends on the structure of the global value chain that intermediates are sourced from: long chains trigger technology improvements while wide chains cause a reallocation of resources towards more productive firms within the same sector.
F66|Global Engagement, Complex Tasks and the Distribution of Occupational Employment|Building on a framework introduced by Chaney and Ossa (2013), we construct a task-based model of the firm’s choice of occupational inputs to examine how that choice varies with greater global engagement. We depart from Chaney and Ossa by assuming that more complex tasks are more costly to complete. Within the structure of our model, firms skew employment toward occupations engaged in more complex tasks. Moreover, the distribution of employment is more skewed for more globalized firms, while it is less skewed for larger firms. These results are consistent with our empirical findings in Davidson, et al (2015).<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F66|Wealth Heterogeneity and the Income Elasticity of Migration|How do income shocks affect international migration flows from poor countries? Income growth not only increases the opportunity cost of migration but also eases liquidity constraints. I develop a method to separate these countervailing individual effects and identify the overall income elasticity of migration. Using new administrative and census data from Indonesia, I find that positive agricultural income shocks increase labor emigration flows, particularly in villages with relatively more small landholders. However, in the most developed rural areas, persistent income shocks reduce emigration. Overall, the findings highlight the important role of wealth heterogeneity in shaping migration flows as incomes rise.
F66|The March of the Techies: Technology, Trade, and Job Polarization in France, 1994-2007|"Using administrative employee-firm-level data on the entire private sector from 1994 to 2007, we show that the labor market in France has polarized: employment shares of high and low wage occupations have grown, while middle wage occupations have shrunk. During the same period, the share of hours worked in technology-related occupations (""techies"") grew substantially, as did imports and exports, and we explore the causal links between these trends. Our paper is among the first to analyze polarization in any country using firm-level data, and we show how polarization occurred within firms, but mostly due to changes in the composition of firms (between firms). Motivated by the fact that technology adoption is mediated by technically qualified managers and technicians, we use a new measure of the propensity of a firm to adopt new technology: its employment share of techies. Using the subsample of firms that are active over the whole period, we show that firms with more techies in 2002 saw greater polarization, and grew faster, from 2002 to 2007. Offshoring reduced employment growth. Among blue- collar workers in manufacturing, importing caused skill upgrading while exporting caused skill downgrading. To control for the endogeneity of firm-level techies and trade in 2002, we use values of techies and trade from 1994 to 1998 as instruments. We conclude that technological change, mediated through techies, is an important cause of polarization in France. Firm-level trade had important effects in manufacturing."
F66|Workers Beneath the Floodgates: Low-Wage Import Competition and Workers' Adjustment|Using employee-employer matched data for the period 1999 to 2010, I analyze the impact of a low-wage trade shock on manufacturing workers in a high-wage country, Denmark, and how they adjust to the shock over a decade. To derive causal effects I exploit the dismantling of import quotas on Chinese products with China’s accession to the WTO as a quasi-experiment and utilize within-industry, within-occupation heterogeneity in workers’ exposure to this trade shock. Showing significant negative effect on workers’ earnings and employment trajectories over the decade, the study identifies job instability in the service sector as a main adjustment friction which is concentrated among workers with manufacturing specific education and occupation. The results establish the importance of specific human capital in trade adjustment and provide evidence of skill upgrading at the individual level as workers re-build lost human capital through education.
F66|The March of the Techies: Technology, Trade, and Job Polarization in France, 1994-2007|"Using administrative employee-firm-level data on the entire private sector from 1994 to 2007, we show that the labor market in France has polarized: employment shares of high and low wage occupations have grown, while middle wage occupations have shrunk. During the same period, the share of hours worked in technology-related occupations (""techies"") grew substantially, as did imports and exports, and we explore the causal links between these trends. Our paper is among the first to analyze polarization in any country using firm-level data, and we show how polarization occured within firms, but mostly due to changes in the composition of firms (between firms). Motivated by the fact that technology adoption is mediated by technically qualified managers and technicians, we use a new measure of the propensity of a firm to adopt new technology: its employment share of techies. Using the subsample of firms that are active over the whole period, we show that firms with more techies in 2002 saw greater polarization, and grew faster, from 2002 to 2007. Offshoring reduced employment growth. Among blue-collar workers in manufacturing, importing caused skill upgrading while exporting caused skill downgrading. To control for the endogeneity of firm-level techies and trade in 2002, we use values of techies and trade from 1994 to 1998 as instruments. We conclude that technological change, mediated through techies, is an important cause of polarization in France. Firm-level trade had important effects in manufacturing."
F66|The political economy of income distribution: industry level evidence from Austria|Austria has experienced one of the steepest declines in the wage share in comparison to other European countries with a fall from 66.2% in its peak in 1978 to 52.8% in 2007 before the recession, and as of 2015 with a level of 55.5% it is 10.6%-point below its peak. We find that union density has had the strongest impact in Austria, explaining 85.1 percent of the average decline of the wage share (based on our estimations for the period of during 1996-2007). We also find a sizeable negative effect of intermediate imports (international outsourcing) and some negative effect of outward FDI as well as financialisation measured by household debt and financial payments (interest and dividend payments and income as a ratio to total resources of nonfinancial corporations). The negative impact of technology (measured by ICT capital intensity as a ratio to value added in the sector) is relatively smaller and not always significant. Results indicate that migration has had a very strong positive effect on the wage share. Increasing imports of capital and consumption goods have also had sizeable positive effects. The strategy of an equality-led development requires labour market policies aiming at pre-distribution as well as redistribution. These include strengthening the bargaining power of labour, ensuring higher collective bargaining coverage, enforcing gender equality, introducing and enforcing pay ratios to moderate wage inequality, and restoring the progressivity of the tax system.
F66|The impact of the economic crisis on the changes in industrial relations in the countries of the Central and Eastern Europe|Enlargement of the European Union in 2004 significantly increased the diversity of industrial relations among the countries of the EU. In comparison with the countries of the former EU-15, the new Member States in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) were characterized by weaker trade unions, faster decline in union density, lower coverage of collective bargaining and their greater decentralization, and by the lack of statutory forms of information and consultation of employees at company level. The main aim of this paper is to examine the impact of the economic crisis on institutions shaping industrial relations in the CEE countries during the period 2008–2014. This article will answer the question if the crisis has accelerated the convergence of industrial relations, or even the opposite — further deepened the existing differences and what the responses of social partners on the crisis were. The paper uses theoretical and conceptual analysis methods based on a survey of literature and statistics (especially from ICTWSS data base and EU-linked sources such as ETUI and EIRO).
F66|The Effects of Trade Policy|The last two decades have witnessed a shift in the focus of international trade research from trade policy to other forms of trade frictions (e.g., transportation, information and communication costs). Implicit in this development is the widespread view that trade policy no longer matters. We confront this view by critically examining a large body of evidence on the effects of trade policy on economically important outcomes. We focus on actual as opposed to hypothetical policy changes. We begin with a discussion of the methodological challenges one faces in the measurement of trade policy and identification of its causal effects. We then discuss the evidence on the effects of trade policy on a series of outcomes that include: (1) aggregate outcomes, such as trade volumes (and their price and quantity subcomponents), the extensive margin of trade, and static, aggregate gains from trade; (2) firm and industry performance, i.e., productivity, costs, and markups; (3) labor markets, i.e., wages, employment, and wage inequality; (4) long-run aggregate growth and poverty, secondary distortions and misallocation, uncertainty. We conclude that the perception that trade policy is no longer relevant arises to a large extent from the inability to precisely measure the various forms of non-tariff barriers that have replaced tariffs as the primary tools of trade policy. Better measurement is thus an essential prerequisite of policy-relevant research in the future. Despite measurement challenges and scant evidence on the impact of actual policy changes, existing evidence when properly interpreted points to large effects of trade policy on economically relevant outcomes, especially when trade policy interacts with other developments, e.g., technological change. We point to areas and opportunities for further research and draw lessons from the past to apply to future studies.
F66|Globalization and Wage Inequality|Globalization has been blamed for rising inequality in rich and poor countries. Yet the views of many protagonists in this debate are not based on evidence. To help form an evidence-based opinion, I review in this paper the theoretical and empirical literature on the relationship between globalization and wage inequality. While the initial analysis that started in the early 1990s focused on a particular mechanism that links trade to wages, subsequent studies have considered several other channels, and the quantitative assessment of the size of these influences has been carried out in multiple studies. Building on this research, I conclude that trade played an appreciable role in increasing wage inequality, but that its cumulative effect has been modest, and that globalization does not explain the preponderance of the rise in wage inequality within countries.
F66|Disentangling the Wage Impacts of Offshoring on a Developing Country: Theory and Policy|The various channels through which a reduction in the cost of offshoring can improve wages in a developed country are by now well understood. But does a similar reduction in the offshoring cost also benefit workers in the world's factories in developing countries? Using a parsimonious two-country model of offshoring we find very nuanced results. These include cases where wages monotonically improve or worsen as well as those where wages exhibit an inverted U-shaped relationship in response to parametric reductions in the cost of offshoring. We identify qualitative conditions under which wages and welfare increase or decrease in the developing world as a result of a reduction in offshoring costs. Since global welfare always rises with an improvement in offshoring technology, we find that there is a role for a wage tax or a minimum wage in the developing country. We derive the optimal levels of such policies.
F66|Does Foreign Direct Investment Affect Industrial Workers? Evidence from Kingdom of Saudi Arabia|This paper aims at determining the essential variables that affect the employment of industrial workers in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) by focusing on the role of foreign direct investment as an indicator of financial openness. By using the methodology of the autoregressive distributed lag (ADRL) to identify the impacts on both the short and long run during the period (1990-2014), it turns out that foreign direct investment does not have a positive impact on the employment of industrial workers which is contrary to the hypothesis of the study. The empirical results have shown that there is a positive and significant impact of both exports and inflation on industrial employment on the long run only. Thus, the current paper is important in the decision making concerning investment and labor market in KSA.
F66|Romanian Immigrants from the United States of America: Book Review|This paper is a review of an important Romanian book, regarding the international problem of the migration with all its influence factors. Thus, the author begins from a general view and brings into discussion a particular case: Romanians from the USA.
F66|Low-skill offshoring and welfare compensation policies|We analyze the effects of low-skill offshoring on welfare. In the context of a matching model with different possible equilibria we discuss three alternative policies that could potentially outweigh the negative welfare effects of offshoring, namely, a change of the unemployment benefits, labor market flexibility, and a progressive tax structure. Our calibrations for the German economy suggest that increased flexibility can bring low-skill workers to pre-offshoring welfare levels, something that cannot be accomplished by meddling with the unemployment benefits scheme or a more progressive tax structure. In addition, we find that a full compensation can be achieved by an upgrading of low-skill workers, its size depending on the type of equilibrium involved. In sum, our analysis gives support to labor market flexibility and upgrading by education as best therapies for offshoring.
F66|Euro, crisis and unemployment: Youth patterns, youth policies?|This paper examines the occurrence of structural breaks in European unemployment associated with major institutional events. We uncover different responses of adult and youth unemployment rates. While adult unemployment is more prone to experience structural breaks, youth unemployment is more sensitive to business cycle oscillations, especially in the recent crisis. This calls for fine tuning policy measures specifically targeted to youth unemployed in bad times. One important implication of our findings is that generic labour market reforms are not effective enough to solve the youth unemployment problem. Educational policies raising average qualifications and helping school-to-work transitions are suitable complementary cures.
F66|The effects of import competition on worker health|Occupational health is an important determinant of workers' welfare. Existing mechanisms and evidence from the international trade and occupational safety literatures combine to predict that import competition impacts work place injuries, especially at small firms that are most affected by foreign imports. We examine this prediction with novel data on injuries at US manufacturers using Chinese import growth in 1996–2007 as a shock to competition. The data show that injury rates in the competing US industries increase over the short to medium run, particularly at smaller establishments. Back-of-the-envelope calculations show that injury risk increases by 13% at the smallest establishments, the equivalent of a 1% to 2% reduction in workers' wages.
F66|Globalization and risk averse workers: The roles of labor market and trade policies|This paper studies the implications of globalization for aggregate output and welfare when risk averse workers face the risk of unemployment. The impact of globalization on the welfare of workers and aggregate output depends on the degree of substitutability between domestic workers and imported inputs. When the degree of substitutability is high (low), then globalization reduces (increases) wages and increases (reduces) unemployment. Irrespective of the substitutability, free trade doesn’t maximize the aggregate output. A small tariff (import subsidy) increases aggregate output when the substitutability is low (high), however, it can exacerbate the distributional conflict. Domestic labor market policies such as unemployment benefits and severance payments can protect workers against labor income risk but the firing restrictions do not. Free trade is optimal when labor market policies provide insurance against unemployment.
F66|The Multinational Wage Premium and Wage Dynamics|Using detailed administrative data linking French firms and workers over the years 2002-2007, we document a distinct U-shaped pattern in worker-level wages surrounding the time their employer is acquired by a foreign firm, with a dip in earnings observed in years just before domestic firms switch to MNE status. The dip in earnings is evident in both wages and in-kind payments given to workers. To guide our empirical approach, we present a simple model with fair wage considerations among workers and endogenous cross-border acquisition activity that predicts this U-shaped pattern, and characterizes the selection of domestic targets for acquisition by an MNE.
F66|Offshoring in Developing Countries: Labor Market Outcomes, Welfare, and Policy|Does a reduction in offshoring cost benefit workers in the world's factories in developing countries? Using a parsimonious two-country model of offshoring we find very nuanced results. These include cases where wages monotonically improve, worsen, as well as where wages exhibit an inverted U-shaped relationship with the offshoring cost. We identify qualitative conditions under which these relationships hold. Since global welfare always rises with an improvement in offshoring technology, we find that there is a role for a wage tax or a minimum wage in the developing country. We derive the optimal levels of such policies.
F66|The effects of offshoring to low-wage countries on domestic wages: a worldwide industrial analysis|Abstract This paper extends the literature on the implications of offshoring for labour markets by investigating its effect on the wages of different skill groups in a broad global context. The analysis draws on input–output data from the WIOD project, and in the panel analysed (13 manufacturing industries, 40 countries, 1995–2009) we account for up to 96 % of the international trade in manufacturing inputs. Being particularly interested in the wage effects of offshoring to low-wage countries (LWC), we use precise LWC classifications (varying across industries and time) to decompose overall offshoring by source country. We use a decomposition of the conventional offshoring measure in order to capture its pure international component, which is further instrumented using a gravity-based strategy. According to the estimation results, the negative impact of offshoring on wages mainly concerns low and medium skilled workers. However, in terms of magnitude, the downward pressure on domestic wages exhibited by offshoring to LWC is relatively small.
F66|Determinants of the wage share: a cross-country comparison using sectoral data|There has been a significant decline in the share of wages in GDP in both developed and developing countries since the 1980s. This paper analyses the determinants of the wage share (labour compensation as a ratio to value added) using sectoral data with country specific estimations for selected OECD countries. We compile a comprehensive sector-level dataset of eight OECD countries (Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Sweden, the UK, the US) for the period of 1970 to 2011, which allows us to trace the developments in the wage share across high and low skilled sectors and within manufacturing and service industries. Our findings provide new insights with regard to the drivers of falling wage share. By conducting country specific estimations, we analyse how institutional differences in industrial relations, as well as social security and welfare regimes affect the wage share. Our findings lend strong support to the political economy approach to functional income distribution. Technological change had an impact, especially in Italy, the US and for the total country sample, but the effects are not robust with respect to the use of different specifications and the wage share in most countries in our sample appears to be driven by variables reflecting the bargaining power of labour such as union density, adjusted bargaining coverage and government spending. The relevance of these variables differs considerably across countries, lending support to our approach of country specific estimations. We find that globalisation had a strong impact on the wage share in all countries. The effect of globalisation on the wage share was least strong in Denmark. In Germany, and to a lesser extent in the UK, the effect is due to outward FDI and intermediate import penetration which reflects the impact of international outsourcing practices. Intermediate imports penetrations had no significant impact in Spain while FDI played a smaller role in France and the US. Different institutional variables appear to be relevant for each country. Germany exhibits the most robust positive effect of union density on the wage share. Conversely, collective bargaining coverage, together with social government spending, plays a more important role in France, the UK and the US. Financialisation had the most pronounced effect in the UK and the US, while it appears to be also relevant in Germany. We find mixed results for the effect of personal income inequality on the wage share. However, there is indicative confirmation for a negative effect in Germany, the UK and the US.
F66|The political economy of income distribution: industry level evidence from Austria|Austria has experienced one of the steepest declines in the wage share in comparison to other European countries with a fall from 66.2% in its peak in 1978 to 52.8% in 2007 before the recession, and as of 2015 with a level of 55.5% it is 10.6%-point below its peak. We find that union density has had the strongest impact in Austria, explaining 85.1 percent of the average decline of the wage share (based on our estimations for the period of during 1996-2007). We also find a sizeable negative effect of intermediate imports (international outsourcing) and some negative effect of outward FDI as well as financialisation measured by household debt and financial payments (interest and dividend payments and income as a ratio to total resources of nonfinancial corporations). The negative impact of technology (measured by ICT capital intensity as a ratio to value added in the sector) is relatively smaller and not always significant. Results indicate that migration has had a very strong positive effect on the wage share. Increasing imports of capital and consumption goods have also had sizeable positive effects. The strategy of an equality-led development requires labour market policies aiming at pre-distribution as well as redistribution. These include strengthening the bargaining power of labour, ensuring higher collective bargaining coverage, enforcing gender equality, introducing and enforcing pay ratios to moderate wage inequality, and restoring the progressivity of the tax system.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
F66|Laws, Costs, Norms, and Learning: Improving Working Conditions in Developing Countries|Working conditions in developing countries, such as those associated with the 2013 Rana Plaza collapse in Bangladesh, remain stubbornly low despite strict laws regulating hours, pay practices and occupational safety and health. Recent theoretic and empirical work suggests that norms and learning may play a significant role in determining conditions. We exploit the natural experiment of Cambodia's 15-year experience with the Better Factories Cambodia program to identify variation that reveals the relative contributions of laws, costs, norms, and learning in improving working conditions in Cambodia. The results suggest that policies that follow from the learning hypothesis may be the most effective at improving working conditions in the long run.
F66|Tracking wage inequality trends with prices and different trade models: evidence from Mexico|Abstract Mexican wage inequality rose following Mexico’s accession to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade/World Trade Organization in 1986. Since the mid-1990s, however, wage inequality has been falling. Since most trade models suggest that output prices can affect factor prices, this paper explores the relationship between output prices and wage inequality. A Salter–Swan trade model with firm heterogeneity driven by variations in the relative price of tradable relative to non-tradable goods can explain the decline in wage inequality. The paper compares this model’s predictions with Mexican inequality statistics using data on output prices, census data, and quarterly household survey data. In spite of the model’s simplicity, the model’s predictions match Mexican variables reasonably well during the years when wage inequality fell.
F66|Offshoring, Endogenous Skill Decision, and Labor Market Outcomes|We discuss the effects of low-skill offshoring on the endogenous schooling decision of workers along with the potential changes in the labor market. The analysis is performed in the context of a matching model with different possible equilibria. Our exercise suggests that the endogenous adjustment of low-skill workers can only partially offset the welfare-deteriorating effects of offshoring. As a result, we aim at restoring welfare by increasing the opportunity cost of staying low-skill. In addition to this, we also consider labor flexibility as an effective policy to deal with the adverse welfare effects of offshoring that befall those in the lowest end of the skill ladder.
F66|Islamism and Gender Relations in the Muslim World as Reflected in Recent World Values Survey Data|"Ever since Goldin (1995) proposed the idea that there is a U-shaped female labor force participation rate function in economic development, empirical research is stunned by the question why the countries of the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) are characterized by such low rates of female labor force participation. This gap in labor economics research is all the more perplexing since gender equality, particularly in education and employment, significantly contributes to economic growth. The research strategy of the present paper is within a relatively new tradition in labor market research, initiated by the recent article by Besamusca, Tijdens, Keune and Steinmetz (2015), which does not exclude anymore the ""religious factor"" and what these authors call ""gender ideology"". Our analysis of the ""gender ideology"" of Islamism and gender values is based on an empirical analysis of World Values Survey data. In recent economic theory, Carvalho (2013) maintained that Muslim veiling is a strategy for integration, enabling women to take up outside economic opportunities while preserving their reputation within the community. The empirical data clearly support a pessimistic view. We show that Muslim Feminism, which implies according to our data analysis the rejection of the twin brothers - Islamism and the veil - and the democracy movement in the Muslim world are closely interrelated. Thus, it is imperative that Western Feminism develops solidarity with Muslim Feminism, and that labor economics does not exclude anymore ""the religious factor"" from the analytical frameworks explaining low female labor force participation rates."
F66|Disentangling the Wage Impacts of Offshoring On a Developing Country: Theory and Policy|The various channels through which a reduction in the cost of offshoring can improve wages in a developed country are by now well understood. But does a similar reduction in the offshoring cost also benefit workers in the world's factories in developing countries? Using a parsimonious two-country model of offshoring we find very nuanced results. These include cases where wages monotonically improve or worsen as well as those where wages exhibit an inverted U-shaped relationship in response to parametric reductions in the cost of offshoring. We identify qualitative conditions under which wages and welfare increase or decrease in the developing world as a result of a reduction in offshoring costs. Since global welfare always rises with an improvement in offshoring technology, we find that there is a role for a wage tax or a minimum wage in the developing country. We derive the optimal levels of such policies.
F66|Labor clauses in regional trade agreements and effects on labor conditions : an empirical analysis|"An increasing number of bilateral or plurilateral trade agreements (or regional trade agreements: RTAs) include ""labor clauses"" that require or urge the signatory countries to commit to maintaining a certain level of labor standards. This paper performs an empirical analysis of the impacts of such labor clauses provided in RTAs on working conditions that laborers in the RTA signatory countries actually face, using macro-level data for a wide variety of countries. The paper first examines the texts of labor provisions in more than 220 effective RTAs and (re-)classifies ""RTAs with labor clauses"" according to two criteria: (i) the agreement urges or expects the signatory countries to harmonize their domestic labor standards with internationally recognized standards, and (ii) the agreement stipulates the procedures for consultations and/or dispute settlement on labor-condition issues between the signatory countries. Based on this labor-clause RTA classification, the paper estimates the impacts of RTA labor clauses on working conditions in countries with two empirical specifications using the sample covering 136 countries or economies and years from 1995 through 2011. The estimation is extended to takes into account possible lags in the labor-condition effects of labor clauses as well as to consider potential difference in the impacts for countries in different income levels. The empirical results for the four measures of labor conditions (mean monthly real earnings, mean weekly work hours per employee, fatal occupational injury rate, and the number of the ILO's Core Conventions ratified) find no evidence for possible pro-labor-condition effects of RTA labor clauses overall, which should be consistent with the view of economics literature that questions the relevance of linking trade policy with issues in the domestic labor standards."
F66|A model of temporary and permanent jobs and trade|This paper proposes a monopolistic competition model in which firms facing demand uncertainty use both permanent and temporary workers to evade the labor adjustment costs associated with permanent workers, and explores links between the demand for temporary and permanent workers and economic globalization. The model highlights intensified product market competition as a driving force behind the shift in demand from permanent to temporary workers. In addition, our model shows that international outsourcing effectively reduces labor adjustment costs, which decreases the demand for permanent workers. We empirically test these links using industry-level data from the Japanese manufacturing sector. We find a positive correlation between foreign outsourcing and the replacement of permanent workers with temporary workers in domestic production. Additionally, we find that industries losing their global share of value-added tend to decrease their employment of permanent workers and increase the proportions of temporary workers.
F66|Optimal Trade Policy, Equilibrium Unemployment and Labor Market Inefficiency|Abstract Why do politicians advocate trade protections to save domestic jobs when neoclassical trade models suggest that small open economies should implement free trade? The novel insight of this paper is that trade protections can be rationalized as a second-best policy that improves the domestic welfare when the equilibrium unemployment is different from the constrain-efficient unemployment. To understand the puzzle, I incorporate a Diamond-Mortensen-Pissarides frictional labor market into the standard Heckscher-Ohlin model of international trade. The model offers four main findings. First, when the relative price of the labor (capital)-intensive good increases, equilibrium unemployment decreases (increases). Second, a labor market in a competitive equilibrium is constrained-efficient when the Hosios condition is satisfied. Third, a capital-abundant country with inefficiently high unemployment may experience welfare losses from trade. Conditional on having the same observed trade share, a labor-abundant country with inefficiently high unemployment have extra welfare gains from international trade. Finally and importantly, when the labor market in a small open economy generates inefficiently high equilibrium unemployment, the optimal trade policy is to raise the domestic price of its labor-intensive goods (an import tariff in a capital-abundant country and an export subsidy in a labor-abundant country). Free trade is optimal only when a labor market is initially efficient. The model predictions are supported by patterns of tariffs in WTO member countries.
F66|Determinants of Wage Equalization in Chile from 1996 to 2006: Decomposition Approach|In this paper, we analyse the determinants of wage equalisation in Chile during the commodity boom from 1996 to 2006. For this purpose, we take advantage of a methodology recently developed by Firpo, et al. (2009), which enabled us to apply the standard Blinder–Oaxaca type decomposition approach to the quantile regression technique. Our study finds three main channels for the wage equalisation witnessed from 1996 to 2006: (1) the decreasing share of the workers with primary education as well as the increase in their relative wages across the whole wage distribution, (2) the decreasing returns to higher education, especially the university level, at the top of the wage distribution, and (3) the increasing industry wage premiums of the primary commodity sectors such as agriculture and forestry at the bottom of the wage distribution. The findings indicate that the wage equalisation can be explained by the Stolper–Samuelson effect and the increasing relative supply of higher educated workers, both of which dominate the possible upward pressure on the wages of higher educated workers, derived from skill-biased technological changes (SBTCs).
F66|Skilled Labor Mobility in the ASEAN Economic Community (AEC): Experience from Thailand Labor Market|Skilled labor mobility in the ASEAN Economic Community (AEC) plays an important issue in labor market due to the impact of globalization, especially increasing demand for high technology and integration among region. This impact leads free movement of workers among employer in service sectors, foreign investment and need more demand for skilled labor. Moreover, AEC blueprint in 2015 outlined to moves forward to free flow of skilled labor achieve strategic goal of single market and production base. These included facilitate the issuance of visas and employment passes; mutual recognition arrangements (MRAs) for major professional service; core concordance of service skills and qualifications; and enhance cooperation among ASEAN universities to increase region mobility for student and staff. To achieve the free flow of skilled labor in AEC member countries many issue have been discussed such as the mutual recognition arrangement (MRAs) for major professional services and core competencies for job skills required in the priority integration services (PIS) sectors (ASEAN Economic Community Blueprint: 2012). The objective of the study is to determine the impact of AEC on Thai labor market by using the comparison of labor immigration in AEC member countries. The paper provides a description of (a) currently govern the cross-country labor movement within ASEAN for skilled workers: and b) the analytical framework that support the discussion in deriving the recommendations that there are already experiences on these types of worker movements. The finding of Thai labor market has found in two characteristics: shortage of professionals and technicians and unskilled and semi-skilled labor.
F66|Trade integration and inter-sectoral reallocation of workers in Colombia, 1986-2006|This paper investigates empirically the impact of the deepening trade integration of Colombia on the transitions of workers across sectors, and then the effect of these transitions on aggregate productivity. Using microdata on workers, I find that the evolution of trade integration induced net flows of workers towards less productive sectors, resulting in a negative impact on aggregate productivity. While this effect of the increasing trade integration on inter-sectoral transitions is statistically identifiable among the whole sample of workers, it is actually driven by the subsample of least educated workers. A one-standard deviation change in the variation of the trade integration indicator raises the probability of moving to a less productive sector by more than three percentage points for the whole sample, whereas the probability raises by five percentage points within the subsample of least educated workers
F66|Trade liberalization and employment effects in Indian manufacturing: An empirical assessment|The purpose of the study is to examine the impact of international trade on manufacturing employment in India over 2004-2011. The theoretical literature suggests that trade affects the demand for labour through scale, composition and process effects. Since India is largely a labourabundant country, its comparative advantage rests in labour intensive manufacturing. However, the study finds that since the onset of reforms, production and trade specialisation has been biased towards capital-intensive production and, therefore has failed to absorb the vast pool of labour resources. The study finds that in general the labour demand elasticity has fallen in the global economic crisis period except for skilled workers. The export orientation has a relatively greater impact on employment, especially for skilled workers in the crisis period. The overall impact was negative during the crisis. The survey of selected manufacturing firms shows that trade costs are higher for labour-intensive firms.
F66|The effect of developing countries' competition on regional labour markets in Portugal|Portuguese trade with developing countries rose 564% in the last 20 years and China became in 2014 the 8th most important importer among all trade partners. At the same time, Portugal witnessed its manufacturing employment decreasing 34%. Using a sample of persons employed in enterprises between 2004 and 2012, I show whether regions more exposed to Chinese import competition face a larger decline in manufacturing employment. My results show that an increase of 1000 EUR in imports per worker throughout the period considered causes a decrease in the share of manufacturing employment in the working age population by approximately 0.12 percentage points or a decline of 0.431 log points. Moreover, my estimations did not show a clear conclusion about the impact of import competition on non-manufacturing employment and on whether people move to other regions in response to a trade shock, but they indicate a rise in unemployment.
F66|Globalization and Wage Inequality|Globalization has been blamed for rising inequality in rich and poor countries. Yet the views of many protagonists in this debate are not based on evidence. To help form an evidence-based opinion, I review in this paper the theoretical and empirical literature on the relationship between globalization and wage inequality. While the initial analysis that started in the early 1990s focused on a particular mechanism that links trade to wages, subsequent studies have considered several other channels, and the quantitative assessment of the size of these influences has been carried out in multiple studies. Building on this research, I conclude that trade played an appreciable role in increasing wage inequality, but that its cumulative effect has been modest, and that globalization does not explain the preponderance of the rise in wage inequality within countries.
F66|Accounting for technology, trade and final consumption in employment: an Input-Output decomposition|What are the driving forces of changes in employment in France over the last thirty years and how can we explain skill-biased changes in employment? Based on Input-Output analysis we provide a decomposition of changes in employment between the contributions of three channels : technology, trade and final consumption. Our goal is to assess these contributions to employment changes by skill level over the period 1982-2010. Our analysis builds on textbook methodologies of structural decomposition, but innovative data: INSEEs Input-Output tables both in current and previous year prices, based on the new ESA2010 concepts. Our main findings are that technology shows marked skill-bias, whereas trade and final consumption have limited skill-bias effects. The development of high-technology manufacturing and R&D over the last thirty years mainly contributes to this skill-biased change in employment. We find a positive contribution of trade to employment at every skill level.
F66|Quantifying the Effects of Trade Liberalisation in Brazil: A Computable General Equilibrium Model (CGE) Simulation|Brazil remains a fairly closed economy, with small trade flows relative to its share of world income. This paper explores the effects of three possible policy reforms to strengthen Brazil’s integration into global trade: a reduction in import tariffs, less local content requirements and a full zero-rating of exports in indirect taxes. A simulation analysis using the OECD Multi-Region Trade CGE model suggests that current policies are holding back exports, production and investment in Brazil. The model simulations suggest significant scope for trade policy reforms to strengthen industrial development and export competitiveness. Results also show that the expansion of investment and production would be accompanied by significant employment gains. Moreover, employment growth is higher for low-skilled occupations, implying that a major trade and tax policy reform aiming at liberalising trade flows would particularly help those at the lower end of the income distribution. L'impact de la libéralisation du commerce au Brésil : Modélisation EGC et simulations Le Brésil reste une économie relativement fermée, avec des flux commerciaux faibles par rapport à sa part dans le revenu mondial. Ce document examine les effets de trois reformes politiques qui permettraient au Brésil de renforcer son intégration dans le commerce mondial: une baisse des barrières tarifaires à l’importation, une réduction des exigences en contenu local et un taux zéro sur les impôts indirects pour les exportations. L’analyse de simulations utilisant le modèle EGC de commerce Multi-Régions de l'OCDE suggère que les politiques actuelles freinent les exportations, la production et l’investissement au Brésil. Les simulations du modèle suggèrent un rôle important pour des réformes de la politique commerciale visant à renforcer le développement industriel et la compétitivité des exportations. Les résultats suggèrent aussi que l'expansion de l’investissement et de la production serait accompagnée par des gains d’emplois significatifs. En outre, la croissance de l'emploi serait plus élevée pour les emplois peu qualifiés, ce qui implique qu’une réforme majeure des politiques commerciales et fiscales visant à libéraliser le commerce aiderait particulièrement les populations aux plus faibles revenus.
F66|Using Foreign Factors to Enhance Domestic Export Performance: A Focus on Southeast Asia|A country or firm's position in the value chain will largely depend on its comparative advantage, and therefore the mix of skills and resource endowments it brings to international production. For some, this might initially involve specialising in the labour intensive segments while others may specialise in the high-tech elements. In either case what matters is whether participation leads to growing economic activity. This paper discusses how countries can use foreign value added to enhance their domestic export performance. It shows that foreign sourcing is a complement to, rather than substitute for, the creation of domestic value added and employment in exports highlighting how, with GVCs, export competitiveness is inextricably linked to importing. The paper discusses how ASEAN countries can leverage different policies in order to make the most out of GVCs.
F66|Does Access to Foreign Markets Shape Internal Migration? Evidence from Brazil|This paper investigates how internal migration is affected by Brazil's increased integration into the world economy. We analyze the impact of regional differences in access to foreign demand on sector-specific bilateral migration rates between the Brazilian states for the years 1995 to 2003. Using international trade data, we compute a foreign market access measure at the sectoral level, which is exogenous to domestic migration. A higher foreign market access is associated with a higher local labor demand and attracts workers via two potential channels: higher wages and new job opportunities. Our results show that both channels play a significant role in internal migration. Further, we find a heterogeneous impact across industries, according to their comparative advantage on the world market. However, the observed impact is driven by the strong reaction of low-educated workers to changes in market access. This finding is consistent with the fact that Brazil is exporting mainly goods that are intensive in unskilled labor.
F66|Female labor force participation, inequality and household well-being in the Second Globalization. The Spanish case|The 20th century has witnessed an increase in the female participation force in Western countries, especially since 1940s. Explanations behind the more intensive use of female labour are of different nature: globalization forces, the relative female/male wage linked to an increase in education and productivity, the tertiarization of the economy, and other institutional and cultural factors that allow women to control fertility, invest in assets other than the family ones and alter female bargaining power. Since these phenomena are complex and might respond to specific reasons and timing in different countries, it is important to advance on country case studies in a comparative basis. While in other Western countries the increase in female labor participation started to be significant in the 1960s and 1970s, Spanish female activity rates started to rise dramatically in the 1980s, concurrently with the deep integration of Spain in international markets, especially through the entry in the European Union in 1986. In this paper, we will analyze the reasons behind the decalage in female labor force participation in Spain after WWII in comparison with other Western countries, and the subsequent catching up from the 1980s in order to determine the level of influence of Spanish integration in international markets, as well as other economic, institutional and cultural factors.
F66|Occidentalism, terrorism, and the Shari’a state: new multivariate perspectives on Islamism based on international survey data|Our article attempts to be yet another empirical contribution to the evolving international debate about global Islamist terrorism. We rely on the analysis of PEW and World Values Survey data from Muslim publics in different countries around the globe to analyze by multivariate promax factor analysis and standard OLS multiple regression which factors contributed to the approval or the rejection of terrorist acts, measured by such variables as the opinion on suicide bombing, Shari’a law and the favorability of terrorist organizations such as Hamas and Hezbollah. We also analyze the drivers of general opinions on Islamic extremist groups and reactions to the ambitions of Iran and its nuclear program. We arrive at the conclusion that it would be wrong to define radical Islamism only in terms of the identification with outright support for the immediate “bomb-throwing terror”, while neglecting the underlying ideological and dangerous radicalism and also ongoing radicalization of such organizations as the Muslim Brotherhood or the Turkish Milli Görüs, which both start, like the most radicalized factions of Islamist terrorism, from the intense hatred of “Jews and Free Masons” and Western civilization as such, and which for many on both sides of the Atlantic appear as “moderate Islamists” and worthy partners of dialogue, while in reality they provide the fertile ground from which the armed terrorist groups only can develop. We highlight the role of the omnipresent hatred of America and the West which we term “Occidentalism”, but also the intense competition between Islamist and secular, Marxist terror groups which still exist in the Middle East and the entire Muslim world, and the Sunni/Shia competition as well as regional quests for hegemony. With Bassam Tibi we also analyze the close connection between the Islamist sharia ideology and the overall aspects of Islamism. Based on PEW data, we show that the two main drivers of Muslim opposition against suicide bombing are the rejection of honor killing and the death penalty against Muslims who chose to leave the Muslim community altogether. Our promax factor analyses confirm the relevance of this approach.
F66|Doğrudan Yabancı Yatırımlar Kadın İstihdamını Artırır mı? Türkiye’de Hizmetler Sektörüne Yakından Bakış<BR>[Does Foreign Direct Investment Bring Jobs to Women? A Closer Look to Turkish Services Industry]|The aim of this study is to investigate of the relationship between foreign direct investment and women employment. Focusing on services sector with the highest rate of women employment, we empirically attest whether foreign direct investment creates job opportunities for women and decrease the gender inequality for women in terms of employment. Propensity Score Matching techniques and Difference-in-Difference techniques are employed to firm level data for Turkish services industry over 2003-2012. The results of the study suggest that foreign direct investment increase women employment and create good jobs for women.
F66|Trade Liberalization and Wage Inequality in the Indian Manufacturing Sector|This study analyzes the effect of reduction in input and output tariffs on the intra-plant wage inequality in India, which is one of the most unskilled labor abundant countries, for the period 2000 to 2007. We find that a reduction in output tariff increases the wage inequality, whereas a reduction in input tariff does not have any statistically significant effect on wage inequality. These results suggest that the Stolper-Samuelson effect works in the Indian manufacturing sector where unskilled labor-intensive industries were protected the most prior to trade liberalization. We also examine the effect of the increased demand for skilled workers by the modern service sector, which has been the driving force of recent economic growth in India. The increased demand raises the wage inequality in manufacturing implying that skill-biased technological change in modern service sector has an indirect effect on wage inequality in this sector.
F66|Offshoring medium-skill tasks, low-skill unemployment and the skill-wage structure|This paper studies the direct and indirect channels through which offshoring affects the domestic skillwage structure and employment opportunities. To identify these channels, we develop a task-based model with unemployment that accounts for skill heterogeneity and endogenous allocation of domestic tasks to skill groups and abroad. A decline in offshoring costs of medium skill-intensive tasks induces i) a specialization effect towards low and high skill-intensive tasks, explaining one source of wage polarization, ii) an internal skill-task reallocation effect, and iii) a productivity effect due to production cost reductions. The key determinants of these channels are the elasticity of substitution between domestic and offshore tasks and the elasticity of task productivity schedules between domestic skill groups and between domestic and offshore workers across tasks.
F66|Working Conditions, Work Outcomes, and Policy in Asian Developing Countries|Developing country labor practices and the working conditions that result from them are both generally poor and increasingly drawing attention from governments, corporations, and the popular media. This review provides an introduction to some of the leading academic literature and ideas that are important for understanding the persistence of poor labor practices and possible policies to address these conditions. The literature is reviewed with the goal of moving from the root causes of poor conditions to innovative solutions. Several such solutions, such as the Better Work program, are discussed.
F66|Impact of Global Value Chains on Employment in India|With Global Value Chains increasingly shaping the current economic and political landscape, it has become vital to understand their implications for developing economies. This study covers the manufacturing, services, and agricultural sectors. Moreover, it examines the industry-level impact of participation in Global Value Chains on employment growth during 1995~2011. Using methodologies of fixed effects and generalized method of moments, it analyzes how increasing Foreign Value Added in output, Foreign Value Added in exports (backward linkages), and Domestic Value Added in exports of intermediate goods (forward linkages) can affect employment growth. The results reveal that higher backward linkages have negatively influenced employment growth, more so in the nonmanufacturing industries of India. However, higher forward linkages did not have any statistically significant impact on employment. In conclusion, with higher backward linkages displacing domestic labor and higher forward linkages not being able to boost employment, the net effect of Global Value Chains participation on employment growth in Indian industries has been negative.
F66|International Competition Intensified - Job Satisfaction Sacrificed|There has been an intense debate as to the effects of offshoring and global value chains on labor, with the debate centering around possible negative employment and income effects for the low(er) skilled in advanced economies. Although sociological and psychological research has shown that income falls far too short when it comes to subjective well-being (SWB), the globalization's impact on SWB has been surprisingly under-researched. This applies in particular to job satisfaction, including of those negatively affected by seeing their real income depressed. Against this backdrop, we develop a trade model that is capable of capturing job satisfaction in conjunction with the income and distributional effects of offshoring. Contrary to a great many beliefs, our theoretical considerations suggest that those remaining employed may be more satisfied with their jobs, even if suffering from increased competition and from more tasks being offshored. Running a cross-section logistic regression model that combines information on offshoring and job satisfaction, lends support to our theoretical explanations. Accordingly, job satisfaction is on average rated higher in countries with comparatively high offshoring activities. More disaggregated regressions get to the heart of the matter, which is a change in the characteristics of the remaining jobs. Our results stand up to extensive robustness checks with respect to different specifications, measures of globalization, and even when controlling for many of the usually suspected variables with reference to SWB.
F66|Creativity, Innovation and the Perspectives of Management|This paper aims to analyse the perspectives of management starting from the current challenges and the future environmental conditions. Business models will facilitate the disappearance of the border between professional and personal life and companies will consider the improvement plan regarding the welfare of the employees and improvement measures for the monitoring, control and evaluation processes to help boost performance. Thus, the importance of the share capital and the interpersonal relationships will increase, and the human resources departments will redefine their priorities given the fact that it will be possible for the organizational network of tomorrow to be made up of employees belonging to a global network. Therefore, companies’ employees will take courses and programmes regarding the learning and development of the organizational culture, and the companies’ management will have permanent access to the evolution of employees. Actually, the main issue to be discussed here is represented by the ratio between corporate behaviour and non-corporate behaviour and the way in which the combination between these two will contribute to the increase of the organisational performance. Technology will facilitate the disappearance of the demarcation between “life at work” and “life outside of work”. Complex strategies that will identify the competence sets needed by the company will contribute to finding candidates suitable for company tasks. In the future, we can talk of people management specialists who will need increasingly more financial, analytical, marketing and risk management competences. Companies will seek to promote and support networks of people and “The Y Generation” (which considers individuals who desire “not to get lost in the crowd”, but, on the contrary, they wish to be noticed, to matter within the contexts where they evolve and, at the same time, to have a harmonious development), a fact which will require the use of technology as an interface between professional life, social life, personal life and spiritual life with an emphasis on options, the antimonopoly thinking and the process of encouraging the use of innovation within the management field.
F66|How to attract high skilled labor? Study case in the United States|This paper argues that the US immigration system is anachronistic in today?s global economy, where human capital is increasingly crucial for successful advanced economies. It argues that some consensus over reform is certainly possible, and it seeks to understand the reasons behind the failure of previous attempts at reform. It makes a thorough investigation of the dynamics of high-skill immigration to the US through a systems analysis, which is controlled for mid-long term global dynamics and key actor preferences. The systems analysis utilise the latest research in immigration economics to evaluate the relative importance and dynamics of the determinants of the US immigration system. These inputs are mapped and their interactions analysed to determine which changes in US immigration policy would be most beneficial for high-skill immigration. From this analysis, it makes a series of policy prescriptions for reforming US immigration policy to adapt to current and future trends. This policy paper primarily differentiates itself with the significant contribution of allowing policymakers to estimate and react to future trends. It also provides some practical advice on how to achieve these reforms due to its inclusion of sub-models of actor interaction informed by public policy approaches.
F66|How Important Is U.S. Location for Research in Science?|This paper asks whether being located outside the United States lowers research productivity in a data set of foreign-born, U.S.-educated scientists. Instrumenting location with visa status that requires return to home countries, we find a large negative relationship between non-U.S. location and research output for countries with low income per capita but none for countries with high income per capita. This suggests that a scientist exogenously located in a country at the top of the income distribution can expect to be as productive in research as he or she would be in the United States.
F66|Diaspora economics: new perspectives|Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to introduce a new field and suggest a new research agenda. Design/methodology/approach - Combine ethnicity, migration and international relations into a new thinking. Provide a typology of diaspora and a thorough evaluation of its role and the roles of the home and host countries. Findings - Diaspora economics is more than a new word for migration economics. It opens a new strand to political economy. Diaspora is perceived to be a well-defined group of migrants and their offspring with a joined cultural identity and ongoing identification with the country or culture of origin. This implies the potential to undermine the nation-state. Diasporas can shape policies in the host countries. Originality/value - Provide a new understanding of global human relations.
F66|Offshoring Medium-Skill Tasks, Low-Skill Unemployment and the Skill-Wage Structure|This paper studies the direct and indirect channels through which offshoring affects the domestic skillwage structure and employment opportunities. To identify these channels, we develop a task-based model with unemployment that accounts for skill heterogeneity and endogenous allocation of domestic tasks to skill groups and abroad. A decline in offshoring costs of medium skill-intensive tasks induces i) a specialization effect towards low and high skill-intensive tasks, explaining one source of wage polarization, ii) an internal skill-task reallocation effect, and iii) a productivity effect due to production cost reductions. The key determinants of these channels are the elasticity of substitution between domestic and offshore tasks and the elasticity of task productivity schedules between domestic skill groups and between domestic and offshore workers across tasks.
F66|The Panel Data Analysis of Female Labor Participation and Economic Development Relationship in Developed and Developing Countries|This study investigates the long term (structural change in the economy) determinant of female labor participation. We test the U-shape hypothesis which is developed by Boserup (1970) and Goldin (1995) for the long-term relationship between economic development and female labor participation. The dataset includes 148 countries between the different time periods from 1991 to 2014. We also divide countries into two group based on the IMF methodology: developed countries (36 advanced countries) and developing countries (112 emerging and other developing countries). This paper used both fixed effects model and system generalized method of moments (GMM) estimator developed by Arellano and Bover (1995) and Blundell and Bond (1998). Results indicate that the U-shape hypothesis is valid in developing countries independently from the estimation methodology.
F66|Jobs in global supply chains: a macroeconomic assessment|In its recent World Employment and Social Outlook, the ILO published estimates of the number of jobs related to global supply chains (GSCs) for 40 countries in 1995-2013. This paper provides a detailed description of the methodology that was used for the estimation and documents in more detail global linkages in production, becoming apparent on the labour market. The paper also shows new evidence on the number of jobs supported by different export destinations and analyzes the number of GSC-related jobs in different country groups. In particular, we find evidence for the changing role of China, from a country in which GSC-related jobs are located to a country whose import demand creates these jobs elsewhere. We also show that production linkages between emerging economies create an increasing number of jobs. When focusing on jobs related to manufacturing GSCs, trends in GSC-related jobs reveal the increasing importance of the services sector. Finally, we conduct a sectoral regression analysis and provide evidence that increased GSC participation of a sector as a supplier can be associated with a drop in the wage share.
F66|The Employment Effects of the EU Eastern Enlargement in Germany|In this paper, we empirically analyse the employment effects of the EU Eastern Enlargement of the EU in 2004. The integration of Central and Eastern European countries involves a massive reduction in both import and export tariffs; however, most of it happens before the actual ascen-sion event. Consequently, a large number German firms both increase their exports to and im-ports from the new EU member states in the time period between 1996 and 2010. The tariff reductions differ between industries and certain groups of firms are differently affected by the liberalisation. Exporters may benefit in terms of employment, while other firms might suffer from the increase in import competition.
F66|German Direct Investments in the Czech Republic – Employment Effects on German Multinational Enterprises|Do investments in the Czech Republic lead to employment growth or employment losses in the German firms involved? To address this question, a unique database about German firms with foreign direct investments (FDI) in the Czech Republic and firms without FDI in any country has been established. By developing a new method for linking firm-level data with establishment-level data of the Institute for Employment Research (IAB), this database is linked with the IAB employment data. As the exact date of the investments in the Czech Republic is known, the employment development of firms with Czech affiliates and firms without FDI is compared for the same time periods. The analyses show that these groups actually develop differently. One year after the investment, the German workforce of the multinational enterprises (MNEs) shrinks relative to the employment of the reference group. The negative trend continues for some years. However, not all types of jobs are affected negatively. The negative effects refer to medium and low-skilled workers only, whereby the demand for high-skilled workers even increases after the investment.
F66|Social status and public expectations: Self-selection of high-skilled migrants|We analyze public expectations about migrants' provision of work effort as a driving force in the self-selection process of high-skilled migrants. We adopt and extend Piketty's (1998) theoretical framework of social status and work out how country-specific public expectations affect the migrants' choice about their country of destination. As a result, we relate Germany's attested low attractiveness for high-skilled immigrants to its society's attitudes towards immigrants. We develop measures to increase Germany's attractiveness in the competition about talents.
F66|Heterogeneous Labor Market Adjustments to Offshoring in European Regions|Offshoring is often found to be associated with an increase of wage inequality between low- and high-skilled. This is interpreted as a relative decrease of low-skilled labor demand. However, the effect of offshoring on relative labor demand is ambiguous, since low-skilled workers may benefit from productivity effects of offshoring. Moreover, whether offshoring affects wages or (un-)employment depends on the flexibility of the labor market. The labor market responses to offshoring could thus be very heterogeneous across regional labor markets. We estimate the effects of offshoring to Eastern Europe and China on labor markets in Western European regions and find that (1) offshoring has led to a decrease of low-skilled wages. (2) In low-patent regions the effects are more pronounced and positive effects on unemployment emerge. This indicates that productivity effects could play a role in compensating the labor market effects of offshoring. (3) There is some evidence that the labor market effects depend on the types of enterprise functions which are offshored. (4) The effects on unemployment are weaker in regions which spend more money on active labor market policy.
F66|Technologie, Qualifikationen und internationale Arbeitsteilung: Anmerkungen zu der Diskussion über Industrie 4.0|"Welche Chancen bieten neue Produktionstechnologien im Kontext der Industrie 4.0 für Hochlohnstandorte, um gegenüber Niedriglohnstandorten wettbewerbsfähiger zu werden und unter Umständen sogar verlagerte Produktion zurückzuholen? Dies wird im vorliegenden Discussion Paper anhand einer Analyse der Arbeitsteilung zwischen deutschen und mittelosteuropäischen Standorten von Automobilzulieferunternehmen untersucht. Dabei werden drei Fragen verfolgt: Wie verändert sich das Technologiegefälle zwischen Hochlohn- und Niedriglohnstandorten? Welche Kriterien bestimmen die Wahl der Prozesstechnologie an Hochlohn- und Niedriglohnstandorten? Welche Bedeutung haben insbesondere Qualifikationsstrukturen auf dem Shopfloor für den Einsatz moderner Produktionstechnologien? Die Analyse zeigt, dass es ein Technologiegefälle zwischen Hochlohn- und Niedriglohnstandorten nur noch begrenzt gibt. Die Kombination von Kostendruck und hohen Qualitätsanforderungen führt dazu, dass neue Technologien sehr schnell global eingesetzt werden. Zugleich übernehmen aber deutsche Standorte im Vergleich zu Mittelosteuropa immer noch deutlich häufiger die Leitrolle bei der Einführung neuer Produktionstechnologien. Dies liegt vor allem an der Nähe zur Produktentwicklung der Automobilhersteller und der Zulieferer selbst sowie zu den Anlagenherstellern, die Kooperation erleichtert. Diese Leitrolle deutscher Werke führt auch zu unterschiedlichen Qualifikationsstrukturen auf dem Shopfloor im Vergleich mit Mittelosteuropa. Auch wenn wir Werke mit gleichem Technologie- bzw. Automatisierungsniveau vergleichen, zeichnen sich die deutschen Standorte durch einen geringeren Einsatz angelernter Arbeitskräfte und eine stärkere Nutzung beruflich-fachlicher Qualifikationen aus. Der Grund für diesen Unterschied sind die Kompetenzen, die bei der Kooperation mit der Produktentwicklung, Planung oder den Anlagenherstellern auf dem Shopfloor benötigt werden. Durch diese Leitrolle und die entsprechenden Qualifikationsstrukturen verfügen die deutschen Standorte gegenüber Niedriglohnwerken über einen Vorteil, den sie auch im Hinblick auf Industrie-4.0-Konzepte nutzen können. Die hier diskutierten Daten und Befunde stammen aus dem von der Hans-Böckler-Stiftung geförderten Forschungsprojekt ""Standortperspektiven in der Automobilzulieferindustrie"", das von Martin Krzywdzinski (WZB) und Axel Schröder (WZB) gemeinsam mit Martin Schwarz- Kocher und Heinz Pfäfflin (IMU Institut) sowie Inger Korflür und Ralf Löckener (Sustain Consult) durchgeführt wurde. In die vorliegende Ausarbeitung sind viele Anregungen aus gemeinsamen Diskussionen im Projektteam eingeflossen, für die ich allen Kolleginnen und Kollegen herzlich danke."
F66|Warum nicht fifty-fifty? Betriebliche Rahmenbedingungen der Aufteilung von Erwerbs- und Fürsorgearbeit in Paarfamilien|"Wie kann Vereinbarkeit von Beruf und Familie gelingen - und zwar sowohl bei Frauen als auch bei Männern? Ziel des Forschungsprojektes ""Betriebliche Gelingensbedingungen einer partnerschaftlichen Aufteilung von Erwerbs- und Familienarbeit"" war es herauszufinden, unter welchen Bedingungen sich Väter und Mütter Erwerbs- und Familienarbeit ausgewogen aufteilen. Unsere Auswertungen qualitativer und quantitativer Daten aus dem Jahr 2015 zeigen, dass sich in Deutschland Eltern kleiner Kinder - insbesondere Väter - eine egalitärere Aufteilung von Erwerbsarbeits- und Elternzeiten wünschen und die Aufteilung von Familien- und Erwerbsarbeit immer wieder neu überdenken und an veränderte Situationen anpassen möchten. Finanzielle Möglichkeiten und betriebliche Rahmenbedingungen beschränken jedoch oftmals die Umsetzung dieser Wünsche. Eine egalitäre Aufteilung von Familien- und Erwerbsarbeitszeiten ist dann eher möglich, wenn Eltern in Betrieben arbeiten, die Familienfreundlichkeit mit Gleichstellungszielen verbinden. Derzeit arbeitet rund ein Fünftel der Eltern kleiner Kinder in Deutschland in solchen Betrieben. Gute Vereinbarkeit lohnt sich auch aus unternehmerischer Sicht, denn sie geht seltener mit Zeitkonflikten, dafür mit höherer betrieblicher Verbundenheit und weniger Kündigungsabsichten einher."
F66|Informal Employment in a Growing and Globalizing Low-Income Country|We document several facts about workforce transitions from the informal to the formal sector in Vietnam, a fast growing, industrializing, and low-income country. First, younger workers, particularly migrants, are more likely to work in the formal sector and stay there permanently. Second, the decline in the aggregate share of informal employment occurs through changes between and within birth cohorts. Third, younger, educated, male, and urban workers are more likely to switch to the formal sector than other workers initially in the informal sector. Poorly educated, older, female, rural workers face little prospect of formalization. Fourth, formalization coincides with occupational upgrading.
F66|Immigration and Globalization: A Review Essay|This essay revisits the argument that the removal of worldwide immigration restrictions would induce a very large increase in world GDP. The recent books Exodus: How Migration is Changing Our World by Paul Collier and The Price of Rights: Regulating International Labor Migration by Martin Ruhs raise a number of questions about the underlying economic model. The essay shows how these concerns can greatly attenuate the predicted gains. (JEL F22, F66, J11, J18, J61)
F66|Globalized Markets, Globalized Information, and Female Employment: Accounting for Regional Differences in 30 OECD Countries|Accounting for within-country spatial differences is a neglected aspect in many cross-country comparisons. This chapter highlights this importance in this empirical analysis of the impact of a country’s degree of informational and economic globalization on female employment in 30 OECD countries, using a micro pseudo panel of 110,000 persons derived from five waves of repeated cross sections from the World Values Survey, 1981–2008. I conjecture that informational globalization affects societal values and perceived economic opportunities, while economic globalization impacts actual economic opportunities. A traditional crosscountry analysis suggests that the informational dimension of globalization but not the economic one increases the probability of employment for women— contradicting the Becker (1957) hypothesis of international competition mitigating discrimination in employment.However, accounting for subnational regional gender heterogeneity reveals that the impact of worldwide information exchange works rather at the regional level, while economic globalization (trade) increases female employment in general.
F66|Behavioural Insights Into Supply Chain Risk Management|Literature has focused largely on the field of supply chain risk management. Numerous risks occur within supply chain management. Until lately, behavioural risks (implying large amount of losses) have been neglected and considered not relevant. In this paper we provide an analysis of the importance of including behavioural research in logistics and supply chain risk management, what has been written so far and potential future research directions. Until now, literature on logistics and supply chain management little addressed behavioural dimensions, neglecting the numerous human interactions.
F66|Beyond Ricardo: Assignment Models in International Trade|International trade has experienced a Ricardian revival. In this article, we offer a user guide to assignment models, which we refer to as Ricardo-Roy (R-R) models, that have contributed to this revival.
F66|Transfer Of Performance Appraisal Practices From Mnc Parent To Subsidiaries In Serbia|This paper seeks to address one of central issues in the international human resource management literature regarding the extent to which foreign subsidiaries of multinational companies (MNCs) tend to implement performance appraisal practices and policies of the parent company versus those of local companies in the host country. The study conducted in 65 subsidiaries of foreign–owned multinational companies in Serbia found that performance appraisal practices in MNC subsidiaries in this transition country closely resemble parent company practices. The conclusion drawn from the study is that the transfer depends mainly on dependence on parent inputs, the degree of parental control, and subsidiary age, implying that MNCs need to take these variables into consideration when deciding whether to transfer their performance appraisal practices to their subsidiaries in this transition country or to accept local practices.
F66|Has Globalisation Affected Collective Bargaining? An Empirical Test, 1980–2009|" type=""main"" xml:id=""twec12239-abs-0001""> We investigate whether globalisation has affected the nature of collective bargaining in OECD and emerging countries. The main innovations over the existing empirical literature are (i) the consideration of three distinct aspects of collective bargaining (union density, decentralised bargaining and the extent of government intervention), (ii) the reliance on a sample with a larger cross-sectional and time dimension (44 countries from 1980 to 2009), and (iii) the application of a more appropriate empirical methodology (dynamic panel data models). We find that globalisation, on average, depresses unionisation but neither affects the degree of decentralisation nor government intervention in collective bargaining. We also uncover significant heterogeneity effects, both across countries and over time."
F66|Human Resources and Innovation: Total Factor Productivity and Foreign Human Capital|The objective of this paper is to analyse the role of migrants in innovation in Europe. We use Total Factor Productivity as a measure of innovation and focus on the three largest European countries – France, Germany and the United Kingdom – in the years 1994-2007. Unlike previous research, which mainly employs a regional approach, we analyse ù the link between migration and innovation at the sectoral level. This allows us to measure the direct contribution of migrants in the sector in which they are actually employed. Moreover, it allows a distinction between the real contribution of migrants to innovation from possible inter-sectoral complementarities, which might as well foster innovation. We control for the different components of human-capital, such as age, education and diversity of origin. To address the possible endogeneity of migration we draw on an instrumental variable strategy originally devised by Card (2001) and adapt it at the sector level The results show that overall migrants are relevant in all sectors, but some important differences emerge across sectors: highlyeducated migrants show a larger positive effect in the high-tech sectors, while middle- and loweducated ones are more relevant in manufacturing. The diversity of countries of origin contributes to innovation only in the services sectors, confirming that in empirical analyses at the regional or national level the diversity measure might capture the complementarity between sectors rather than the contribution of different national skills.
F66|ICT and Education: Evidence from Student Home Addresses|Governments are making it a priority to upgrade information and communication technologies (ICT) with the aim to increase available internet connection speeds. This paper presents a new empirical strategy to estimate the causal effects of these policies, and applies it to the questions of whether and how ICT upgrades affect educational attainment. We draw on a rich collection of microdata that allows us to link administrative test score records for the population of English primary and secondary school students to the available ICT at their home addresses. To base estimations on exogenous variation in ICT, we notice that the boundaries of usually invisible telephone exchange station catchment areas give rise to substantial and essentially randomly placed jumps in the available ICT across neighboring residences. Using this design across more than 20,000 boundaries in England, we find that even very large changes in available broadband connection speeds have a precisely estimated zero effect on educational attainment. Guided by a simple model we then bring to bear additional microdata on student time and internet use to quantify the potentially opposing mechanisms underlying the zero reduced form effect. While jumps in the available ICT appear to increase student consumption of online content, we find no significant effects on student time spent studying online or offline, or on their learning productivity.
F66|ICT and education: evidence from student homeaddresses|Governments are making it a priority to upgrade information and communication technologies (ICT) with the aim to increase available internet connection speeds. This paper presents a new strategy to estimate the causal effects of these policies, and applies it to the questions of whether and how ICT upgrades affect educational attainment. We draw on a rich collection of microdata that allows us to link administrative test score records for the population of English primary and secondary school students to the available ICT at their home addresses. To base estimations on exogenous variation in ICT, we notice that the boundaries of usually invisible telephone exchange station catchment areas give rise to substantial and essentially randomly placed jumps in the available ICT across neighboring residences. Using this design across more than 20,000 boundaries in England, we find that even very large changes in available internet speeds have a precisely estimated zero effect on educational attainment. Guided by a simple model we then bring to bear additional microdata on student time and internet use to quantify the potentially opposing mechanisms underlying the zero reduced form effect. We find that jumps in the available ICT have no significant effect on student time spent studying online or offline, or on their productivity. Finally, while faster connections appear to increase student consumption of online content, we find that the elasticity of student demand for online content with respect to its time cost is negative but bounded by -1.
