F69|Country of Origin as a Constraint to Internationalization|Objective - Globalization has enabled the increase of competitiveness and opportunities for companies to sell their goods to worldwide consumers. Due to the wider range of products offered and increasing similarity of those products, the country of origin becomes an important variable when studying the evaluation process of foreign products. The origin of a product acts as a mark of quality, which ultimately influences the purchase intentions of consumers. When negative, this may act as a constraint on internationalization, making it difficult to accept a product from a certain origin. There is, therefore, a gap in how companies can mitigate and overcome a negative country of origin effect (COE). This study seeks to fill this gap and suggest strategies to overcome this issue. Methodology/Technique - The methodology applied in this study is the Grounded Theory. The data was collected from interviews with Portuguese entities, so different cases can be compared and discussed. Although Portugal's image has changed over time, there remains a stigma associated with it. The most recent financial and political crisis has damaged the perception of Portugal in the international sphere, hence, it has been selected for the formation of a negative COE. Findings and Novelty - Some firms currently have existing strategies to resist the negative effect of country of origin, such as improvement of brand awareness, credibility and international visibility. To achieve that, companies must adopt a wide set of strategies which involve both defensive and offensive approaches.
F69|Do Global Crude Oil Markets Behave as One Great Pool?|In energy economics literature, the controversial assertion of whether crude oil markets are regionalized (Weiner; 1991) or behave as one unified entity (Adelman; 1984) is still an unsettled debate. While the proponents of globalization hypothesis trust that the crude oil markets behave as one big pool, the advocates of regionalization believe that they are segmented. The recent years? experience with the growing price spread between West Texas Intermediate (WTI) and Brent Crude, the two most influential light crude oil benchmarks of North America and Europe respectively, the debate has specifically become a point of discussion and deliberation within international energy forums.. Globalization in crude oil markets refers to the presence of strong co-movements. On the contrary, if the markets are fragmented and display least association, they are considered to be regionalised. An insight into the nature of the global oil market is critical in understanding the dynamics of international crude oil prices as well as its economic and financial implications.
F69|International transmissions of aggregate macroeconomic uncertainty in small open economies: An empirical approach|We estimate the effects of domestic and international sources of macroeconomic uncertainty in three commonly studied small open economies (SOEs): Australia, Canada and New Zealand. To this end, we propose a common stochastic volatility in mean panel VAR (CSVM-PVAR), and develop an efficient Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithm to estimate the model. Using a formal Bayesian model comparison exercise, our in-sample results suggest that foreign uncertainty spillovers shape the macroeconomic conditions in all SOEs, however domestic uncertainty shocks are important for Australia and Canada, but not New Zealand. The general mechanism is that foreign uncertainty shocks reduce real GDP and raise inflation in all SOEs, however the interest rate responses are idiosyncratic; being positive in Australia and New Zealand, and negative in Canada. Conversely, domestic uncertainty shocks tend to raise all three macroeconomic variables. Finally, in a pseudo out-of-sample forecasting exercise, the proposed model also forecasts better than traditional PVAR and CSV-PVAR benchmarks.
F69|Global Perspective of CPEC Regarding Economic Integration and Trade Openness|There is a misconception about CPEC that this mega project is only going to benefit China and Pakistan. However, this corridor is going to restructure and transform not only South and Central Asia, but also Middle East and Europe. Unlike EU, this project is planned to link different regions for economic integration and trade. This study is to analyse the importance of CPEC for its participants and its role in enhancing the economic integration and trade openness among Asian, European and African states. Not only this, challenges and opportunities associated with this project are also been discussed in this paper.
F69|Marketing Aspects of Russia-The European Union Cooperation in the Field of Education|In the paper the authors identified the need and identified the benefits of the development of Russia-EU cooperation in the field of education in the context of globalization, marked barriers to the development of such cooperation conditions for its development. The authors also performed a comparative analysis of the state and the market model for cooperation between Russia and the European Union in the field of education in the context of globalization and the expediency of the transition to it. As perspective directions of cooperation between Russia and the European Union in the field of education in the context of globalization the authors developed and validated a complex marketing mix.
F69|Marketing Mechanisms for the Development of Transport Infrastructure of Russia and the EU|In the article the authors determined the value of the transport infrastructure for economic growth and development, analyzed the influence of various factors on the dynamics of change in the index of development of transport infrastructure, as well as reviewed the status and trends of development of transport infrastructure in Russia and the European Union. As a result, the authors concluded that for Russia and the EU are characterized by common problems in the field of transport infrastructure and for integrated solutions and accelerated development of transport infrastructure in Russia and the European Union need to ensure the marketing of this process. To do this work the author's marketing model development of transport infrastructure in Russia and the European Union.
F69|'Globalization - Effects and Pressures on National States and Societies: The Case of Republic of Croatia' Ardian Kastrati, MA, PhD Cand. Department of Political Sciences, University of Prishtina|There is no doubt that globalization is one of the most challenging developments in the world history. Globalization refers to the process of the intensification of economic, political, social and cultural relations across international boundaries. Globalization has been dominating the political as well as the academic agenda for a couple of decades. There has been much debate among scholars about whether globalization is undermining state sovereignty. Although globalization is widely assumed to be crucially important, we generally have scant idea what, more precisely, it entails. There is a considerable degree of disagreement about what globalization is. Regardless of disagreements globalization fostered by free flow of information and rapid progress in technology is such a driving force that no country can turn back from. Hyper-globalists believe that globalization has made the state superfluous, while others believe it is ?globaloney? and has had no effect on the state?s role. One thing is for sure that globalization has changed state?s role because most states now have high dependence on others. This article intends to examine the effect of globalization on the sovereignty of states and how nation states have adapted to the new challenges of globalization. While identifying globalization as one of the most important processes in global politics, the article examines the concept of globalization, its history, instruments and problems for the states sovereignty by focusing on challenges, consequences and implications for the Republic of Croatia in particular.
F69|Does trade contribute to poverty reduction? If it does, where the benefit goes to?| The linkage between trade and poverty reduction is one of the controversial debate topics. Many studies were conducted and focused on national level poverty but this paper aims to investigate how the effect of trade differs in regional level (rural and urban) in developing countries. The result indicates that 1) an increase of export share contributes to national and urban poverty reduction in Asia and Central and South America but not the rural poverty; 2) an increase of import share is found to be beneficial for poverty reduction especially in Central and South America
F69|Are Spanish companies involved in profit shifting? Consequences in terms of tax revenues|In this paper the authors analyze the existence of profit shifting between Spain and other OECD and EU countries. Using a sample of 1,169 Spanish subsidiaries owned by foreign OECD and EU parent companies and a sample of 317 EU subsidiaries owned by Spanish parent companies, taken from the AMADEUS Database for the period 2005 to 2014, and a simple tax rate difference as a measure of the tax incentive, the authors obtain a negative effect of corporate income taxes on reported profits. When the tax rate differences between Spain and the foreign countries vary by one percentage point, reported profits vary by approximately 2.7 to 3%. This is consistent with profit shifting activity by corporations and matches the empirical results in the literature. Furthermore, the authors calculate the impact of this activity on Spain's tax revenues from the sample of Spanish subsidiary companies. They obtain that the tax revenues vary from year to year, depending on the level of taxation of the main investor countries in Spain in comparison to the Spanish tax rate.
F69|La internacionalización de la empresa gallega. Resultados 2015 de la Encuesta Ardán de empresa internacionalizada<BR>[The internationalization of the Galician companies. Results of the 2015 Ardan Survey in internationalized companies]|"This document continues the Ardan Indicator Survey started in 2012. This study is included in the Economic and Competitiveness Report prepared by the Service for Advanced Studies Consortium of ""Zona Franca de Vigo"". The main objective of this document is to identify the best companies in the opening process to foreign markets. To do this we proceed to the design and subsequent implementation of the so called ""Ardan internationalized company indicator""."
F69|‘Globesity’? The effects of globalization on obesity and caloric intake|We examine the effect of globalization, in its economic and social dimensions, on obesity and caloric intake, namely the so –called ‘globesity’ hypothesis. Our results suggest a robust association between globalization and both obesity and caloric intake. A one standard deviation increase in globalization is associated with a 23.8 percent increase in obese population and a 4.3 percent rise in calorie intake. The effect remains statistically significant even after using an instrumental variable strategy to correct for some possible reverse causality and ommited variable bias, a lagged structure, and corrections for panel standard errors. However, we find that the primary driver (of the ‘globesity’ phenomenon) is the ‘social’ rather than the ‘economic’ dimension of globalization, and specifically the effect of changes in ‘information flows’ and ‘social proximity’ on obesity. A one standard deviation increase in social globalization increased the percentage of obese population by 13.7 percent.
F69|Long run dynamic volatilities between OPEC and non-OPEC crude oil prices|Understanding the long-run dynamics of OPEC and non-OPEC crude oil prices is important in an era of increased financialization of petroleum markets. Utilizing an ECM within a threshold cointegration and CGARCH errors framework, we provide evidence on the cointegrating relationship and estimate how and to what extent the respective prices adjust to eliminate disequilibrium. Our findings suggest that the adjustment process of OPEC prices to the positive discrepancies is slow which implies that OPEC producers do not prefer moderate oil prices; however, the reverse holds for non-OPEC producers. These results reflect distinct competitive behaviors between OPEC and non-OPEC producers.
F69|Globalisation and Conflict: Evidence from sub-Saharan Africa|Stephen Pinker (2011) advances that various forms of violence such as homicide, rape, torture and conÂ‡ict have decreased over time because of the following historical shifts in society: paciÂ…cation process, civilising process, humanitarian and rights revolutions, and extended periods of peace. We regard these shifts as processes encompassed in globalisation and investigate the effects of globalisation on conflÂ‡ict, one of the forms of violence Pinker discusses. We use panel data from 46 sub-Saharan African countries dated 1970 to 2013 and fiÂ…nd that increased globalisation signiÂ…cantly reduces severity of conflÂ‡ict through increased opportunity costs. Furthermore, we disaggregate globalisation into its three key components (social, political and economic openness) and fiÂ…nd that social globalisation drives the results, an indication of the significance of increased migration and dissemination of information in fostering tolerance and empathy. We also disaggregate conflÂ‡ict into intrastate and interstate and Â…find that the severity of intrastate conÂ‡flict is signiÂ…cantly reduced by the globalisation processes compared to interstate conflÂ‡ict.
F69|Latecomer challenge: African Multinationals from the periphery|Multinational corporations have commenced foreign direct investment (FDI) activities since the 1960s by moving operations to resource-rich, low-cost labour and capital markets (Wilkins, 1970; 1974; 1988; Jones, 1994; 2005). The first wave of outward foreign direct investment (OFDI) during the 1960s and 1970s was motivated by efficiency and market-seeking factors. This wave was dominated by firms from Asia and Latin America. A second wave of OFDI followed in the 1980s, led by strategic asset-seeking enterprises from Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore and South Korea (Dunning et al., 1996; UNCTAD, 2005b: 3s). Since the 1990s China, Brazil, India, Russia (the so-called BRIC countries) Malaysia, Turkey and South Africa are among the countries expected to add significantly to OFDI growth (UNCTAD, 2005c: 4). The emergence of EMTNCs (Emerging Market Transnational Corporations) makes up a growing proportion of outward FDI and they acquire an increasing share in foreign affiliates from developed markets conducting business in their regions. This paper reflects on the transformation of businesses and business practice in Africa, from isolated peripheral actors to global players. A growing number of African multinational corporations extended business operations from behind marginalized peripheral operations to global markets. This paper investigates the history of leading emerging market multinational corporations from Africa since the 1980s.
F69|Globalisation and Conflict: Evidence from Sub-Saharan Africa|Stephen Pinker (2011) advances that various forms of violence such as homicide, rape, torture and conflict have decreased over time because of the following historical shifts in society: pacification process, civilising process, humanitarian and rights revolutions, and extended periods of peace. We regard these shifts as modernising processes encompassed in globalisation and investigate the effects of globalisation on conflict, one of the forms of violence Pinker discusses. We use panel data from 46 sub-Saharan African countries dated 1970 to 2013 and find that increased globalisation significantly reduces severity of conflict through increased opportunity costs. Furthermore, we disaggregate globalisation into its three key components (social, political and economic openness) and find that social globalisation drives the results, an indication of the significance of increased flows of people and information in fostering tolerance and empathy. We also disaggregate conflict into intrastate and interstate and find that the severity of intrastate conflict is significantly reduced by the globalisation processes compared to interstate conflict.
F69|Globalization and Violence against Women: The Missing Girls of India|Globalization of the economies has long been hailed as an apparatus that generates and maintains a level-playing field for both genders. It is argued that freer the markets become, the higher will be the opportunities for women to be empowered. Therefore, women will be more enlightened economically and will gain agency. As various forms of violence against women do not show any sign of decline, this article asks a fundamental question about the role of globalization. We examine whether the forces of globalization inadvertently play the role of an ally in the rise of violence against women. This article focuses on an extreme form of gender violence, namely, female foeticide, in India to show how the access to cheap technology may enhance such violence. JEL: J16, F60, F69
F69|Asian Participation and Performance at the Olympic Games|This paper examines Asian exceptionalism at the Olympics. Northeast Asian countries conform to the statistical norm while the rest of Asia lags, but this result obscures underlying distinctions. Asian women do better than men. Non-Northeast Asia’s relative underperformance is due to the men. Asian performance is uneven across events, finding more success in weight-stratified contests, perhaps due to the fact that competition is more “fair” physiologically. The models imply that China, Japan, and South Korea will place among the top ten medaling countries at the 2016 Games, while China will continue to close the medal gap with the United States.
F69|Poor and Globalization A Panoramic View|In 2012, approximately 1.22 billion people were living in poverty across the globe and are currently faced with dire living conditions. They are faced with numerous inhibiting factors to sustain their livelihood, and have extremely limited opportunities for reprieve. Because of this high number of poverty stricken people, a debate has developed over the causes of poverty and what can be done to alleviate it. A large part of this debate is the role that globalization plays in helping or hurting the world?s poor. Is globalization truly a tool to help raise the poor out of their destitute state, or is it merely a way for the rich of developing countries to become richer at the expense of the poor?The aim of this research is to identify a relationship between globalization and poverty. We examine the share of national income held by the poorest 20% of the populations of developing countries from the year 1999 to 2010. The KOF Globalization Index is used to analyze the specific effects of various forms of globalization over this time period. The analysis conducted herein will serve to expand the current literature by examining specific aspects of globalization individually, as well as globalization in general, using more recent data.
F69|Empirical Investigation On The Corporate Financing For Sport Development In E.U|Assuming the increasing part that sport economics plays nowadays in research and pragmatic fields, the main objective of the present study is to investigate on the companies’ role for supporting sport development through sponsorships and donations, as one main component of the private financing for sport. The fundamental premise that stays behind this research is the potential of sport for inducing competitive advantages for the companies that assign corporate resources for this social domain. The research was conducted for the EU member countries by using secondary data freely available in official documents and databases. The comparative analysis highlighted the factors that generate significant differences between the investigated countries. The results showed that, although corporate financing for sport purposes is well-developed only in few EU countries, its part is constantly increasing as companies in different economic, social and cultural contexts are becoming aware of the strategic potential of sport on medium and long terms. The findings are presented in detail at country level.
F69|Globalization and Technological Capabilities: Evidence from Mexico’s Patent Records ca. 1870-1911|Using a new database of all patents issues in Mexico between 1870 and 1911, this paper explores the impact of the vast wave of technology imports into Mexico during the nineteenth century period of globalization. Historians have established that massive technology imports made possible sustained economic growth and early industrialization during this period, but have not systematically explored the degree to which the skills and know-how embodied in new imported technologies stimulated adaptive and inventive activity in Mexico. Did imported technologies stimulate local technological creativity, or were Mexican technicians largely isolated from the adoption and use of imported techniques? The evidence shows that imports did stimulate patenting activity by Mexicans, although this response was modest in relation to increased patenting by inventors from North Atlantic countries. In general, Mexican inventors focused on activities outside the core technical advances on the global frontier, and often on activities that were more entrepreneurial than technical, although we can observe several important exceptions. These findings support the argument that technological capabilities were scarce in Mexico and local technicians had few opportunities to engage with and learn from imported know-how.
F69|Global Governance Vs. National Sovereignty In A Globalized World|The global economic and financial crisis of 2007 highlighted the risks, threats and enormous costs of a global economy in the absence of a global government. The aim of this paper is to emphasize the importance of global governance in a world in which states are facing the erosion of national sovereignty. The two concepts are being analyzed from various points of view, including current challenges and future scenarios. Despite the fact that states, especially major powers, are not prepared to accept some elements of global governance and the limits that they would put on their national sovereignty, recent developments seem to make global governance a key component of the international scene.
F69|China's Role in the History of Globalization|"In my view, globalization is a process that has taken place episodically since approximately the beginning of the 16th century. Previously, there were a number of attemps at globalization, which however failed to attain the precondition of regular commercial and communicative relationships among the parts of the globe; nor did they lead to the kind of stable multilateral interdependence that later took place (Osterhamme/Petersson). In chronologically sequenced chapters, I briefly present the driving forces and the consequences of globalization. In the respective chapters, Chinas highly variegated role is explored: from the first attempt at globalization in the 14/15 centuries, which was of an expansive nature; in the first push at globalization from 1500, China was increasingly in retreat; during the surge of globalization in the 19th century, China was an almost insignificant push‐toy of the European powers; and in the current situation China may be characterized as a tardive beginner, yet then advancing to a leadership role. In concluding I undertake a framework for understanding the so‐called ""Chinese Economic Miracle,"" for which the German term Wirtschaftswunder may readily be substituted. The highly differential significance of China for these various phases of globalization is an arresting example for my hypothesis that globalization may not unreasonably be regarded as a market‐driven and invariably politically‐fashioned process."
F69|Critical Minerals Today and in 2030: An Analysis for OECD Countries|Raw materials are essential for the global economy and future development depends on their continued supply. Like fossil fuels, minerals are non-renewable. In general, their deposits in the Earth’s crust are also geographically clustered, making security of supply a potential risk. In many cases, the exhaustion of economically competitive minerals deposits in industrialized countries has made supplies increasingly dependent on the political stability of mineral-rich emerging economies. At the same time, increasing demand from these emerging markets, new technologies that require large amounts of rare minerals , low substitutability in applications and low rates of recycling have made economies more vulnerable to potential supply disruptions. Consequently policy-makers in several OECD countries and regions have developed reports that assess the vulnerability of their respective economies to disruptions in the supply of minerals. A common aim of many of these studies is the identification of a list of so-called ‘critical minerals’, defined as minerals for which the risk of disruptions in supply is relatively high and for which supply disruptions will be associated with large economic impacts. Les matières premières sont essentielles pour l'économie mondiale et le développement futur dépend de leur approvisionnement continu. Comme les combustibles fossiles, les minerais ne sont pas renouvelables. Par ailleurs, leurs dépôts dans la croûte terrestre sont, en général, regroupés géographiquement, faisant ainsi de la sécurité de l'approvisionnement un risque potentiel. Dans de nombreux cas en effet, pour ce qui est des pays industrialisés, l'épuisement des réserves en minerais économiquement compétitifs a rendu l'approvisionnement en matières premières une activité de plus en plus dépendante de la stabilité politique des pays émergents riches en minerais. Dans le même temps, la demande croissante de ces marchés émergents, mais aussi les nouvelles technologies qui nécessitent de grandes quantités de minerais rares, ainsi qu’une faible substituabilité dans leurs applications concrètes et des taux de recyclage faibles, ont rendu les économies plus vulnérables aux éventuelles ruptures d'approvisionnement. Par conséquent les décideurs dans plusieurs pays et régions de l'OCDE ont commandé des rapports qui évaluent la vulnérabilité de leurs économies respectives face à des perturbations dans l'approvisionnement en minerais. L’objectif commun d'un grand nombre de ces études est l'identification d'une liste de soi-disant «minerais critiques», définis comme les minerais pour lesquels le risque de perturbations de l'approvisionnement est relativement élevé et pour lesquels les ruptures en approvisionnement seront associées à de grands impacts économiques.
F69|An Overview of the Geoeconomic Effects of Terrorism [O investigaţie a efectelor geoeconomice ale terorismului]|The present paper seeks out to investigate five economic aspects involving terrorism: the effects on FDIs, the macroeconomic effects, the impact on financial markets, the role of foreign aid and transactions undertaken by terrorist groups for self-financing. Each topic will be analysed on the basis of the existing available literature and recent information on the activities of terrorist groups.
F69|An Old Boys' Club No More: Pluralism in Participation and Performance at the Olympic Games|This paper examines the growing diversity of participation and achievement in the Olympics. A wide set of socioeconomic variables is correlated with medaling, particularly with respect to the Summer Games and women's events. Host advantage is particularly acute in judged contests such as gymnastics. However, there is evidence that the influence of correlates such as country size, per capita income, and membership in the communist bloc is declining over time as competition becomes increasingly diverse. These effects are less evident in the Winter Games, events that require significant capital investments, and judged contests.
F69|The Gravity of Foreign News Coverage in the EU: Does the Euro Matter?| This article investigates the systemic factors behind cross-country variability in transnational media coverage of foreign news in the EU in 2010. Using a large data set on the transnational coverage of news by 148 EU national media, the article maps the network of EU transnational citations and performs a quantitative assessment of their systemic determinants via the estimation of a gravity model of news. Nine empirical hypotheses are tested. Size and economic development of the target (source) country are positively (negatively) associated with the probability of coverage. Historical, linguistic and economic ties increase this probability. The evidence on the effect of the countries' participation in the currency union is weak: once the historical levels of trade integration and the effects of the sovereign debt crisis are accounted for, there is no robust evidence of a higher integration of the media spheres within the eurozone.
F69|Emerging countries and trade regionalization. A network analysis|In this paper, the authors start from the observation of two apparently contradictory trends: the increasing regionalization of trade and the proliferation of regional trade agreements, on the one hand, and the increase of the average number of trading partners of each country and of the trading distances over time due to decreasing transportation and communication costs, on the other, pointing to more globalization. They are brought together to better understand the characteristics of the process of internationalization which is involving so many emerging countries. In particular, by considering the extent of regionalization in trade or the preferentiality of regional trade, as well as the structure of some existing trade agreements in terms of influence of individual countries on intra-regional trade flows, they address the following questions: is internationalization of emerging countries starting at a regional level and eventually evolving to make them global players? Is the growing export strength of many low- or mid-income and size economies due to their linkages to some increasingly important traders in the world market, or is it an autonomous development of their economies? The authors start from a particular specification of bilateral trade intensity indices which allows for measuring revealed trade preferences, overcoming several statistical shortcomings of traditional indicators. They then apply the tools of network analysis, in order to take into account whether local trade structures and preferential agreements affect the overall system of international trade.
F69|Avantajele Competitive în Produc?ia Globala de Film: Cazul României|Studiul trateaza formarea si pastrarea avantajelor competitive în industria productiei de film strain în România printr-o examinare a conditiilor integrarii productiei localizate în România în circuitul creator de valoare la nivel global. Evidenta are la baza surse documentare ale sectorului sau din literatura de specialitate, dar si interviuri cu reprezentanti ai unor case de productie importante, interviuri realizate între decembrie 2004 si februarie 2005 si între iulie si august 2011. Lucrarea pune în evidenta mecanismele care frâneaza sau care împing înainte performantele sectorului din perspectiva durabilitatii avantajelor industriei. Detaliile studiului de caz privind România sunt evidentiate pe linia elementelor clasice de analiza a avantajelor competitive. Prima sectiune se ocupa de formarea avantajelor în industria globala a productiei de film. Urmatoarea sectiune prezinta pe scurt contextul competitiv din Europa rasariteana, iar în sectiunea dedicata României este adus în discutie impactul asupra dezvoltarii locale. Sectiunea de concluzii încearca sa aduca un raspuns la întrebarea daca sprijinul public direct este necesar pentru consolidarea efectelor pozitive ale avantajelor dobândite.
F69|Cross-Culture Integration And Global New Product Development|The increasing globalization of businesses presents many challenges including the challenges of cultural integration and cross-cultural conflicts. Utilizing the seminal work of Nakata and Sivakuimar (1996) linking national culture and new product development, this paper further explores the challenges of cross-cultural integration and new product development offering an extension of their model integrating additional aspects of culture structure and their influences on new product development in the international arena.
F69|When in Rome do as the Romans do: is it a reality of business life?|Every aspect of our scientific life is subdued to accelerated development and with the internationalisation of the economy the area of intercultural communication still possesses great potential for research. Both researhers and professionals emphasise the importance of knowledge of different cultures and they agree that globalisation has brought the growing trend to work ? virtually and/or face-to-face ? with people from different cultural backgrounds.The research to be discussed in the paper is a part of a complex research conducted in 2013. The main objective of the research is to help companies to work more effectively. The purpose of the present paper is to demonstrate the results of a survey conducted with Hungarian professionals who are in business contact with partners with different cultural backgrounds. This paper focuses on demonstrating how culture influences behaviour in international setting where business partners have differing values, attitudes and norms.The data was collected with the aid of a research questionnaire (more then 300 respondents). The respondents were asked to answer close-ended and open-ended questions making choices among a set of alternatives focusing on their attitudes in several business situations. The data was entered into the SPSS programme and analysed using appropriate statistical methods. The findings reveal that companies seem to find it difficult to adapt their messages to suit different cultural groups but there are new approaches with promise the most success for communicating and working effectively in international business settings.
F69|Globale Managementberatung. Bedingungen, Versprechen, Enttaeuschungen und Alternativen|Die Managementberatung, verknuepft vor allem mit ihren grossen Namen, ist der Inbegriff der Globalisierung. Die Beratungsfirmen sind in allen wichtigen Laendern der Welt praesent und versprechen, ihren Kunden das weltweit beste Managementwissen massgeschneidert auf ihre Probleme zur Verfuegung zu stellen. Globalitaet ist fuer sie Notwendigkeit und Versprechen zugleich. Die Beitraege dieses Bandes zeigen am Beispiel der spezifischen Phase der internationalen Ausdehnung der Managementberatung nach Mittel-Ost-Europa nach 1990, dass die grossen, schon internationalisierten Beratungsfirmen tatsaechlich erhebliche Reputations- und Vernetzungsvorteile gegenueber den kleineren und mittleren Beratungsfirmen aufweisen. Aber auch kleineren und mittleren Firmen gelingen oft erste Internationalisierungsschritte, indem sie ihren vorhandenen Kunden in die neuen Laender folgen, seltener aber die echte Niederlassung. Der Vergleich zwischen dieser Expansionsphase nach der OEffnung Mitteleuropas und dem Regimewechsel in Spanien nach der Franco-Aera zeigt, dass die internationale Expansion sowohl von der institutionellen und kulturellen Aufnahmefaehigkeit des Ziellandes als auch von der relationalen und strukturellen Einbettung vor allem ueber Kundenbeziehungen abhaengt. Die Analyse der internen Steuerung der global taetigen Managementberatungen macht deutlich, dass das „Best Practice“-Versprechen vor allem eine gepflegte Rationalitaetsfassade ist. Dies hat Konsequenzen auch fuer die kritische Management - und Beratungsforschung, die die globalen Beratungsfirmen als einheitlich agierende Agenten der „neoliberalen Heimsuchung“ charakterisiert. Dass auch grosse, boersennotierte Unternehmen ohne Berater auskommen (koennen), gibt schliesslich Hinweise auf funktionale AEquivalente zur externen, kommerziellen Beratung, die international taetige Firmen entdecken und fuer organisationales Lernen fruchtbar machen koennen.
F69|Zaman-Mekan Sıkışması Boyutuyla Bilimde Dönüşümler ve Sosyal Teoride Küreselleşme ve Ulus-Devlet<BR>[Transformations in Science and Globalization in the Social Theory and Nation-State with the Size of Time-Space Compression]|This study deals with the concept and phenomenon of the nation state in the perspective of the time-space compression. The main goal of the study is to prove that nation-state activities has increased and developed the new event formats by separated from the traditional forms of activity as an alternative to the hypothesis which means that the nation states have lost their effectiveness and become historically vanishing. The study also aims to obtain the controversial results related to the activities of the nation-states based on the nature of scientific knowledge. A discussion is composed by conceiving the significant difference in perspective with a created logical string and showing that the generally presented propositions can be viewed from different frames. The created logical string is applied to two hypotheses dealing the increasing and decreasing activities of the nation-states. It is observed that the results obtained with the effects of the variation in the scientific thought can achieve the different results according the relative position of the observer.
F69|Räume der Übertragung: Die neue transnationale Politik der säkularen Stagnation<BR>[Spaces of Transference: The New Transnational Politics of Secular Stagnation]|This paper reevaluates recent work on deterritorialization in so far as it relates to transnationalization and the emergence of new forms of nomadic politics. Place has been crucial in the formation of social relationships, the interactive construction of political identities and the emergence of a public sphere. Contemporary forms of deterritorialization tend to disrupt two fundamental conceptions of the modern understanding of democratic politics: the fellowship of citizens and the fiduciary nature of the relationship between political power and those represented. Building on Kevin Cox’s distinction between spaces of dependence and spaces of engagement, the paper argues that spaces of transference emerge as a vital component of today’s political relating. Scale becomes important in the spaces of transference: the shifting of attitudes and emotions involves larger spaces and ever more distant templates.
F69|Pre-university Education Financing in the Context of the EU’s Economic Crisis|The aim of this study is to put into evidence the fact that the global economic crisis had a strong impact not only on the economic systems of European societies, but also on their educational ones. The effect of the global crisis on the educational system was under-financing. This has lead to the increase of educational taxes, the diminution of salaries and the high education participation rate. Even if this situation was present in almost all of the European countries, there are societies where we can find a certain politic of investment in high education. Even if some states do not have substantial financing, they did not hesitate to invest in the human capital.
F69|Despre tensiunea local – global în economia mondială contemporană<BR>[About the local-global tension in the contemporary world economy]|Under the circumstances of an accelerated world economy globalization during the last decades, the local-global tensions occur, with various intensity, in all significant aspects of human life: social, politic, economic, cultural, religious. The study tries, in a holistic approach, to identify the main transmitting vectors of tensions and the possible ways to avoid their degeneration into irreversible conflict situations. A synthetic matrix is presented in the end, summarizing the local-global tensions and pointing out adverse local effects with global reverse.
F69|International hostility and aggressiveness on the soccer pitch Evidence from European Championships and World Cups for the period 2000-2012|Some Researchers consider soccer matches as the stylization of a war in other battlefields. Such approach was largely used to interpret the violent phenomena related to the soccer environment, while less attention has been paid to the «potential» role of political and economic interactions between countries in determining the aggressive attitude of players on the pitch. In our paper we empirically investigate if and how political hostility among countries reverberates on a soccer pitch by influencing players’ aggressiveness. The analysis focuses on official matches played by national teams in the final phases of the European and World Cup tournaments since 2000. We estimate a Negative Binomial regression including both political and sport variables, and we find that (a) commercial hostility; (b) the level of diplomatic relationships, (c) power asymmetry and (d) education gap between countries are positively and significantly associated with aggressiveness of the players on the pitch, approximated by the number of yellow and red cards. That is, briefly stated, international hostility reverberates into the pitch. Moreover, sport covariates present the expected signs, namely results show that the closeness of the teams, their ranking and the stage of the game (knockout stages with respect to the group phases) are also crucial in determining the cautions.
F69|Intra-triad Knowledge Flows|In this paper we point out a gap in the EU 2020 strategy to deliver growth that is smart, through more effective investments in education, research and innovation. The gap in the strategy is that in addition to investing in its own R&D, the EU must take advantage of knowledge created in the rest of the world. Even if EU is a major generator of new knowledge and will become even more so when the strategy is implemented, more new knowledge is (and will be) generated outside than inside the EU. New knowledge developed in other parts of the world are not flowing immediately, automatically and without costs to the relevant actors within the EU. It is critical for the EU to develop efficient channels for the imports of knowledge from other parts of the world. We analyze EU’s capacity to absorb knowledge created in the other Triad nations (United States and Japan) through the following channels for international knowledge flows: academic knowledge channels, patents as a knowledge channel, technology trade, strategic R&D cooperation, trade networks, foreign direct investments, and high-skilled migration. The indicators show that there are certain types of knowledge channels that Europe must try to use much more extensively in order to become a leading knowledge economy.
F69|The Evolution Of Economic Globalization During The Current Global Crisis|The current economic crisis constitutes a serious test for the process of globalization. The purpose of this study is to analyze the influence of the current global crisis on economic globalization. To assess the impact of the current crisis on economic globalization, this paper examines the KOF Index of Globalization, before and during the crisis. The findings generally support the idea that economic globalization has been, in fact, weakened, after the onset of the current crisis. However, there is evidence that suggest that economic globalization has resumed the upward trend that characterized it before the crisis. Despite the fact the global crisis has shaken the process of globalization, we cannot talk of an end of globalization, as some predictions have indicated.
F69|Does the Environment Responsibility Affect the Management Control System?|The literature suggests a problem emerging between management controls systems with the new responsibilities that companies must take into consideration. This study examines a system design management control tool orientation as behaviors that can overcome the uncertainties related to the environment and register the company in a voluntary approach which takes into account the environmental dimensions. A questionnaire survey sent to 306 Tunisian industrial companies was conducted. The results of the exploratory and confirmatory analysis are required. The results of the principal component factor analysis evidenced by Cronbach's alpha and KMO test, helped to cleanse the items selected from the literature. Similarly, the results of structural equations with indices of structural adjustment and parcimonies have devoted a good quality adjustment. Overall, findings suggest that most of the firm’s environment is uncertain, more tools to include in its environmental dimensions. On the other hand, the voluntary integration of an environmental approach is part of a strategy of cost leadership in the Tunisian industrial companies.
F69|A Foray Into The Tangle Of Globalization Measurement|The concerns over globalization and its impact on the different aspects of life amplified over the recent years and generated the need to measure this phenomenon so as to know its effects and to get prepared to manage them. This paper makes a critical presentation of the main indicators that measure the phenomenon of globalization and selected one indicator, seemingly the most comprehensive, and applied it to Romania in order to see its rank when comparing with other countries, according to the values of the indicator and its components.
F69|Teoretické Východiská Chápania Fenoménu Globálnej Bezpečnosti|Článok sa zameriava na stručné vymedzenie, črty a teoretické prístupy k pojmu bezpečnosť, respektíve jeho najvyššej formy – globálnej bezpečnosti. Poukazuje na najvýznamnejšie zmeny v znakoch daného fenoménu po skončení studenej vojny a predstavuje liberalizmom ovplyvnené teórie globálnej bezpečnosti. V závere si článok kladie za cieľ vyzdvihnúť kľúčové črty a vybrané časti skúmaných teórií a ich implementáciu do odporúčaní pre NATO ohľadne jeho dlhodoej stratégie pri tvorbe európskeho bezpečnostného prostredia.
F69|Indicadores de la globalización|Este artículo tiene el propósito de realizar un balance sobre los trabajos que han abordado la temática de indicadores de globalización y formular algunas propuestas para avanzar en este programa de investigación. Si bien los indicadores formulados se han ido ajustando y afinando gradualmente (desde el punto de vista conceptual y técnico), aún hay una serie de consideraciones que merecen la atención de la comunidad de creadores de indicadores, tales como: adición de dimensiones y variables, la correcta representación del espacio geográfico del proceso de globalización y la distinción entre integración regional y global.
F69|Managerial Decision Making in Geopolitically Turbulent Environments|The presented paper is a presentation of final results of research led throughout past years on a group of Polish and international SME’s. The essential aim was the elaboration of a decision – making model including both qualitative and quantitative factors that influence decision – making processes. Most focus has been put on geopolitical determinants of international companies’ development. In order to narrow the research field, a further limitation has been made in the type of undertaken solutions. This resulted in focusing on managerial rather than strategic decisions, although long – term strategic planning still can be enhanced through application of proposed method. The research methodology has been based on Analytic Hierarchy Process applied for assessment of individual and collective utility of various indexes describing the actual economic situation and short – term prospects of enterprises operating locally (inside Poland) and internationally. The presented final stage of research draws attention to expert evaluations of 6 professional experts carefully chosen from a group of 31 skilled managers interviewed in preliminary research phase. The study ends with a proposal of a qualitative – quantitative decision making model anticipating geopolitical factors in order to improve the quality of managerial decision making in international enterprises.
F69|Lecture Notes on International Trade Theory and Policy|This book provides a comprehensive review of the theory of international trade and trade policy, including coverage of recent areas of research such as heterogeneous firm trade models and trade costs. It then proceeds to analyze the history of trade policies and the evolution of the global trading system, with a primary focus on important policies or controversial issues such as the Doha Round, antidumping duties, regionalism and fair trade.
F69|GLOBALIZING RESTRICTED AND SEGMENTED MARKETS: Challenges to Theory and Values in Economic Sociology|"The efforts by the world's most powerful corporations to develop global markets have spawned a substantial sociological and economic literature on how transnational markets form, what stages characterize market development, and what rules of exchange are most effective. As the authors of a prominent article put it, - the central question is ""what kinds of rules and structures promote market activity and what kinds stifle it""(Fligstein and Stone Sweet 2002:1212). Such a goal assumes market activity to be a per se good, part of the grand globalization blueprint for a better society. But as Robert Merton emphasized throughout his writings, such grand purposive actions may have unintended consequences and serve latent functions or dysfunctions. Alejandro Portes (2000), in his extension of Merton's analytic framework, adds four other possibilities pertinent to good research on globalization: concealed goals to achieve covert ends, emergent means and altered outcomes, backfire or results contrary to those intended, and unexpected changes that facilitate outcomes or frustrate them."
F69|Determinación de estándares internacionales: Hacia la certidumbre jurídica y la estabilidad financiera. (enlace al documento publicado: http://biblio.juridicas.unam.mx/libros/5/2332/13.pdf)<BR>[International standard-setting: Towards legal soundness and financial stability. (link to the published document: http://biblio.juridicas.unam.mx/libros/5/2332/13.pdf)]|Standards and the global framework. The BIS as host of standard setting bodies. Legal impact of standards.
F69|Palestine|AbstractThe following sections are included:IntroductionHistorical OverviewThe Environment for EnterpriseThe Small Business SectorToward the Future
F69|The Syrian Arab Republic|AbstractThe following sections are included:IntroductionHistorical OverviewEncouraging Private EnterpriseInfrastructureThe WorkforceAttracting Foreign InvestmentToward the Future
F69|The Republic of Turkey|AbstractThe following sections are included:IntroductionHistorical OverviewIstanbul & the Bazaar EconomyThe Firm-Type EconomyPublic PolicyToward the Future
F69|The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus|AbstractThe following sections are included:IntroductionHistorical OverviewThe Turkish Republic of Northern CyprusThe EconomyInfrastructure and Public PolicyProcedures for Foreign Investment in the TRNCTourismToward the Future
F69|Toward the Future|AbstractNot long ago, industrial development, along the Eastern Mediterranean, was quite limited. More recently, governments have successfully improved the infrastructure of their countries, and they have created incentives for business investors. Even Albania, which had a backward economy until the early 1990s, is forging ahead and is being praised for its economic achievements.
F69|The Republic of Lebanon|AbstractThe following sections are included:IntroductionHistorical OverviewEncouraging BusinessToward the Future
F69|The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan|AbstractThe following sections are included:IntroductionHistorical OverviewAgricultureSustainable DevelopmentImproving the InfrastructureBusiness Incentives in JordanThe Small Business SectorWomen in JordanToward the Future
F69|The State of Israel|AbstractThe following sections are included:IntroductionHistorical OverviewA Country RebornWar & PeaceResearch AchievementsWomen & EnterpriseBusiness Incentives in IsraelToward the Future
F69|The Arab Republic of Egypt|AbstractThe following sections are included:IntroductionHistorical OverviewPolicy ReformsThe Small Business SectorCredit for EntrepreneursThe BedouinsToward the Future
F69|The Republic of Cyprus|AbstractThe following sections are included:IntroductionHistorical OverviewTwo CulturesA Macro-Economic OverviewInfrastructureBankingThe Legal EnvironmentTourismToward the Future
F69|The Republic of Albania|AbstractThe following sections are included:IntroductionHistorical OverviewIntroducing Free EnterpriseAgricultureChanging ValuesInvestmentToward the Future
F69|The Bazaar Economy|AbstractThe following sections are included:IntroductionDefinitionsHistorical OverviewSegmentation by ProductionGuilds (Al-Sunoof)Competition & PricingA Typical BazaarManagerial Implications
F69|Research Methodology|AbstractThis book is the result of primary research conducted by the author. Interviews were conducted with entrepreneurs, corporate executives and government representatives, to provide an insight into the conditions for enterprise in different countries of the Eastern Mediterranean region. Respondents were asked to discuss infrastructure, incentives, opportunities and constraints. As well, documents were consulted to verify details and to obtain additional information.
F69|The Dawn of a New Era|AbstractHistory has shown that wartime adversaries – such as Japan and the United States – and long-time enemies – including France and Germany – can become heavily interdependent trading partners during times of peace. In the Middle East, peace is already bringing together former rivals. Four hundred Egyptians recently returned to Egypt from a training course in Israel, where they learned to develop the agro-business sector. The Internet provider Taskman.com Incorporated is a joint venture bringing Israeli technology to Jordan; the firm's R & D is conducted in Israel, while a service centre in Jordan benefits from low wages in that country.
F69|The Hellenic Republic|AbstractThe following sections are included:IntroductionHistorical OverviewThe EconomyEOMMEXTourism & ChangeToward the Future
