G00|The Rise of Domestic Capital Markets for Corporate Financing: Lessons from East Asia|During the past decades, firms from emerging economies have significantly increased the amount of financing obtained in capital markets. Most of the literature has focused on issuances in international markets, which appear to have been a key driver of the overall activity in a context of financial globalization. This paper explores whether domestic issuances have also played a role in this increase in financing. By examining the case of East Asia, which captures most of the capital raisings among emerging economies, this paper shows that domestic issuances have been the main component of the overall expansion in capital market financing since 2000. As domestic markets developed, more and smaller firms accessed capital markets, while larger corporations increased their funding sources and their resilience to international shocks. The experience of East Asia shows that domestic capital markets can play a useful role and that numerous policies might aid in their development.
G00|Strategic Insider Trading Equilibrium with a non-fiduciary market maker|The continuous-time version of Kyle's (1985) model is studied, in which market makers are not fiduciaries. They have some market power which they utilize to set the price to their advantage, resulting in positive expected profits. This has several implications for the equilibrium, the most important being that by setting a modest fee conditional of the order ow, the market maker is able to obtain a profit of the order of magnitude, and even better than, a perfectly informed insider. Our model also indicates why speculative prices are more volatile than predicted by fundamentals.
G00|U.S. shale producers: a case of dynamic risk management?|Using more than a decade of firm-level data on U.S. oil producers’ hedging portfolios, we document for the first time a strong positive link between net worth and hedging in the oil producing sector. We exploit as quasi-natural experiments two similarly dramatic oil price slumps, in 2008 and in 2014-2015, and we show how a shock to net worth differently affects risk management practices among E&P firms. The link between net worth and hedging decisions holds in both episodes, but in the second oil slump we also find a significant role of leverage and credit constraints in reducing the hedging activity, a result that we attribute to the marked increase in leverage following the diffusion of the shale technology. Finally, we test if collateral constraints also impinge the extensive margin of risk management. Though in this case the effect is less apparent, our results generally points to a more limited use of linear derivative contracts when firms’ net worth increases.
G00|Risk premium in the era of shale oil|The boom in the production of shale oil in the United States has triggered a structural transformation of the oil market. We show, both theoretically and empirically, that this process has significant consequences for oil risk premium. We construct a model based on shale producers interacting with financial speculators in the futures market. Compared to conventional oil, shale oil technology is more flexible, but producers have higher risk aversion and face additional costs due to their reliance on external finance. Our model helps to explain the observed pattern of aggregate hedging by US oil companies in the last decade. The empirical analysis shows that the hedging pressure of shale producers has become more important than that of conventional producers in explaining the oil futures risk premium.
G00|Tracking foreign capital: the effect of capital inflows on bank lending in the UK|This paper examines how UK banks channel capital inflows to the individual sectors of the domestic economy and to overseas residents. Information on the source country of foreign capital deposited with UK banks allows us to construct a novel Bartik instrument for capital inflows. Our results suggest that foreign funds boost bank lending to the domestic economy. This result is due to the positive effect of capital inflows on bank lending to non-financial firms and to other domestic financial institutions. Banks do not channel capital inflows directly to households or the public sector. Much of the foreign capital is also channelled back abroad, reflecting the role of the UK as a global financial centre.
G00|Fair-Value Estimates of the Cost of Federal Credit Programs in 2020|The federal government supports some private activities by providing credit assistance to individuals and businesses. CBO shows two kinds of estimates of the lifetime costs of those credit programs: estimates created by following procedures prescribed by the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (FCRA); and estimates that account for the market value of the governmentâ€™s obligations, which are called fair-value estimates.
G00|Accounting for Federal Retirement and Veterans' Benefits: Cash and Accrual Measures|Programs that provide benefits to retired federal civilian workers, retired military personnel, and veterans have long-term effects on the federal budget. The governmentâ€™s cash payments for those benefits are reported in the budget as outlays when they are madeâ€”which means that the long-term costs of current decisions about those benefits are not reflected in the current budget deficit.
G00|A Risk-centric Model of Demand Recessions and Speculation|We theoretically analyze the interactions between asset prices, financial speculation, and macroeconomic outcomes when output is determined by aggregate demand. If the interest rate is constrained, a decline in risky asset valuations generates a demand recession. This reduces earnings and generates a negative feedback loop between asset prices and aggregate demand. In the recession phase, beliefs matter not only because they affect asset valuations but also because they determine the strength of the amplification mechanism. In the ex-ante boom phase, belief disagreements (or heterogeneous asset valuations) matter because they induce investors to speculate. This speculation exacerbates the crash by reducing high-valuation investors' wealth when the economy transitions to recession. Macroprudential policy that restricts speculation in the boom can Pareto improve welfare by increasing asset prices and aggregate demand in the recession.
G00|Prudential Monetary Policy|Should monetary policy have a prudential dimension? That is, should policymakers raise interest rates to rein in financial excesses during a boom? We theoretically investigate this issue using an aggregate demand model with asset price booms and financial speculation. In our model, monetary policy affects financial stability through its impact on asset prices. Our main result shows that, when macroprudential policy is imperfect, small doses of prudential monetary policy (PMP) can provide financial stability benefits that are equivalent to tightening leverage limits. PMP reduces asset prices during the boom, which softens the asset price crash when the economy transitions into a recession. This mitigates the recession because higher asset prices support leveraged, high-valuation investors' balance sheets. An alternative intuition is that PMP raises the interest rate to create room for monetary policy to react to negative asset price shocks. The policy is most effective when there is extensive speculation and leverage limits are neither too tight nor too slack.
G00|Financial crises: past and future|Abstract This article takes a selective global tour of some of the prominent economic and financial risks in advanced, emerging, and low-income developing economies. The primary emphasis is on near-term risks. The discussion covers areas where vulnerabilities have either already become manifest, or those where risks are mounting but have not yet sounded a glaring alarm. For the advanced economies, the topics cover aspects of the recent surge in collateralized lending obligations in the United States and Europe that are reminiscent of the pre-crisis boom in mortgage-backed securities as well as Italy’s unresolved debt overhang. On emerging markets (EMs) and developing economies, the themes cover the curious case of the missing defaults (2011–2018); global factors and EM turbulence; and China’s international lending to low-income countries and its consequences. A brief discussion of some persistent medium-to-long-term concerns about the rising levels of US public debt and the tensions that arise from internal economic objectives and the external pressures associated with the US dollar’s role as the world’s principal reserve currency completes the discussion.
G00|A Macroprudential Theory of Foreign Reserve Accumulation|This paper proposes a theory of foreign reserves as macroprudential policy. We study an open economy model of financial crises, in which pecuniary externalities lead to over-borrowing, and show that by accumulating international reserves, the government can achieve the constrained-efficient allocation. The optimal reserve accumulation policy leans against the wind and significantly reduces the exposure to financial crises. The theory is consistent with the joint dynamics of private and official capital flows, both over time and in the cross section, and can quantitatively account for the recent upward trend in international reserves.
G00|Tracking Foreign Capital: The Effect of Capital Inflows on Bank Lending in the UK|This paper examines how UK banks channel capital inflows to the individual sectors of the domestic economy and to overseas residents. Information on the source country of foreign capital deposited with UK banks allows us to construct a novel Bartik instrument for capital inflows. Our results suggest that foreign funds boost bank lending to the domestic economy. This result is due to the positive effect of capital inflows on bank lending to non-financial firms and to other domestic financial institutions. Banks do not channel capital inflows directly to households or the public sector. Much of the foreign capital is also channeled back abroad, reflecting the role of the UK as a global financial center.
G00|Strategic Insider Trading Equilibrium with a Non-fiduciary Market Maker|The continuous-time version of Kyle's (1985) model is studied, in which market makers are not fiduciaries. They have some market power which they utilize to set the price to their advantage, resulting in positive expected profits. This has several implications for the equilibrium, the most important being that by setting a modest fee conditional of the order flow, the market maker is able to obtain a profit of the order of magnitude, and even better than, a perfectly informed insider. Our model also indicates why speculative prices are more volatile than predicted by fundamentals.
G00|Strategic Insider Trading in Continuous Time: A New Approach|The continuous-time version of Kyle's (1985) model of asset pricing with asymmetric information is studied, and generalized by allowing time-varying noise trading. From rather simple assumptions we are able to derive the optimal trade for an insider; the trading intensity satisfies a deterministic integral equation, given perfect inside information, which we give a closed form solution to. We use a new technique called forward integration in order to find the optimal trading strategy. This is an extension of the stochastic integral which takes account of the informational asymmetry inherent in this problem. The market makers' price response is found by the use of filtering theory. The novelty is our approach, which could be extended in scope.
G00|Model of banking behavior : specification and estimation|This study aims to construct a model of the economic behavior of banks as intermediate sectors in macroeconomics that play an important role interplaying between financial and real markets based on a theoretical and empirical perspective. There are two distinguishing characteristics of our approach. First, we specify an economic model of banking behavior, following partially assets and liabilities management (ALM). As the primary object of our paper is to provide an understanding of a bank’s role in macroeconomics rather than the details of ALM, we abstract from that concept and embed its crucial factors into the model specification. Second, we assume that banks have two optimization problems: profit maximization and asset allocation. Banks are assumed to maximize the profit function which takes into consideration items of the balance sheet and income statement. Then, banks are assumed to attempt to determine their optimal portfolio. Although our model is remarkably simple, we consider that our framework is valid to illustrate the mechanism of the loan market.
G00|Taming the Factor Zoo: A Test of New Factors|We propose a model-selection method to systematically evaluate the contribution to asset pricing of any new factor, above and beyond what a high-dimensional set of existing factors explains. Our methodology explicitly accounts for potential model-selection mistakes, unlike the standard approaches that assume perfect variable selection, which rarely occurs in practice and produces a bias due to the omitted variables. We apply our procedure to a set of factors recently discovered in the literature. While most of these new factors are found to be redundant relative to the existing factors, a few — such as profitability — have statistically significant explanatory power beyond the hundreds of factors proposed in the past. In addition, we show that our estimates and their significance are stable, whereas the model selected by simple LASSO is not.
G00|Prudential Monetary Policy|Should monetary policy have a prudential dimension? That is, should policymakers raise interest rates to rein in financial excesses during a boom? We theoretically investigate this issue using an aggregate demand model with asset price booms and financial speculation. In our model, monetary policy affects financial stability through its impact on asset prices. Our main result shows that, when macroprudential policy is imperfect, small doses of prudential monetary policy (PMP) can provide financial stability benefits that are equivalent to tightening leverage limits. PMP reduces asset prices during the boom, which softens the asset price crash when the economy transitions into a recession. This mitigates the recession because higher asset prices support leveraged, high-valuation investors' balance sheets. An alternative intuition is that PMP raises the interest rate to create room for monetary policy to react to negative asset price shocks. The policy is most effective when there is extensive speculation and leverage limits are neither too tight nor too slack. When shadow banks are present, PMP can still replicate the benefits of macroprudential policy, but PMP is less effective (like macroprudential policy) because shadow banks respond by increasing their leverage.
G00|Tranched Value Securities|Structured financial products and derivatives were one of the major financial innovations since 18th century, which improve market completeness by transforming risk-sharing mechanisms. Since then, thousands of derivative types were created, and its market has grown to over six-times greater than global GDP, but capital markets still exhibit efficiency only to a limited extent. This paper assesses the potential performance of Tranched Value Securities (patent pending) – a new financial instrument that transforms a single underlying to asymmetrically paying derivative, and has a potential to further improve capital markets by facilitating risk sharing, and satisfy a wide range of investment objectives.
G00|CAPM: A Tale of Two Versions|Categorization is the mental operation by which brain classifies objects and events. We do not experience the world as a series of unique events. Rather, we make sense of our experiences within a framework of categories that represent prior knowledge. Given that categorization is the core of cognition, we argue that the traditional view that each firm is viewed in isolation needs to be altered. Instead, like every other object they ever come across, investors view each firm within a framework of categories that represent prior knowledge. This involves sorting a firm into a category based on a subset of firm-attributes. Such categorization-relevant attributes are refined whereas other firm-attributes are confounded with the category-exemplar. Two versions of CAPM arise as a result. In the first version, the relationship between average excess return and stock beta is flat (possibly negative). Value effect and size premium (controlling for quality) arise in this version. In the second version, the relationship is strongly positive. The two-version CAPM accounts for several recent empirical findings including fundamentally different intraday vs overnight behavior, as well as behavior on macroeconomic announcement days. The tug-of-war dynamics of the two versions also suggest that momentum is expected to be an overnight phenomenon, which is consistent with empirical findings. We argue that, perhaps, our best shot at observing classical CAPM in its full glory is a laboratory experiment with subjects who have difficulty categorizing (such as in autism spectrum disorders).
G00|A New Adaptive Moving Average (Vama) Technical Indicator For Financial Data Smoothing|The separation of the trend from random fluctuations (noise) is a major objective in technical analysis and for a long time two commons filters, the simple moving average and the exponential moving average have been used to achieve this goal, those two filters use one parameter to control this degree of separation, higher degree of separation involve smoother results but also more lag. Lag is defined as the effect of a moving average to show past trends instead of new ones, this effect his unavoidable with causal filters and is a major drawback in decision timing . In this article I will introduce a new adaptive moving average technical indicator (VAMA) who aim to provide smooth results as well as providing fast decision timing. This new method will be used for the construction of a simple MA crossover strategy in EURUSD, the results of this strategy will then be compared to the results of the same strategy using other adaptive moving averages to provide a comparison of the profitability of this indicator.
G00|New Essentials of Economic Theory|This paper develops economic theory tools and framework free from general equilibrium assumptions. We describe macroeconomics as system of economic agents under action risks. Economic and financial variables of agents, their expectations and transactions between agents define macroeconomic variables. Agents variables depend on transactions between agents and transactions are performed under agents expectations. Agents expectations are formed by economic variables, transactions, expectations of other agents, other factors that impact macroeconomic evolution. We use risk ratings of agents as their coordinates on economic space and approximate description of economic and financial variables, transactions and expectations of numerous separate agents by description of variables, transactions and expectations of aggregated agents as density functions on economic space. Motion of separate agents on economic space due to change of agents risk rating induce economic flows of variables, transactions and expectations and we describe their impact on economic evolution. We apply our model equations to description of business cycles, model wave propagation for disturbances of economic variables and transactions, model asset price fluctuations and argue hidden complexities of classical Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing.
G00|Problematics in Development and Management of Money Affairs (Cash Affairs) in Indonesia|This article explains the problems in the development and management of cash waqf in Indonesia. Cash waqf by people, groups of people, and institutions or legal entities in the form of cash. Waqf cash is still debated among scholars whether it is legal or not, and managing cash waqf professionally is still a discourse and not many people or institutions can accept such waqf models. This article also discusses understanding, legal basis, problematics, management and solutions. Also discussed about cash waqf as the basis for community economic development by opening up Muslim rigidity to cash waqf, as well as the economic prospects of waqf property. The potential of waqf is one of the instruments of economic empowerment for Muslims even though management in Indonesia is still not good. But seen from the number, waqf property in Indonesia is quite large. Money waqf has played an important role as one of the new Islamic fiscal instruments in the economy. Money waqf has two functions as a means of worship and the achievement of social welfare. This article tries to explore how the problems in developing money waqf management such as the way it is distributed and its circulation and how the waqf is able to have a good impact on the surrounding community.
G00|Impact de risque de crédit et de liquidité sur la stabilité bancaire<BR>[Impact of liquidity and credit risks on the bank stability]|The global ﬁnancial crisis has induced a series of failures of most conventional banks. This study investigates the main sources of banking fragility. We use a sample of 49 banks operating in the Tunisian over the period 2006-2015 to analyze the relationship between credit risk and liquidity risk and its impact on bank stability. Our results show that credit risk and liquidity risk do not have an economically meaningful reciprocal contemporaneous or time-lagged relationship. However, both risks separately affect bank stability and their interaction contributes to bank instability. These ﬁndings provide bank managers with more understanding of bank risk and serve as an underpinning for recent regulatory efforts aimed at strengthening the joint risk management of liquidity and credit risks.
G00|Les normes prudentielles : étude d’impact sur la solvabilité bancaire<BR>[Prudential standards: impact study on bank solvency]|The evolution of the banking regulatory environment in recent years raises many questions about the effectiveness of prudential measures and the relevance of the legal system in this new landscape. The Cooke ratio, replaced in 2003 by the Mc Donough ratio, has since become an international benchmark for banks. Banks that are less risky and comply with prudential standards are solvent. Thus, with their compliance with prudential standards, Tunisian commercial banks are relatively safe from risks. From a sample of 10 commercial banks between 2007 and 2015, we studied the impact of compliance with prudential standards on the solvency of the banking institution. To do this, we based on the studies of Kefi and Maraghni (2011). Indeed, we have made estimates on panel data, these results show that the ratio of liquidity, interest rate risk ratio and Return on assets have positive and significant effects on the risk coverage ratio.
G00|Les normes prudentielles : étude d’impact sur la solvabilité bancaire<BR>[Prudential standards: impact study on bank solvency]|The evolution of the banking regulatory environment in recent years raises many questions about the effectiveness of prudential measures and the relevance of the legal system in this new landscape. The Cooke ratio, replaced in 2003 by the Mc Donough ratio, has since become an international benchmark for banks. Banks that are less risky and comply with prudential standards are solvent. Thus, with their compliance with prudential standards, Tunisian commercial banks are relatively safe from risks. From a sample of 10 commercial banks between 2007 and 2015, we studied the impact of compliance with prudential standards on the solvency of the banking institution. To do this, we based on the studies of Kefi and Maraghni (2011). Indeed, we have made estimates on panel data, these results show that the ratio of liquidity, interest rate risk ratio and Return on assets have positive and significant effects on the risk coverage ratio.
G00|Bursting the Bitcoin Bubble: Assessing the Fundamental Value and Social Costs of Bitcoin|This paper develops a microeconomic model of bitcoin production to analyze the economic effects of the Bitcoin protocol. I view the bitcoin as a tradable commodity that is produced by miners and whose supply is managed by the protocol. The findings show that bitcoin’s volatile price path and inefficiency are related, and that both are a consequence of the protocol’s system of supply management. I characterize the fundamental value of a bitcoin and demonstrate that the return on bitcoin appreciates proportionally to the rate of increase in the level of difficulty. In the model, where the price of a bitcoin is based on marginal production costs, successive positive demand shocks result in a rapidly increasing price path that may be mistaken for a bubble. The generalized supremum augmented Dickey-Fuller (GSADF) test is used to demonstrate that the model is able to account for the explosive behavior in the bitcoin price path, providing strong evidence that bitcoin is not a bubble. I also show that the difficulty adjustment mechanism results in social welfare losses from 17 March 2014 to 13 January 2019 of $323.8 million, which is about 9.3% of the miners’ total electricity costs during this time period.
G00|The role of recruitment in the financial performance of the Banking System|Among the HR processes, recruitment has been considered to be one of the most important ones. Many theories nowadays emphasize the importance of recruitment practices in the welfare of an organization, stressing that its impact is crucial even in the business financial performance.The study has been focused on the impact of the recruitment practices in the financial results of 6 banks in the banking market in Albania! A deep analysis has been done, with the data gathered on the recruitment method for the involved banks, through the use of both SPSS and Econometric methods. The sources used for collecting the data has been both primary through surveys conducted and secondary through the information gathered from different online sources. This study has been conducted to evaluate the impact of the selection method of two categories of employees, experienced once and the recently graduated, on the overall performance and financial results of the business.The study is concluded with the analysis of the results showing a clear distinction on the costs of the business for recruitment of both categories, meaning that the recently graduated are less costly for the business. However there is not a clear distinction weather the recently graduates are performing better in comparison to the experienced recruited employees.
G00|The Vietnamese financial economy: reforms and development, 1986-2016|In an age of reform, Vietnam’s financial systems have come to a critical stage in which the quality of policy-making, independence of the central banking operations and over-risk controls will ultimately be required if the country is set to move forward in a sustainable fashion. Analysts may have different views about Vietnam’s financial economy, but all agree that it has evolved and grown fast over the past three decades. The next course of development will depend on how Vietnamese society views raison d’être of its financial systems and financial health. But the process will much depend on the economic growth of the economy as a whole. Failing to support a sustained growth puts VFS’s existence at risk as economic growth helps mitigate higher risk-taking behavior and contain instability in less competitive markets.
G00|The reaction function channel of monetary policy and the financial cycle|This paper examines whether monetary policy reaction function matters for financial stability. We measure how responsive the Federal Reserve’s policy appears to be to imbalances in the equity, housing and credit markets. We find that changes in these policy sensitivities predict the later development of financial imbalances. When monetary policy appears to respond more countercyclically to market overheating, imbalances tend to decline over time. This effect is distinct from that of current and anticipated interest rate levels – the risk-taking channel. The evidence highlights the importance of a “policy reaction function” channel of monetary policy in shaping the financial cycle.
G00|Tracking foreign capital: the effect of capital inflows on bank lending in the UK|This paper examines how UK banks channel capital inflows to the individual sectors of the domestic economy and to overseas residents. Information on the source country of foreign capital deposited with UK banks allows us to construct a novel Bartik instrument for capital inflows. Our results suggest that foreign funds boost bank lending to the domestic economy. This result is due to the positive effect of capital inflows on bank lending to non-financial firms and to other domestic financial institutions. Banks do not channel capital inflows directly to households or the public sector. Much of the foreign capital is also channeled back abroad, reflecting the role of the UK as a global financial center.
G00|The influence of demographic factors on South African investors' life satisfaction|Satisfaction with life is not always a set concept and may vary according to the demography of investors. Demographical factors can classify investors into various categories of life satisfaction, which can ultimately impact investment decisions. The level of life satisfaction can influence investment by causing a deviation between expected and actual investment choices. Gender can be grouped between males and females with different investment decisions based on each group?s satisfaction with life. The aim of this study is to determine the satisfaction with life of investors considering their gender, age group, ethnicity, income group and marital status. The results of the study show that male investors are more likely to have a positive life satisfaction and make optimistic investment choices compared to female investors. Investors who are older than 50 years of age, married or earn more than R700 000 annually are more likely to have a positive life satisfaction and make more optimistic investment choices, while investors with a negative life satisfaction are more likely to make pessimistic investment choices.
G00|Effects of Sovereign Credit Rate Announcements on Turkey Stock Exchange Market|International Credit Rating Agencies take an important place in economic, financial and commercial situation of countries. These agencies examine economic and political environment of countries, evaluate creditworthiness assessment factors and assign sovereign credit rate for each country. Leading credit rating agencies are Standard & Poor?s, Moody?s and Fitch, which are called as ?Big Three?. Their ratings play a router role in international investments. In addition, credit rate announcements may influence financial markets. In this study, effects of Turkey?s sovereign credit ratings, given by Big Three, on the main stock exchange index (BIST100) will be examined. Within this framework, event study methodology will be used to analyse the impacts of announcements. The aim of the study is to research effects of sovereign credit rate announcements on stock exchange markets.
G00|The Effects of an Anti-Dumping Policy on Stock Prices of the Solar Companies|This study focuses on the reactions of abnormal returns on the Taiwanese solar stocks from eight anti-dumping events to examine the effect of anti-dumping tax on the Taiwanese solar companies. We collects the Taiwanese market reactions to U.S. announced anti-dumping tax on Taiwan, and the Chinese market reactions to U.S. announced anti-dumping tax on China. The purposes of this study are to explore whether abnormal returns are negative during the announcement of anti-dumping tax investigation. Furthermore, we test how abnormal returns change when the verdict of anti-dumping tax is favorable or unfavorable. Finally, we test whether Taiwanese solar stocks abnormal returns are positive during American announcement of anti-dumping tax on China. We find that the abnormal returns are negative during the announcement of anti-dumping tax investigation. The abnormal returns are positive if the verdict of anti-dumping tax is favorable. On the other hand, the abnormal returns are negative if the verdict of anti-dumping tax is unfavorable. Because China and Taiwan ranks top one and two in solar investment respectively, we find positive abnormal returns of Taiwanese companies during American?s announcement of anti-dumping tax on China.
G00|Heterogeneous Effects of Credit Constraints on SMEs' Employment: Evidence from the Great Recession|This paper takes advantage of access to detailed matched bank-firm data to investigate whether and how employment decisions of SMEs have been affected by credit constraints in the wake of the Great Recession. Variability in banks' financial health following the 2008 crisis is used as an exogenous determinant of firms' access to credit. Findings, relative to the Belgian economy, clearly highlight that credit matters. They show that SMEs borrowing money from pre-crisis financially less healthy banks were significantly more likely to be affected by a credit constraint and, in turn, to adjust their labour input downwards than pre-crisis clients of more healthy banks. These results are robust across types of loan applications that were denied credit, i.e. applications to finance working capital, debt or new investments. Yet, estimates also show that credit constraints have been essentially detrimental for employment among SMEs experiencing a negative demand shock or facing strong product market competition. In terms of human resources management, credit constraints are not only found to foster employment adjustment at the extensive margin but also to increase the use of temporary layoff allowances for economic reasons. This outcome supports the hypothesis that short-time compensation programmes contribute to save jobs during recessions.
G00|Trade Credit and Product Market Power during a Financial Crisis|This paper investigates whether product market power affects trade credit decisions. We exploit the 2007-08 credit crisis in the U.S. as a source of variation in the importance of product market power for trade credit. We find that a one standard deviation increase in market power is associated to a decrease in payables of approximately four days during the crisis, showing that high market power firms alleviate financial constraints from their suppliers to avoid the loss of monopoly rents. Our inferences are robust to structural and non-structural measures of market power, both at the firm and at the industry levels, and the inclusion of controls to address potential confounding effects deriving from other firm features, including financial constraints, industry specific shocks and macroeconomic effects.
G00|Management Information, Decision Sciences, and Financial Economics : a connection|The paper provides a brief review of the connecting literature in management information, decision sciences, and financial economics, and discusses some research that is related to the three cognate disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric models to estimate the parameters in the associated models, and analyze some interesting issues in the three related disciplines.
G00|Big Data, Computational Science, Economics, Finance, Marketing, Management, and Psychology: Connections|The paper provides a review of the literature that connects Big Data, Computational Science, Economics, Finance, Marketing, Management, and Psychology, and discusses research issues that are related to the various disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric and statistical models to estimate the parameters in the associated models, as well as conduct simulation to examine whether the estimators in their theories on estimation and hypothesis testing have good size and high power. Thereafter, academics and practitioners could apply theory to analyse some interesting issues in the seven disciplines and cognate areas.
G00|Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data: Connections|This paper provides a review of some connecting literature in Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data. We then discuss some research that is related to the six cognate disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric and statistical models to estimate the parameters in the associated models. Moreover, they could then conduct simulations to examine whether the estimators or statistics in the new theories on estimation and hypothesis have small size and high power. Thereafter, academics and practitioners could then apply their theories to analyze interesting problems and issues in the six disciplines and other cognate areas.
G00|Payment Technology Adoption and Finance : A Randomized-Controlled-Trial with SMEs|What determines the adoption of electronic-payment instruments? Do these instruments impact business outcomes, in particular access to finance? To shed light on these questions, we conducted a Randomized-Controlled-Trial with Kenyan SMEs. Our experiment released barriers to adopt a novel payment instrument. We uncover that the adoption barriers were binding for a large portion of the firms and that firms' financial transparency interacted with the decision to adopt. After sixteen months, treated businesses were more likely to feel safe and had more loans. The impact on loans was especially pronounced for smaller size establishments, which also experienced a reduction in sales-volatility.
G00|Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data: Connections|This paper provides a review of some connecting literature in Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data. We then discuss some research that is related to the six cognate disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric and statistical models to estimate the parameters in the associated models. Moreover, they could then conduct simulations to examine whether the estimators or statistics in the new theories on estimation and hypothesis have small size and high power. Thereafter, academics and practitioners could then apply their theories to analyze interesting problems and issues in the six disciplines and other cognate areas.
G00|Do institutional blockholders influence corporate investment? Evidence from emerging markets|This paper examines the relationship between firm investment ratios and institutional blockholders for a sample of 6300 publicly traded firms in 16 large emerging markets for the 2004–2016 period. Results show that independent, long-term, and local institutional investors boost investment ratios, and this is consistent with the monitoring role and blockholder voice intervention hypotheses. The presence of institutional blockholders, regardless of their monitoring involvement, reduces firm cash flow sensitivity ratios and thus, firms' financial constraints. Minority institutional investors complement the positive effect of blockholder investors. However, the effect on financial constraints decreases as the quality of the country's institutions increases.
G00|Analyse scientométrique de la crise économique|En s’appuyant sur les techniques de cartographie, en se basant sur l’analyse textuelle et l’analyse des réseaux de citations nous avons analysé le développement de la thématique de la crise économique. L’objectif est de montrer dans un premier temps les courants de pensée et les auteurs influents. Dans un second temps comprendre son évolution à travers le temps. Pour ce faire, nous avons extrait de l’interface du WOS en ligne l’ensemble des publications contenant le mot « crisis » dans les catégories disciplinaires « economics » et « business & finance ». Notre requête renvoie plus de 24000 publications. Nos résultats nous ont permis de montrer les différents courants de pensée dominant l’analyse de la crise économique ainsi que les auteurs les plus influents. L’analyse textuelle des termes présents dans les titres, résumé et mots-clés montre des changements majeurs dans la façon dont les économistes traitent le sujet. Désormais, une bonne partie des publications traitant la thématique de la crise économique cherche non pas à traiter les conséquences ou à proposer des solutions, mais plutôt prévoir l’avènement des crises à travers l’analyse des différents risques qui conduiraient à une crise. Nous avons montré également que cette thématique est très fortement dominée par la finance tant au niveau microéconomique que macroéconomique.
G00|The Impact of Regulatory Stress Testing on Bank's Equity and CDS Performance|This paper investigates the impact of stress testing results on bank's equity and CDS performance using a large sample of ten tests from the US CCAR and the European EBA regimes in the time period between 2010 and 2017. We find that passing banks experience positive abnormal equity returns and tighter CDS spreads, while failing banks show strong drops in equity prices and widening CDS spreads. Interestingly, we also document strong market reactions at the announcement date of the stress tests. A bank’s asset quality and its return on equity at the time of the announcement are significant predictors of the pass/fail outcome of a bank.
G00|Limits to Arbitrage in Markets with Stochastic Settlement Latency|Distributed ledger technologies rely on consensus protocols confronting traders with random waiting times until the transfer of ownership is accomplished. This time-consuming settlement process exposes arbitrageurs to price risk and imposes limits to arbitrage. We derive theoretical arbitrage boundaries under general assumptions and show that they increase with expected latency, latency uncertainty, spot volatility, and risk aversion. Using high-frequency data from the Bitcoin network, we estimate arbitrage boundaries due to settlement latency of on average 124 basis points, covering 88 percent of the observed cross-exchange price differences. Settlement through decentralized systems thus induces non-trivial frictions affecting market efficiency and price formation.
G00|Corporate borrowing and debt maturity : the effects of market access and crises|This paper studies how access to different markets and crises impact debt financing and maturity. Using data on worldwide corporate issuance activity in domestic and international bond and syndicated loan markets during 1991-2014, the paper shows that these markets are affected differently by crises, while providing financing to different firms at distinct maturities. During the global financial crisis and domestic banking crises, large firms moved away from the crisis-hit markets toward less affected, longer-term ones, switching their financing sources. Hence, firms that switched markets compensated for the financing shocks and maintained, or increased, their borrowing maturity. Country-level maturities also remained stable or even lengthened. However, firms that did not move across markets typically experienced declining financing and shorter borrowing maturities. Firm movements across markets are consistent with credit tightening during crises due to supply-side shocks, significantly affecting debt composition, borrowing maturity, and credit redistribution across firms of different sizes.
G00|Limits to arbitrage in markets with stochastic settlement latency|Distributed ledger technologies rely on consensus protocols confronting traders with random waiting times until the transfer of ownership is accomplished. This time consuming settlement process exposes arbitrageurs to price risk and imposes limits to arbitrage. We derive theoretical arbitrage boundaries under general assumptions and show that they increase with expected latency, latency uncertainty, spot volatility, and risk aversion. Using high-frequency data from the Bitcoin network, we estimate arbitrage boundaries due to settlement latency of on average 124 basis points, covering 88% of the observed cross-exchange price differences. Settlement through decentralized systems thus induces non-trivial frictions affecting market efficiency and price formation.
G00|Ambiguity, Nominal Bond Yields and Real Bond Yields|Equilibrium bond-pricing models rely on inflation being bad news for future growth to generate upward-sloping nominal yield curves. We develop a model that can generate upward-sloping nominal and real yield curves by instead using ambiguity about inflation and growth. Ambiguity can help resolve the puzzling fact that upward-sloping yield curves have persisted despite positive inflation shocks changing from negative to positive news about growth in the last twenty years. Investors make decisions using worst-case beliefs, under which the expectations hypothesis roughly holds. However, inflation and growth evolve over time under the true distribution, and this difference makes excess returns on long-term bonds predictable. The model is also consistent with the recent empirical findings on the term structure of equity returns.
G00|A risk-centric model of demand recessions and macroprudential policy|When investors are unwilling to hold the economy's risk, a decline in the interest rate increases the Sharpe ratio of the market and equilibrates the risk markets. If the interest rate is constrained from below, risk markets are instead equilibrated via a decline in asset prices. However, the latter drags down aggregate demand, which further drags prices down, and so on. If investors are pessimistic about the recovery, the economy becomes highly susceptible to downward spirals due to dynamic feedbacks between asset prices, aggregate demand, and potential growth. In this context, belief disagreements generate highly destabilizing speculation that motivates macroprudential policy.
G00|Bank solvency risk and funding cost interactions in a small open economy: evidence from Korea|Using proprietary balance sheet data for Korean banks and a simultaneous equation model, we document that increased marginal funding costs lead to larger solvency risk (as measured by the Tier 1 regulatory capital ratio), which, in turn, leads to larger marginal funding costs. A 100 bp increase in marginal funding costs (solvency risk) is associated with a 155 (77) bp increase in solvency risk (marginal funding costs). The findings of an economically and statistically significant relationship are robust to considering different proxies for solvency risk, types of banks, interest rate regimes, and interest margin management strategies. They also hold irrespective of the funding profile considered. FX-related macroprudential policies can affect the negative feedback loop by muting the effect of marginal funding costs on solvency risk. Our findings can inform the calibration of macroprudential stress tests.
G00|Systematic Risk, Bank Moral Hazard, and Bailouts|We show that the impact of government bailouts (liquidity injections) on a representative bank’s risk taking depends on the level of systematic risk of its loans portfolio. In a model where bank’s output follows a geometric Brownian motion and the government guarantees bank’s liabilities, we show first that more generous bailouts may or may not induce banks to take on more risk depending on the level of systematic risk; if systematic risk is high (low), a more generous bailout decreases (increases) bank’s risk taking. Second, the optimal liquidity policy itself depends on systematic risk. Third, the relationship between bailouts and bank’s risk taking is not monotonic. When systematic risk is low, the optimal liquidity policy is loose and more generous bailouts induce banks to take on more risk. If systematic risk is high and the optimal liquidity policy is tight, less generous bailouts induce banks to take on less risk. However, when high systematic risk makes a very tight liquidity policy optimal, a less generous bailout could increase bank’s risk taking. While in this model there is only one representative bank, in an economy with many banks, a higher level of systematic risk could also be a source of systemic risk if a tighter liquidity policy induces correlated risk taking choices by banks.
G00|Measuring the Costs of Federal Insurance Programs: Cash or Accrual?|Following on a January 2018 report about using cash or accrual measures in federal budgeting, CBO assesses the advantages and disadvantages of those measures for federal insurance programs, including deposit insurance, flood insurance, and pension insurance. The report also describes a range of options for the expanding the use of accrual measures in the budget process.
G00|Fair-Value Estimates of the Cost of Federal Credit Programs in 2019|The federal government supports some private activities by providing credit assistance to individuals and businesses. CBO offers two kinds of measures for estimating the lifetime costs incurred by those federal credit programs: estimates created by following procedures prescribed by the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (FCRA); and estimates that account for the market value of the governmentâ€™s obligations, which are called fair-value estimates. Using FCRA procedures, CBO estimates that new loans and loan guarantees issued in 2019 would result in savings of $37.4 billion.
G00|Ensayo sobre doble imposición e impuestos sobre impuestos (impuestos al cuadrado) en la economia Argentina|El esquema impositivo que enfrenta una empresa no es trivial en el proceso de asignación de recursos al momento de explotar las oportunidades de negocios. El entusiasmo estatal dirigido a maximizar la recaudación, máxime aun cuando el Estado impacta impositivamente en diferentes niveles (federal, provincial y municipal) puede llevar a esquemas de doble o triple imposición, que afectan la ecuación económica de la firma en su estado de resultados, inclusive al extremo de cobrarse diferentes impuestos sobre la misma base imponible, o cobrarse impuestos sobre impuestos (que denomino impuestos al cuadrado). En este trabajo proporciono un enfoque conceptual económico simple de la doble imposición que afecta al componente de recursos laborales, tanto en lo que se refiere al impacto del impuesto al valor agregado, como al impacto de los impuestos al trabajo (cargas sociales y aportes patronales). Esto dispara también la curiosidad de que el Estado de Resultados contable no refleja los débitos y créditos del impuesto al valor agregado, dando lugar a una diferencia entre el monto que pagan los consumidores y el monto que reflejan las empresas de ingresos en sus estados de resultados.
G00|Cálculo de ganancias empresariales con ajuste por inflación o moneda extranjera: un enfoque desde las finanzas|La cartera de activos y pasivos que maneja la firma apuntan a generar rentas operativas y financieras, y dentro de estas últimas se incluyen las ganancias (pérdidas) de capital, por efecto de los cambios relativos de valor de activos y pasivos bajo administración. En un contexto de estabilidad de precios, la hoja de balance de la situación económica y financiera de una empresa y su estado de resultados reflejan razonablemente la realidad de negocios de la misma. En contextos de inflación, los estados contables, al reflejar la realidad de negocios desde lo nominal, dan lugar a distorsiones originadas en las diferencias entre ganancias (y pérdidas) de capital nominales y reales. Entre los efectos de esta situación se observa que la rentabilidad no refleja la realidad económica, y que en la determinación del impuesto a las ganancias la falta de expresión en moneda homogénea dan lugar al cálculo del impuesto sobre ganancias (y pérdidas) de capital nominales y no reales, al asimilar de manera indirecta al patrimonio neto como un pasivo monetario que no debe ser ajustado. Bajo esta situación, la determinación del impuesto a las ganancias termina afectando no solo ganancias del ejercicio, sino también aportes de capital y ganancias retenidas de ejercicios anteriores, como así también política de dividendos. Mostramos este resultado en un ejemplo simple, y evaluamos sus potenciales consecuencias.
G00|Systematic risk, bank moral hazard, and bailouts|We show that the impact of government bailouts (liquidity injections) on a representative bank’s risk taking depends on the level of systematic risk of its loans portfolio. In a model where bank’s output follows a geometric Brownian motion and the government guarantees bank’s liabilities, we show first that more generous bailouts may or may not induce banks to take on more risk depending on the level of systematic risk; if systematic risk is high (low), a more generous bailout decreases (increases) bank’s risk taking. Second, the optimal liquidity policy itself depends on systematic risk. Third, the relationship between bailouts and bank’s risk taking is not monotonic. When systematic risk is low, the optimal liquidity policy is loose and more generous bailouts induce banks to take on more risk. If systematic risk is high and the optimal liquidity policy is tight, less generous bailouts induce banks to take on less risk. However, when high systematic risk makes a very tight liquidity policy optimal, a less generous bailout could increase bank’s risk taking. While in this model there is only one representative bank, in an economy with many banks, a higher level of systematic risk could also be a source of systemic risk if a tighter liquidity policy induces correlated risk taking choices by banks.
G00|Revealing Downturns|When Bayesian risk-averse investors are uncertain about their assets' cash flows' exposure to systematic risk, stock prices react more to news in downturns than in upturns, implying higher volatility in downturns and negatively skewed returns. The reason is that, in good times, less desirable assets with low average cash flows and high loading on market risk perform similar to more desirable assets with high average cash flows and low market risk, rendering them difficult to distinguish. However, their relative fundamental performance diverges in downturns, enabling better inference. Consistent with these predictions, stocks' reaction to earnings news is up to 70% stronger in downturns than in upturns.
G00|Revealing Downturns|When Bayesian risk-averse investors are uncertain about their assets’ cash flows’ exposure to systematic risk, stock prices react more to news in downturns than in upturns, implying higher volatility in downturns and negatively skewed returns. The reason is that, in good times, less desirable assets with low average cash flows and high loading on market risk perform similar to more desirable assets with high average cash flows and low market risk, rendering them difficult to distinguish. However, their relative fundamental performance diverges in downturns, enabling better inference. Consistent with these predictions, stocks’ reaction to earnings news is up to 70% stronger in downturns than in upturns..
G00|Generalized Recovery|We characterize when physical probabilities, marginal utilities, and the dis- count rate can be recovered from observed state prices for several future time periods. Our characterization makes no assumptions of the probability distribu- tion, thus generalizing the time-homogeneous stationary model of Ross (2015). Our characterization is simple and intuitive, linking recovery to the relation between the number of time periods and the number of states. When recovery is feasible, our model is easy to implement, allowing a closed-form linearized solution. We implement our model empirically, testing the predictive power of the recovered expected return and other recovered statistics.
G00|Inventory Management, Dealers' Connections, and Prices in OTC Markets|We propose a new model of interdealer trading. Dealers trade together to reduce their inventory holding costs. Core dealers share these costs efficiently and provide liquidity to peripheral dealers, who have heterogeneous access to core dealers. We derive predictions about the effects of peripheral dealers' connectedness to core dealers and the allocation of aggregate inventories between core and peripheral dealers on the distribution of interdealer prices, the efficiency of interdealer trades, and trading costs for the dealers' clients. For instance, the dispersion of interdealer prices is higher when fewer peripheral dealers are connected to core dealers or when their aggregate inventory is higher.
G00|The Household Finance Landscape in Emerging Economies|We survey the household finance landscape in emerging economies. We first present statistics on household balance sheets from official micro-surveys in countries comprising 45% of the global population: China, India, Bangladesh, Philippines, Thailand, and South Africa. We contrast these patterns with those in data from advanced economies. We then survey the nascent literature on household finance in emerging economies and discuss areas of overlap with the more well-established literature on household finance in advanced economies, as well as the large body of literature on development finance. We highlight useful directions for future research.
G00|Capital Market Anomalies and Quantitative Research|"Quantitative research analysts (Quants) produce in-depth quantitative and econometric modeling of market anomalies to assist sell-side analysts and institutional clients with stock selection strategies. Quant-backed analysts exhibit more efficient forecasting behavior on anomaly predictors--stock recommendations and target prices issued on anomaly-longs (anomaly-shorts) are more (less) favorable. Investment value of such analysts' research is higher and their research reports are more likely to discuss implications of quantitative modeling and market anomalies. Quant research facilitates ""smart money"" trades of institutional clients on anomaly stocks--Quant research is associated with an increased (decreased) likelihood of purchasing underpriced (overpriced) stocks. Market participants recognize Quants--thematic reports authored by Quants generate abnormal reactions for corresponding stocks. Finally, we provide evidence consistent with quantitative research increasing market efficiency by attenuating cross-sectional predictability of anomaly based long-short strategies."
G00|Management Information, Decision Sciences, and Financial Economics: A Connection|The paper provides a brief review of the connecting literature in management information, decision sciences, and financial economics, and discusses some research that is related to the three cognate disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric models to estimate the parameters in the associated models, and analyze some interesting issues in the three related disciplines.
G00|Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data: Connections|This paper provides a review of some connecting literature in Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data. We then discuss some research that is related to the six cognate disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric and statistical models to estimate the parameters in the associated models. Moreover, they could then conduct simulations to examine whether the estimators or statistics in the new theories on estimation and hypothesis have small size and high power. Thereafter, academics and practitioners could then apply their theories to analyze interesting problems and issues in the six disciplines and other cognate areas.
G00|Employment Effects of Unconventional Monetary Policy : Evidence from QE|This paper investigates the effect of the Federal Reserve's unconventional monetary policy on employment via a bank lending channel. We find that banks with higher mortgage-backed securities holdings issued relatively more loans after the first and third rounds of quantitative easing (QE1 and QE3). While additional volume is concentrated in refinanced mortgages after QE1, increases are driven by newly originated home purchase mortgages and additional commercial and industrial lending after QE3. Using spatial variation, we show that regions with a high share of affected banks experienced stronger employment growth after both, QE1 and QE3. While the ability of households to refinance mortgages after QE1 spurred local demand, the resulting additional employment growth was relatively weak and confined to the non-tradable goods sector. In contrast, the increase in overall employment after QE3 is sizable and can be attributed to the supply of additional credit to firms. To s upport this finding, we use new confidential loan-level data to show that firms with stronger ties to affected banks increased employment and capital investment more after QE3. Altogether, our findings suggest that unconventional monetary policy can, similar to conventional monetary policy, affect real economic outcomes.
G00|Dynamics of Tokyo Electric Power Company and the Nikkei: 1985 to 2016 including the Fukushima disaster|From an asset portfolio management perspective, analyses of the correlations between returns are of great importance. This article investigates the correlations between the rates of return of Tokyo Electric Power Company stock and the Japanese Nikkei index over the lengthy period of 1985 to 2016. Using Markov-switching models, we seek to determine the effects of the Fukushima earthquake disaster compared with those of other shocks on the Japanese financial market. Although the Fukushima catastrophe resulted in more volatile stock prices, it had not changed the correlation structure among asset returns. In addition, both low- and high- volatility regimes, the Nikkei causes Tokyo Electric Power Company, but Tokyo Electric Power Company does not cause the Nikkei.
G00|Inventory Management, Dealers' Connections, and Prices in OTC Markets|We propose a new model of interdealer trading. Dealers trade together to reduce their inventory holding costs. Core dealers share these costs efficiently and provide liquidity to peripheral dealers, who have heterogeneous access to core dealers. We derive predictions about the effects of peripheral dealers' connectedness to core dealers and the allocation of aggregate inventories between core and peripheral dealers on the distribution of interdealer prices, the efficiency of interdealer trades, and trading costs for the dealers' clients. For instance, the dispersion of interdealer prices is higher when fewer peripheral dealers are connected to core dealers or when their aggregate inventory is higher.
G00|Risk Management and Regulation|The evolution of risk management has resulted from the interplay of financial crises, risk management practices, and regulatory actions. In the 1970s, research lay the intellectual foundations for the risk management practices that were systematically implemented in the 1980s as bond trading revolutionized Wall Street. Quants developed dynamic hedging, Value-at-Risk, and credit risk models based on the insights of financial economics. In parallel, the Basel I framework created a level playing field among banks across countries. Following the 1987 stock market crash, the near failure of Salomon Brothers, and the failure of Drexel Burnham Lambert, in 1996 the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published the Market Risk Amendment to the Basel I Capital Accord; the amendment went into effect in 1998. It led to a migration of bank risk management practices toward market risk regulations. The framework was further developed in the Basel II Accord, which, however, from the very beginning, was labeled as being procyclical due to the reliance of capital requirements on contemporaneous volatility estimates. Indeed, the failure to measure and manage risk adequately can be viewed as a key contributor to the 2008 global financial crisis. Subsequent innovations in risk management practices have been dominated by regulatory innovations, including capital and liquidity stress testing, macroprudential surcharges, resolution regimes, and countercyclical capital requirements.
G00|Risks in China’s Financial System|Motivated by growing concerns about the risks and instability of China’s financial system, this article reviews several commonly perceived financial risks and discusses their roots in China’s politico-economic institutions. We emphasize the need to evaluate these risks within China’s unique economic and financial systems, in which the state and non-state sectors coexist and the financial system serves as a key tool of the government to fund its economic policies. Overall, we argue that: (1) financial crisis is unlikely to happen in the near future, and (2) the ultimate risk lies with China’s economic growth, as a vicious circle of distortions in the financial system lowers the efficiency of capital allocation and economic growth and will eventually exacerbate financial risks in the long run.
G00|Chinese Capital Market: An Empirical Overview|The Chinese capital market, despite its relative short history in its modern form, has experienced a tremendous growth and is now the second largest in the world. Due to China's tight capital controls, the development of its capital market has mostly been isolated from and hence not been well understood by the rest of the world. Yet, this state of isolation is bound to change substantially as China becomes more integrated into the global financial system. In this paper, we provide an empirical overview of the Chinese capital market: its historical development and main empirical characteristics.
G00|Modelling Stock Return Volatility in India|This paper empirically estimates the clustering volatility of the Indian stock market by considering twelve indicators of BSE SENSEX. The cluster volatility has been estimated through ARCH family models such as ARCH, GARCH, IGARCH, GARCH-M, EGARCH, TARCH, GJR TARCH, SAARCH, PARCH, NARCH, NARCHK, APARCH, and NPARCH.
G00|Evaluating the Kemess Stream sold by Centerra Gold in 2018|In a streaming contract, a mining company sells future revenues derived from a mine. Typically, the mining company sells the revenue for a secondary metal rather than the primary economic driver of the project. This paper considers a particular stream known as the “Kemess Stream”, where a public company called Centerra Gold Inc. sold future silver production from the Kemess Project to a private financial company. The Kemess Stream represents a typical streaming contract and provides an instructive example as a modelling exercise. This paper shows how to calculate the economics of the stream in detail based on economic reports published by Centerra Gold and discusses general principles reflected in the deal terms.
G00|Die Theorie der fairen geometrischen Rendite<BR>[The Theory of Fair Geometric Returns]|"The theory of fair geometric returns, F theory for short, rejects the generally accepted notion that volatility is the risk of risky assets. Instead, it claims that capital market volatility, in turn, constitutes the maximum achievable geometric return. In order to get to the point, F theory, in addition to its own ideas, resorts to information theoretical considerations (centrally Shannon, 1948). The starting point of the analysis is a specific initial observation concerning the geometric mean return (G): Consecutive geometric returns of fairly (properly) exchange-traded assets ex post almost always turn out to be unequal. The author proposes two consequences to be drawn from this observation, which can be made daily at the financial market: (1) E[G]≠G dominates E[G]=G. Then what is E[G]? When does E[G]=G hold? (2) Since (it seems) there is volatility in G, is this volatility usable as part of a contrarian ""buy low, sell high"" strategy? If yes, how? In answer to these and other questions, the master's degree candidate presents a formulae system along with qualitative context, which essentially comprises: a formula for the expected geometric mean return; a measure of the abnormal return on an asset; movement probabilities in relation to the return process; an equivalent to Claude Shannon's famous information flow formula; the (here so-called) concept of the fugue – a novel countercyclical investment strategy borrowed from music theory; as well as an F-theory consistent option price and self-insurance model."
G00|Economic Transactions Govern Business Cycles|This paper presents the business cycle model based on treatment of economic agents as simple units of macroeconomics. Agents (banks, corporations, households, etc.) have numerous economic and financial variables like Assets, Credits, Debts, Consumption, etc. Agents perform economic and financial transactions with other agents. All agents are at risk but not for all agents risk assessments are performed now. Let’s propose that risk assessment can be made for all agents and let’s use agents risk ratings x as their coordinates. Agents coordinates for n risks define n-dimensional economic space. Economic and financial transactions between agents describe evolution of their economic and financial variables. Aggregations of economic or financial variables of agents in a unit volume at point x determine macro variables as functions of x. Aggregations of transactions between agents in unit volumes at points x and y determine macro transactions as functions of x and y. Macro transactions describe rate of change of macro variables at points x and y. We derive economic equations that describe evolution of macro transactions. We show that business cycle fluctuations are consequence of these equations. We argue that business cycle fluctuations of particular macro variable can be treated as oscillations of “mean risk coordinates” of this economic variable. As example we study the business cycle determined by model interactions between transactions CL(t,x,y) that provide Loans from Creditors at point x to Borrowers at point y and transactions LR(t,x,y) that describe repayments from Borrowers at point y to Creditors at point x. Starting with economic equations we derive the system of ordinary differential equations that describe the business cycle fluctuations of macro Credits C(t) and macro Loan-Repayments LR(t) of the entire economics.
G00|Mining Pipe-Shaped Ore Deposits|This paper provides a rough comparison of two mine plans for a hypothetical, pipe-shaped ore body. The geometry for the ore body is based on stylized example of an auriferous tourmaline breccia pipes associated with porphyry deposits, which can have great vertical extent and relatively small surficial expression. I suppose the pipe outcrops on a hillside and can be accessed from the base of the hill, allowing the miner to enter the pipe at the midpoint of the vertical extent. Accessing the pipe in the middle allows the miner to either go up or downwards and this paper explores one mining method for each case. I calculate basic statistics associated with each method and compare the two models for mining method.
G00|Valuation Simulation for a Net Smelter Return Royalty on a Mining Project|This paper provides a rough calculation of the economic value of a hypothetical mining operation for a profitable of mineral deposit. I present simplifying assumptions for the deposit geometry and mine production constraints to calculate the value of a net smelter recovery royalty on the mine, which is due a small fraction of gross income from the mine. I calculate the value of the royalty with constant prices and conduct a simulation exercise where the metal price changes quarterly based on historical data for gold futures contracts.
G00|Economic Transactions Govern Business Cycles|This paper presents the business cycle model without using assumptions of general equilibrium. All economic agents are at risk but not for all agents risk assessments are performed. We propose that risk assessment can be completed for all agents and suggest use agents risk ratings as their coordinates x. We show that macroeconomics as ABM is described on bounded economic domain of economic space. Transactions between agents describe evolution of their economic and financial variables. Aggregations of economic or financial variables of agents in a unit volume near point x determine macro variables as functions of x. Aggregations of transactions between agents in unit volumes near points x and y determine macro transactions as functions of x and y. Macro transactions describe change of macro variables near points x and y. We explain how evolution of macro transactions can be described by economic equations on economic space. We show that business cycle fluctuations are consequence of these equations. We treat the nature of the business cycle fluctuations of particular macro variable as oscillations of “mean risk” of this economic variable on bounded economic domain. As example we describe interactions between transactions CL(t,x,y) that provide Loans from Creditors at point x to Borrowers at point y and transactions LR(t,x,y) that describe repayments from Borrowers at point y to Creditors at point x. Starting with economic equations we derive the system of ordinary differential equations that describe the business cycle fluctuations of macro Credits C(t) and macro Loan-Repayments LR(t) of the entire economics.
G00|Futures risk premia in the era of shale oil|The advent of shale oil in the United States triggered a structural transformation in the oil market. We show, both theoretically and empirically, that this process has relevant consequences on oil risk premia. We construct a consumption-based model with shale producers interacting with financial speculators in the futures market. Compared to conventionals, shale producers have a more flexible technology, but higher risk aversion and additional costs due to their reliance on external finance. Our model helps to explain the observed pattern of aggregate hedging by US firms in the last decade. The empirical analysis shows that the hedging pressure of shale producers has become more relevant than that of conventional producers in explaining the oil futures risk premium.
G00|Funding Options from the Market|Investors face many different versions of The Portfolio Problem. Consider, for example, holding shares and call options on a publicly-traded equity. The options are in-the-money and live. How best should the investor go about exercising those options? They could fund from capital or use the secondary market to fund the options, as follows. When market price is above strike price, it may be possible to sell shares into market in advance of exercising the call options. This operation can yield residual cash or shares. How much should an investor do this and when? This paper presents a specific numerical example where we trade out of options when the market price breaches a 2:1 ratio to strike price and provides descriptive statistics for investors’ wealth in simulation with standard Gaussian motion for share price and specific trading rule.
G00|Improving Forecast Accuracy of Financial Vulnerability: PLS Factor Model Approach|We present a factor augmented forecasting model for assessing the financial vulnerability in Korea. Dynamic factor models often extract latent common factors from a large panel of time series data via the method of the principal components (PC). Instead, we employ the partial least squares (PLS) method that estimates target specific common factors, utilizing covariances between predictors and the target variable. Applying PLS to 198 monthly frequency macroeconomic time series variables and the Bank of Korea's Financial Stress Index (KFSTI), our PLS factor augmented forecasting models consistently outperformed the random walk benchmark model in out-of-sample prediction exercises in all forecast horizons we considered. Our models also outperformed the autoregressive benchmark model in short-term forecast horizons. We expect our models would provide useful early warning signs of the emergence of systemic risks in Korea's financial markets.
G00|Regression Forward avec fenêtres Tempo-Frequentielles roulantes par ondelettes discretes et continues -Une application à la Droite de Marché -<BR>[Forward Regression with Discrete and Continuous Wavelets Time-Frequency Window -An application to the Market Line-]|The Rolling-Regression are currently used to study the parameters stability over time. In finance, we can analyse the time evolutions of systematic risk relaxing the constant-Beta hypothesis. This method can be associated with a wavelet decomposition of the variables in order to the parameters stability of frequency regression. Then, we compare continuous and discrete wavelets methodologies of rolling regression with the standard rolling regression. The discrete methods are based on time-frequency window but we compare if we have to use it on the wavelets filter output or directly on the series and realize the wavelet decomposition at each step of the window. The continuous method is based on wavelets coherence-phase. We use daily data of AXA returns and the CAC 40 index from 2005 to 2015. We show that the differences between discrete methods are more important at Low-Frequencies and we compare the results with the Continuous Time-Frequency Betas.
G00|Does Working Capital Management Affect Profitability of Ghanaian Manufacturing Firms?|This paper analyses the relationship between working capital management and profitability of firms in the context of developing economies. A balanced panel of 11 manufacturing companies quoted on the Ghana Stock Exchange was used. The study covered the period 2011 to 2017. The relationship between working capital management and profitability was tested using dynamic panel regression (Arellano-Bond Estimation) technique. The study revealed that there is a significant positive linear relationship between working capital management and firms’ profitability. The findings also reveal the existence of a concave quadratic relationship between working capital management and firms’ profitability. Hence, an optimal level which maximises the profitability of manufacturing firms in Ghana exists. This implies that, there is an optimal level at which working capital management maximises firm’s profitability, therefore, managers need to ensure that they operate within the limits of the optimal level by implementing an effective and efficient working capital management policy. Also, the practice of an aggressive working capital management policy maximises a firm’s profitability.
G00|Can we beat the Random Walk? The case of survey-based exchange rate forecasts in Chile|We examine the accuracy of survey-based expectations of the Chilean exchange rate relative to the US dollar. Our out-of-sample analysis reveals that survey-based forecasts outperform the Driftless Random Walk (DRW) in terms of Mean Squared Prediction Error at several forecasting horizons. This result holds true even when comparing the survey to a more competitive benchmark based on a refined information set. A similar result is found when precision is measured in terms of Directional Accuracy: survey-based forecasts outperform a “pure luck” benchmark at several forecasting horizons. Differing from the traditional “no predictability” result reported in the literature for many exchange rates, our findings suggest that the Chilean peso is indeed predictable.
G00|Romanian`s fiscal policy in the context of the global crisis and implication|Almost in any field of human activity there are concerns about failures that may occur within it and in this context we will analyse the causes, mode of occurrence and manifestations. Crises are such failures and are studied by different economists after specific criteria. Crises have assigned characteristics of some phenomena with adverse consequences for organizations, institutions and social groups affected. Among these phenomena we can nominate: inflation, unemployment, stagnation, recession etc. Crises can be defined as situations of pronounced instability which are accompanied by volatility and uncertainty growing. During crisis we are in a constant state of anxiety and insecurity about the future, fear or even panic. Our defence instinct and preservation urges us to behave irrationally and emphasize even more the volatility because each of us, with ours cognitive ability, we can filter the information and we can understand the phenomenon in our way, then translating it in a particular conduct relating to the market. The objective of this paper is to highlight the impact of the fiscal policy decisions taken both at global level and in Romania. This paper is structured so that any reader can understand what the crisis is, how it manifested and what measures have been adopted to counteract the effects.
G00|Behaviour of asset pricing models in pre and post-recession period: an evidence from India|The study endeavours to assess empirically the performance of various models of asset pricing employing risk factors such as market premium, book to market equity, size, investment, momentum and profitability and attempts to unearth the effects of value, size, investment, momentum and profitability. It also compares the behaviour of five different asset pricing models: standard capital asset pricing model, three and five-factor model of Fama French, four-factor model of Carhart and six-factor model during the periods of pre-recession, recession and post-recession in the Indian equity market. The study uses constituents of S&P BSE 500 as a sample, traded over the period 1st July 2005 to 31st September 2017. The results exhibit that three-factor model is an effective model which brings a lot of improvements over CAPM and suggests that market premium and size factors are the most effective and strong factors explaining the variation in returns, throughout the study period. Four-factor model performs a little better for few portfolios created based on size-momentum during 2009-17 and 2005-17. Five and six-factor model do not make any further improvement if compare with the three-factor asset pricing model. Size effect is present in all the above models and across all the time periods, however, factors such as the premium for profitability, investment and momentum are found redundant during the study period in the Indian equity market.
G00|Economic and Financial Transactions Govern Business Cycles|Problem/Relevance - This paper presents new description of the business cycles that for decades remain as relevant and important economic problem. Research Objective/Questions - We propose that econometrics can provide sufficient data for assessments of risk ratings for almost all economic agents. We use risk ratings as coordinates of agents and show that the business cycles are consequences of collective change of risk coordinates of agents and their financial variables. Methodology - We aggregate similar financial variables of agents and define macro variables as functions on economic space. Economic and financial transactions between agents are the only tools that change their extensive variables. We aggregate similar transactions between agents with risk coordinates x and y and define macro transactions as functions of x and y. We derive economic equations that describe evolution of macro transactions and hence describe evolution of macro variables. Major Findings - As example we study simple model that describes interactions between Credits transactions from Creditors at x to Borrowers at y and Loan-Repayment transactions that describe refunds from Borrowers at y to Creditors at x. We show that collective motions of Creditors and Borrowers from safer to risky area and back on economic space induce frequencies of macroeconomic Credit cycles. Implications – Our model can improve forecasting of the business cycles and help increase economic sustainability and financial policy-making. That requires development of risk ratings methodologies and corporate accounting procedures that should correspond each other to enable risk assessments of economic agents
G00|Statuts juridiques, gouvernance et performance des institutions de microfinance au Cameroun<BR>[Legal status, governance and performance of microfinance institutions in Cameroon]|The main objective of this article is to analyse the impact of governance mechanisms in general and their interactions in particular on the performance of microfinance institutions while taking into account their legal forms. To achieve this objective, a multiple regression was carried out on a sample of 62 microfinance institutions whose data collected covers a period from 2009 to 2015. Our results show that large boards of directors do not add value to governance in microfinance co-ops. Private microfinance institutions, on the other hand, need to have a large board in order to benefit from a multiplicity of skills and increase staff productivity. Second-tier microfinance institutions that want to increase the productivity of their staff must review the number of women on their boards. They need to redefine their recruitment and compensation policies.
G00|Learning about Competitors: Evidence from SME Lending|This paper provides evidence of strategic complementarities in lenders’ contract terms in SME financing. To isolate this strategic effect from lenders’ joint reaction to unobserved common shocks to fundamentals, we exploit the staggered entry of lenders into an information sharing platform. Upon joining, lenders adjust their terms toward what others are offering. This effect is mediated by market power and seems to be driven by incentives to match rivals in order to preserve market share as opposed to learning about fundamentals. We also find evidence that this strategic behavior increased delinquencies during the recent crisis.
G00|Media attention and crude oil volatility: Is there any 'new' news in the newspaper?|In recent years there has been a growing interest in the analysis of large volumes of unscheduled news flow. Such news flow has often been used as an exogenous variable for explaining asset returns and or volatility. This paper examines the dynamic relationship between news flow and asset price dynamics from a different perspective. A novel index of media attention is proposed, and in the context of the crude oil market the linkages between media attention and returns and volatility are examined. It is found that media attention reacts strongly to shocks to volatility whereas there is little impact in the opposite direction. As such media attention seems to inherit the persistence in volatility but offers only a little more in terms of information relevant to future volatility. Therefore media attention does not offer a great deal of new news useful for explaining volatility.
G00|Combining Multivariate Volatility Forecasts using Weighted Losses|The ability to improve out-of-sample forecasting performance by combining forecasts is well established in the literature. This paper advances this literature in the area of multivariate volatility forecasts by developing two combination weighting schemes that are capable of placing varying emphasis on losses within the combination estimation period. A comprehensive empirical analysis of the out-of-sample forecast performance across varying dimensions, loss functions, sub-samples and forecast horizons show that new approaches significantly outperform their counterparts in terms of statistical accuracy. Within the financial applications considered, significant benefits from combination forecasts relative to the individual candidate models are observed. Although the more sophisticated combination approaches consistently rank higher relative to the equally weighted approach, their performance is statistically indistinguishable given the relatively low power of these loss functions. Finally, within the applications, further analysis highlights how combination forecasts dramatically reduce the variability in the parameter of interest, namely the portfolio weight or beta.
G00|Determinants Of Loan And Bad Loan Dynamics: Evidence From Italy|In this paper we describe the dynamics of Loans and Bad Loans in the Italian Non-Financial Sector during the period 1998:4 to 2014:4. We use a Factor Model approach to take into account all of the macroeconomic fac- tors that could a ect the cyclical dynamics of the credit market, and we try to capture the causal e ect of di erent variables at quarterly frequency, tak- ing into account the structural break of the Great Recession. We reach two main conclusions: rst, our evidence con rms the well-known negative rela- tion between GDP variation and Bad Loan ows, and moreover shows a strong infra-annual Bad Loan reaction triggered by a GDP shock within a period of six months. Second, if we correctly remove structural economic factors we nd that New Bad Loan Entry rate cause Loan variations. These facts are useful in formulating some policy conclusions.
G00|Strategic Technology Switching under Risk Aversion and Uncertainty|Sequential investment opportunities or the presence of a rival typically hasten investment under risk neutrality. By contrast, greater price uncertainty or risk aversion increase the incentive to postpone investment in the absence of competition. We analyse how price and technological uncertainty, reflected in the random arrival of innovations, interact with attitudes towards risk to impact both the optimal technology adoption strategy and the optimal investment policy within each strategy, under a proprietary and a non-proprietary duopoly. Results indicate that technological uncertainty increases the follower's investment incentive and delays the entry of the non-proprietary leader, yet it does not affect the proprietary leader's optimal investment policy. Additionally, we show that technological uncertainty decreases the relative loss in the value of the leader due to the follower's entry, while the corresponding impact of risk aversion is ambiguous. Interestingly, we also find that a higher first-mover advantage with respect to a new technology does not affect the leader's entry, and that technological uncertainty may turn a pre-emption game into a war of attrition, where the second-mover gets the higher payoff.
G00|Currency Risk And Its Effect On Performance And Permanence Of Companies In Mexicali, Baja California, El Riesgo Cambiario Y Su Efecto En El Desempeño Y Permanencia De Las Empresas En Mexicali, Baja California|This research aims to determine how currency risk affects the performance of commercial companies engaged in the sale of women's clothing, located in the city of Mexicali, Baja California. This industry is affected by rising dollar prices, a situation that impacts businesses located in this city because a significant portion of its operations are conducted in that currency. Doing so allows steady imports of inventories, which are essential for companies to remain in the market. The research design is descriptive, not experimental and transversal. A questionnaire was submitted to statistical tests through Cronbach's alpha to determine its reliability. Results show when the dollar value changes, the first reaction of companies is to increase their prices without analyzing the behavior of their competitors. They reducing their purchases and in some cases search other options for supplying their products in the domestic market. Additionally, these companies do not have any hedges to protect against this type of economic events, which affects liquidity and endangers its permanence.
G00|Testing capital market efficiency| This paper reviews the main tools to test the hypothesis of efficient market. We divide into two categories. First, we examine tests for return predictability. We expose random walk tests through variance ratios and the presence of long memory. Furthermore, we develop this part by including the imperfections of the market such as calendar anomalies and the trading volume. Then, we present event studies and different t tests employed in the field. We complete with the analysis of an information flow by presenting the non-parametric model and the test statistic. We also display empirical results from the literature for each category studied. Conclusions show that event studies question the efficiency contrary to tests for return predictability.
G00|Information & efficience : 40 ans de recherche|This article tries to examine the efficiency market hypothesis. Therefore, the efficiency is studied through endogenous and exogenous information. The goal of this paper is to describe the literature review the most exhaustive of effi iency studies. We show that distinct conclusions can be emphasized following the type of analyzed information. Consequently, the endogenous information is not of quality to question the efficiency, rather than the exogenous one shows significant results. The exogenous information allows forecasting future stock returns, and earning profit. It is getting a decision making tool. JEL Classification: G00, G14<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
G00|Market Efficiency and Information: A Literature Review|This article tries to examine the efficiency market hypothesis. Therefore, the efficiency is studied through endogenous and exogenous information. The goal of this paper is to describe the literature review the most exhaustive of effi iency studies. We show that distinct conclusions can be emphasized following the type of analyzed information. Consequently, the endogenous information is not of quality to question the efficiency, rather than the exogenous one shows significant results. The exogenous information allows forecasting future stock returns, and earning profit. It is getting a decision making tool. JEL Classification: G00, G14
G00|The Effect of Board Directors from Countries with Different Genetic Diversity Levels on Corporate Performance|We link genetic diversity in the country of origin of the firms’ board members with corporate performance via board members’ nationality. We hypothesize that our approach captures deep-rooted differences in cultural, institutional, social, psychological, physiological, and other traits that cannot be captured by other recently measured indices of diversity. Using a panel of firms listed in the North American and UK stock markets, we find that adding board directors from countries with different levels of genetic diversity (either higher or lower) increases firm performance. This effect prevails when we control for a number of cultural, institutional, firm-level, and board member characteristics, as well as for the nationality of the board of directors. To identify the relationship, we use—as instrumental variables for our diversity indices—the migratory distance from East Africa and the level of ultraviolet exposure in the directors’ country of nationality. This paper was accepted by Wei Jiang, finance .
G00|Stock-flow Consistent Macroeconomic Models: A Survey|"The stock-flow consistent (SFC) modeling approach, grounded in the pioneering work of Wynne Godley and James Tobin in the 1970s, has been adopted by a growing number of researchers in macroeconomics, especially after the publication of Godley and Lavoie (2007), which provided a general framework for the analysis of whole economic systems, and the recognition that macroeconomic models integrating real markets with flow-of-funds analysis had been particularly successful in predicting the Great Recession of 2007-9. We introduce the general features of the SFC approach for a closed economy, showing how the core model has been extended to address issues such as financialization and income distribution. We next discuss the implications of the approach for models of open economies and compare the methodologies adopted in developing SFC empirical models for whole countries. We review the contributions where the SFC approach is being adopted as the macroeconomic closure of microeconomic agent-based models, and how the SFC approach is at the core of new research in ecological macroeconomics. Finally, we discuss the appropriateness of the name ""stock-flow consistent"" for the class of models we survey."
G00|Are Mutual Fund Managers Paid for Investment Skill?|Compensation of mutual fund managers is paramount to understanding agency frictions in asset delegation. We collect a unique registry-based dataset on the compensation of Swedish mutual fund managers. We find a concave relationship between pay and revenue, in contrast to how investors compensate the fund company (firm). We also find a surprisingly weak sensitivity of pay to performance, even after accounting for the indirect effects of performance on revenue. Firm-level fixed effects, revenues, and profits add substantial explanatory power for compensation. Received April 25, 2017; editorial decision August 21, 2017 by Editor Matthew Spiegel. Authors have furnished supplementary code, which is available on the Oxford University Press Web site next to the link to the final published paper online.
G00|Stock Price Crashes: Role of Slow-Moving Capital|We study the role of various trader types in providing liquidity in spot and futures markets based on complete order-book and transactions data as well as cross-market trader identifiers from the National Stock Exchange of India for a single large stock. During normal times, short-term traders who carry little inventory overnight are the primary intermediaries in both spot and futures markets, and changes in futures prices Granger-cause changes in spot prices. However, during two days of fast crashes, Granger-causality ran both ways. Both crashes were due to large-scale selling by foreign institutional investors in the spot market. Buying by short-term traders and cross-market traders was insufficient to stop the crashes. Mutual funds, patient traders with better trade-execution quality who were initially slow to move in, eventually bought sufficient quantities leading to price recovery in both markets. Our findings suggest that market stability requires the presence of well-capitalized standby liquidity providers.
G00|The Cross-Section of Risk and Return|In the finance literature, a common practice is to create factor-portfolios by sorting on characteristics associated with average returns. We show that the resulting portfolios are likely to capture not only the priced risk associated with the characteristic, but also unpriced risk. We show that the unpriced risk can be hedged out of these factor-portfolios using covariance information estimated from past returns. We apply our methodology to hedge out unpriced risk in the Fama and French (2015) five factor-portfolios. We find that the squared Sharpe- ratio of the optimal combination of the resulting hedged factor-portfolios is 2.26, compared with 1.21 for the unhedged portfolios.
G00|Obesity and Household Financial Distress|Obesity provides a potentially informative signal about individualsâ€™ choices and preferences. Using National Longitudinal Survey of Youth (NLSY) data, we estimate that debt delinquency is 20 percent higher among the obese than the non-obese after controlling for an extensive set of financial and economic credit risk factors. The economic significance of obesity for delinquencies is comparable to that of job displacements. Obesity is particularly informative about delinquencies among those with low credit risk. In terms of channels, we find that the conditional obesity effect is partially mediated through health, but is not attributable to individualsâ€™ attitudes, time and risk preferences, or cognitive skills.
G00|Инвестирование Денежных Средств В Условиях Экономического Кризиса В 2017 Году|In the conditions of the economic crisis, one of the most urgent aspects is the investment of funds. The choice of the most optimal directions for investing is rather complicated, since there are many alternative options. The purpose of this study is to determine the most profitable directions for investing money in 2017.
G00|Ajustarea seriilor de timp financiare,Partea întâi<BR>[Smoothing of financial time series, Part 1]|The financial time series smoothing could facilitate the identification of some important characteristics such as the trend, the cyclic or the seasonal pattern. It could be also useful in forecasting the evolutions of some financial variables. In this paper we approach some smoothing techniques, such as the simple or the centered moving average.
G00|Risk and performance: empirical evidence from bank of tokyo-mitsubishi ufj|The aim of the study is to investigate the risk and performance of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Bank. The data obtained from annual report of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ from 2011-2015. Data was analyzed by utilizing regression and correlation. The study use the return on assets (ROA) as the probability indicators to measure the bank’s risk and financial performance, the indicators known as the dependent variables. The regression analysis and correlation shows only one factor is significant to ROA which is liquidity.
G00|Firm Risk & Performance: The Role of Corporate Governance Of Bumi Amada Bhd|The basis of this project is to analyze all the Bumi Armada Berhad’s performance starting from the year of 2011 until 2015. The information of the company will be taken from the financial statements report for every year of the company. This project will highlights on the specific risks elements and external factors that reflected to development of the company. The estimation for the particular risks will be implemented on the performance company due to examine the level of profitability. By utilizing the financial ratio analysis as a related to the Liquidity risks and Operational risks. In addition, all the data will be examine using the regression analysis and correlation between two variables that one factors will be significant or insignificant profitability.
G00|Performance and Size of Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd (F&N)|The main study is to analyze about the overall of the risk and the performance of the Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd (F&N). All the is get from annual report that get from the Bursa Malaysia. The measurement of the company is used in variety of ratio such as liquidity risk, operational risk, credit risk and financial risk. These ratio is useful to know well about the company.
G00|Risk Performance of Kawan Food Berhad|This paper examines the relationships between Kawan Food Berhad company performance with specific risk.The Kawan Food Berhad performance also being evaluated by an index based on 9 attributes score. The data obtained from annual report of Kawan Food Berhad from 2011 till 2015. The measurement of liquidity ratio and return of asset used to see the overall performance of Kawan Food Berhad in 5 years which beyond benchmark. To see the relationship of risks factors to the profitability, this paper examined operating risk, leverage risk and counterparty risk. Data was analyzed by utilizing regression and bivariate correlation.
G00|Genting plantation berhad performance and risk|The study investigated the company performanace and risk the company will bear. The purpose of this study were 1) to analyse the Genting Plantation Berhad performance, 2) to analyse the four risk which is credit risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and market risk, 3) to determines company performance using return of assets. Methodology for this study is five previous year analysis for Genting Plantation Berhad annual report starting 2011-2015. Data collected and measured with to determine risk and performance by using ratio calculation. The company performance is measured by ROA. The findings show credit risk, operational have a negative significant while market risk has positive significant with ROA.
G00|Monitoring Performance of Maybank Berhad in the Presence of Risk|The main purpose of this study is to examine the relationship between risk and performance of commercial bank in Malaysia. This study aims to investigate the impact of bank-specific factors which include liquidity risk, operational risk, and credit risk (microeconomic factors) and gross domestic product (GDP) and inflation rate (macroeconomic factors) on the performance of Malaysian commercial bank over the period of 2011 to 2015. The bank performance is measured by Return on Assets (ROA). The results imply that ratios employed in this study have different effects on the performance of bank. In this study, the findings show that only GDP has positive relationship with ROA. Four factors namely liquidity risk, operational risk, credit risk, and inflation rate have negative relationship with the ROA.
G00|New alternative measuring financial stability|If the z-score index is widely used as a measure of the stability in conventional banks, it would be more reliable to find an appropriate measure of the stability forall type of banks. Knowing that the cooperative or Islamic banks follow different contracts forms of investments such the PLS system and are closer to real economic, by considering the illiquid assets, we expect that the new measure labelled g-score, associated to real economic growth, reflects multiple risks and allows to track the banking stability.
G00|An Instruments to Develop Cashless in Malaysia|This study aims to apply the technology assessment (TA) model to analyze ebanking perceptions in the context of Malaysia. It involves aspects of supply and demand to understand increasing cashless concept in the country. A sample of 470 respondents were randomly selected from high density state capitals and major cities, using the convenience sampling method. Respondents were requested to complete a questionnaire developed from the basic model by forming UTAUT constructs, including quality, skills, transaction costs, user satisfaction, role of service providers (banks), and the influence of environment. Based on the results obtained, the model suggests that transaction costs, as direct costs by service providers, have a significant impact on the overall assessment of the performance of retail e-banking. Data analysis was performed using structured equation modeling (SEM), with the use of AMOS V22 as a method of trajectory analysis.
G00|Is there a Link between Profit Share Rate of Participation Banks and Interest Rate?[:] The Case of Turkey|Today, the sensitive side of national economies is financial sector. The main reason for this sensitivity is financial crises. This situation has increased the demand and orientation for Islamic finance as a substitute for the modern financial system. The Islamic finance is discussed as a real solution to financial crises because the Islamic finance methods and applications depend on real economic activities. Both this case and the distance that is taken by Muslim countries in recent years has increased the share of Islamic banking/finance in the world. Thus, it has been a long debate in Islamic finance literature to investigate the presence of dependency between profit share rate settled by participation banks and deposit interest rate offered in conventional banking. In this study, variables that affect profit share rate of participation banks and deposit interest rate of conventional banks are examined over the period between January 2006 and May 2015 in Turkey. OLS method is constructed and empirical results are pointed out that interest rate on government security and foreign exchange rate are significantly effective on participation banks’ profit share rate. In addition, the profitability of conventional banks, government security, and foreign exchange rate are significantly effective on deposit interest rate settled by conventional banks. The main reason for this link between conventional interest rate and profit share rate arises with the domiance of murabahah, simple buy and sell with term sale transactions, at Islamic financial institutions. The interest rate is a benchmark for participation banks to determine the profit share rate. To get rid of this dependency, Islamic financial institutions may tend towards mudarabah transactions.
G00|Financial Vulnerability among Tribes in Rural Areas: Certain Observations from a Study|Studies of vulnerability have gained wide currency among policy makers and governments in recent times. This paper is an endeavour to examine the problem of financial vulnerability among the tribes in the Wayanad district of Kerala. In Wayanad district, a tribe concentrated district in the State, the study has revealed that near 94.8 percent of tribes are having bank accounts. Within the tribal communities, Kuruma, a forward non-primitive tribe community has near 98 percent of households with bank accounts. The labour market intervention through the programmes of government has been catalyst in making tribes banking included. Tribes working under MGNREGS have been mandatorily forced to avail of bank accounts unless they would not be entitled to receive remuneration under the MGNREGS. The real financial vulnerability of people especially the low income and economically deprived communities like the tribes stems from their incessant dependence on the informal sources of finance. More than sixty percent of tribes depend on informal sources for credit requirements and among different tribe communities, Adiya and Paniya, two backward tribe communities, depend more on informal credit sources. Kuruma community, which is recognised as an advanced tribe community in the Wayanad district, appears to have been depending more on formal players for their credit needs. The present study calls for adopting strategies focusing on rural areas in order to reduce the financial vulnerability of socially and economically disadvantaged segments of people like the Tribes.
G00|The comparison between the budget of the European Union and the budget of Iraq|The EU budget accounts for about 1% of GNI (Gross National Income) across the 28 member states and total public spending in each country ranges between 35% and 58% of GDP. Total spending by the EU in 2014 across all 28 member states was €142 billion, or just over 1% of the Gross National Income (GNI) of the whole EU. Since, as we shall see, there are mechanisms to ensure that the EU budget balances, total revenues were €144 billion in that year. This is a relatively small component of public spending within the EU: across the whole EU, public spending was 48.2% of GDP in 2014, with a range from 34.8% of GDP in Lithuania to 58.3% in Finland. Iraq’s economy has been ravaged by conflict and insecurity, with the sustained slump in oil prices compounding these ongoing issues. Oil used to account for 95% of all government revenues. As a result, the country has spent the last few years wrestling to bring down a budget deficit that has repeatedly surpassed $20bn (more than 10% of GDP), with much of the available revenues sucked up by the war against Isis militants. The government is forecasting a deficit of $19bn for 2017. This article contains a comparison between EU budget and Iraq in order to overcome the economic imbalances in general and the budget deficit in particular, and show the role of the general budget policy in the treatment of the budget deficit more we have compared all aspects of the public budget policy between Iraq and the European Union, both in terms of the frameworks that govern or impact on the state budget or ways to finance the deficit in both.
G00|Analyse Temps-fréquence du MEDAF –Application au CAC 40 –<BR>[Time-Frequency Analysis of CAPM- Application to the CAC 40-]|The market’s line estimation implicitly assumes that its parameters are constant over time. Investors, who use the beta of this line for build their portfolio, have a similar behavior whatever their investment horizon. We discuss this hypothesis in this article using the technique of wavelets providing the time evolution of different frequencies trading. We have a sample period 2005 - 2015 covering both quiet and disturbed fluctuations of the CAC 40 and its components. We verify the expected result of market's line statistical weaknesses and the high volatility of its parameters. We show that there is a market 's line which differs over time, revealing significant changes of the beta, and we use this results to group the components of the CAC according to their characteristics. The use of wavelets notably improves our results and user's choice concerning his portfolios elaboration according to the horizon of its investments. Particularly, we show that keep overall market's line, whatever the period, is equivalent to consider stock selection by the beta for a short-term horizon. So we propose a methodology based on time-frequency analysis that lead to an overview of stock characteristics useful to portfolio managers.
G00|Quantitative Description of Financial Transactions and Risks|This paper presents a quantitative model of financial transactions between economic agents on economic space. Risk ratings of economic agents play role of their coordinates. Aggregate amounts of agent’s financial variables at point x define macro financial variables as functions of time and coordinates. Financial transactions between agents define evolution of agent’s financial variables. Aggregate amounts of financial transactions between agents at points x and y define macro financial transactions as functions of x and y. Macro transactions determine evolution of macro financial variables. To describe dynamics and interactions of macro transactions we derive hydrodynamic-like equations. Description of macro transactions permits model evolution of macro financial variables and hence develop dynamics and forecasts of macro finance. As example for simple model interactions between macro transactions we derive hydrodynamic-like equations and obtain wave equations for their perturbations. Waves of macro transactions induce waves of macro financial variables on economic space. Diversities of financial waves of macro transactions and macro financial variables on economic space in simple models uncover internal complexity of macro financial processes. Any developments of financial models and forecast should take into account financial wave processes and their influences.
G00|Currency Manipulation|Many central banks manage the stochastic behavior of their currencies' exchange rates by imposing pegs relative to a target currency. We study the effects of such currency manipulation in a multi-country model of exchange rate determination with endogenous capital accumulation. We find that the imposition of an exchange rate peg relative to a given target currency increases the volatility of consumption in the target country and decreases the volatility of the target currency's exchange rate relative to all other currencies in the world. In addition, currency pegs affect the formation of capital across sectors and countries. For example, an economically smaller country (such as Saudi Arabia) pegging its currency to an economically large country (such at the U.S.) decreases capital accumulation in the larger country and increases its real and nominal interest rate
G00|Factor Investing: The Rocky Road from Long-Only to Long-Short|This paper examines how restrictions on short positions affect the financial attractiveness of factor investing. To fill the gap between unconstrained long-short allocations and restricted long-only portfolios, we consider two in-between strategies. The first imposes that only the market can be shorted; the second is the so-called “130/30” or “active extension” trading strategy, which caps total short exposure at 30%. The takeaways from our research are twofold. First, short sales contribute significantly to the mean-variance performance of efficient factor-based portfolios. Second, the factor portfolios built originally by Fama and French (1992) with the purpose of developing asset pricing are impressively clear-sighted when it comes to portfolio management. Indeed, combining these portfolios generates mean-variance performances similar to those of optimized long-short portfolios, except for low levels of volatility.
G00|Asymmetric reaction is rational behavior|Abstract De Bondt and Thaler (Int J Fore 9(3):355–371, 1995) point out that while von Neumann-Morgenstern (1947) utility functions, the axioms of cardinal utility (Copeland and Weston 1988), risk aversion, rational expectations, etc., have formed the basis for theories of choice under uncertainty, research in behavioral science, has either challenged these foundations or outright rejected them. Requiring investors to be utility maximizers, and using an approach similar to Scott-Horvath (J Financ 35(4):915–9¸1980), and arguing investors’ to have different utility for partial upper and partial lower moments, this paper proves that loss, regret, and myopic loss aversion and sign effects, is in fact central to understanding of rational behavior.
G00|Stepwise investment and capacity sizing under uncertainty|Abstract The relationship between uncertainty and managerial flexibility is particularly crucial in addressing capital projects. We consider a firm that can invest in a project in either a single (lumpy investment) or multiple stages (stepwise investment) under price uncertainty and has discretion over not only the time of investment but also the size of the project. We confirm that if the capacity of a project is fixed and the investment premium associated with stepwise investment is positive, then lumpy investment becomes more valuable than a stepwise investment strategy under high price uncertainty. By contrast, if a firm has discretion over capacity, then we show that the stepwise investment strategy always dominates that of lumpy investment. In addition, we show that the total amount of installed capacity under a stepwise investment strategy is always greater than that under lumpy investment.
G00|Deepening and Widening of Production Networks in ASEAN|This paper assesses the recent widening and deepening of machinery production networks in ASEAN by using highly disaggregated international trade data over 2007–13. Based on both traditional trade value data analysis and a novel approach to the diversification of exported products and destinations, we confirm the steady development of back-and-forth trade links, notably with East Asian partners, centering on Singapore and Thailand. In addition to the five ASEAN forerunners, Vietnam is an increasingly active player in such networking. Although their degree of participation is still limited, Cambodia, Lao PDR, and Myanmar also show signs of joining production networks.
G00|Trade Liberalization and the Aggregate Matching Function in India|This paper investigates the link between trade liberalization and the job-matching process in India by estimating an aggregate matching function by incorporating trade openness as a proxy for trade liberalization. Monthly data are drawn from the National Employment Service's Employment Exchange, India's only public employment service. The results show that trade liberalization leads to a decline in the number of new hires. This implies the exacerbation of matching efficiency, described by an outward shift of the Beveridge curve. This finding is in accordance with a widely held public view that trade liberalization increases unemployment. Therefore, the Indian government should continue carrying out structural reforms for the Indian economy to deal with the inefficiencies in the labor market due to external liberalization.
G00|Internationalization of Indian Enterprises: Patterns, Determinants, and Policy Issues|This paper examines the emerging patterns and economic implications of Indian overseas direct investment (ODI) from a historical perspective. The novelty of the analysis lies in its specific focus on the implications of the liberalization reforms initiated in the early 1990s and the resultant changes in the overall investment climate for the internationalisation of domestic companies. The findings cast doubts on the popular perception that the recent surge in ODI from India is an unmixed economic blessing, a sign of “coming of age” of Indian companies in global business. Given the remaining distortion in the domestic investment climate, the net national gains from these investments could be much less than what the reported absolute numbers suggest.
G00|Managing Economic Stability under Volatile Capital Flows: East Asia Perspectives|The extent of financial globalization and volatilities of short-term capital flows create many challenges for policies of individual economies as well as challenges to global and regional mechanisms that should provide effective safety nets for countries to maintain financial stability. To maintain economic stability, countries—particularly emerging market economies—need to make use of appropriate policy tools, including monetary and exchange rate policy, reserves accumulation, and, when needed, capital control and macro-prudential measures. In addition, liquidity support mechanisms, whether bilateral, global, or regional can make a crucial difference in times of stress. Bilateral arrangements are by nature political so may not be reliable for many countries. Global (IMF) and East Asian regional arrangements (Chiang Mai Initiative Multilateralization) still do not have effective designs that will make them attractive to countries in the region. Recommendations are put forward on how these facilities can be modified to make them more attractive and effective.
G00|Government Support and R&D Investment Effectiveness in Chinese SMEs: A Complex Relationship|This paper investigates the combined role of innovation support policies and firm's own innovative activities on the performance of Chinese small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in high-tech sectors. By distinguishing two components of innovative activities—research and development (R&D) investments and embedded innovative capacity—the paper develops and tests an integrative moderated moderation model. The results suggest that in Chinese high-tech SMEs innovation-support policies positively moderate the relationship between R&D investments and performance, but this positive effect diminishes when there are higher levels of embedded innovative capacity. These results highlight that the relationship between government innovation policies and a firm's own R&D investments is not only reciprocal but also more complex than the one so far analyzed in the literature. The results show in particular that the effects of innovation-support policies on R&D investments is not as neat as it seems, because of the internal balance within the firm between investment in R&D and other sources of innovation. Therefore, although innovation support policies have been found to help Chinese SMEs in high-tech sectors benefit from their R&D investments, these policies are particularly effective only when R&D investments are significantly driving firms’ innovative activities. This highlights the relevance of both government support and a firm's own efforts in the competitive modernization of Chinese SMEs.
G00|RMBI or RMBR? Is the Renminbi Destined to Become a Global or Regional Currency?|Previous studies have focused on when the renminbi will play a significant role as an international currency, but less attention has been paid to where. We fill this gap by contrasting two answers to the question. One is that the renminbi will assume the role of a global currency similar to the U.S. dollar. Supporters point to China's widely diversified trade and financial flows and to its institutional initiatives, not just in Asia but around the world. The other is that the renminbi will play a regional role in Asia equivalent to that of the euro in Greater Europe. Proponents of this view argue that China has a natural advantage in leveraging regional supply chains and deepening its links with other Asian countries as well as in developing regional institutions. Asia, they argue on these grounds, will become the natural habitat for the renminbi.
G00|The Size and Costs of Bribes in Malaysia: An Analysis Based on Convicted Bribe Givers|A bribe-giving function was tested for Malaysia using data on 449 convicted bribe givers. Both the size of bribes and the probability of paying a large bribe were found to be positively and significantly associated with the size of fines and length of imprisonment avoided through bribery. Both the size of bribes and the probability of paying a large bribe increased with fines for bribery, however, but decreased with length of imprisonment. Our findings suggest that a reduction in human involvement in apprehending bribe givers, stricter enforcement, higher conviction rates, and more severe punishments could discourage bribes.
G00|China's Growth Slowdown and Prospects for Becoming a High-Income Developed Economy|After decades of hyper growth, China's economy has slowed significantly in recent years, causing widespread anxiety both within and outside the country. Although economists have not reached a consensus about China's growth potential, it is undeniable that the country has switched gears toward a “new normal” of moderate growth amidst ongoing structural change. To assess China's growth performance and prospects, this study modifies Masahiko Aoki's analytical framework of a unified growth theory into a multi-sector model and applies it to identify the sources of China's per capita income growth in recent decades. The analysis confirms Aoki's early observation that China entered the so-called “Kuznets phase” of development in the 1980s, which then became overlapped by the H-phase, in which human capital–based growth is characterized by high labor productivity growth. This study provides evidence that China's labor productivity growth has been predominantly driven by fixed capital formation. It also reveals that the Kuznets effect (with its labor reallocation effect) has now passed its peak and is fading away. The most alarming finding is that net total factor productivity (TFP) growth in the latest period has slowed to a near halt. This trend is particularly worrisome given that China has exhausted its past demographic dividend and its industrial structure has evolved to the end of industrialization stage. Meanwhile, demographic projections clearly indicate that China has entered what Aoki defined as the development phase of “post demographic transition.” Whether China can reverse the downward trend of TFP growth will determine how soon it can achieve the goal of becoming a high-income developed economy.
G00|SMEs access to formal finance in post-communist economies: Do institutional structure and political connectedness matter?|In post-communist economies, a disproportionately greater share of formal finance is channelled to larger enterprises and SMEs lack appropriately-priced formal finance. This article examines whether institutional structure and interpersonal connectedness with bureaucrats exacerbate this formal finance misallocation. We show that access to and use of interpersonal bureaucratic networks improve chances of receiving formal bank credit by between 4–10%. The benefits of interpersonal links are stronger for larger SMEs, and being connected to bureaucratic networks is not associated with enterprise growth. These findings imply that traditional policies that increase bank finance to SMEs should also aim to improve impartiality of bureaucratic institutions and enforceability of private contracts.
G00|Financial Development, Growth, and Crisis: Is There a Trade-Off?|"This paper reviews the evolving literature that links financial development, financial crises, and economic growth in the past 20 years. The initial disconnect—with one literature focusing on the effect of financial deepening on long-run growth and another studying its impact on volatility and crisis—has given way to a more nuanced approach that analyzes the two phenomena in an integrated framework. The main finding of this literature is that financial deepening leads to a trade-off between higher economic growth and higher crisis risk; and its main conclusion is that, for at least middle-income countries, the positive growth effects outweigh the negative crisis risk impact. This balanced view has been revisited recently for advanced economies, where an emerging and controversial literature supports the notion of ""too much finance,"" suggesting that there might be a threshold beyond which financial depth becomes detrimental for economic growth by crowding out other productive activities and misallocating resources. Nevertheless, the growth/crisis trade-off is alive and strong for a large share of the world economy. Recognizing the intrinsic trade-offs of financial development can provide a useful framework to design policies targeting financial deepening, diversity, and inclusion. In particular, acknowledging the trade-offs can highlight the need for complementary policies to mitigate the risks, from financial macroprudential policies to monetary policy frameworks that monitor the growth of credit and asset prices."
G00|The Matching Degree between Financial Structure and Technical Level and Economic Development|New Structural Economics suggests that there is no universally optimal financial structure for all countries,only when the financial structure match well with the technical level, it can effectively promote economic growth. Following corporate finance literatures, we try to discuss the measurement of regression residual on the abnormal level of the explained variables, regard the residual after the regression of each country’s financial structure on technical level as the main substitute variable, and then test the issue. The empirical results show that the matching degree between financial structure and technical level is significantly positively correlated to economic development, and the effect tends to be more obvious in developing countries. This paper also uses the alternative measure financial structure, the sociology’s hierarchical matching method to measure the matching degree between financial structure and technical level,and the instrumental variables method to deal with the possible endogenous problems, all empirical results supportthe same conclusions. To make a comparison, we add the gap variables of the optimal financial structure which regards OECD countries as the optimal criterion into our regression equation, the results indicate that our coordination variables are more significant and have stronger explanatory power on economic growth.Further research finds that promoting the growth of TFP is the mechanism through which the matching relationship affects economic development.
G00|"Moving towards ""Cashlessness"" in an emerging economy: A case study of latest policy steps in India"|On November 08, 2016, India took a decisive step towards going “cashless” by suddenly announcing withdrawal of its existing currency notes of two highest denominations, namely, the Rs. 500/= and the Rs. 1000/=. The move, announced with a suddenness that took the entire nation by surprise, had at its root the purpose of countering the threefold menaces of rampant corruption, counterfeit money and cross-border and internal terror funding. It has generated widespread controversy, the main criticism being that while the policy intent was sound, the execution plan was rather unsound. With one of the highest cash-GDP ratio in the world (close to 11%), India was revealed by RBI (Reserve Bank of India) data as having a staggering share of nearly 86% held in Rs.500/= and 1,000/= notes in the currency stock in circulation (end of FY 2014-15). The cost of “retiring” this volume of currency was therefore, going to be enormous which, as economists like former World Bank Chief Kaushik Basu (Basu 2016) emphasize, could far exceed the gains. In view of the intriguing developments overtaking the Indian economy since the date of submission of the initial abstract, problems that subsequently emerged as considerably more pressing and pertinent have been treated in greater detail in this study. Consequently, the approach and methodology has been substantially modified, although of course retaining the original motivation. With its laudable objectives of striking at the cash-corruption link, India saw, within the first four days of the announcement of demonetization, a staggering surge in bank deposits exceeding USD 52 billion, leading to high hopes of trapping unaccounted or illegal money through this route, a hope that was unfortunately to be belied. Given the enormous problem of Non-Performing Assets plaguing Indian Banks, we have also paid special attention to this potential vast source of unaccounted money in some detail. Next, an overview of India’s vast informal sector has been given, and the guidelines by Schneider and Williams (2013) and Schneider and Buehn (2008) have been used in an attempt to estimate the shadow economy in India using cointegration in a MIMIC framework. Finally, not only did India’s decision to demonetize have enormous economic or financial implications, but it also has had huge social and political ramifications that must be recognized.
G00|Informal intellectual collaboration with central colleagues|When preparing a research article, academics engage in informal intellectual collaboration by asking their colleagues for feedback. This collaboration gives rise to a social network between academics. We study whether informal intellectual collaboration with an academic who is more central in this social network results in a research article having higher scientific impact. To address the well-known reflection problem in estimating network effects, we use the assignment of discussants at NBER summer institutes as a quasi-natural experiment. We show that manuscripts discussed by a discussant with a 10% higher than average Bonacich centrality rank results in 1.4% more citations and a 5% higher probability that an article is published in a top journal. To illustrate our results, we develop a structural model in which a positive externality from intellectual collaboration implies that collaborating with a more central colleague results in larger scientific impact of the research article.
G00|Financial development, growth, and crisis: is there a trade-off ?|"This paper reviews the evolving literature that links financial development, financial crises, and economic growth in the past 20 years. The initial disconnect -- with one literature focusing on the effect of financial deepening on long -- run growth and another studying its impact on volatility and crisis?has given way to a more nuanced approach that analyzes the two phenomena in an integrated framework. The main finding of this literature is that financial deepening leads to a trade-off between higher economic growth and higher crisis risk; and its main conclusion is that, for at least middle-income countries, the positive growth effects outweigh the negative crisis risk impact. This balanced view has been revisited recently for advanced economies, where an emerging and controversial literature supports the notion of""too much finance,""suggesting that there might be a threshold beyond which financial depth becomes detrimental for economic growth by crowding out other productive activities and misallocating resources. Nevertheless, the growth/crisis trade-off is alive and strong for a large share of the world economy. Recognizing the intrinsic trade-offs of financial development can provide a useful framework to design policies targeting financial deepening, diversity, and inclusion. In particular, acknowledging the trade-offs can highlight the need for complementary policies to mitigate the risks, from financial macroprudential policies to monetary policy frameworks that monitor the growth of credit and asset prices."
G00|Shadow banking out of the shadows: non-bank intermediation and the Italian regulatory framework|Shadow banking is the creation or transfer – by banks and non-bank intermediaries – of bank-like risks outside the banking system. In Italy the shadow banking system is fully regulated, mostly following the principle of same business-same rules or ‘bank-equivalent regulation’. After an overview of the topic, we describe the Italian shadow banking system and the related regulatory and supervisory framework in place before the financial crisis and the subsequent enhancements. A quantitative representation of Italian shadow banking is also provided. The paper argues that through a wide and consistent regulatory perimeter, based on the principle of ‘bank-equivalent regulation’, it is possible to setup a well-balanced prudential framework, where both bank and non-bank regulation contribute to reducing systemic risks and regulatory arbitrage.
G00|Non-performing loans and the supply of bank credit: evidence from Italy|We use an extensive loan-level dataset to study the influence of non-performing loans (NPLs) on the supply of bank credit to nonfinancial firms in Italy between 2008 and 2015. We use time-varying firm fixed effects to control for shifts in demand and changes in borrower characteristics, and we also resort to the supervisory interventions associated to the 2014 Asset Quality Review to identify exogenous variations in the banks’ NPL ratios. We find that banks’ lending behavior is not causally affected by the level of NPL ratios: the negative correlation between NPL ratios and credit growth in our data is mostly generated by changes in firms’ conditions and a contraction in their demand for credit. However, the exogenous emergence of NPLs and the associated increase in provisions can cause a negative adjustment in credit supply.
G00|A critical review of the statistics on the size and riskiness of the securitization market: evidence from Italy and other euro-area countries|The paper provides a critical analysis of the indicators most widely used at international level to measure the size and risk of the securitization market and its contribution to shadow banking. The analysis outlines the reasons why measuring the size of the market on the basis of the total assets of Financial Vehicle Corporations (FVCs) is likely to result in an overestimation of the phenomenon. An alternative measure is proposed, based on the stock of securities issued by FVCs, net of those repurchased by the banks. The paper argues against an approach to measuring the risk of shadow banking by applying the same measures for different non-bank financial intermediaries. In particular, it is suggested that some of them, such as leverage, interconnection with the banking system and credit intermediation, may be misleading if they are applied to the securitization market and assessed through the FVCs’ balance sheet. The analysis, however, highlights the degree of opacity/complexity of a specific area for the analysis of risks from securitizations and proposes two new indicators. According to the proposed indicators, at the end of 2016, the Italian securitization market is smaller and less risky than that of other euro-area countries.
G00|CDS Central Counterparty Clearing Liquidation: Road to Recovery or Invitation to Predation?|Recent regulation mandating the clearing of credit default swaps (CDS) by a Central Clearing Counterparties (CCP), has rendered the latter a systemically important institution, whose failure poses a serious threat to global financial stability. This work investigates the potential failure of a CCP initiated by the default of a large dealer bank and the unwinding of its positions. The theoretical model examines variation margin exchange between dealer banks and the price impact of liquidation and predatory selling. It provides a measure of covariance between assets in banks’ portfolios; price impact affects assets to varying degrees, based on their relative distance to defaulted assets. Key results show that liquidation lowers CCP profits, and how predation decreases the profits of all members, pushing banks to default. Furthermore, a hybrid CCP (vs. current) structure provides a natural disciplinary mechanism for predation. Also, it more incentive compatible for the CCP, in expectation of a large loss. A multi-period, dynamic simulation, calibrated to market data, provides parameter sensitivities, as well as, regulatory implications for a Lender of Last Resort in various liquidity scenarios.
G00|Análisis de recomposición del portafolio accionario por sectores en Colombia basado en Valor en Riesgo entre el Q2 2013-Q2 2014 y Q2 2015-Q2 2016|Dada la coyuntura económica que ha afectado al país durante los últimos tres años, se busca identificar el cambio de la composición del portafolio accionario en Colombia basado en el listado de acciones que componen el índice COLCAP en dos periodos de tiempo, uno donde se haya presentado un auge en el sector petrolero y otro en el que no. Para ello se hizo uso de tres métodos diferentes de optimización de portafolio utilizando medidas coherentes del riesgo como el CVaR. Los resultados evidencian que ante una coyuntura macroeconómica incierta el riesgo de mercado aumenta y asimismo las decisiones óptimas de inversión se ven afectadas no solo en términos de los sectores económicos involucrados sino en nivel de riesgo que se asume con la inversión. De esta manera, se observa que sectores como el de la construcción y el financiero sirven de refugio para los inversionistas en periodos de incertidumbre, así como activos de empresas con un portafolio de inversión bien diversificado. ****** According to current economic situation that has affected Colombia during last three years, this study looks for identifying the change in the composition of the stock portfolio in Colombia based on COLCAP index using two periods for comparison, one where there has been a boom in the oil sector and another where there is not. In order to achieve this goal, there have been used three methods of portfolio optimization using coherent measures of risk as CVaR. Results not only evidence that market risk raises on crisis periods, but also show optimal investment decisions are affected by risk level assumed according to branches of economic activity involved. By this way, it is clear that construction and financial services serve as refugee to investor in crisis periods, as well as assets of companies with a welldiversified investment portfolio.
G00|Much Ado About Nothing: Is the Market Affected by Political Bias?|"We study whether investor behavior is affected by a political bias. We exploit an exogenous change in the marketâ€™s perception of political bias in the media: the 2007 acquisition of Dow Jones Newswires (DJNW) by News Corp. We find that investors react to a perceived pro-Republican bias of DJNW: after the acquisition, the prices of ""Republican""ï¿½ stocks (stocks of firms making political contributions to the Republican Party) become less sensitive to sentiment in the DJNW. The effect is restricted to DJNW news, and cannot be detected in information channels unaffected by the News Corp. acquisition, such as corporate press releases and earnings surprises. It also appears driven by stocks traded by more profitable investors, short-term investors, and investors more likely to have a Democrat leaning. Finally, we show that in fact the New Corp. acquisition unlikely introduced a political bias in DJNW: there is no significant change in DJNW sentiment for the average Republican (or Democrat) stock after 2007. This suggests that the market tends to counteract a perceived media political bias, and is not always capable to distinguish between real and perceived biases."
G00|Liquidity policies and systemic risk|Bank liquidity shortages associated with the growth of wholesale-funded credit intermediation has motivated the implementation of liquidity regulations. We analyze a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model in which liquidity and capital regulations interact with the supply of risk-free assets. In the model, the endogenously time varying tightness of liquidity and capital constraints generates intermediaries’ leverage cycle, influencing the pricing of risk and the level of risk in the economy. Our analysis focuses on liquidity policies’ implications for households’ welfare. Within the context of our model, liquidity requirements are preferable to capital requirements, as tightening liquidity requirements lowers the likelihood of systemic distress without impairing consumption growth. In addition, we find that intermediate ranges of risk-free asset supply achieve higher welfare.
G00|Identification of Global and National Shocks in International Financial Markets via General Dynamic Factor Models|"We employ a two-stage general dynamic factor model method to analyse the co-movements between returns and between volatilities of stocks belonging to the US, European, and Japanese financial markets. We find evidence of two common shocks driving the dynamics of volatilities - one global (worldwide) shock and one US-European shock and four ""national"" shocks in the panel of returns, but no global one. Co-movements in the returns and volatilities panels increased considerably in the period 2007-2012 associated with the Great Financial Crisis and the European Sovereign Debt Crisis. We interpret this finding as the sign of a surge, during crises, of interdependencies across markets, as opposed to contagion. Finally, we show that the global volatility shock, identified via natural timing assumptions, has homogeneous dynamic effects within each individual market but more heterogeneous effects across them, and also has good predictive power on aggregate realised volatilities."
G00|How to Cope with Volatile Commodity Export Prices: Four Proposals|Countries where exports are relatively concentrated in oil, gas, minerals and agricultural commodities experience terms of trade that are highly volatile. This volatility is one of the possible explanations for the famous Natural Resource Curse.1 The aim in this keynote address is to offer four policy proposals to help countries manage commodity volatility and thereby help make sure that commodity wealth is a blessing rather than a curse. Two of the ideas fall in the area of microeconomic policy: specific financial contracts structured so as to hedge risk. Two of the ideas fall in the area of macroeconomic policy institutions: ways to make fiscal and monetary policy counter-cyclical rather than pro-cyclical.2 It is always hard to make policy proposals that are convincing and at the same time are original. I will try to strike a balance between being convincing and being original. Of the four ideas, two are tried and tested. Two have not been tried much. The question then becomes: why not? Let us first pause to ask: Don’t commodity-exporters already use financial markets to smooth trade fluctuations? If international financial markets worked well, countries facing temporary adverse trade shocks could borrow to finance current account deficits, and vice versa. But they don’t work that well. Capital flows to developing countries tend, if anything, to be pro-cyclical. The appropriate theory usually builds on the assumption that borrowing requires collateral, in the form of commodity export proceeds. The important point for policy-makers is that some careful thought is required to design institutions that can protect against the volatility. Many other policies and institutions for dealing with commodity volatility have been proposed and tried in various countries, some successful, some much less so. Many of the ideas that tend to work poorly can be described as seeking to suppress price volatility rather than manage it. I see them as akin to King Canute commanding the tide not to come in. I am thinking, for example, of price controls, commodity marketing boards, and controls on exports. Better to accept fluctuations in demand and supply as a fact of life, and to devise policies and institutions to equip the economy to cope with them. 1 Brueckner and Carneiro (2016), Blattman, Hwang, and Williamson (2007), Hausmann and Rigobon (2003), Mendoza (1997) and Poelhekke and van der Ploeg (2007). Terms of trade volatility hurts growth in the presence of investment irreversibilities and credit constraints (Aghion, Angeletos, Banerjee & Manova, 2010). Frankel (2012a) surveys the Natural Resource Curse. 2 E.g., Kaminsky, Reinhart and Végh {2005).
G00|Credit expansion and financial stability in Malaysia|This study investigated the degree of synchronization between credit expansion and financial stability in Malaysia at aggregated and disaggregated levels. The dynamic factor model and a broad range of macro-financial variables are adopted to construct a financial stability index to measure the stability of the Malaysian financial system. The non-parametric method is subsequently employed to gauge the degree of synchronization between credit and financial stability. The empirical findings indicated a negative synchronization between business credit and financial stability in Malaysia, suggesting that an expansion in business credit would lead to financial instability. The results implied that difficulties will arise in designing policies as business credit expands. On the other hand, there is insufficient evidence to show that increasing household credit has any negative influence on Malaysian financial stability.
G00|Quantitative wave model of macro-finance|This paper presents macro-finance as ensemble of economic agents and suggests use risk ratings of economic agents as their coordinates on economic space. Financial variables of separate economic agents are defined as functions of time and coordinates on economic space. Aggregations of financial variables of separate economic agents with coordinates near point x on economic space define macro-financial variables as function of x. Hydrodynamic-like equations describe evolution and mutual dependence between macro-financial variables. As example, for simple model of mutual dependence between macro-financial Demand on Investment and Interest Rate we derive hydrodynamic-like equations in a closed form. Perturbations of macro financial variables can generate waves those propagate on economic space and we derive wave equations. Macro financial waves can propagate on economic space with exponential growth of amplitudes and cause time fluctuations of finance variables that may model financial and business cycles. Variety of macro financial waves on economic space gives new look on internal dynamics of macro finance and reveals hidden complexity of macro financial modeling and forecasting.
G00|Reporting errors in the I/B/E/S earnings forecast database: J. Doe vs. J. Doe|This paper provides evidence of systematic errors in the way I/B/E/S reports analyst earnings forecasts. Analysis of the I/B/E/S earnings forecast database over the 1982–2014 period pinpointed a lack of consistency in the identification of financial analysts, a number of whom are consequently (1) identified by several different codes, and (2) erroneously attributed forecasts that were issued by namesakes. The present empirical investigation reveals that over 10% of the analyst codes in the database are subject to such reporting errors. These reporting errors impact the evaluation of analysts’ characteristics, and may bias empirical studies that rely on tracking analysts.
G00|Government interventions and equity liquidity in the sub-prime crisis period: Evidence from the ETF market|Using bank bailout and funding injection actions to measure government interventions, this study explores whether the announcements of these actions could improve equity liquidity in the subprime crisis period. Our empirical results show that funding injections and bailout actions can both improve equity liquidity and increase net buying pressure, especially for the Paulson plan and the rescue of AIG from bankruptcy. The funding injection actions can improve equity liquidity more significantly than bailout actions.
G00|Monetary easing and financial instability|"We study optimal monetary policy in the presence of financial stability concerns. We build a model in which monetary easing can lower the cost of capital for firms and restore the natural level of investment, but does also subsidize inefficient maturity transformation by financial intermediaries in the form of “carry trades"" that borrow cheap at the short-term against illiquid long-term assets. Carry trades not only lead to financial instability in the form of rollover risk, but also crowd out real investment since intermediaries equate the marginal return on lending to firms to that on carry trades. Optimal monetary policy trades off any stimulative gains against these costs of carry trades. The model provides a framework to understand the puzzling phenomenon that the unprecedented post-2008 monetary easing has been associated with below-trend real investment, even while returns to real and financial capital have been historically high."
G00|The contributions of warfare with revolutionary and Napoleonic France to the consolidation and progress of the British industrial revolution: revised version of working paper 150|This revised and reconfigured essay surveys a range of printed secondary sources going back to publications of the day (as well as includes research in primary sources) in order to revive a traditional and unresolved debate on economic connexions between the French and Industrial Revolutions. It argues that the costs flowing from the reallocation of labour, capital and technical knowledge to wage warfare from 1793-1815 have been overstated in relation to a range of benefits that accrued from: crowding out a potential invasion by Napoleon’s armies; improvements to the skills and discipline of the workforce; the integration of Ireland into a national market; the accelerated diffusion of technologies associated with coal and iron; the circumvention of diminishing returns to agriculture and above all from a victory that provided the economy with a more efficient State, Navy and Merchant Marine that, for a century, retained most of the gains from trade and servicing the international economy obtained at the expense of rivals during these long wars with France. My conclusion is that the costs and benefits (derived from participation in a global war from 1793 to 1815, that was integral to the era’s geopolitical and mercantilist international economic order) cannot be measured. But in the context and history of that order it is difficult to represent their outcome as anything other than positive and significant for the consolidation and progress of Britain’s famous transition to become Europe’s First Industrial Nation.
G00|Firm financing and growth in the Arab region|This paper documents how firms in Arab countries use equity, corporate bond and syndicated loan markets to obtain financing and grow. Working with a new dataset on issuance activity in domestic and international markets and firm performance, the paper finds that capital raising through these markets has grown rapidly since the early 1990s and involved an increasing number of firms. Whereas the amounts raised in equity and loan markets (relative to gross domestic product) stand well relative to international standards, bond issuance activity lags behind. However, bond financing has gained importance over time. Equity issuances take place primarily in domestic markets, whereas bonds and loans are mostly issued internationally, display long maturities and entail low levels of credit risk. Issuing firms from the Arab region are very large compared to international standards. They also tend to be larger, faster growing and more leveraged than non-issuing firms in Arab countries.
G00|Instruments of Marketing and Credit Support of the Large Industrial Enterprises Development: International Experience|Instruments of marketing management and techniques of credit support should be aimed at providing sustainable development of large industrial enterprises as well as at creation of effective systems of corporate governance on the basis of integration of service and knowledge-based technologies. Development of industrial technologies and modernization of financial services assumes formation and improvement of adaptable marketing model of technological development of the industrial policy. It is also considered to be aimed at technological development of large industrial companies which demand of credit and finance and organizational support in current economic, institutional and geopolitical context in Russia.
G00|Experience of Greece on Recapitalization of Banks, Marketing Management and Personnel Retraining in Conditions of Economic Recession|The article covers instruments which are aimed at strengthening of global and national financial and credit systems, encouraging banks recapitalization, techniques of marketing management of financial and credit sector development focused on ensuring financial stability of banks. The authors consider also basic methods of banking market services regulation, point out specific issues of bank management and human recourse management development in conditions of economic recession. Greek experience of anti-crisis measures has revealed key factors and peculiarities of the changes that were brought by the global financial crisis of 2008-2010 to development of banking systems of the countries implementing the model of “catch-up development”. The experience of Greece in development and application of regulatory instruments has shown that if in the period of long sustainable economic growth for countries having emerging markets an opportunity to use the methods and control systems of developed countries can be visible, then with the appearance of negative scenarios system limitations come to the fore and the risks associated with high degree of uncertainty are realized.
G00|Cross-border Vertical Integration and Intra-firm Trade: New Evidence from Korean and Japanese Firm-level Data|This paper establishes two facts about cross-border vertical integration and intra-firm trade of firms in Korean and Japanese manufacturing industries. First, the intra-firm trade between a parent firm and its affiliates is highly concentrated in a small number of large multinational corporations. Second, the input–output coefficient between the parent firm's industry and the affiliate's industry is weakly related to the presence and magnitude of intra-firm trade between the parent firm and its affiliates. Furthermore, these two characteristics are also found in domestic vertically integrated firms. In particular, the second point identifies a need for further research on the motivation of cross-border vertical integration between two manufacturers, the final good producers at home and the input suppliers abroad.
G00|Invariance of buy-sell switching points|Define the number of buy-sell “switching points” as the number of times that individual traders change the direction of their trading. Based on the hypothesis that switching points take place in business time, market microstructure invariance predicts that the aggregate number of switching points is proportional to the 2=3 power of the product of dollar volume and volatility. Using trading data from the Korea Exchange (KRX) from 2008 to 2010, we estimate the exponent to be 0.675 with standard error of 0.005. Invariance explains about 93% of the variation in the logarithm of the number of switching points each month across stocks. Most of the variation represents changes in the number of accounts trading the stock and not the number of switching points per account.
G00|A Reversed Engineered Pitch Based On Rietveld (2016), “Creating Value through the Freemium Business Model: A Consumer Perspective”|This pitching research letter presents a new angle to Faff’s (2015, 2016) pitch template. To better appreciate the research thrust underlying a scholarly paper, a reverse-engineered pitch can be created. This helps enhance one’s understanding of the finer aspects of an article and it is also an exercise to practice the pitching skills. A step by step guide for reverse-engineering is presented, followed by some tips and things to remember. The conclusion is that the pitch template has a real educational value, by offering a very structured and concise medium to extract core ideas from any paper.
G00|The Excess Returns of 'Quality' Stocks: A Behavioral Anomaly|"This note investigates the causes of the quality anomaly, which is one of the strongest and most scalable anomalies in equity markets. We explore two potential explanations. The ""risk view"", whereby investing in high quality firms is somehow riskier, so that the higher returns of a quality portfolio are a compensation for risk exposure. This view is consistent with the Efficient Market Hypothesis. The other view is the ""behavioral view"", which states that some investors persistently underestimate the true value of high quality firms. We find no evidence in favor of the ""risk view"": The returns from investing in quality firms are abnormally high on a risk-adjusted basis, and are not prone to crashes. We provide novel evidence in favor of the ""behavioral view"": In their forecasts of future prices, and while being overall overoptimistic, analysts systematically underestimate the future return of high quality firms, compared to low quality firms."
G00|Pension Capital Investment in the Context of a Private Pension Fund|An analysis of the pension legislation has been performed, particularly in the field of restrictions on asset allocation into various funds, and a model for real investment profile has been proposed that secures minimal risk at the given profitability and satisfies legal requirements, as well as immunizes the sub-portfolio of risk-free securities from changes in the market interest rate. The numerical experiment has been carried out with and without regard to transaction expenses. It has been estimated that frequent renegotiation of the portfolio leads to a decrease in profits from investing as a result of transaction expenses.
G00|La destination finale des placements financiers des ménages avant et pendant la crise|Cet article montre que les ménages français continuent pendant la crise de financer les entreprises établies en France mais également le reste du monde, malgré une contraction transitoire des flux dans le deuxième cas.
G00|The Effects Of Perceived And Actual Financial Literacy On Financial Behaviors|" type=""main"" xml:id=""ecin12255-abs-0001""> A combined measure of financial literacy that includes both a test score of actual financial literacy and a self-rating of overall financial literacy is used in this study. We find that the combined measure appears to provide greater understanding about how financial literacy affects financial behaviors. A large national survey of U.S. adults and households (n = 28,146) was used to investigate how this overall financial literacy is likely to change financial behaviors across five financial topics: credit cards, investments, loans, insurance, and financial advice. For each topic, we include 4–5 financial behaviors (22 in total) to demonstrate the consistency of the findings within and across topics. Although we are unable to identify a causal relationship, the results from the probit analysis show that both actual and perceived financial literacy appear to influence financial behaviors and that perceived financial literacy may be as important as actual financial literacy. (JEL D14, G00)"
G00|The Impact Of The Valuation Of Assets On The Company'S Profitability|"The research paper which has the title ""The impact of the valuation of assets on the companys profitability"" was achieved having as main objective to highlight how an enterprise valuation of assets directly influences the level of its profitability. This was achieved by dividing the relevant assets of agro-industrial companies in Dolj County, is the approach used in evaluating the income, income capitalization method is the method used. The date on which the assessment is held September 21, 2015, therefore this is the date of the assessment. We also emphasized the subjective nature of the evaluation in general and especially of the evaluation method based on capitalization of income, which also can lead to favorable or unfavorable change in the profitability of the company."
G00|Does Financial Development Volatility Affect Growth Volatility of Industries In Pakistan?|This article investigates whether financial development volatility effect on growth volatility of industries? The findings of the study are based on panel data consisting of seven manufacturing industries listed at Karachi Stock Exchange (KSE) over the period of 1994-2013. The Results of this study reveal that financial development in banking sector diminishes growth volatilities of industries that highly depend upon external liquidity. Whereas, financial development volatility in banking sector increases growth volatility of industries. Further, combined effect of both volatilities, banking sector and stock market, also raise growth volatility of Industries. Policy implications that come out from this study that regulatory authority should closely observe the behavior of financial markets to ensure the stability in economic growth more precisely, industrial growth of country. In addition, this study also suggests that there should be further development in banking sector in order to sustain economic growth and stability in Pakistan.
G00|Brazilian Review of Finance 2015 Editorial Report|RBFin is the main Brazilian publication outlet of academic papers about finance. Using the Open Journals System to manage the editorial process, publication of RBFin adheres to a strict publication schedule. The journal is indexed by EconLit, RedALyC, Proquest, Google Scholar, Gale and Ebsco and is listed in the JEL, DOAJ, Latindex, OpenJGate, and Cabell’s directories. RBFin is rated B2 in the business and economics areas of the Brazilian classification system. The editorial board undergoes partial turnover every year and comprises 19 individuals from four countries, the Brazilian members being affiliated with universities in five different Brazilian states. The acceptance rate was 44\% for papers submitted in 2015. The average number of days between receipt and first decision for articles submitted in 2015 was 86. The average number of days between receipt and final decision for articles submitted in 2015 was 104. The worst case was 345 days. Thirty five individuals served as reviewers in 2015.
G00|Fonds de pension au Chili : un système en pleine évolution après un tiers de siècle de vie|Pension funds are a par excellence passionate topic, and this regardless of the country. Chile is not an exception. Representing a real paradigm, the Chilean experience, regarding the way financing of pensions has been reformed, is singular because this country has been a pioneer in this area by substituting, in a radical way, a defined contributions mandatory individual pension funds system to its old pay-as-you-go system. Built on three sections, this article highlights first the virtues of long-term savings, related to the existence of pension funds, generating positive externalities, that has contributed, among other things, to the funding and the modernization of the Chilean economy. Then he describes and analyses the specific modalities and features of the Chilean pension funds and their performances. Finally, it presents and analyzes the main projects of reforms currently in debate in the country, which aim correcting shortcomings in the present-day system of pension funding. Classification JEL: G00, G23, H55, J26, O16, O54.
G00|Does Central Bank Quality Determine Sovereign Ratings and Credit Default Swap Spreads: Evidence from the World?|This study innovates from prior research which focuses on the determinants of sovereign ratings and credit default swap spreads for a large sample of countries by incorporating the quality of central banks, let alone refined proxies. Findings show that the explanatory power of both sovereign ratings and CDS spreads model improve by a hefty 11 percent in case of sovereign ratings and 6 to 9 percent in the case of CDS spreads when central bank quality is incorporated. Such a finding bolters the notion that institutional quality does play a preponderant role when it comes to assessing country risk, making it a systematic component of institutional quality. The effect of labour participation implies that countries buffeted by stronger effects of an ageing population have greater propensity of increases in CDS spreads. Evidence is also found as to the driving dynamics of CDS spreads and sovereign ratings to be distinct. Our results hold robust post tackling for endogeneity problem.
G00|Efecto y distorsiones de los impuestos en los incentivos a la inversión y en los precios: Comparación Argentina - Estados Unidos|El crecimiento económico y la generación de empleo requieren de empresarios que inmovilicen recursos en la forma de capital en las empresas. Estos vehículos jurídicos se establecen para explotar oportunidades de negocios, y los accionistas que comprometen su capital esperan obtener por el mismo una rentabilidad que les compense por el riesgo que están asumiendo en comparación con alternativas existentes y disponibles de inversión. La realidad de la economía argentina durante las dos últimas décadas y en períodos más recientes muestra que en general un accionista de empresas locales con cotización pública no ha obtenido una renta por encima de un accionista similar que invierte en empresas con cotización pública en Estados Unidos, a pesar de estar en un entorno donde asume un mayor riesgo. Esta realidad en lugar de incentivar la inversión la desestimula. Entre los aspectos que generan efectos como los mencionados podemos encontrar el sistema impositivo argentino. En el presente trabajo nos enfocamos en el efecto que tiene sobre los precios y sobre la rentabilidad hacia el accionista de potenciales distorsiones económicas y financieras generadas por el sistema impositivo, y el efecto sobre lo que se lleva el Estado de las empresas y lo que se llevan los accionistas. Puntualmente nos referimos al efecto de los impuestos sobre la rentabilidad del capital (en lo que se refiere a alícuotas de ingresos brutos, impuesto al valor agregado, seguridad social y ganancias), y al efecto de la superposición de impuesto al valor agregado e ingresos brutos, que termina generando un equivalente de impuesto al valor agregado con una alícuota superior a la vigente por ley. Entre las posibles soluciones que se pueden explorar, se sugiere la posibilidad del cómputo de cargas sociales, en particular las contribuciones de la seguridad social, como crédito fiscal de impuesto al valor agregado, la eliminación del impuesto a los ingresos brutos, la reducción de IVA y la introducción de un esquema progresivo de alícuotas de impuesto a las ganancias con la posibilidad de ajuste por inflación. Esquemas impositivos más eficientes permiten niveles de precios más bajos y más competitivos, mayores rendimientos al capital y menores distorsiones, y por ende estimulan la inversión, el crecimiento económico y la generación de empleo.
G00|Rumors and Runs in Opaque Markets: Evidence from the Panic of 1907|Using a new daily dataset for all stocks traded on the New York Stock Exchange, we study the impact of information asymmetry during the liquidity freeze and market run of October 1907 - one of the most severe financial crises of the 20th century. We estimate that the run on the market increased spreads from 0.5% to 3% during the peak of the crisis and, using a spread decomposition, we also demonstrate that fears of informed trading account for most of that deterioration of liquidity. Information costs rose most in the mining sector - the origin of the panic rumors - and in other sectors with poor track records of corporate reporting. In addition to wider spreads and tight money markets, we find other hallmarks of information-based illiquidity: trading volume dropped and price impact rose. Importantly, despite short-term cash infusions into the market, we find that the market remained relatively illiquid for several months following the panic. We go on to show that rising illiquidity enters positively in the cross section of stock returns. Thus, our findings demonstrate how opaque markets can easily transmit an idiosyncratic rumor into a long-lasting, market-wide crisis. Our results also demonstrate the usefulness of illiquidity measures to alert market participants to impending market runs.
G00|Invariance of buy-sell switching points|Define the number of buy-sell “switching points” as the number of times that individual traders change the direction of their trading. Based on the hypothesis that switching points take place in business time, market microstructure invariance predicts that the aggregate number of switching points is proportional to the 2=3 power of the product of dollar volume and volatility. Using trading data from the Korea Exchange (KRX) from 2008 to 2010, we estimate the exponent to be 0.675 with standard error of 0.005. Invariance explains about 93% of the variation in the logarithm of the number of switching points each month across stocks. Most of the variation represents changes in the number of accounts trading the stock and not the number of switching points per account.
G00|Do institutional investors unbind firm financial constraints? Evidence from emerging markets|Using firm-level information for 11 large emerging economies for the 2003-2014 period, this article analyses the impact of firm investment ratio depending on the presence of institutional ownership and the effects of institutional investor heterogeneity on firm financial constraints. Results show that the presence of institutional ownership reduces firm cash flow sensitivity for restricted samples using size and the Kaplan and Zingales index. Investor heterogeneity regressions show that independent and foreign institutional investors reduce firm financial constraints explained by direct investor activism, lower monitoring costs and better corporate governance in particular across small and medium-size firms.
G00|Anomalous Trading Prior to Lehman Brothers' Failure|We study price discovery during the liquidity freeze of September 2008, when fundamental values were difficult to be assessed. We find that trading volume and trade size significantly increased two days before the public announcement of Lehman's lethal quarter loss. Nevertheless, informational risk as perceived by liquidity suppliers increased only after the public disclosure of this loss. The price impact of trades was minimal and stock markets kept on working efficiently for Lehman stocks until the insolvency announcement. Price efficiency is on average established after half a second, which could have been exploited by low-latency traders.
G00|Risk Pressure and Inventories Levels. Influence of Risk Sensitivity on Working Capital Level|That paper as a continuation of the studies about financially efficient working capital decisions model components and its applications, presents discussion about risk sensitivity influence on enterprise decisions in area of net working capital investments. Effectiveness of net working capital investments is only one from possible explanations of liquidity measures in enterprises. Too small net working capital leads some enterprises to negative changes in their sale levels and as effect to weaker profits. Destruction of cash revenues creation possibilities is dangerous for them and is hard to rebuild possibilities to create cash revenues. Financially efficient working capital decisions predicts that before the crisis, during the crisis and after the crisis phases are connected with higher levels of working capital in processing enterprises. Investments in liquidity are a hedging instrument against individual risk sensitivity that is higher in crisis affected times. The paper aim is to compare real economy data with financially efficient working capital decisions predictions. The financially efficient working capital decisions model expected that liquidity measures like current liquidity indicator should be treated as forecasting indicator about future risk sensitivity of the entities. It could be also suitable as forewarning impulse of future standing of whole processing part of economy.
G00|Einseitig alternativ? Zur Frage des Alternativen im Geld- und Finanzsystem|The paper shows that models of consumption and business can hardly be considered alternative as long as they are carried out over the established money and finance system. Cause this system stands — already in the basic dimensions of space and time — for the big and the fast and as such for the opposite of what is defined as alternative on a most general basis. Doing so, first of all a process of money decoupling and abstracting is retraced. Money-qualities resulting from this process are subsequently described regarding theirtime-space-effects. Following that it’s explained why the same structures are responsible for a harder implementation of alternative models. In any case what finally remains is a recommendation for more qualified and critical financial education. Konsum- und Geschäftsmodelle können nur bedingt als alternativ gelten, so lange sie über das bestehende Geld- und Finanzsystem abgewickelt werden. Denn dieses steht schon in den beiden grundlegendsten (Deduktions-)Dimensionen – Raum und Zeit – für das Große und Schnelle und somit für das Gegenteil dessen, was Alternativ gemeinhin definiert. Um dies darzulegen, wird eingangs ein stufenweiser Entkoppelungs- beziehungsweise Abstrahierungsprozess des Geldes nachgezeichnet. Die dadurch erst möglichen strukturellen Eigenschaften des Geldes werden anschließend auf ihre räumlichen und zeitlichen Wirkungen hin beschrieben. Abschließend wird erklärt, warum dieselben Strukturen alternative Geld- und Finanzsysteme nur schwer durchsetzbar machen. Die Verstärkung kritischer, finanzieller Bildung ist eine anzuratende Konsequenz daraus.
G00|Modelling the Determinants of Malaysian Household Debt|This paper explores the determinants of household debt composition in Malaysia. By utilizing the bound test and autoregressive distributed lag modelling approach, findings of this study reveals that in the long run period, a change in income level, housing price and population would have a positive impact on mortgage debt while rise in interest rates and cost of living would exert a negative influence. In addition, findings of this study supported that the household uses the debt as a substitute for income to finance the rising consumption because of a higher living cost. Findings of this study could provide some guidance to policymakers in controlling the mounting debt level and help in realizing the nation economic goals.
G00|Application of Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroschedasticity Model on Inflation and Share Price Movement in Nigeria|In the past, studies on the linkage between share prices movement and inflation has been subjected to extensive research by academics, researchers, practitioners and policy makers since the 1990s. Most studies in the industrialized economies showed the existence of negative relationship between share price movement and inflation. Consequently, this paper utilized generalized autoregressive conditional heteroschedasticity (GARCH) model and investigated the influence of inflation on share price movement in Nigerian stock market, using quarterly data for the period 1981 to 2012. The findings of this paper suggest that the GARCH terms of the share price movement in Nigeria depicted a variance of autoregressive conditional heteroscedastic behaviour. Furthermore, share price movement and inflation exhibited a collective volatility of about 0.0015% during the study period. Share price movement exhibit a volatile shock of about 79% in behaviour while a 1% increase in inflation leads to about 0.15% decrease in share price movement in Nigeria. In addition, a 1% increase in market capitalization leads to about 66.8% increase in share price movement in Nigeria. Therefore, stabilizing inflation will deepen the Nigerian stock market the more thereby leading to a trickling down effect on the stock market capitalization. Hence, policies geared towards the reduction and stabilization of inflation to at least, single digit is recommended to the Nigerian monetary authorities.
G00|Four decades of the Journal of Econometrics: Coauthorship patterns and networks|This paper reviews the first forty years of the Journal of Econometrics. The focus of the paper is on collaboration patterns and the internationalization of research in econometrics. We report the most prolific authors, institutions and countries and we find that the share of collaborative articles has increased over time and that most contributions come from affiliations that are based in the USA (but decreasingly so). We also apply social network analysis and discover the most central authors, institutions and countries in the Journal of Econometrics. Moreover, we find that the coauthorship network has been increasingly integrated, exhibiting small-world properties.
G00|Does financial development reduce income inequality and poverty? Evidence from emerging countries|The objective of this paper is to examine whether bank and stock market development contributes to reducing income inequality and poverty in emerging countries. Using dynamic panel data methods with an updated dataset for the period 1987–2011, we assess the finance–inequality–poverty nexus by taking the separate and simultaneous impacts of banks and stock markets into account. Mixed explanatory findings on panel studies suggest that although financial development promotes economic growth, this does not necessarily benefit those on low-incomes in emerging countries. For the finance–poverty link, we find that neither banks nor stock markets play a significant role in poverty reduction.
G00|Banking competition and firm-level financial constraints in Latin America|Prior literature argues that, given the existence of information asymmetries and agency costs, higher competition may increase financial constraints by reducing banks' incentives to build lending relationships. Using a sample of listed firms for six Latin American countries, we analyze the relation between banking competition and financial constraints. We find evidence in line with prior research that banking competition increases financial constraints. This result is robust and heterogeneous. We include other country-specific variables and check the robustness of our findings; the main results hold. Our results show that the effect of competition differs across firms and industries. Specifically, consistent with the information hypothesis, the negative impact of competition is higher for small quoted firms and for low-assets tangibility industries. Also, as expected, we find evidence that firms are more affected by financial constraints during the last crisis. This negative effect is larger for firms in more competitive banking industries.
G00|Variance risk premia in CO2 markets: A political perspective|The European Commission discusses the change of free allocation plans to guarantee a stable market equilibrium. Selling over-allocated contracts effectively depreciates prices and negates the effect intended by the regulator to establish a stable price mechanism for CO2 assets. Our paper investigates mispricing and allocation issues by quantitatively analyzing variance risk premia of CO2 markets over the course of changing regimes (Phase I-III) for three different assets (European Union Allowances, Certified Emissions Reductions and European Reduction Units). The research paper gives recommendations to regulatory bodies in order to most effectively cap the overall carbon dioxide emissions.
G00|Coauthorship and subauthorship patterns in financial economics|Acknowledgments are a special kind of intellectual partnership. Acknowledged scientists in published papers are called subauthors. We examine collaboration patterns between authors and subauthors in four finance journals from 1994 to 2013: the Journal of Finance, the Review of Financial Studies, the Journal of Financial Economics and the Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis. We employ social network analysis and discover that the majority of subauthors form a compact giant component with small average distances between the nodes. Moreover, the subauthorship network in finance has a non-overlapping structure, exhibiting low clustering coefficients and a plethora of cohesive groups of nodes.
G00|Directors’ duties of care and the value of auditing|This paper uses court's decision in ASIC v Healy (The Centro Case) as a natural experiment through which to empirically examine, and demonstrate, the importance of strengthening directors’ duties of care. The Centro decision strengthened directors’ duties of care by requiring them to make an independent assessment of auditors’ reports, rather than merely relying on auditors’ statements. It also required them to have a base level of financial literacy and to look for, and notice, obvious issues, especially ones that are important in the context. The paper assesses the impact of the Centro case by analyzing whether Centro increased the market value of auditing expenditure. The results are positive: the strengthened directors duties are associated with higher CARs for firms that spend more on auditing. Further, after Centro, auditing expenditure had a more positive relationship with market values. Overall, the results demonstrate the importance of strengthening directors’ duties of care.
G00|Financial crisis, liquidity and dynamic linkages between large and small stocks: Evidence from the Athens Stock Exchange|This paper investigates return and volatility spillovers among Large, Medium and Small size stock portfolios in Athens Stock Exchange by employing an augmented univariate and multivariate VAR-EGARCH model. As a robustness test, a Monte Carlo simulation is undertaken in order to disentangle the impact of non-synchronous trading. We find that the transmission mechanism in ASE is less asymmetric after the recent financial crisis. In addition, there are spillovers among Large, Medium and Small size stocks, with a feedback effect revealed as well. The simulation results suggest that non-synchronous trading accounts for spillover effects in volatility in the post-crisis period. Our results entail implications for investors, listed companies and policy makers.
G00|An analysis of euro area sovereign CDS and their relation with government bonds|We compare the market pricing of euro area government bonds and the corresponding Credit Default Swaps (CDSs). In particular, we analyse the “basis” defined as the difference between the premium on the CDS and the credit spread on the underlying bond. Our sample of weekly data covers the period from January 2007 to December 2012 and contains several episodes of sovereign market distress. Overall, we observe a complex relationship between the derivatives market and the underlying cash market characterised by sizable deviations from the no-arbitrage relationship (i.e. basis equal to zero). We show that short-selling frictions explain the persistence of positive basis deviations while funding frictions explain the persistence of negative basis deviations which are observed for countries with weak public finances. Moreover, we show that the “flight-to-quality/liquidity” phenomenon in bond markets is a key driver of the large positive basis of better rated countries.
G00|Phasing out the GSEs|We develop a new model of the mortgage market that emphasizes the role of the financial sector and the government. Risk tolerant savers act as intermediaries between risk averse depositors and impatient borrowers. Both borrowers and intermediaries can default. The government provides both mortgage guarantees and deposit insurance. Underpriced government mortgage guarantees lead to more and riskier mortgage originations and higher financial sector leverage. Mortgage crises occasionally turn into financial crises and government bailouts due to the fragility of the intermediaries’ balance sheets. Foreclosure crises beget fiscal uncertainty, further disrupting the optimal allocation of risk in the economy. Increasing the price of the mortgage guarantee “crowds in” the private sector, reduces financial fragility, leads to fewer but safer mortgages, lowers house prices, and raises mortgage and risk-free interest rates. Due to a more robust financial sector and less fiscal uncertainty, consumption smoothing improves and foreclosure rates fall. While borrowers are nearly indifferent to a world with or without mortgage guarantees, savers are substantially better off. While aggregate welfare increases, so does wealth inequality.
G00|Tail risk spillovers and corporate cash holdings|This paper investigates tail risk spillovers from the financial sector to real economy firms in the United States and the United Kingdom from 2003 to 2011. We measure these spillovers by evaluating the number of joint occurrences of extreme negative returns in a nonfinancial firm conditional on an extreme negative return in the financial sector. Such spillovers increased dramatically in the 2007–2009 crisis. We also examine whether cash holdings act as a buffer in mitigating these spillovers. Our results indicate that greater cash holdings are associated with lower levels of tail risk spillovers for financially constrained firms and more strongly so among constrained firms with high hedging needs and no ratings (i.e., firms with restricted external financing sources). Overall, our findings support the view that the greater cash holdings of constrained firms act as a shock absorber against costly external financing.
G00|The St. Petersburg paradox: An experimental solution|The St. Petersburg paradox refers to a gamble of infinite expected value, where people are likely to spend only a small entrance fee for it. There is a huge volume of literature that mostly concentrates on the psychophysics of the game; experiments are scant. Here, rather than focusing on the psychophysics, we offer an experimental, “physical” solution as if robots played the game. After examining the time series formed by one billion plays, we: confirm that there is no characteristic scale for this game; explicitly formulate the implied power law; and identify the type of α-stable distribution associated with the game. We find an α=1 and, thus, the underlying distribution of the game is a Cauchy flight, as hinted by Paul Samuelson.
G00|Measuring the inadequacy of IRR in PFI schemes using profitability index and AIRR|The internal rate of return (IRR) is widely used in Private Finance Initiative (PFI) schemes in the UK for measuring performance. However, it is well-known that the IRR may be a misleading indicator of economic profitability. Treasury Guidance (2004) recognises that the IRR should not be used and net present value (NPV) should be calculated instead, unless the cash flow pattern is even. The distortion generated by the IRR can be quantified by the notion of scheduling effect, introduced in Cuthbert and Cuthbert (2012). We combine this notion with the notion of average IRR (AIRR), introduced in Magni (2010, 2013) and show that a positive scheduling effect arises if the AIRR, relative to a flat payment stream, exceeds the project's IRR. The scheduling component can be measured in two separate ways, in terms of specific AIRRs, one of which enables the scheduling component to be decomposed into relative capital and relative rate components. We also highlight the role of average capital, whose quotation in the market, in association with IRRs or AIRRs, would deepen the economic analysis of the project.
G00|Sin stock returns and investor sentiment|This paper studies the impact of investor sentiment on a portfolio formed of sin stocks—publicly traded companies in the alcohol, tobacco, and gaming industries. Using a variety of sentiments-augmented asset pricing models, this research examines whether investor sentiment is a risk factor for sin stock returns. It also studies if the abnormal returns – found in the literature – for sin stocks persist after controlling for investor sentiment. Furthermore, we utilize a generalized autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity-in-mean (GARCH) model to study the relationship between investor sentiment and the sin portfolio's conditional volatility. Our findings show that both individual and institutional investor sentiment are priced factors in sin stock returns. Furthermore, after controlling for the role of investor sentiment, the asset-pricing results suggest that the abnormal returns for sin stocks found in previous studies disappear. The results from the GARCH models indicate that investor sentiment has a significant impact on sin stocks’ conditional volatility.
G00|Financial structure, firm size and industry growth|This paper provides new empirical evidence to the intensive debate of whether financial structure—the extent to which a country has bank- or market-based is relevant for economic growth. Using the cross-industry and cross-country data, it finds that industries dominated by small firms grow faster in a country with a more bank-based financial system. It also finds that the effect of financial structure on industry growth runs mostly through growth in the number of establishments rather than through growth in the average size of establishments. The evidence is robust to a battery of sensitivity tests. Our research thus provides complementary information on whether financial structure fosters economic growth by disproportionately facilitating the growth of small-firm industry and new firm formation in these industries. Given the importance of small firms for private sector-led growth and limited access to credit of these firms in developing countries, policy toward strengthening bank-oriented financial systems is crucial for their economic growth.
G00|Social trust and stock price crash risk: Evidence from China|We study the relation between social trust and stock price crash risk using a sample of Chinese publicly traded A-share stocks during 2001–2012. The crash-prone environment and China's culturally and economically diverse society provide a good background for the examination. We document that (1) social trust and stock price crash risk are negatively correlated and (2) this relation is less pronounced for firms with greater analyst coverage or high institutional ownership. Our findings are robust to alternative measures of crash risk and social trust and additional control variables. Our results also indicate that, as an informal institution, social trust and other formal institutional monitoring mechanisms are partial substitutes. Social trust, as a socioeconomic factor, relates to crash risk.
G00|Trading behavior in S&P 500 index futures|This article examines the determinants of trading decisions and the performance of trader types, in the context of the E-Mini S&P 500 futures and S&P 500 futures markets. Speculators and small traders tend to follow positive feedback strategies while hedgers dynamically adjust positions in response to market returns. Such strategies apparently reverse during the 2008–09 financial crisis. Investor sentiment and market volatility play an important role in determining the net trading position of traders across the sample period. While all trader types are better at foreseeing market upturns, an out-of-sample test suggests that speculators and small traders have some predictive ability for short-term market returns.
G00|An empirical application of the EVA® framework to business cycles|Following financial concepts like duration and economic value added (EVA®) we estimate the impact of interest rate movements on firms that are more and less roundabout. We find that firms that are more roundabout, that is, work with expected cash-flows with higher duration, are more sensitive to interest rate movements. To the extent that monetary policy is able to move the discount rate used by investors, monetary policy changes the relative present value of any investment project and therefore affects resource allocation. We show evidence that this effect is present in the U.S. in the years prior to the subprime crisis.
G00|Industry window dressing|We explore a new mechanism by which investors take correlated shortcuts and present evidence that managers—using sales management—take advantage of these shortcuts. Specifically, we exploit a regulatory provision wherein a firm's primary industry is determined by the highest sales segment. Exploiting this regulation, we provide evidence that investors classify operationally nearly identical firms as starkly different depending on their placement around this sales cutoff. Moreover, managers appear to exploit this by manipulating sales to be just over the cutoff in favorable industries. Further evidence suggests that managers engage in activities to realize large, tangible benefits from this opportunistic action.
G00|Could the Icelandic banking collapse of 2008 have been prevented? The role of economists prior to the crisis|In 2008, the three main banks in Iceland collapsed. There is strong evidence that the banks would have become insolvent even without the subprime crisis. Yet there was a marked difference in opinion at the time about the viability of the Icelandic banks. A clean bill of health was given by the commissioned reports of Mishkin in 2007 and Portes in 2008, just prior to the collapse, whereas severe reservations about the Icelandic financial system were expressed by Wade, inter alios. These contrasting views were widely debated and may well have influenced both potential and actual foreign depositors in the banks. This paper analyses the disparate arguments put forward and contrasts it with the actual outcome. It considers the influence of economists in public policy debates and draws some methodological conclusions.
G00|Management Science, Economics and Finance: A Connection|This paper provides a brief review of the connecting literature in management science, economics and finance, and discusses some research that is related to the three disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric models to estimate the parameters in the associated models, and analyze some interesting issues in the three disciplines.
G00|The Global Value Chain and the Competitiveness of Asian Countries|This paper examines the competitiveness of industries in six Asian countries—China, India, Indonesia, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan—using the World Input–Output Database tables from 1995 to 2011. Competitiveness is measured by the value-added that industries contribute to the production of final goods, which we refer to as global value chain (GVC) income, rather than by gross exports. We find that, unlike EU countries, Asian countries have generally been able to combine increasing GVC job opportunities with a rise in real income. The GVC income in Asian countries presents a different picture to that in European countries.
G00|Measuring the Informativeness of Market Statistics|Market statistics can be viewed as noisy signals for true variables of interest. These signals are used by individual recipients of the statistics to imperfectly infer different variables of interest. This paper presents a framework under which the 'informativeness' of statistics is defined as their efficacy as the basis of such inference, and is quantified as expected distortion, a concept from information theory. The framework can be used to compare the informativeness of a set of statistics with that of another set or its theoretical limits. Also, the proposed informativeness measure can be computed as solutions to familiar problems under a range of assumptions. As an application, the measure is used to explain the difference in usage levels of temperature derivatives across different base weather stations. The informativeness measure is found to be at least as effective as city size measures in explaining the difference in usage levels.
G00|Interest Rates or Haircuts? Prices Versus Quantities in the Market for Collateralized Risky Loans|"Markets for risky loans clear on two dimensions - an interest rate (or equivalently a spread above the riskless rate) and a specification of the amount of collateral per dollar of lending. The latter is summarized by the margin or ""haircut"" associated with the loan. Some key models of endogenous collateral constraints imply that the primary equilibrating force will be in the form of haircuts rather than movements in interest rate spreads. Indeed, an important benchmark model, derived in a two-state world, implies that haircuts will adjust to render all lending riskless, and that a loss of risk capital on the part of borrowers has profound effects on asset prices. Quantitative analysis of a model of collateral equilibrium with a continuum of states turns these results on their heads. The bulk of the response to lenders' perception of increased default risk is in the form of higher default premia. Further, with high initial leverage, reductions in risk capital decrease equilibrium margins almost proportionately, while asset prices barely move. To the extent that one believes that it is a stylized fact that haircuts move more than spreads - as seen, for example, in bilateral repo data from 2007-2008 - this reversal is disturbing."
G00|Merger options and risk arbitrage|Option prices embed predictive content for the outcomes of pending mergers and acquisitions. This is particularly important in merger arbitrage, where deal failure is a key risk. In this paper, I propose a dynamic asset pricing model that exploits the joint information in target stock and option prices to forecast deal outcomes. By analyzing how deal announcements affect the level and higher moments of target stock prices, the model yields better forecasts than existing methods. In addition, the model accurately predicts that merger arbitrage exhibits low volatility and a large Sharpe ratio when deals are likely to succeed.
