G10|Do Survey Expectations of Stock Returns Reflect Risk-Adjustments?|Motivated by the observation that survey expectations of stock returns are inconsistent with rational return expectations under real-world probabilities, we investigate whether alternative expectations hypotheses entertained in the asset pricing literature are consistent with the survey evidence. We empirically test (1) the notion that survey forecasts constitute rational but risk-neutral forecasts of future returns, and (2) the notion that survey forecasts are ambiguity averse/robust forecasts of future returns. We find that these alternative hypotheses are also strongly rejected by the data, albeit for different reasons. Hypothesis (1) is rejected because survey return forecasts are not in line with risk-free interest rates and because survey expected excess returns are predictable. Hypothesis (2) is rejected because agents are not always pessimistic about future returns, instead often display overly optimistic return expectations. We speculate as to what kind of expectations theories might be consistent with the available survey evidence.
G10|Systemic Risk and Collateral Adequacy|Many derivatives markets use collateral requirements calculated with industry-standard but dated methods that are not designed with systemic risk in mind. This paper explores whether the conservative nature of conventional collateral requirements outweighs their lack of consideration of systemic risk. To investigate this issue, we calculate a new systemic risk metric: the expected systemic market shortfall. We analyze the composition of systemic risk across firms both before and after applying conventional collateral requirements. Our results show that the conservative nature of conventional collateral levels does buffer systemic risk adequately and results in only small risk spillovers above collateral. These spillovers do not meaningfully add to banks' pre-existing systemic risk. We verify the robustness of this result by exploring alternative systemic risk measures, allowing for an implausibly large margin of error. Even under the most extreme scenario, the maximum market-wide shortfall in excess of collateral barely reaches 1 per cent of banks' market capitalization. This maximum shortfall therefore does not exceed the effect of a 1 per cent decline in stock price.
G10|The BoC-BoE Sovereign Default Database: What’s New in 2019?|Until recently, few efforts have been made to systematically measure and aggregate the nominal value of the different types of sovereign government debt in default. To help fill this gap, the Bank of Canada (BoC) developed a comprehensive database of sovereign defaults that is posted on its website and updated in partnership with the Bank of England (BoE). Our database draws on previously published datasets compiled by various public and private sector sources. It combines elements of these, together with new information, to develop comprehensive estimates of stocks of government obligations in default. These include bonds and other marketable securities, bank loans and official loans, valued in US dollars, for the years 1960 to 2018 on both a country-by-country and a global basis. This update of the BoC-BoE database, and future updates, will be useful to researchers analyzing the economic and financial effects of individual sovereign defaults and, importantly, the impact on global financial stability of episodes involving multiple sovereign defaults.
G10|Price Caps in Canadian Bond Borrowing Markets|Price controls, or caps, can lead to shortages, as 1970’s gasoline price controls illustrate. One million trades show that the market for borrowing bonds in Canada has an implicit price cap: traders are willing to pay no more than the overnight interest rate to borrow a bond. This suggests the probability of a shortage increases when interest rates are very low.
G10|Relative Value of Government of Canada Bonds|Government of Canada bonds in circulation that promise very similar payoffs can have different prices. We study the reason for these differences. Bonds that trade more often and earn high rental income in the repurchase agreement (repo) market tend to have higher prices. Bonds with longer tenors and times to maturity tend to have lower prices. This contrast between cheap and expensive bonds is important because trading volume and rental income can change rapidly, unlike tenor and time to maturity, which are stable.
G10|Prix plafonds sur les marchés canadiens des emprunts d’obligations|Le contrôle, ou plafonnement, des prix peut entraîner des pénuries, comme l’ont montré les mesures de contrôle des prix de l’essence adoptées dans les années 1970. Un échantillon d’un million de transactions montre que le marché des emprunts d’obligations au Canada comporte un prix plafond implicite : les négociants ne sont pas disposés à payer plus que le taux du financement à un jour pour emprunter une obligation. Cela donne à penser que la probabilité de pénurie augmente quand les taux d’intérêt sont très bas.
G10|An indicator of macro-financial stress for Italy|We develop a measure of systemic stress for the Italian financial markets (FCI-IT) that aggregates information from five major segments of the whole financial system, i.e. the money market, the bond market, the equity market, the foreign exchange market and the market for stocks of financial intermediaries. The index builds on the methodology of the Composite Indicator of Systemic Stress (CISS) developed by Hollò, Kremer and Lo Duca (2012) for the euro area. We set up a simple TVAR model to verify whether the proposed measure is able to provide significant and consistent information about the evolution of macroeconomic variables when financial conditions change. The indicator’s performance is evaluated against two alternative metrics publicly available (e.g. the euro-area CISS and the Italian CLIFS). Our results show that FCI-IT behaves quite similarly to the other indexes considered in signalling high-stress periods, but it also identifies episodes of financial distress for the Italian economy which are disregarded by the other two. During periods of high stress, the effects of financial shocks on gross domestic product are significant.
G10|Informed trading in a two-tier market structure under financial distress|The sovereign bond market has traditionally been the dominant segment of the euro area bond market and it is one of the largest in the world. Secondary market liquidity is an essential feature of a well-functioning and resilient government bond market. The secondary market of the European sovereign bonds is organised as a two-tier electronic market, with an inter-dealer and a dealer-to-customer segment. The previous literature uses a sequential trade model, to investigate the probability of informed trading (PIN) in the parallel trading of the same bond on these two venues, finding that the PIN is significantly lower in the dealer-to-customer segment than in the inter-dealer one. We contribute to the existing literature analysing this two-tier market for a longer period, which includes episodes of financial distress in the Eurozone and various ECB interventions to try to contain the crisis. We show that the crisis deeply affected the two segments of the market, reverting the conclusion about the presence of informed traders in the two platforms for some periods, and questioning the need for this trading structure and its stability.
G10|Official demand for US debt: implications for US real rates|We estimate a structural term-structure model of US real rates, where arbitrageurs accommodate demand pressures exerted by domestic and foreign official investors. Official demand affects rates by altering the aggregate price of duration risk, and thereby bond risk premiums. While foreign central banks’ demand contributed to reduce long-term real rates mainly in the years prior to the global-financial crisis, the Federal Reserve’s demand lowered rates during the QE period. Overall, the two-factor model, augmented to account for changing liquidity conditions, offers a good representation of real rates during the 2001–2016 period; however, we flag some caveats and possible extensions.
G10|Decomposing changes in the functioning of the sterling repo market|We identify the degree to which changes in gilt repo market functioning have been driven by changes in the supply of — and the demand for — market intermediation. To do so, we use a structural vector auto regression (SVAR) model with sign and zero restrictions. We find that changes in gilt repo market functioning over the past five years have been driven largely by changes in the supply of repo market intermediation by dealers, rather than by changes in the demand of end-users. Following the introduction of the UK leverage ratio, our model suggests that an increase in demand for repo by end-users results in a larger increase in the cost of repo transactions and a smaller increase in their volume. This effect is stronger in the case of transactions that are not nettable via central counterparties. These findings are consistent with the notion that the leverage ratio may reduce dealers’ ability and/or willingness to act as repo market intermediaries. This may have implications for the resilience of repo markets in future periods of stress.
G10|The cost of clearing fragmentation|Fragmenting clearing across multiple central counter-parties (CCPs) is costly. This is because dealers providing liquidity globally, cannot net trades cleared in different CCPs and this increases their collateral costs. These costs are then passed on to their clients through price distortions which take the form of a price differential (basis) when the same products are cleared in different CCPs. Using proprietary data, we document an economically significant CCP basis for dollar swap contracts cleared both at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) and the London Clearing House (LCH) and provide empirical evidence consistent with a collateral cost explanation of this basis.
G10|Simulating stress in the UK corporate bond market: investor behaviour and asset fire-sales|We build a framework to simulate stress dynamics in the UK corporate bond market. This quantifies how the behaviours and interactions of major market participants, including open-ended funds, dealers, and institutional investors, can amplify different types of shocks to corporate bond prices. We model market participants’ incentives to buy or sell corporate bonds in response to initial price falls, the constraints under which they operate (including those arising due to regulation), and how the resulting behaviour may amplify initial falls in price and impact market functioning. We find that the magnitude of amplification depends on the cause of the initial reduction in price and is larger in the case of shocks to credit risk or risk-free interest rates, than in the case of a perceived deterioration in corporate bond market liquidity. Amplification also depends on agents’ proximity to their regulatory constraints. We further find that long-term institutional investors (eg pension funds) only partially mitigate the amplification due to their slower-moving nature. Finally, we find that shocks to corporate bond spreads, similar in magnitude to the largest weekly moves observed in the past, could trigger asset sales that may test the capacity of dealers to absorb them.
G10|Resilience of trading networks: evidence from the sterling corporate bond market|We study the network structure and resilience of the sterling investment-grade and high-yield corporate bond markets. Using proprietary, transaction-level data, first we analyse the key properties of the trading networks in these markets. We find that the trading networks exhibit a core-periphery structure where a large number of non-dealers trade with a small number of dealers. Consistent with dealer behaviour in the primary market, we find that trading activity is particularly concentrated for newly issued bonds, where the top three dealers account for 45% of trading volume. Second, we test the resilience of these markets to the failure or paralysis of a key dealer, or to bond rating downgrades. We find that whilst the network structure has been broadly stable and the market broadly resilient around bond downgrades over our 2012–2017 sample period, the reliance on a small number of participants makes the trading network somewhat fragile to the withdrawal of a few key dealers from the market.
G10|The BoC-BoE sovereign default database: what’s new in 2019?|Until recently, few efforts have been made to systematically measure and aggregate the nominal value of the different types of sovereign government debt in default. To help fill this gap, the Bank of Canada (BoC) developed a comprehensive database of sovereign defaults that is posted on its website and updated in partnership with the Bank of England (BoE). Our database draws on previously published datasets compiled by various public and private sector sources. It combines elements of these, together with new information, to develop comprehensive estimates of stocks of government obligations in default. These include bonds and other marketable securities, bank loans and official loans, valued in US dollars, for the years 1960 to 2018 on both a country-by-country and a global basis. This update of the BoC-BoE database, and future updates, will be useful to researchers analyzing the economic and financial effects of individual sovereign defaults and, importantly, the impact on global financial stability of episodes involving multiple sovereign defaults.
G10|The Impacts of Macroeconomic News Announcements on Intraday Implied Volatility|This study examines the response of intraday options-implied volatilities to scheduled announcements of major macroeconomic indicators. By analyzing the KOSPI 200 options intraday data, we find that the abnormal implied volatility significantly increases around announcements of macroeconomic news and that the extent of the response is influenced by a variety of factors, including the type of macroeconomic indicators released, option type and economic conditions. Specifically, the increase in implied volatility around these announcements is more pronounced for puts than for calls. These effects are also more pronounced in the crisis and post-crisis periods than in the pre-crisis period. Monetary policy announcements have a more substantial impact on implied volatility than other announcements, even after controlling for news surprise components. Finally, the impact appears to be greater for policy rate hikes than for policy rate cuts.
G10|Contagion between Real Estate and Financial Markets: A Bayesian Quantile-on-Quantile Approach|We study contagion between REITs and the equity market in the U.S. over four subsamples covering January, 2003 to December, 2017, by using Bayesian nonparametric quantile-on-quantile regressions with heteroskedasticity. We find that the spillovers from the REITs on to the equity market has varied over time across the four sub-samples, though similarity is observed between the first and the last sub-samples. Further, barring the extreme ends of the two markets, contagion from REITs upon the stock market went down during the global financial crisis relative to the pre-crisis period, with the spillover picking-up during the European sovereign debt crisis.
G10|The Role of the Federal Housing Administration in the Reverse-Mortgage Market|The Federal Housing Administrationâ€™s Home Equity Conversion Mortgage (HECM) program guarantees repayment on qualifying reverse mortgages made by private lenders. Reverse mortgages let older homeowners borrow money by using the equity in their home as collateral. The borrowed funds can be used to repay an existing mortgage or to fund other expenses. In this report, CBO examines how the HECM program works, how it affects the federal budget, and how various policy changes might reduce costs and risks to the government or to borrowers.
G10|Sovereign Bonds since Waterloo|This paper studies external sovereign bonds as an asset class. We compile a new database of 220,000 monthly prices of foreign-currency government bonds traded in London and New York between 1815 (the Battle of Waterloo) and 2016, covering 91 countries. Our main insight is that, as in equity markets, the returns on external sovereign bonds have been sufficiently high to compensate for risk. Real ex-post returns averaged 7% annually across two centuries, including default episodes, major wars, and global crises. This represents an excess return of around 4% above US or UK government bonds, which is comparable to stocks and outperforms corporate bonds. The observed returns are hard to reconcile with canonical theoretical models and with the degree of credit risk in this market, as measured by historical default and recovery rates. Based on our archive of more than 300 sovereign debt restructurings since 1815, we show that full repudiation is rare; the median haircut is below 50%.
G10|Non-Linearities, Cyber Attacks and Cryptocurrencies|This paper uses a Markov-switching non-linear specification to analyse the effects of cyber attacks on returns in the case of four cryptocurrencies (Bitcoin, Ethernam, Litecoin and Stellar) over the period 8/8/2015 - 28/2/2019. The analysis considers both cyber attacks in general and those targeting cryptocurrencies in particular, and also uses cumulative measures capturing persistence. On the whole, the results suggest the existence of significant negative effects of cyber attacks on the probability for cryptocurrencies to stay in the low volatility regime. This is an interesting finding, that confirms the importance of gaining a deeper understanding of this form of crime and of the tools used by cybercriminals in order to prevent possibly severe disruptions to markets.
G10|On the Equivalence of Private and Public Money|"We develop a generic model of money and liquidity that identifies sources of liquidity bubbles and seignorage rents. We provide suffcient conditions under which a swap of monies leaves the equilibrium allocation and price system unchanged. We apply the equivalence result to the ""Chicago Plan,"" cryptocurrencies, the Indian de-monetization experiment, and Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC). In particular, we show why CBDC need not undermine financial stability."
G10|The Effects of Macroeconomic, Fiscal and Monetary Policy Announcements on Sovereign Bond Spreads: An Event Study from the EMU|We assess the impact of announcements corresponding to different fiscal and monetary policy measures on the 10-year sovereign bond yield spreads (relative to Germany) of the 10 EMU countries during the period 01:1999 - 07:2016. Implementing pooled and country-fixed effects OLS regressions, we find that the European Commission’s (EC) releases of the excessive deficit procedure significantly affect the yield spreads. The EC releases of higher debt and better budget balance forecasts contribute to the rise and the decline of spreads, respectively. Moreover, we find that the announcements of the ECB’s key interest rates together with the longer-term refinancing operations (LTROs) and the first covered bond purchase programme (CBPP1) negatively affect sovereign yield spreads in our sample of EMU countries.
G10|Lured by the Consensus|We find that investors are fixated on analysts’ consensus outputs (earnings forecasts, recommendations, and forecast dispersion), which can be inferior signals compared to the corresponding outputs provided by high-quality analysts, especially when a large number of high-quality analysts follow the firm. This result, which holds at the firm and market level, implies inefficient use of the information contained in analysts’ outputs. Further, the post-earnings announcement drift (PEAD) phenomenon occurs only when high-quality analysts are more uncertain about the firm’s performance than all analysts following the firm. We conclude that the market’s fixation on consensus measures has significant negative economic implications.
G10|The Fair Reward Problem: The Illusion of Success and How to Solve It|Humanity has been fascinated by the pursuit of fortune since time immemorial, and many successful outcomes benefit from strokes of luck. But success is subject to complexity, uncertainty, and change – and at times becoming increasingly unequally distributed. This leads to tension and confusion over to what extent people actually get what they deserve (i.e., fairness/meritocracy). Moreover, in many fields, humans are over-confident and pervasively confuse luck for skill (I win, it’s skill; I lose, it’s bad luck). In some fields, there is too much risk-taking; in others, not enough. Where success derives in large part from luck – and especially where bailouts skew the incentives (heads, I win; tails, you lose) – it follows that luck is rewarded too much. This incentivizes a culture of gambling, while downplaying the importance of productive effort. And, short term success is often rewarded, irrespective, and potentially at the detriment, of the long-term system fitness. However, much success is truly meritocratic, and the problem is to discern and reward based on merit. We call this the fair reward problem. To address this, we propose three different measures to assess merit: (i) raw outcome; (ii) risk-adjusted outcome, and (iii) prospective. We emphasize the need, in many cases, for the deductive prospective approach, which considers the potential of a system to adapt and mutate in novel futures. This is formalized within an evolutionary system, comprised of five processes, inter alia handling the exploration-exploitation trade-off. Several human endeavors – including finance, politics, and science – are analyzed through these lenses, and concrete solutions are proposed to support a prosperous and meritocratic society.
G10|Corporate Cash Holdings: Stock Liquidity and the Repurchase Motive|We document that enhanced stock liquidity increases a firm’s propensity to hold cash. Endogeneity is addressed using a difference-in-differences approach based on tick-size decimalization. Our finding is surprising in light of the view that improved stock liquidity reduces financial constraints. We propose that firms hold cash also to buy back shares and higher stock liquidity strengthens this incentive. Tests are supportive. Endogeneity is controlled for using the introduction of repurchase safe harbor rules. We conclude that with respect to the effect of stock liquidity on cash holdings, the repurchase motive dominates the real investments motive.
G10|On the Nature of Jump Risk Premia|We shed light on the nature of jump risk compensation by studying the profits from a trading strategy that bets on the high-frequency jump skew of S&P 500 returns. Earlier evidence suggests the jump risk premium is large and positive. We find it to be concentrated in periods when the index option market is closed, and investors cannot trade options. Whenever jump skew can be traded continuously, the premium vanishes. We conclude the jump skew premium in index options is not compensation for the risk of occasional, large returns, but for the investors’ inability to adjust their nonlinear risk exposure.
G10|Robust Desmoothed Real Estate Returns|This research starts from the observation that common desmoothing models are likely to generate some extreme returns. Such returns will distort risk measurement and hence can lead to investment decisions that are suboptimal relative to those that would be made if a transaction based index were available. Thus, we propose to improve the desmoothing models by incorporating a robust filter into the procedure. We report that in addition to properly treating for smoothing, the method prevents the occurrence of extreme values. As shown with U.S. data, our method leads to desmoothed series whose characteristics are akin to those of transaction-based indices.
G10|Real Estate Performance, the Macroeconomy and Leverage|Using U.S. data for 1986-2017, the paper focuses on the impacts of macroeconomic risk factors and leverage on the performance of the various types of real estate exposure (direct, non-listed, and listed). The response of core funds to economic risk factors is akin to that of direct investments; however, real estate fund and direct investment performance are less tightly related as more aggressive (i.e., value-added and opportunistic) strategies are envisaged. Only REIT performance is linked to that of the stock market. Leverage matters as it amplifies the responses to the economic factors and hence investment risk.
G10|Análisis de correlacción condicional. Evidencia para el mercado colombiano|El artículo investiga la incertidumbre y la interdependencia entre el mercado accionario colombiano y los principales mercados internacionales. Se estima un modelo Correlación Condicional Dinámica (DCC) para estudiar la interdependencia entre los mercados accionarios seleccionados y un modelo GARCH para analizar la volatilidad condicional. Analizó el período que abarca desde enero de 2001 hasta Septiembre de 2018. Los resultados muestran que el periodo de crisis subprime genera un efecto positivo significativo en la volatilidad condicional. Además, encuentro evidencia de un co-movimiento significativo en el tiempo entre el mercado bursátil colombiano y los mercados nacionales e internacionales. En cuanto a la persistencia, la co-variabilidad con los mercados nacionales es mayor, en relación a los mercados internacionales.
G10|Análisis de correlacción condicional. Evidencia para el mercado colombiano|El artículo investiga la incertidumbre y la interdependencia entre el mercado accionario colombiano y los principales mercados internacionales. Se estima un modelo Correlación Condicional Dinámica (DCC) para estudiar la interdependencia entre los mercados accionarios seleccionados y un modelo GARCH para analizar la volatilidad condicional. Analizó el período que abarca desde enero de 2001 hasta Septiembre de 2018. Los resultados muestran que el periodo de crisis subprime genera un efecto positivo significativo en la volatilidad condicional. Además, encuentro evidencia de un co-movimiento significativo en el tiempo entre el mercado bursátil colombiano y los mercados nacionales e internacionales. En cuanto a la persistencia, la co-variabilidad con los mercados nacionales es mayor, en relación a los mercados internacionales.
G10|Volatility, Valuation Ratios, and Bubbles: An Empirical Measure of Market Sentiment|We define a sentiment indicator that exploits two contrasting views of return predictability, and study its properties. The indicator, which is based on option prices, valuation ratios and interest rates, was unusually high during the late 1990s, reflecting dividend growth expectations that in our view were unreasonably optimistic. We interpret it as helping to reveal irrational beliefs about fundamentals. We show that our measure is a leading indicator of detrended volume, and of various other measures associated with financial fragility. We also make two methodological contributions. First, we derive a new valuation-ratio decomposition that is related to the Campbell and Shiller (1988) loglinearization, but which resembles the traditional Gordon growth model more closely and has certain other advantages for our purposes. Second, we introduce a volatility index that provides a lower bound on the market's expected log return.
G10|Does Central Bank Tone Move Asset Prices?|This paper shows that changes in the tone of central bank communication have a significant effect on asset prices. Tone captures how the central bank frames economic fundamentals and its monetary policy. When tone becomes more positive, stock prices increase, and more so for stocks with high systematic risk, whereas credit spreads and volatility risk premia decrease. These tone effects are robust to controlling for fundamentals, policy actions, and other features of central bank communication, which suggests that tone is a generic instrument of monetary policy that can affect risk premia embedded in asset prices.
G10|The Long and Short of It: The Post-Crisis Corporate CDS Market|We establish key stylized facts about the post-crisis evolution of trading and pricing of credit default swaps. Using supervisory contract-level data, we document that dealers become net buyers of credit protection starting in the second half of 2014, both through reducing the amount of protection they sell in the single-name market and through switching to buying protection in the index market. More generally, we argue that considering simultaneous positions in different types of credit derivatives is crucial for understanding institutions’ participation decisions and how these decisions affect prices in these markets.
G10|Before the Cult of Equity: New Monthly Indices of the British Share Market, 1829-1929|This paper presents new monthly capital gains, dividend yield, and total return indices for common equities quoted on British stock exchanges from 1829 to 1929. As well as creating an all-share index, we create a blue-chip index of the 30 largest companies, which we splice to the Financial Times 30 index to create a near-two-century-long (1829-2018) monthly share index. We use the new indices to examine the timing of British business cycles and compare the returns on home and foreign UK investment. We also construct indices for 22 domestic sectors, and calculate CAPM betas for each sector.
G10|Corporate cash holdings: Stock liquidity and the repurchase motive|We document that enhanced stock liquidity increases a firm's propensity to hold cash. Endogeneity is addressed using a difference-in-differences approach based on tick-size decimalization. Our finding is surprising in light of the view that improved stock liquidity reduces financial constraints. We propose that firms hold cash also to buy back shares and higher stock liquidity strengthens this incentive. Tests are supportive. Endogeneity is controlled for using the introduction of repurchase safe harbor rules. We conclude that with respect to the effect of stock liquidity on cash holdings, the repurchase motive dominates the real investments motive.
G10|Swing Pricing and Fragility in Open-end Mutual Funds|How to prevent runs on open-end mutual funds? In recent years, markets have observed an innovation that changed the way open-end funds are priced. Alternative pricing rules (known as swing pricing) adjust funds' net asset values to pass on funds' trading costs to transacting shareholders. Using unique data on investor transactions in U.K. corporate bond funds, we show that swing pricing eliminates the first-mover advantage arising from the traditional pricing rule and significantly reduces redemptions during stress periods. The stabilizing effect is internalized particularly by institutional investors and investors with longer investment horizons. The positive impact of alternative pricing rules on fund flows reverses in calm periods when costs associated with higher tracking error dominate the pricing effect.
G10|Finance and Carbon Emissions|We study the relation between financial structure and carbon emissions in a large panel of countries and industries. For given levels of economic and financial development, emissions per capita are lower in economies that are relatively more equity-funded. Industry-level analysis reveals two channels. First, deeper stock markets reallocate investment towards cleaner industries and, second, they allow carbon-intensive industries to produce green patents and reduce their energy intensity. Only one-tenth of these industry-level reductions in domestic emissions is offset by increased carbon embedded in imports. A firm-level analysis of an exogenous shock to the cost of equity in Belgium confirms our findings.
G10|Taming the Factor Zoo: A Test of New Factors|We propose a model-selection method to systematically evaluate the contribution to asset pricing of any new factor, above and beyond what a high-dimensional set of existing factors explains. Our methodology explicitly accounts for potential model-selection mistakes, unlike the standard approaches that assume perfect variable selection, which rarely occurs in practice and produces a bias due to the omitted variables. We apply our procedure to a set of factors recently discovered in the literature. While most of these new factors are found to be redundant relative to the existing factors, a few — such as profitability — have statistically significant explanatory power beyond the hundreds of factors proposed in the past. In addition, we show that our estimates and their significance are stable, whereas the model selected by simple LASSO is not.
G10|The Time Variation in Risk Appetite and Uncertainty|We develop measures of time-varying risk aversion and economic uncertainty that are calculated from financial variables at high frequencies. We formulate a dynamic no-arbitrage asset pricing model for equities and corporate bonds. The joint dynamics among asset-specific cash flows, macroeconomic fundamentals and risk aversion feature heteroskedasticity and non-Gaussianity. Variance risk premiums on equity are very informative about risk aversion, whereas credit spreads and corporate bond volatility are highly correlated with economic uncertainty. Model-implied risk premiums outperform standard instruments for predicting excess returns on equity and corporate bonds. A financial proxy to our economic uncertainty predicts output growth significantly negatively.
G10|In Search of Systematic Risk and the Idiosyncratic Volatility Puzzle in the Corporate Bond Market|We propose a comprehensive measure of systematic risk for corporate bonds as a nonlinear function of robust risk factors and find a significantly positive link between systematic risk and the time-series and cross-section of future bond returns. We also find a positive but insignificant relation between idiosyncratic risk and future bond returns, suggesting that institutional investors dominating the bond market hold well-diversified portfolios with a negligible exposure to bond-specific risk. The composite measure of systematic risk also predicts the distribution of future market returns, and the systematic risk factor earns a positive price of risk, consistent with Merton's (1973) ICAPM.
G10|Simpler Better Market Betas|This paper proposes a robust one-pass estimator that is easy to code: Justified by the market-model itself and using a prior that market-betas should not be less than –2 and more than +4, the market-model is run on daily stock rates of return that have first been winsorized at –2 and +4 times the contemporaneous market rate of return. The resulting “slope-winsorized” estimates outperform (all) other known estimators in predicting the future OLS market-beta (on R 2 metrics). Adding reasonable age decay, suggesting a half-life of about 3 to 5 months, to observations entering the market-model further improves it. The estimates outpredict the Vasicek estimates by about half as much as the Vasicek estimates outpredict the OLS estimates.
G10|Predicting Returns With Text Data|We introduce a new text-mining methodology that extracts sentiment information from news articles to predict asset returns. Unlike more common sentiment scores used for stock return prediction (e.g., those sold by commercial vendors or built with dictionary-based methods), our supervised learning framework constructs a sentiment score that is specifically adapted to the problem of return prediction. Our method proceeds in three steps: 1) isolating a list of sentiment terms via predictive screening, 2) assigning sentiment weights to these words via topic modeling, and 3) aggregating terms into an article-level sentiment score via penalized likelihood. We derive theoretical guarantees on the accuracy of estimates from our model with minimal assumptions. In our empirical analysis, we text-mine one of the most actively monitored streams of news articles in the financial system—the Dow Jones Newswires—and show that our supervised sentiment model excels at extracting return-predictive signals in this context.
G10|Productivity growth and finance: The role of intangible assets - a sector level analysis|Investment in intangible assets has become an increasingly important driver of productivity growth in OECD countries. Facing stronger informational asymmetries and harder to value collateral, intangible investment is subject to more severe financial constraints and relies more on internal rather than external capital. To test the hypothesis that the availability of finance, and financial development in particular, is more important for productivity growth in sectors that are intensive in intangible assets, an empirical analysis is carried over a panel of 32 countries and 30 industries, from 1990 to 2014. Overall, results confirm that the impact of financial development on labour productivity is not uniform across sectors. It varies based on country-specific institutional settings and sector-specific characteristics such as the intangible asset intensity, financial structure and external financial dependence. Policies and institutional settings may relax financial constraints by: i) altering the overall composition of finance; ii) encouraging competition and iii) strengthening the legal environment in which businesses operate.
G10|A Regional Decomposition of US Housing Prices and Volume: Market Dynamics and Economic Diversification Opportunities|In this study we employ a TVP-VAR model in order to investigate dynamic connectedness of housing prices and sales volume across four US regional housing markets; namely, Midwest, Northeast, South, as well as, West, for the period between January 1990 and March 2019. Furthermore, utilising an insightful decomposition of the results, we provide a thorough investigation of the underlying dynamics. Overall, results indicate that during turbulent economic periods, it is sales volume shocks that drive developments in the US housing market, rather than shocks in housing prices. In addition, we find that the South is rather a persistent net transmitter of both prices and volume housing market shocks, while the Northeast, a net receiver. On the whole, all four markets assume both roles over time. Results are important for policy makers and regulators aiming to alleviate the negative ramifications of an overheated housing market. In addition, given that over time, the four markets behave differently in connection with their short run shock-transmission capacity, results are also suggestive that there is potential for economic (i.e., rather than strictly geographical) portfolio diversification.
G10|Determinants of CDS trading on major banks|Employing credit default swap (CDS) data for a sample of 52 major banks across 18 countries from 2008 to 2016, this paper investigates determinants of the outstanding net notional amount of CDS which are written on banks. We extend the current literature dealing with CDS trading by analyzing further CDS trading-specific, fundamental bank-specific as well as macroeconomic and institutional determinants with a focus on bank CDS trading. We find that, next to well-discussed determinants for corporate firms in the literature, especially a bank's tail risk, capital adequacy, loan portfolio and business model affect a bank's outstanding CDS net notional. This finding indicates that investors in the bank CDS market partly have a recourse to a fundamental analysis for their investment decision. Our study fills an important gap since empirical studies have solely focused on sovereign and corporate CDS yet. In addition, the analysis at hand provides important implications for both academics and practitioners since understanding the trading motives of bank CDS investors gives deeper insights into the still opaque CDS market.
G10|Development banking, state of confidence and sustainable growth|This article outlines the role of three types of development banks (communal, national, and multilateral) in promoting sustainable growth and development in the future. The 2007-2008 crisis made clear the need for: (1) heavy investment in developed as well as peripheral countries, and (2) coordinated financial institutions at the local, national, and international levels. Given a historical and spatial context, development banks can adopt different types of ownership (public or private), can target a myriad of specific sectors, and can promote local and international cooperation. We argue that for sustainable growth to be achieved, “confidence” has to be provided by public financial institutions. In our analysis we follow post-Keynesian ideas, which, considering the use of money with “social responsibility,” are thought to match the ideas of other heterodox approaches.
G10|Is Gold a Safe Haven? International Evidence revisited|The literature has not settled down on safe haven property of gold in emerging and developing countries. Therefore, in this study, we revisit the international evidence on hedging and safe haven role of gold for 34 emerging and developing countries with a span of daily data covering January 2000 – November 2018. We employ GARCH-copula approach to estimate lower-tail extreme dependencies of the joint distribution of gold and equity returns. We also introduce a new definition for strong safe haven property of an asset. Our findings indicate that while gold serves as a hedge instrument for all countries in our sample, we got evidence of weak safe haven property for gold, for domestic investors, only in 18 countries, and a strong safe haven asset only in six countries.
G10|Tranched Value Securities|Structured financial products and derivatives were one of the major financial innovations since 18th century, which improve market completeness by transforming risk-sharing mechanisms. Since then, thousands of derivative types were created, and its market has grown to over six-times greater than global GDP, but capital markets still exhibit efficiency only to a limited extent. This paper assesses the potential performance of Tranched Value Securities (patent pending) – a new financial instrument that transforms a single underlying to asymmetrically paying derivative, and has a potential to further improve capital markets by facilitating risk sharing, and satisfy a wide range of investment objectives.
G10|Modelación de la correlación condicional para el mercado bursátil colombiano: una aplicación de DCC – MGARCH<BR>[Modeling of the conditional correlation for the Colombian stock market: a DCC application - MGARCH]|El artículo investiga la incertidumbre y la interdependencia entre el mercado accionario colombiano y los principales mercados internacionales. Se estima un modelo Correlación Condicional Dinámica (DCC) para estudiar la interdependencia entre los mercados accionarios seleccionados y un modelo GARCH para analizar la volatilidad condicional. Para ello, se utiliza una muestra de datos diarios, que abarca el período comprendido entre el Enero de 2003 y Agosto de 2018. Los resultados muestran que el periodo de crisis subprime genera un efecto positivo significativo en la volatilidad condicional. Además, existe un co-movimiento significativo en el tiempo entre el mercado bursátil colombiano y los mercados nacionales e internacionales. En cuanto a la persistencia, la covariabilidad con los mercados nacionales es mayor, en relación a los mercados internacionales
G10|Tests for conditional heteroscedasticity with functional data and goodness-of-fit tests for FGARCH models|Functional data objects that are derived from high-frequency financial data often exhibit volatility clustering characteristic of conditionally heteroscedastic time series. Versions of functional generalized autoregressive conditionally heteroscedastic (FGARCH) models have recently been proposed to describe such data, but so far basic diagnostic tests for these models are not available. We propose two portmanteau type tests to measure conditional heteroscedasticity in the squares of financial asset return curves. A complete asymptotic theory is provided for each test, and we further show how they can be applied to model residuals in order to evaluate the adequacy, and aid in order selection of FGARCH models. Simulation results show that both tests have good size and power to detect conditional heteroscedasticity and model mis-specification in finite samples. In an application, the proposed tests reveal that intra-day asset return curves exhibit conditional heteroscedasticity. Additionally, we found that this conditional heteroscedasticity cannot be explained by the magnitude of inter-daily returns alone, but that it can be adequately modeled by an FGARCH(1,1) model.
G10|Price distortions and public information: theory, experiments and simulations|This paper studies the effects on the asset price of the introduction of a public signal in the presence of asymmetric private information in a decentralized market. We introduce an artificial market model populated by boundedly rational agents with heterogeneous levels of reasoning: sophisticated and naive traders. The model captures the main impacts of public information analyzed in the laboratory experiments reported by Ruiz-Buforn et al. (2019). Public information, when correct, coordinates market activity, improving price convergence to the fundamentals. By contrast, unwarranted public information pushes prices away from fundamentals. This strong influence of public information on prices is primarily driven by its common knowledge property.
G10|Cryptocurrency, Delivery Lag, and Double Spending History|We develop a general equilibrium model of cryptocurrency to study the optimal design of a cryptocurrency system. Agents trade cryptocurrency using digital wallets, and the cryptocurrency system provides verification of a digital wallet’s history of double spending attempts. Delaying the delivery of goods until payment information is confirmed in the blockchain prevents double spending. However, double spending can be prevented without a delivery lag under some conditions if a wallet has a good reputation in terms of its history of double spending attempts. In particular, as the difficulty of mining work rises, the incentive to engage in double spending with a good wallet decreases. We study the optimal design of the cryptocurrency system in terms of the difficulty of mining work and the supply of cryptocurrency and evaluate the welfare gain that would be captured if the current Bitcoin system adopted the optimal cryptocurrency system.
G10|Age matters|This paper starts from examining the performance of equally weighted 1/N stock portfolios over time. During the last four decades these portfolios outperformed the market. The construction of these portfolios implies that their constituent stocks are in general older than those in the market as a whole. We show that the differential performance can be explained by the relation between stock returns and firm age. We document a significant relation between age and returns. Since 1977 stock returns have been an increasing function of age apart from the oldest ages. For this period the age effect completely dominates the size effect.
G10|Pengaruh Kinerja Keuangan Terhadap Kualitas Informasi Internet Financial Reporting Dengan Kepemilikan Saham Publik Sebagai Variabel Moderasi<BR>[The Effect Of Financial Performance On Quality Of Internet Financial Reporting Information With Public Share Ownership As A Moderation Variable]|This study aims to test empirically whether public share ownership is able to moderate the relationship between the financial performance proxy with profitability on the quality of information. The quality of IFR information is measured through the disclosure index compiled by Boubaker et al (2012). This index contains 100 items of website-based disclosure that are commonly used in measuring the quality of accounting-based reporting information. The sample of this study is a manufacturing company listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange, where the data analysis techniques that will be used are moderated Regression Analysis with the help of Indirect macro created by Andrew F. Hayes (2015) in combination with SPSS 23. The results show that public shareholding is able to moderate the relationship between financial performance with the quality of IFR information.
G10|Analisis Perbandingan Financial Distresspada Perusahaan Konstruksi Di Bursa Efek Indonesia Tahun 2014 –2018<BR>[Comparative Analysis Of Financial Distress In Construction Companies In Indonesia Stock Exchange In 2014 –2018]|This study aims to analyze the comparison of financial distress in construction companies in the Indonesia Stock Exchange in 2014 -2018 using 5 methods are Altman Z-Score, Falmer, Grover, Springate and Zmijewski methods. The samplingtechnique used was purposive sampling. The sample in this study amounted to 8 construction companies. The analysis technique used is descriptive analysis by comparing the results of financial distress using the 5 methods. The results of the study stated that some companies experienced financial distress or experienced conditions of financial difficulties, such as Adhi Karya (ADHI) and Nusa Konstruksi Enjiniring (DGIK). Financial conditions that are unstable or experience fluctuations that cause companies to have the possibilityof financial distress
G10|Bagaimanapecking-Order Theory Menjelaskan Struktur Permodalan Bank Di Indonesia?<BR>[How Does The Pecking-Order Theory Explain The Bank'S Capital Structure In Indonesia?]|The pecking order theory of capital structure is one of the most influential theories of corporate finance. The purpose of this study is to explore the most important factors on a firm’s capital structure by pecking-order theory. Hierarchical regression is used as the analysis model. This study examines the determinants of debt decisions for 31Indonesianbanking companies that are quoted on the Indonesian Stock Exchange of 2010-2015. The results indicate that the determinants of capital structure are profitability and growth rate. The profitability negatively effects on the capital structure. It implies that firms prefer to use their earnings to finance business activities and thus useless debt capital. Growth rate positively affects capital structure. The greater growth opportunity will have more capital structure to finance the growth. Size is a moderator variable in this study. Size of firms moderates the effects of the tax rate on capital structure. Large firms appear to take advantage of the tax deductibility of debt. The findings are important for management and investors
G10|Optimal Operation of Islanded Microgrid Operation Based on the JAYA Optimization Algorithm|Islanded microgrid (MG) is one of the most important challenges in the power system operation as the network can be safe and disconnected from the conjected area. Also, in the case that the market price is high, the islanded MG can have a lower operational cost by islanding from the main grid. However, optimal operation of the islanded MG is very challenging as the MG is a nonlinear problem. Hence, this paper proposed a new heuristic method known as the JAYA optimization algorithm to solve the problem. Finally, the proposed model is examined on a modified IEEE 30 bus test network to show the merit of the model.
G10|Cryptocurrency, Imperfect Information, and Fraud|We study cryptocurrency in a monetary economy with imperfect information. The network imperfection provides traders opportunities to engage in double spending fraud, but the trackability of transaction messages allows us to impose proof-of-work (PoW), proof-of-stake (PoS), and currency exclusion to mitigate fraud incentives. However, PoW consumes energy, and PoS requires extra cryptocurrency to be held as deposits, so deterring fraud may not be optimal. We find that forks can serve as signals to detect double spending fraud and to trigger punishments. If the probability is high that forks appear under double spending, imposing PoW and PoS to deter fraud is optimal; otherwise, it is optimal to save the cost but allow for double spending. Finally, by endogenizing the incentives to double spend and the size of PoW and PoS, we show that cryptocurrency economy can achieve efficient allocation as the imperfectness of the internet is sufficiently low.
G10|Superkurtosis|Very little is known on how traditional risk metrics behave in ultra high frequency trading (UHFT). We fi�ll this void �firstly by examining the existence of the intraday returns moments, and secondly by assessing the impact of their (non)existence in a risk management framework. We show that in the case of UHFT, the returns' third and fourth moments do not exist, which entails that traditional risk metrics are unable to judge capital adequacy adequately. Hence, the use of risk management techniques, such as VaR, by market participants who engage with UHFT impose serious threats to the stability of fi�nancial markets, given that capital ratios may be severely underestimated.
G10|The Determinants of Securities Trading Activity: Evidence from four European Equity Markets|Purpose: The main objective of this study is to obtain new empirical evidence about the connections between equity trading activity and five possible liquidity determinants: market capitalisation, dividend yield, earnings yield, company growth, and the distinction between recently-listed firms as opposed to more established ones. Design / Methodology / Approach: We use a sample of 172 stocks from four European markets and estimate models using the entire sample data and different sub-samples to check the relative importance of the above determinants. We also conduct a factor analysis to re-classify the variables into a more succinct framework. Findings: The evidence suggests that market capitalisation is the most important trading activity determinant, and the number of years listed ranks thereafter. Research limitations / implications: The positive relation between trading activity and market capitalisation is in line with prior literature, while the findings relating to the other determinants offer further empirical evidence which is a worthy addition in view of the contradictory results in prior research. Practical implications: This study is of relevance to practitioners who would like to understand the cross-sectional variation in stock liquidity at a more detailed level. Originality / value: The originality of the paper rests on two important grounds: (a) we focus on trading turnover rather than on other liquidity proxies, since the former is accepted as an important determinant of the liquidity generation process, and (b) we adopt a rigorous approach towards checking the robustness of the results by considering various sub-sample configurations.
G10|Do stock markets lead or lag macroeconomic variables? Evidence from select European countries|This study examines the connections between stock prices and key macroeconomic indicators: inflation, industrial production, interest rates, money supply and select interactions between the latter group of variables. Such links are evaluated through vector-autoregressions (VARs) on monthly data spanning over the period 1999–2017, for Belgium, France, Germany, Netherlands and Portugal. We check whether such relations are confirmed across different sub-periods and also adopt a non-parametric approach by using a Pesaran-Timmermann test. We find different contemporaneous and lead-lag relationships between stock prices and the selected variables, although there are variations across countries. VAR models indicate that stock prices significantly lead inflation across all countries during the sample period and in most cases this relationship was positive. In addition, stock prices significantly lead industrial production in four of the sampled countries and these relationships were positive as well. Contrary to long-established finance theories, we did not find numerous significant links between interest rates and stock indices; however the interaction between interest rates and money supply was a leading indicator of stock prices in France, Germany and Portugal.
G10|A Novel Practical and Fast Economic Method Based on Nonconvex Quadratic Programming|In many industries such as power system, economic operations problems are usually nonconvex problems that are hard to be solved. This paper presents a novel YALMIP-based nonconvex quadratic programming model as a tool to find solution for which is accurate, and there is no need to convexify the problem. In the end, the effectiveness of the method is shown by applying it to nonconvex problems.
G10|Wage determination and fixed capital investment in an imperfect financial market: the case of China|The purpose of this paper is to examine how wage decisions and fixed asset investments are determined under China’s imperfect financial market. In addition, we also investigate what kind of interrelationship exists between wage determination and fixed asset investment. To test the hypothesis, we collect aggregate data on wages, the financial market, and fixed asset investment by province, sector, and ownership type from several statistical yearbooks. The main results are (1) while the rise in financial market maturity has led to rising wage levels for state-owned enterprises, this phenomenon is not observed in the private sector, (2) retained earnings are positively correlated with capital investment, indicating that China’s financial market is incomplete. Furthermore, in the private sector, there is a strong reliance on internal reserves that is not observed in the state-owned sector, suggesting that the private sector is differentially treated in the financial market. (3) In the state-owned sector, wage growth has a positive correlation with fixed assets, while in the nonstate-owned sector this relationship is not observed. This implies that in the nonstate-owned sector the underpayment of wages may be used as a survival strategy to conduct business if under financial constraints.
G10|Mengukur Perkembangan Sektor Keuangan di Indonesia dan Faktor – Faktor yang Mempengaruhi<BR>[Assessing the Measurement and Determinants of Financial Sector Development in Indonesia]|In a number of occasions during the bad times where financial markets are under pressure, Indonesia often suffers the most compared to neighbors or peer countries. It indicates that there is something fundamental as the driving factors and the depth of the Indonesian financial sector may be the major factor. This research aims to investigate how deep and develop the Indonesian financial sector using multiple indicators and metrics. This research also investigates the causal relationship between financial sector development and the economic growth whether the Indonesian financial sector is supply-leading or demand-following. Moreover, this research attempts to identify the determinants of the financial sector development in Indonesia. The results show that the development of the Indonesian financial sector has been focused on the access aspect, while the development of its depth as well as efficiency is still limited. The depth level by the end of 2018 was even still lower than the level in the mid-1990s. The research's results also show that the financial sector development in Indonesia is demand-following or it develops as the economy grows. Lastly, the results show that the financial sector development in Indonesia is affected by multi-aspect factors ranging from macroeconomic factors and institutions to the openness levels either trade openness or financial openness. On those many structural aspects, Indonesia is inferior compared with many countries, so it is not a coincidence that the Indonesian financial sector is less developed compared to the many countries.
G10|Contagion between Real Estate and Financial Markets: A Bayesian Quantile-on-Quantile Approach|We study contagion between REITs and the equity market in the U.S. over four subsamples covering January, 2003 to December, 2017, by using Bayesian nonparametric quantile-on-quantile regressions with heteroskedasticity. We find that the spillovers from the REITs on to the equity market has varied over time across the four sub-samples, though similarity is observed between the first and the last sub-samples. Further, barring the extreme ends of the two markets, contagion from REITs upon the stock market went down during the global financial crisis relative to the pre-crisis period, with the spillover picking-up during the European sovereign debt crisis.
G10|Contagion between Stock and Real Estate Markets: International Evidence from a Local Gaussian Correlation Approach|In this paper, we analyze contagion over the daily period of January 1, 1998 to September 13, 2018 between Real Estate Investments Trusts (REITs) and the equity markets of nineteen countries, which are at their different stages of development in terms of the REITs market. For our purpose, we use the local Gaussian correlation approach during the dot-com, global financial, European sovereign debt crises, and the more recent period involving the Brexit in the UK. In general, we find strong evidence of contagion between equities and REITs of not only matured and established markets, but also in economies with an emerging REITs sector, especially during the global financial and sovereign debt crises. Further, when we considered contagion across REITs of the US and the other countries, and between US REITs and equities of the remaining eighteen countries, a similar pattern emerges. Our results have important implications for investors and policymakers alike.
G10|Risk Aversion and Bitcoin Returns in Normal, Bull, and Bear Markets|We study whether level of risk aversion can be used to predict Bitcoin returns. Using a copula-quantile approach, we find evidence of predictability for the lower and upper quantiles of the conditional distribution of returns (i.e., in bull and bear markets). To reveal the sign of the predictability, we apply the cross-quantilogram approach and find that the cross-quantilogram is similar when risk aversion is at the low or medium level for various quantiles of Bitcoin returns. In particular, we find positive predictability when the risk aversion is very low and at the medium level. However, the predictability becomes negative when both the risk aversion and Bitcoin returns are very high, suggesting that very high levels of risk aversion are likely to drive down Bitcoin returns in a bull market.
G10|Historical Volatility of Advanced Equity Markets: The Role of Local and Global Crises|We use a nonparametric quantiles-based model to analyse the predictability of long-spans (nearly or over one century) of annual volatility of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Switzerland, the United Kingdom (UK) and the United States (US), based on information contained in domestic (banking, currency, inflation, sovereign debt, and stock market) and global crises. We find that, in general, global crises tends to have a stronger causal impact on market volatility than domestic crises, but domestic stock market crashes also plays an important role in explaining equity market volatility of Germany, the UK and the US. Interestingly, extreme ends of the conditional distribution of market volatility cannot be predicted, irrespective of whether domestic or global crises are used as predictors.
G10|The Predictability of Stock Market Volatility in Emerging Economies: Relative Roles of Local, Regional and Global Business Cycles|This paper explores the role of business cycle proxies, measured by the output gap at the global, regional and local levels, as potential predictors of stock market volatility in the emerging BRICS nations. We observe that the emerging BRICS nations display a rather heterogeneous pattern when it comes to the relative role of idiosyncratic factors as a predictor of stock market volatility. While domestic output gap is found to capture significant predictive information for India and China particularly, the business cycles associated with emerging economies and the world in general are strongly important for the BRIC countries and weakly for South Africa, especially in the post-global financial crisis era. The findings suggest that despite the increase in the financial integration of world capital markets, emerging economies can still bear significant exposures to idiosyncratic risk factors, an issue of high importance for the profitability of global diversification strategies.
G10|Monetary Policy Uncertainty and Volatility Jumps in Advanced Equity Markets|We analyze the role of monetary policy uncertainty in predicting volatility jumps in nine advanced equity markets. The standard linear Granger causality test detects weak evidence of monetary policy uncertainty causing volatility jumps. But given the strong evidence of nonlinearity between jumps and monetary policy uncertainty, we next use a nonparametric causality-in-quantiles test, since the linear model is misspecified. Using this data-driven robust approach we find strong evidence of the role of monetary policy uncertainty in predicting volatility jumps, especially towards the lower end of the conditional distribution.
G10|Effect of Uncertainty on U.S. Stock Returns and Volatility: Evidence from Over Eighty Years of High-Frequency Data|In this paper, we analyse the asymmetric impact of financial uncertainty shocks on stock returns and volatility of the U.S. equity market over the period of 18th March, 1936 to 30th November, 2016, by controlling for impact of monetary policy shocks and recessions. We find that positive growth rates of uncertainty reduce stock returns and increases volatility, while, negative growth rates of uncertainty primarily reduce stock market variance. Further, the impact of changes in uncertainty on volatility is found to be asymmetric in the statistical sense. A rolling window estimation over the period of 30th June, 1954 to 30th November, 2016, shows that there is significant time variation in the impact of uncertainty, though the direction of impact largely confirms with the static case. Our study provides new evidence that the impact of financial uncertainty on the U.S. equity markets is intuitively consistent even in the historical and high-frequency context.
G10|Spillovers between US Real Estate and Financial Assets in Time and Frequency Domains|Real estate, either in physical or securitised form, provides valuable diversification opportunities to investors. However, spillovers reduce the benefits of portfolio diversification, especially in times of crisis, when asset returns tend to be more correlated. This paper assesses the strength and time variation of spillovers between returns on residential real estate, real estate investment trusts (REITs), stocks and bonds in the United States, using the Diebold-Yilmaz (DY) (2012) approach in the time domain and the Baruník-Křehlík (BK) (2018) methodology in the frequency domain. On average, spillovers between housing, stock and bond returns are relatively modest and shocks to stock and bond markets affect housing returns more than the other way round, even though net spillovers from housing to other assets spiked in the aftermath of the subprime crisis. Spillovers in both directions are much stronger between REITs and stocks than between REITs and housing. The analysis in the frequency domain highlights the persistence of effects from shocks originating in the housing market, particularly in the aftermath of the subprime crisis.
G10|Trade Uncertainties and the Hedging Abilities of Bitcoin|In this paper, we use daily data from October 2011 to May 2019 to estimate the monthly realized correlation between stock returns of the United States (US) and Bitcoin returns. Then, we relate the realized correlation with a news-based measure of the growth of trade uncertainty for the US. Our results show that the realized correlation is negatively impacted by increases in trade uncertainty, suggesting that Bitcoin can act as a hedge relative to the US stock market in the wake of heightened trade policy-related uncertainties, and can provide diversification benefits for investors.
G10|The Benefits of Diversification between Bitcoin, Bonds, Equities and the US Dollar: A Matter of Portfolio Construction|This paper investigates potential portfolio diversification between Bitcoin, bonds, equities and the US dollar. We make use of two approaches for constructing the portfolio. The first is the standard minimum variance approach, and the alternative is based on combining risk and return when the portfolio is constructed. The portfolio based on the minimum variance approach does not result in increasing the return per unit risk compared to the corresponding value for the best single asset, in this case Bitcoin. However, the portfolio based on the approach that combines risk and return in the optimization problem does show a return per unit risk higher than the corresponding value for any of the four assets. Thus, the portfolio diversification benefit with respect to these four assets, in terms of return per unit risk, exists only if the portfolio is constructed via the new approach.
G10|Spillovers in Higher-Order Moments of Bitcoin, Gold, and Oil|In this paper, we extend existing studies by considering the relationships across crude oil, gold, and Bitcoin markets. Using high-frequency data from December 2, 2014 to June 10, 2018, we analyze spillovers in volatility jumps and realized second, third, and fourth moments across crude oil, gold, and Bitcoin markets via Granger causality and generalized impulse response analyses in daily frequency. Results suggest evidence of predictability and emphasize, among others, the need of jointly modeling linkages across those three markets with higher-order moments; otherwise, inaccurate risk assessment and investment inferences may arise. The responses of realized volatility shocks and volatility jump are generally positive. Furthermore, results indicate evidence of a weaker relationship between gold – crude oil, and Bitcoin – crude oil compared to the case of Bitcoin - gold. Practical implications are discussed.
G10|Do Multiple Credit Ratings Reduce Money Left on the Table? Evidence from US. IPOs| We examine initial public offerings (IPOs) with single, multiple, and no credit ratings. We document a beneficial effect of credit ratings on IPO underpricing, which is amplified by the existence of multiple credit ratings. Multiple ratings also reduce the extent of filing price revisions. Credit rating levels matter for IPOs with more than one rating but not for those with a single rating. Firms with multiple credit ratings also have higher probabilities of survival than those with a single or no rating. Finally, IPOs awarded a first credit rating between BB and BBB are more likely to seek an additional rating.
G10|Australian Money Market Divergence: Arbitrage Opportunity or Illusion?|In recent years, the spread between money market interest rates has widened. One implication is that the price of Australian dollars diverges across these markets. Even after risks associated with creditworthiness, liquidity and other factors have been taken into account, it appears that unexploited arbitrage opportunities persist. Typically the literature only assesses the profitability of arbitrage by calculating the return from funding at low money market rates to invest at higher rates. However, banks have broader balance sheet considerations that need to be taken into account. We therefore take a 'whole-of-balance-sheet' approach to assessing the potential for arbitrage opportunities available to the four major banks in Australia. this takes into consideration that banks optimise their balance sheet not only by funding themselves at the lowest possible rates to maximise profitability, but also for compliance with prudential regulation, maintenance of capital adequacy, and opportunity cost in asset allocation. We find that once asset-specific funding costs are taken into account, short-term money market trades would have generally not been profitable for the major banks. Overall, the incentive for banks to arbitrage has fallen since 2008. Our result reflects both a rise in the cost of debt funding relative to market returns and an increase in the share of equity funding. We also note that the deployment of balance sheet space to money market trading incurs a significant opportunity cost, when compared to lending for residential housing. Not surprisingly, the balance sheets of the major banks are therefore skewed toward more profitable lending activities, rather than money market trading.
G10|Estimación de un Índice de Condiciones Financieras para el Perú|Se estima un Índice de condiciones financieras (ICF) para la economía peruana en el periodo comprendido entre 2004 y 2018. Para ello, se utiliza la metodología propuesta por Koop y Korobilis (2014), la cual emplea un modelo VAR aumentado por factores y que contiene parámetros que cambian en el tiempo (TVP-FAVAR). Así, esta metodología produce un indicador representativo de todas las variables relevantes para el sistema financiero y, dada su flexibilidad, también permite que las contribuciones de las variables incluidas en el modelo cambien a lo largo de la muestra. Utilizando este Índice de condiciones financieras se cuantifica la interrelación entre el sector real y financiero en la economía peruana, donde en particular se estima la reacción del índice estimado frente a distintos choques macroeconómicos y se estudia también el co-movimiento de este con el crecimiento del PBI. Posteriormente, se muestra la descomposición histórica estructural de dicho índice. La agenda futura se centra en evaluar en la capacidad predictiva de este Índice y también en su capacidad de convertirse en una mecanismo de alerta temprana.
G10|Medidas De Riesgo Financiero Usando Cópulas: Teoría Y Aplicaciones|Este documento realiza una descripción de las medidas de dependencia consus principales ventajas y desventajas y presenta a la cópula como una estructura flexibleque permite caracterizar diferentes tipos de dependencia. Adicionalmente, introduce eluso de la cópula en la medici´on de riesgo financiero, tomando como ejemplo un portafoliocompuesto por tres activos representativos del mercado colombiano.Las pruebas de desempeño o de backtesting del valor en riesgo calculado por diferentesmetodologías en los años 2006 y 2007 muestran que las mejores son aquellas que modelanla dependencia en media y varianza, tales como modelos VAR-GARCH-C´opula(t) yVAR-GARCH-Co´pula(normal). Las técnicas con el peor desempeño son RiskmetricsR yla basada en el supuesto de normalidad.
G10|Bayesian combination for inflation forecasts: The effects of a prior based on central banks’ estimates|Typically, central banks use a variety of individual models (or a combination of models) when forecasting inflation rates. Most of these require excessive amounts of data, time, and computational power, all of which are scarce when monetary authorities meet to decide over policy interventions. In this paper we use a rolling Bayesian combination technique that considers inflation estimates by the staff of the Central Bank of Colombia during 2002–2011 as prior information. Our results show that: (1) the accuracy of individual models is improved by using a Bayesian shrinkage methodology, and (2) priors consisting of staff estimates outperform all other priors that comprise equal or zero vector weights. Consequently, our model provides readily available forecasts that exceed all individual models in terms of forecasting accuracy at every evaluated horizon.
G10|Monetary Policy Expectations and Money Market in Japan : Analysis of Non-traditional Monetary Policy Regimes|When the Bank of Japan (BOJ) adopts interest rate targeting under a comprehensive easing policy, the yield curve up to 12 months in the Japanese money market is driven by a single trend. It is caused by monetary policy expectations. The regime of interest rate targeting gives a sense of comfort to market participants that the regular transmission mechanism works in the yield curve of the money market. Thus, monetary policy expectations are fully transmitted to the yield curve end. On the other hand, monetary policy expectations are not fully transmitted to the yield curve end under either the quantitative and qualitative easing policy or the negative easing policy. The quantitative and qualitative easing policy and the negative interest rate policy paralyze the market function in the short-term money market. Central bankers should always keep it in mind that the transmission of interest rates along the yield curve is an integral part of the mechanism through which monetary policy affects the economy.
G10|Presidential Power and Stock Returns|Recent studies highlight positive effect of political connections on firm performance and stock returns. This paper shows that the positive effect of political connections on the cross-sectional stock returns disappears in the weak presidency period, defined as the last two years before the presidential party change, or period of low job approval ratings. The extent of the presidential party?s control over the Congress does not affect our main result. The result is driven by small firms, who typically do not have financial resources to hedge away political risks, and by the firms located in the states where residents more strongly support the president. Additional test suggests that the industries that rely on heavy government expenditure use a variety of political strategies to maintain the value of their political capital even during the weak presidency period.
G10|Exploring Behavioural Biases among Indian Investors: A Qualitative Inquiry|Psychological factors influence individual investors? investment decision making, but few studies have used qualitative methods to understand these factors. The present study interviews experienced financial advisors and brokers working with individual investors. For the data analysis, a thematic content analysis approach with open coding was used. The findings of this study indicate that investors have numerous opinions and tendencies (categorized into cognitive errors, emotional biases and social interactions) that affect their investment decisions. This study suggests that an understanding of individual investors? behavioural biases can provide financial planners and advisers with additional knowledge to help their clients in making better financial decisions that potentially lead to improved investment results.
G10|Herding Behaviours in Poland and Tanzania|Over the years the USA markets have shown a strong resilient to herding behaviours while mixed results or consistent herding behaviours have been observed in other markets around the world. This study aimed at providing the most recent evidence of herding behaviours in two of such markets. Using data from Poland and Tanzania and CSAD approach, the findings showed no significant market herding behaviours in Poland during the period and during the up and down markets. Except for Informatics, all other industries showed significant industry herding behaviours and during the up and down markets. On the other hand, no market herding behaviours were observed in Tanzania during the period, during the up and down markets. No industrial herding behaviours were observed in the two industries. During this period Poland had experienced an increase in industry herding behaviours while Tanzania have experienced a decline in market herding behaviours in the market.
G10|Absolute momentum, sustainable withdrawal rates and glidepath investing in US retirement portfolios from 1925|A significant part of the development in pension provision in many countries is the emergence of ‘Target Date Funds’ or TDFs. In this paper we examine the proposition of de-risking through life and the guidance offered by TDFs in the decumulation phase following retirement. We investigate the withdrawal experience associated with Glidepath Investing in the US since 1925 for conventional bond-equity portfolios. We find one very powerful conclusion: that smoothing the returns on individual assets by simple absolute momentum or trend following techniques is a potent tool to enhance withdrawal rates, often by as much as 50% per annum! And, perhaps of even greater social relevance is that it removes the ‘left-tail’ of unfortunate withdrawal rate experiences, i.e. the bad luck of a poor sequence of returns early in decumulation. We show that diversifying assets over time by switching between an asset and cash in a systematic way is potentially more important for the retirement income experience than diversifying one’s portfolio across asset classes. We also show that Glidepath investing is only sensible within a few years of the target date. This finding provides succour to enthusiasts for target date investing in the face of the growing hostility in the literature.
G10|Building an effective financial stability policy framework: lessons from the post-crisis decade|A decade after the global financial crisis, the task of building a financial stability policy framework has unfinished business. Fundamental questions about the goal of financial stability and the policies to achieve it were sidelined by the excessive focus on the minutiae of macroprudential policy. Increased responsibilities were given to central banks without a proper discussion about the right degree of delegation and accountability. A comprehensive framework for financial stability should have three pillars: macroprudential policy, microprudential supervision, and financial safety nets. Sufficient operational independence should be given to the agency(ies) responsible for financial stability but determining the goal, institutional architecture, and agency assignments, resolving any policy tradeoffs, and ensuring accountability should be a political responsibility. Even with the best framework, however, given the variety of structural, behavioral, and political economy factors affecting financial stability and our limited understanding of the financial system, securing this goal will remain a challenge.
G10|Risk analysis of energy in Vietnam|The purpose of the paper is to estimate market risk for the ten major industries in Vietnam. The focus is on the Energy sector, which has been designated as one of the four key industries, together with Services, Food, and Telecommunications, targeted for economic development by the Vietnam Government through to 2020. Oil and Gas is a separate energy-related major industry. The data set is from 2009 to 2017, which is decomposed into two distinct sub-periods after the Global Financial Crisis (GFC), namely the immediate post-GFC (2009-2011) period and the normal (2012-2017) period, in order to identify the behaviour of market risk for Vietnam major industries. Two widely-used approaches to measure and analyze risk are used in the empirical analysis, namely Value-at-Risk (VaR) and Conditional Value-at-Risk (CVaR). The empirical findings indicate that Energy and Pharmaceuticals are the least risky industries, whereas Oil and Gas and Securities have the greatest risk. In general, there is strong empirical evidence that the four key industries display relatively low risk. For public policy, the Vietnam Government’s pro-active emphasis on the targeted industries, including Energy, to achieve sustainable economic growth and national economic development, seems to be working effectively.
G10|The Limits of p-Hacking : A Thought Experiment|Suppose that asset pricing factors are just p-hacked noise. How much p-hacking is required to produce the 300 factors documented by academics? I show that, if 10,000 academics generate 1 factor every minute, it takes 15 million years of p-hacking. This absurd conclusion comes from applying the p-hacking theory to published data. To fit the fat right tail of published t-stats, the p-hacking theory requires that the probability of publishing t-stats
G10|Transparency and Collateral: The Design of CCPs' Loss Allocation Rules|This paper adopts a mechanism design approach to study optimal clearing arrangements for bilateral financial contracts in which an assessment of counterparty risk is crucial for efficiency. The economy is populated by two types of agents: a borrower and lender. The borrower is subject to limited commitment and holds private information about the severity of such lack of commitment. The lender can acquire information at a cost about the commitment of the borrower, which affects the assessment of counterparty risk. When truthful revelation by the borrower is not incentive compatible, the mechanism designer optimally trades off the value of information about the lack of commitment of the borrower with the cost of incentivizing the lender to acquire such information. Central clearing of these financial contracts through a central counterparty (CCP) allows lenders to mutualize their counterparty risks, but this insurance may weaken incentives to acquire and reveal informatio n about such risks. If information acquisition is incentive compatible, then lenders choose central clearing. If it is not, they may prefer bilateral clearing to prevent strategic default by borrowers and to economize on costly collateral. Central clearing is analyzed under different institutional features observed in financial markets, which place different restrictions on the contract space in the mechanism design problem. The interaction between the costly information acquisition and the limited commitment friction differs significantly in each clearing arrangement and in each set of restrictions. This results in novel lessons about the desirability of central versus bilateral clearing depending on traders' characteristics and the institutional features defining the operation of the CCP.
G10|The Seniority Structure of Sovereign Debt|Sovereign governments owe debt to many foreign creditors and can choose which creditors to favor when making payments. This paper documents the de facto seniority structure of sovereign debt using new data on defaults (missed payments or arrears) and creditor losses in debt restructuring (haircuts). We overturn conventional wisdom by showing that official bilateral (government-to-government) debt is junior, or at least not senior, to private sovereign debt such as bank loans and bonds. Private creditors are typically paid first and lose less than bilateral official creditors. We confirm that multilateral institutions like the IMF and World Bank are senior creditors.
G10|The Long and Short of It: The Post-Crisis Corporate CDS Market|The 2007-2009 financial crisis highlighted the vulnerability of financial institutions linked by a complex web of credit default swap (CDS) contracts, sparking a wave of regulatory changes to the structure of the market. In this paper, we provide broad evidence on the evolution of the CDS market in the post-crisis period, document the properties of participants' exposures to corporate CDS over time, and study the differential pricing of transactions between different types of counterparties.
G10|Use of credit default swaps by UCITS funds: evidence from EU regulatory data|Using a sample of more than 18,000 Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities,or UCITS, this paper aims to provide a first overview of the use of credit default swaps by EU UCITSfunds. We show that UCITS funds only account for a small share of the overall EU credit derivativesmarket. The CDS market is highly concentrated, with thirteen large dealers acting as counterparty to thevast majority of CDS transactions that involve UCITS funds. The use of CDS by UCITS is mainlyconcentrated in fixed-income funds and funds that rely on so-called alternative strategies. Funds that useCDS tend to be much larger on average. The analysis also reveals three salient features in the UCITSfunds’ use of CDS. Firstly, funds with directional strategies, such as fixed-income and allocation funds (ormixed funds), are on aggregate net sellers of CDS. Secondly, a large majority of CDS underlyings areindices, from which funds can gain exposure to multiple entities at once within one sector or region.Lastly, most sovereign single-name CDS are written on emerging market issuers, highlighting the rolethat these instruments can play in facilitating access to less liquid markets. JEL Classification: F30, G10, G15, G23
G10|Endogenous Discounting, Wariness, and Effcient Capital Taxation|When the discount factors that infinite lived consumers use at each date are not predetermined but are instead chosen within some set, depending on what the consumption plan is, impatience might not hold. More precisely, if the utility is the infimum of discounted utilities over that set of discount factor sequences, then preferences may be just upper semi-impatient. Such lack of lower semi-impatience, which we refer to as wariness, consists in neglecting distant gains but not distant losses. Examples are the precautionary case (a concern with the worst lifetime outcome) and the habit persistence case (a concern with a fall in living standards). The implementation of efficient allocations by trading assets sequentially requires taxes that avoid excessive savings by raising the opportunity of cost of saving up to the point of matching the marginal benefit of dishoarding at distant dates. Taxes on equilibrium plans are zero in many contexts.
G10|Crashing of Efficient Stochastic Bubbles|Efficiency is not commonly related to the crash of bubbles. However in the presence of wary agents, infinite-lived agents that are worried about distant losses, efficient bubbles may occur and, in a stochastic setting, these bubbles can crash. In this paper we characterize the Arrow-Debreu (AD) price and establish the relationship between the agents' concern about distant losses and the existence of pure charges in the AD price. We show that this pure charge induces efficient bubbles in the positive net-supply assets that complete the markets and that, as we enter some sub-tree, that pure charge may no longer present in the AD price for the sub-economy, implying the crash of the bubble. Finally, we give an example in which there is an efficient bubble with infinitely many crashes.
G10|Composing High-Frequency Financial Conditions Index and Implications for Economic Activity|In this study, the main aim is to construct an index using high-frequency data related to financial markets and intermediation services for Turkey, termed as High-Frequency Financial Conditions Index by employing alternative statistical techniques. In a complementary manner, the informative nature of the constructed indices with respect to the course of economic activity is examined. The paper also includes detailed empirical analysis about the relationship between financial conditions and growth tendencies. The findings of the time series analysis and forecast exercises show that the constructed series are quite informative regarding the economic activity. More importantly, probit model estimations indicate that index can be qualified as an early indicator to predict “loss of momentum” episodes in economic growth by also considering the lead-lag relationship. When similar methodology is applied on emerging market economies, indices can be produced with a high level of co-movements with growth indicators. Panel Vector Autoregression estimation shows that, after controlling for country-specific characteristics, a shock coming to financial conditions is creating a significant overall response in emerging market countries. In terms of policy-making, we believe that constructed indices will contribute to a better understanding of the current financial environment and relation with economic activity.
G10|Nowhere to Run, Nowhere to Hide - Asset Diversification in a Flat World|We estimate trends in diversification potential for equity, debt, and real estate within and across asset classes and countries. After 2000, we uncover a marked and near ubiquitous decline in diversification potential, which coincides with sharply higher levels of investment risk. This decline is associated with gains in market liquidity, country economic development, and internet diffusion. Diversification potential also waned temporarily during the 1992 ERM and 2009-2010 European sovereign debt crises. The results are robust to controls for macro-financial influences, investor sentiment, and proxies for economic, political, and financial risks. Findings offer a cautionary note regarding asset class and geographic diversification of investment risk in an increasingly flat world.
G10|Co-skewness across Return Horizons|In this paper, the impact of investment horizon on asset co-skewness is examined both empirically and theoretically. We detail a strong horizon-based estimation bias for co-skewness. An asset that has positive co-skewness in one horizon may have negative co-skewness in another. This phenomenon is particularly evident for small-capitalization stocks. We propose a theoretical model to estimate long-horizon co-skewness using the shortest horizon data, which emphasizes the role of adjustment delays in pricing market-wide information among securities. Moreover, in the absence of intertemporal correlation, we show that co-skewness remains horizon-dependent. Our findings are robust to alternative specifications and have strong implications for asset pricing or portfolio allocation with co-skewness.
G10|Benchmarked Risk Minimizing Hedging Strategies for Life Insurance Policies|Traditional life insurance policies offer no equity investment opportunities for the premium paid, and suffer from low returns over the long insurance terms. Modern equity-linked insurance policies offer equity investment opportunities exposed to equity market risk. To combine the low-risk of traditional policies with the high returns offered by equity-linked policies, we consider insurance policies under the benchmark approach (BA), where the policyholders’ funds are invested in the growth-optimal portfolio and the locally risk-free savings account. Under the BA, life insurance policies can be delivered at their minimal costs, lower than the classical actuarial theory predicts. Due to unhedgeable mortality risk, life insurance policies cannot be fully hedged. In this case benchmarked risk-minimization can be applied to obtain hedging strategies with minimally fluctuating profit and loss processes, where the fluctuations can further be reduced through diversification.
G10|Endogenous credit constraints: the role of informational non-uniqueness|We point out that the equilibrium deinition applied by Miao and Wang [8] in their model of stock price bubbles involves an implicit assumption about the for-mulation of an endogenous credit constraint. By dropping this assumption, one can construct ininitely many additional equilibria for the Miao-Wang economy, all of which exhibit stock price bubbles. The underlying reason for this result is informational non-uniqueness, a phenomenon known from the literature on dynamic games. Neither the original equilibria discussed by Miao and Wang [8] nor the additional ones which exist due to informational non-uniqueness are Markov-perfect. For this reason we propose a recursive equilibrium deinition for the Miao-Wang economy and show how it can be used to construct Markov-perfect equilibria with stock price bubbles.
G10|Before the Cult of Equity:New Monthly Indices of the British Share Market, 1829-1929|This paper presents new monthly capital gains, dividend yield, and total return indices for common equities quoted on British stock exchanges from 1829 to 1929. As well as creating an all-share index, we create a blue-chip index of the 30 largest companies, which we splice to the Financial Times 30 index to create a near-two-century-long (1829-2018) monthly share index. We use the new indices to examine the timing of British business cycles and compare the returns on home and foreign UK investment. We also construct indices for 22 domestic sectors, and calculate CAPM betas for each sector.
G10|Uncertainty, Financial Markets, and Monetary Policy over the Last Century|What has been the effect of uncertainty shocks in the U.S. economy over the last century? What are the historical roles of the financial channel and monetary policy channel in propagating uncertainty shocks? Our empirical strategies enable us to distinguish between the effects of uncertainty shocks on key macroeconomic and financial variables transmitted through each channel. A hundred years of data further allow us to answer these questions from a novel historical perspective. This paper finds robust evidence that financial conditions have played a crucial role in propagating uncertainty shocks over the last century, supporting many theoretical and empirical studies emphasizing the role of financial frictions in understanding uncertainty shocks. However, heightened uncertainty does not amplify the adverse effect of financial shocks, suggesting an asymmetric interaction between uncertainty and financial shocks. Interestingly, the stance of monetary policy seems to play only a minor role in propagating uncertainty shocks, which is in sharp contrast to the recent claim that binding zero-lower-bound amplifies the negative effect of uncertainty shocks. We argue that the contribution of constrained monetary policy to amplifying uncertainty shocks is largely masked by the joint concurrence of binding zero-lower-bound and tightened financial conditions.
G10|Fear, deposit insurance schemes, and deposit reallocation in the German banking system|Recent regulatory initiatives such as the European Deposit Insurance Scheme propose a change in the coverage and backing of deposit insurances. An assessment of these proposals requires a thorough understanding of what drives depositors’ withdrawal decisions. We show that Google searches for ‘deposit insurance’ and related strings reflect depositors’ fears and help to predict deposit shifts in the German banking sector from private banks to fully guaranteed public banks. After the introduction of blanket state guarantees for all deposits in the German banking system this fear-driven reallocation of deposits stopped. Our findings highlight that a heterogeneous insurance of deposits can lead to a sudden, fear-induced reallocation of deposits endangering the stability of the banking sector even in absence of redenomination risks.
G10|Liquidity in the German stock market|This paper presents the most extensive analysis of liquidity in the German equity market so far. We examine the evolution of liquidity over time, the determinants of liquidity, and commonality across liquidity measures and countries. We make use of a new publicly available dataset, the Market Microstructure Database Xetra (MMDB-Xetra). We find that liquidity has generally increased over time, and that in times of crisis liquidity is lower and the volatility of liquidity is significantly higher. Commonality in liquidity is highest during the financial crisis. We also find significant commonality between liquidity in the US and the German equity markets.
G10|Revisiting the stealth trading hypothesis: Does time-varying liquidity explain the size-effect?|Large trades have a smaller price impact per share than medium-sized trades. So far, the literature has attributed this effect to the informational content of trades. In this paper, we show that this effect can arise from strategic order placement. We introduce the concept of a liquidity elasticity, measuring the responsiveness of liquidity demand with respect to changes in liquidity supply, as a major driver for a declining price impact per share. Empirical evidence based on Nasdaq stocks strongly supports theoretical predictions and shows that the aspect of liquidity coor- dination is an important complement to rationales based on asymmetric information.
G10|Before the cult of equity: New monthly indices of the British share market, 1829-1929|This paper presents new monthly capital gains, dividend yield, and total return indices for common equities quoted on British stock exchanges from 1829 to 1929. As well as creating an all-share index, we create a blue-chip index of the 30 largest companies, which we splice to the Financial Times 30 index to create a near-two-century-long (1829-2018) monthly share index. We use the new indices to examine the timing of British business cycles and compare the returns on home and foreign UK investment. We also construct indices for 22 domestic sectors, and calculate CAPM betas for each sector.
G10|High-frequency trading and price informativeness|We study how stock price informativeness changes with the presence of highfrequency trading (HFT). Our estimate is based on the staggered start of HFT participation in a panel of international exchanges. With HFT presence market prices are a less reliable predictor of future cash ows and investment, even more so for longer horizons. Further, idiosyncratic volatility decreases, mutual funds trade less actively and their holdings deviate less from the market-capitalization weighted portfolio. These findings suggest that price informativeness declines with HFT presence, consistent with theoretical models of HFTs' ability to anticipate informed order ow, reducing incentives to acquire fundamental information.
G10|Quasi-dark trading: The effects of banning dark pools in a world of many alternatives|"We show that ""quasi-dark"" trading venues, i.e., markets with somewhat non-transparent trading mechanisms, are important parts of modern equity market structure alongside lit markets and dark pools. Using the European MiFID II regulation as a quasi-natural experiment, we find that dark pool bans lead to (i) volume spill-overs into quasi-dark trading mechanisms including periodic auctions and order internalization systems; (ii) little volume returning to transparent public markets; and consequently, (iii) a negligible impact on market liquidity and short-term price efficiency. These results show that quasi-dark markets serve as close substitutes for dark pools and consequently mitigate the effectiveness of dark pool regulation. Our findings highlight the need for a broader approach to transparency regulation in modern markets that takes into consideration the many alternative forms of quasi-dark trading."
G10|Uncertainty, Financial Markets, and Monetary Policy over the Last Century|What has been the effect of uncertainty shocks in the U.S. economy over the last century? What are the historical roles of the financial channel and monetary policy channel in propagating uncertainty shocks? Our empirical strategies enable us to distinguish between the effects of uncertainty shocks on key macroeconomic and financial variables transmitted through each channel. A hundred years of data further allow us to answer these questions from a novel historical perspective. This paper finds robust evidence that financial conditions have played a crucial role in propagating uncertainty shocks over the last century, supporting many theoretical and empirical studies emphasizing the role of financial frictions in understanding uncertainty shocks. However, heightened uncertainty does not amplify the adverse effect of financial shocks, suggesting an asymmetric interaction between uncertainty and financial shocks Interestingly, the stance of monetary policy seems to play only a minor role in propagating uncertainty shocks, which is in sharp contrast to the recent claim that binding zero-lower-bound amplifies the negative effect of uncertainty shocks. We argue that the contribution of constrained monetary policy to amplifying uncertainty shocks is largely masked by the joint concurrence of binding zero-lower-bound and tightened financial conditions.
G10|Narrow-band Weighted Nonlinear Least Squares Estimation of Unbalanced Cointegration Systems|We discuss cointegration relationships when covariance stationary observables exhibit unbalanced integration orders. Least squares type estimates of the long run coefficient are expected to converge either to 0 or to infinity if one does not account for the true unknown unbalance parameter. We propose a class of narrow-band weighted non-linear least squares estimators of these two parameters and analyze its asymptotic properties. The limit distribution is shown to be Gaussian, albeit singular, and it covers the entire stationary region in the particular case of the generalized non-linear least squares estimator, thereby allowing for straightforward statistical inference. A Monte Carlo study documents the good finite sample properties of our class of estimators. They are further used to provide new perspectives on the risk-return relationship on financial stock markets. In particular, we find that the variance risk premium estimated in an appropriately rebalanced cointegration system is a better return predictor than existing risk premia measures.
G10|Local Whittle Analysis of Stationary Unbalanced Fractional Cointegration Systems|In this paper we propose a local Whittle estimator of stationary bivariate unbalanced fractional cointegration systems. Unbalanced cointegration refers to the situation where the observables have different integration orders, but their filtered versions have equal integration orders and are cointegrated in the usual sense. Based on the frequency domain representation of the unbalanced version of Phillips’ triangular system, we develop a semiparametric approach to jointly estimate the unbalance parameter, the long run coefficient, and the integration orders of the regressand and cointegrating errors. The paper establishes the consistency and asymptotic normality of this estimator. We find a peculiar rate of convergence for the unbalance estimator (possibly faster than root-n) and a singular joint limiting distribution of the unbalance and long-run coefficients. Its good finite-sample properties are emphasized through Monte Carlo experiments. We illustrate the relevance of the developed estimator for financial data in an empirical application to the information flowing between the crude oil spot and CME-NYMEX markets.
G10|Money Markets, Collateral and Monetary Policy|Interbank money markets have been subject to substantial impairments in the recent decade, such as a decline in unsecured lending and substantial increases in haircuts on posted collateral. This paper seeks to understand the implications of these developments for the broader economy and monetary policy. To that end, we develop a novel general equilibrium model featuring heterogeneous banks, interbank markets for both secured and unsecured credit, and a central bank. The model features a number of occasionally binding constraints. The interactions between these constraints - in particular leverage and liquidity constraints - are key in determining macroeconomic outcomes. We find that both secured and unsecured money market frictions force banks to either divert resources into unproductive but liquid assets or to de-lever, which leads to less lending and output. If the liquidity constraint is very tight, the leverage constraint may turn slack. In this case, there are large declines in lending and output. We show how central bank policies which increase the size of the central bank balance sheet can attenuate this decline.
G10|Institutional presence in secondary bank bond markets: how does it affect liquidity and volatility?|Using newly available information on euro area sectoral holdings of securities, this paper investigates to what extent the presence of institutional investors affects volatility and liquidity in secondary bank bond markets. We find that non-bank financial intermediaries, in particular money market funds (MMFs), have a positive impact on secondary bank bond markets’ liquidity conditions, at the cost of significantly increasing volatility of daily returns. The effect translates to more than a 19% improvement in liquidity conditions and up to 57% increase in daily-return volatility, assuming MMFs hold about 10% of the notional amount in the secondary market of a representative euro area bank bond. The effect is relative to the impact the non-financial private sector has on markets. Investment funds, insurance corporations and pension funds are found to similarly affect market conditions, though to a lesser magnitude. We find a trade-off between volatility and liquidity, where the stronger presence of institutional investors at the same time improves liquidity and increases volatility. The results suggest that possible structural shifts in investor composition matter for market conditions and should be monitored by financial stability authorities. JEL Classification: G10, G15, G23
G10|Disentangling the role of the exchange rate in oil-related scenarios for the European stock market|Until now, stock market responses to a distress scenario for oil prices have been analysed considering prices in domestic currency. This assumption implies merging the commodity risk with the exchange rate risk when oil and stocks are traded in different currencies. This article proposes incorporating explicitly the exchange rate, using the convolution concept, to assess how could change the stock market response depending on the source of risk that moves oil prices. I apply this framework to study the change in the 10th lowest percentile of the European stock market under an oil-related stress scenario, without overlooking the role of the exchange rate. The empirical exercise shows that the same stress oil-related scenario in euros could generate an opposite impact in the European stock market depending on the source of risk. The source of risk is not incorporated when performing a bivariate analysis, which suggests ambiguous estimates of the stock response. This framework can improve our understanding of how the exchange rate interacts in global markets. Also, it contributes to reduce the inaccuracy in the impact assessment of foreign shocks where the exchange rate plays a relevant role. JEL Classification: E30, E37, E44, G10
G10|Finance and carbon emissions|We study the relation between the structure of financial systems and carbon emissions in a large panel of countries and industries over the period 1990-2013. We find that for given levels of economic and financial development and environmental regulation, CO2 emissions per capita are lower in economies that are relatively more equity-funded. Industry-level analysis reveals two distinct channels. First, stock markets reallocate investment towards less polluting sectors. Second, they also push carbon-intensive sectors to develop and implement greener technologies. In line with this second effect, we show that carbon-intensive sectors produce more green patents as stock markets deepen. We also document an increase in carbon emissions associated with the production of imported goods equal to around one-tenth of the reduction in domestic carbon emissions. JEL Classification: G10, O4, Q5
G10|Tick Size, Trading Strategies and Market Quality|We model a public limit order book (PLB) with rational investors choosing to supply or demand liquidity. Following a reduction in the tick size the effects on PLBâ€™s market quality depend on the liquidity of the stocks. Spread improves for tick-constrained stocks and deteriorates for unconstrained stocks; inside depth decreases in particular for constrained stocks, and volume increases for unconstrained stocks. The model also shows how results change when competition from a crossing network generates order flow migration. We find empirical support for these predictions by exploiting the 2014 reduction of tick size at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
G10|Why is There a Secular Decline in Idiosyncratic Risk in the 2000s?|Except for relatively short but intense episodes of high market risk, average idiosyncratic risk (IR) falls steadily after 2000 until almost the end of our sample period in 2017. The decrease has been such that from 2012 to 2017 average IR was lower than any time since 1965. The secular decline can be explained by the fact that U.S. publicly listed firms have become larger, older, and their stock more liquid. The same changes that bring about historically low IR lead to increasingly high market-model R-squareds.
G10|Reusing Natural Experiments|Natural experiments are used in empirical research to make causal inferences. After a natural experiment is first used, other researchers often reuse the setting, examining different outcomes based on causal chain arguments. Using simulation evidence combined with two extensively studied natural experiments, business combination laws and the Regulation SHO pilot, we show that the repeated use of a natural experiment significantly increases the likelihood of false discoveries. To correct this, we propose multiple testing methods which account for dependence across tests and we show evidence of their efficacy.
G10|Compound Returns|We provide a theoretical basis for understanding the properties of compound re-turns. At long horizons, multiplicative compounding induces extreme positive skewness into individual stock returns, an eﬀect primarily driven by single-period volatility. As a consequence, most individual stocks perform very poorly. However, holding just a few stocks (instead of a single one) greatly improves the long-run prospects of an investment strategy, indicating that missing out on the “lucky few” winner stocks is not a great concern. We show analytically how this somewhat counterintuitive result arises from an interaction between compounding, diversiﬁcation, and rebalancing that has seemingly not been previously noted.
G10|Should We Worry about the Decline of the Public Corporation? A Brief Survey of the Economics and External Effects of the Stock Market|In recent years, the number of listed companies has been declining in many countries across the world. This paper provides a selective survey of the literature on the real economic effects of the stock market to assess the potential effects of this decline and determine whether it is likely to continue. The leading economic role of the stock market’s primary market, in which firms raise capital by issuing new shares, is to help growing firms secure financing. We discuss providing and certifying information, coordinating investors, and easing the redeployment of capital as the means through which capital allocation can be achieved efficiently. The main economic role of the stock market’s secondary market, the trade in existing shares, is to provide liquidity to shareholders, to aid in price discovery, and to provide diversification opportunities. Positive external effects from an active stock market may arise on consumers, labour and private firm due to increased corporate investment, more social responsible business strategies and a more positive business climate. Negative external effects on capital allocation and productivity can arise from short-termism, market mispricing, and increased cross-ownership. Local stock markets can spur innovation and foreign direct investment (FDI) and reduce the risk of early cross-border acquisitions. Given the myriad of useful economic functions the stock market performs, a future entirely absent of public companies is difficult to imagine and the decline is therefore likely at some point to come to an end. Whether we need to worry about the decline depends on the relative importance of the positive and negative external effects, a topic we feel warrants more research.
G10|Financial effects in historic consumption and investment functions|The global financial crisis has highlighted the importance of financial factors on economic performance. Most of the existing research analyses the post-World War 2 experience, and especially the 1980s onwards. This paper investigates the effects of stock prices, real estate prices and debt on consumption and investment expenditures by estimating consumption and investment equations for long historic datasets with about 100 years of data for Britain, France, Norway and Sweden. We find positive debt effects on consumption in three of four countries, but no consistent effects of share prices and house prices. We find positive effects of share prices on investment in all four countries. Effects are stronger in more market-based Britain than in more state-oriented France. For France, Sweden and Norway we find some evidence that effects of financial variables were weaker in the postwar period 1945-80. These findings suggest that the institutional context matters for how financial variables affect economic activity.
G10|The optimal extraction rate versus the expected real return of a sovereign wealth fund|With reference to funds established for the benefits of the public at large, a university endowment, or other similar sovereign wealth fund, we demonstrate that the optimal extraction rate from the fund is significantly smaller than the expected real rate of return on the underlying fund. We consider the situation where the influx to the fund has stopped, it is in a steady state, and is invested broadly in the international financial markets. The optimal spending rate secures that the fund is a perpetuity, i.e., it will last 'forever', where the real value of the fund after payments is stationary, while spending according to the expected rate of return will deplete the fund with probability 1. Optimal portfolio choice and spending are then inconsistent. Our conclusions are contrary to the recommendations of an expert panel to the Norwegian Government Pension Fund Global, as well as at odds with part of the extant literature on the management of endowments of universities.
G10|The Relation between Municipal and Government Bond Yields in an Era of Unconventional Monetary Policy|In this paper we investigate how the five-year Swedish municipal bond yield has been related to the corre-sponding yield on government bonds during the period that the Riksbank has conducted unconventional monetary policy in terms of bond purchases. Using daily Swedish data on bond yields from February 2015 to January 2018, we first conduct an event study to assess the short-run effects of the Riksbank’s bond-purchase announcements. We then estimate bivariate vector autoregressive models in order to study the dynamic relationship between the yields. Results from the event study suggest that the accumulated short-run effect of the Riksbank’s announcements was to lower the government bond yield by approximately 40 to 50 basis points and municipal bond yields by 30 to 35 basis points. Our vector autoregressive analysis indicates – in line with the event study – that an unexpected decrease in the government bond yield initially increases the municipal bond-yield spread. However, after approximately four weeks, the effect has been reversed and the municipal bond-yield spread is lower than it was initially. By conducting this analysis, we contribute to the understanding of the transmission of unconventional monetary policy.
G10|The Prewar Financial System and the Dynamics of Corporate Financing|The literature that documents the positive association between financial development and growth raises the question, in a historical context, of whether financial systems were well developed enough to promote growth even in the early stages of economic growth. This study examines whether firms used the financial system (capital markets and financial intermediaries) for financing in the prewar period as actively as they do today. Applying the survival analysis to the financial data of Japanese listed nonfinancial firms in the 1914–1929 and 1999–2013 periods, we show that prewar firms used the financial system to meet their needs for funds equally or more actively compared with present-day firms; however, they did not use it to realize their optimal capital structures as actively as present-day firms do. Prior studies show that the Japanese financial system was well developed in the early 20th century in terms of the size of capital markets compared with the recent period. Our results related to meeting financing needs are consistent with this. However, the results related to the realization of optimal capital structure imply that the Japanese financial system was not as sophisticated in the prewar period as it is today in terms of allowing firms optimal choices between debt and equity for adjustments of capital structure.
G10|“Testing for private information using trade duration models with unobserved market heterogeneity: The case of Banco Popular”|In this paper, we attempt to assess the potential importance of different types of traders (i.e., those with public and private information) in financial markets using a specification of the standardized duration. This approach allows us to test unobserved heterogeneity in a nonlinear version based on a self-exciting threshold autoregressive conditional duration model. We illustrate the relevance of this procedure for identifying the presence of private information in the final days of trading of Banco Popular, the first bank rescued by the European Single Resolution Board.
G10|The effects of macroeconomic, fiscal and monetary policy announcements on sovereign bond spreads: an event study from the EMU|We assess the impact of announcements corresponding to different fiscal and monetary policy measures on the 10-year sovereign bond yield spreads (relative to Germany) of the 10 EMU countries during the period 01:1999 - 07:2016. Implementing pooled and country-fixed effects OLS regressions, we find that the European Commission’s (EC) releases of the excessive deficit procedure significantly affect the yield spreads. The EC releases of higher debt and better budget balance forecasts contribute to the rise and the decline of spreads, respectively. Moreover, we find that the announcements of the ECB’s key interest rates together with the longer-term refinancing operations (LTROs) and the first covered bond purchase programme (CBPP1) negatively affect sovereign yield spreads in our sample of EMU countries.
G10|Sovereign Ratings and Finance Ministers’ Characteristics|This paper empirically assesses the effect of a newly-compiled set of finance ministers´ characteristics on the setting by rating agencies of the long-term sovereign rating notations. Using a sample of 26 EU countries between 1980-2012, we find that the existence of more focused delegation-oriented fiscal framework, the Minister of Finance being a woman, and the Minister of Finance having a degree in the areas of finance or “hard sciences” seems to contribute to a better sovereign rating notation, and the opposite in the case of a Law background.
G10|Is Positive Sentiment in Corporate Annual Reports Informative? Evidence from Deep Learning|We use a novel text classification approach from deep learning to more accurately measure sentiment in a large sample of 10-Ks. In contrast to most prior literature, we find that positive, and negative, sentiment predicts abnormal return and abnormal trading volume around 10-K filing date and future firm fundamentals and policies. Our results suggest that the qualitative information contained in corporate annual reports is richer than previously found. Both positive and negative sentiments are informative when measured accurately, but they do not have symmetric implications, suggesting that a net sentiment measure advocated by prior studies would be less informative.
G10|The impact of the Fundamental Review of the Trading Book: A preliminary assessment on a stylized portfolio|The aim of this paper is to gauge the impact in terms of capital requirements of the Fundamental Review of the Trading Book (FRTB). To this end we take a stylized portfolio sensible to the risk factors mostly affected by the review and we implement the new regulation both under the Standard Approach (SA) and the Internal Model Approach (IMA). Our results provide an order of magnitude of the increase across the two regulations and the two approaches (SA and IMA), and disentangle the expected increase implied by the FRTB in its main effects both for the SA and IMA approach. Our analyses prove a very relevant increase especially under the SA and underscore possible implications of the review both in terms of regulamentary model’s choice and business strategies.
G10|Euro area sovereign yield spreads as determinants of private sector borrowing costs|We regress long-term private sector interest rates on a money market rate, a term premium and credit risk. As a contribution to the current debate about European safe assets, our interest is in quantifying domestic spillover effects from euro area sovereign bond spreads. Panel estimates show significant, albeit rather small long-run effects. Our findings indicate large cross-country differences but no evidence that the effect has become stronger over time. Using linear country-specific estimates, we find the effect to be significant in only some countries, the size of the maximum effect exceeding the average one more than three-fold. For one country, we also find a highly significant asymmetrical effect with positive spread changes having greater impact on private-sector borrowing costs than negative ones. Overall, we conclude that contagion costs in the euro area are substantial and will remain so until an effective form of European safe assets is created.
G10|Sovereign Bond Yields Spreads Spillovers in the EMU|"We study the sovereign bond market co-movements and spillovers within 10 EMU countries, the so-called ""periphery"" and ""core"" countries, during the period 1999:01 to 2016:07. Implementing Generalized Methods for Moments (GMM) within a panel setting and bivariate VAR analysis, we find that an increase in the lagged spreads of Italian and Austrian bonds negatively affect the spreads of the whole sample while in the increase in the Irish, Portuguese, Belgian and French lagged yields increased the overall spreads. In the VAR analysis we find that spillover effects within the sample are mostly positive."
G10|Outliers and misleading leverage effect in asymmetric GARCH-type models|This paper illustrates how outliers can affect both the estimation and testing of leverage effect by focusing on the TGARCH model. Three estimation methods are compared through Monte Carlo experiments: Gaussian Quasi-Maximum Likelihood, Quasi-Maximum Likelihood based on the t Student likelihood and Least Absolute Deviation method. The empirical behavior of the t-ratio and the Likelihood Ratio tests for the significance of the leverage parameter is also analyzed. Our results put forward the unreliability of Gaussian Quasi-Maximum Likelihood methods in the presence of outliers. In particular, we show that one isolated outlier could hide true leverage effect whereas two consecutive outliers bias the estimated leverage coefficient in a direction that crucially depends on the sign of the first outlier and could lead to wrongly reject the null of no leverage effect or to estimate asymmetries of the wrong sign. By contrast, we highlight the good performance of the robust estimators in the presence of an isolated outlier. However, when there are patches of outliers, our findings suggest that the sizes and powers of the tests as well as the estimated parameters based on robust methods may still be distorted in some cases. We illustrate these results with two series of daily returns, namely the Spain IGBM Consumer Goods index and the futures contracts of the Natural gas.
G10|An agent based early warning indicator for financial market instability|"Inspired by the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Breath Rule, we propose an investor sentiment index based on the collective movement of stock prices in a given market. We show that the time evolution of the sentiment index can be reasonably described by the herding model proposed by Kirman on his seminal paper ""Ants, rationality and recruitment"" (Kirman, 1993). The correspondence between the index and the model allows us to easily estimate its parameters. Based on the model and the empirical evolution of the sentiment index, we propose an early warning indicator able to identify optimistic and pessimistic phases of the market. As a result, investors and policymakers can set different strategies anticipating financial market instability. The former, reducing the risk of their portfolio, and the latter, setting more efficient policies to avoid the effect of financial crashes on the real economy. The validity of our results is supported by means of a robustness analysis showing the application of the early warning indicator in eight different stock markets."
G10|Public Corporations in Africa – A Continental Survey on Stock Exchanges and Capital Market Performance|While mature capital markets in Western economies suffer from a significant drop in listed companies for two decades, the number of listings at stock exchanges on the African continent is increasing and the importance of stock exchanges for equity issues is growing. This not only raises questions about the future of stock exchanges as platforms to raise equity in different countries (Doidge et al., 2017; Kahle and Stulz, 2017). It also sheds light on the growing importance of African markets for Western actors. The capital markets in Africa, however, are dominated by a very few large stock exchanges while most of the markets are small and underdeveloped based on international standards. The paper serves the purpose of identifying the potential of African stock markets.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
G10|Measuring Real-Financial Connectedness in the U.S. Economy|We analyze connectedness between the real and financial sectors of the U.S. economy. Using the weekly ADS index of the Philadelphia FED (the widely used business conditions indicator) to represent the real side, we find that during times of financial distress and/or business cycle turning points the direction of connectedness runs from the real sector to financial markets. The ADS index is derived from a model containing a measure of term structure along with real variables, therefore, it might not be the best representative of the real activity to be used in the connectedness analysis. As an alternative, we derive a real activity index (RAI) from a dynamic factor model of the real sector variables only. The behavior of RAI over time is quite similar to that of the ADS index. When we include RAI to represent the real side of the economy in the connectedness analysis, the direction of net connectedness reverses: financial markets generate positive net connectedness to the real side of the economy.
G10|The Dynamics of Japanese Government Bonds' Nominal Yields|This paper employs a Keynesian perspective to explain why Japanese government bonds' (JGBs) nominal yields have been low for more than two decades. It deploys several vector error correction (VEC) models to estimate long-term government bond yields. It shows that the low short-term interest rate, induced by the Bank of Japan's (BoJ) accommodative monetary policy, is mainly responsible for keeping long-term JGBs' nominal yields exceptionally low for a protracted period. The results also demonstrate that higher government debt and deficit ratios do not exert upward pressure on JGBs' nominal yields. These findings are relevant to ongoing policy debates in Japan and other advanced countries about government bond yields, fiscal sustainability, fiscal policy, functional finance, monetary policy, and financial stability.
G10|Australian Government Bonds' Nominal Yields: An Empirical Analysis|The short-term interest rate is the main driver of the Commonwealth of Australia government bonds' nominal yields. This paper empirically models the dynamics of government bonds' nominal yields using the autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) approach. Keynes held that the central bank exerts decisive influence on government bond yields because the central bank's policy rate and other monetary policy actions determine the short-term interest rate, which in turn affects long-term government bonds' nominal yields. The models estimated here show that Keynes's conjecture applies in the case of Australian government bonds' nominal yields. Furthermore, the effect of the budget balance ratio on government bond yields is small but statistically significant. However, there is no statistically discernable effect of the debt ratio on government bond yields.
G10|Corruption and tax compliance: Evidence from small retailers in Bamako, Mali|We investigate the impact of corruption on tax compliance using a sample of 700 small business in Bamako, Mali. Our results show that paying bribes reduced tax compliance by almost ten percentage points.
G10|Structural changes in exchange rate-stock returns dynamics in South Africa: Examining the role of crisis and new trading platform|The 2007 sub-prime crisis and the adoption of Millennium trading platform represent two of the most important recent structural developments for the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE). Under an environment of flexible and volatile exchange rates, this study seeks to examine the effects of these two structural events on the exchange rate-equity returns nexus for 4 JSE indices using the nonlinear autoregressive distributive lag (N-ARDL) cointegration. We use monthly data collected from 2000:M01 to 2017:M12, and conduct our empirical analysis over sub-periods corresponding to breaks caused by the crisis and the use of a new trading platform. We find prior the crisis exchange rates appreciations generally cause stock returns whereas depreciations are unlikely to cause stock returns to decrease. However, during crisis period this relationship entire disappears whilst resurfacing subsequent to the adoption of a new trading platform although the dynamics of the time series differs between sectors. Our overall empirical results caution regulatory authorities to closely monitor stock market developments as the new trading platform offers market participants opportunities of using the exchange rate to beat the market.
G10|Selling Losers and Winners: A Test of the Disposition and House Money Effect|This paper test of the disposition and house money effect across market states in the context of mutual fund investors in China, based on a sample period that extends from January 2006 to December 2017. Previous studies primarily document the existence of the disposition effect in China without addressing: first, the impact of market states (bullish, bearish and neutral market) on the investors? disposition effect; and, second, we separate the fund performance according to the different levels of gains and losses. Our results suggest that investors are characterized by a house money effect when they have extreme capital gains under a bull market, and investors are characterized by an inverse disposition effect (they redeem their losing mutual fund units) when they have moderate capital losses under a neutral market. Thus, disposition effect is not uniform; it varies across market states in China. Our findings are robust to aggregate, investor levels, and the others robustness testing factors.
G10|The application of Value at Risk and Expected Shortfall as Controlling Mechanism of Systematic Risk of Pakistani Stock Market|Fama and French (1992) three factor and Fama and French (2014) five-factor Model estimated relevant idiosyncratic factors and CAPM beta as the systematic risk factor for stock returns? variations. Application of Value at Risk (VaR) and Expected Shortfall (ES) modified the risk management criteria. This study applies traditional one factor, three factor and five factor model on Pakistan?s manufacturing companies. Compares and modifies the stated models while using VaR and ES as systematic risk factor and check the robustness of the significant extent of worst expected loss provided by VaR and ES by measuring 95% and 99% confidence levels and their impact on the stock returns. In comparison with traditional market risk factor, our findings are in favor of VaR and ES factor as it significantly affects the cross-sectional of excess stock returns and fulfills the criteria of risk aversion.
G10|Factors and Sectors in Asset Allocation: Stronger Together?|This paper compares and contrasts factor investing and sector investing, and then seeks a compromise by optimally exploiting the advantages of both styles. Our results show that sector investing is effective for reducing risk through diversification while factor investing is better for capturing risk premia and so pushing up returns. This suggests that there is room for potentially fruitful combinations of the two styles. Presumably, by combining factors and sectors, investors would benefit both from the diversification potential of the former and the risk premia of the latter. The tests reveal that composite strategies are particularly attractive; they confirm that sector investing helps reduce risksduring crisis periods, while factor investing can boost returns during quiet times.
G10|Indicators for the monitoring of central counterparties in the EU|This ESRB Occasional Paper complements the publication of indicators on central counterparties (CCPs) in the ESRB's Risk Dashboard as part of its monitoring framework. It provides a methodological background to the development of the individual measures and discusses different aspects that should be considered when designing a monitoring framework for CCPs. The paper also highlights a number of areas in which more granular data are required in order, for example, to monitor the interconnectedness of CCPs within the broader financial system.CCPs play a key role in financial markets, as they reduce counterparty credit risk. This role is now heightened following post-crisis reforms of the over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives markets. Since CCPs may be viewed as systemically important institutions, it is crucial to ensure that they are regulated and monitored effectively. The ESRB has, therefore, sought to strengthen the framework used to analyse developments at CCPs in the EU from a macroprudential perspective.Each monitoring framework relies on the availability of suitable data. It is therefore positive that CCPs publish data on a quarterly basis under the CPMI-IOSCO public quantitative disclosure framework. These data provide a rich source of information covering several aspects of CCPs' functioning and are the basis of the indicators the ESRB has developed to analyse developments in central clearing in the EU.The indicators are designed to provide a macroprudential view over time of CCPs' resources, liquidity and collateral policies, margin and haircut requirements, interoperability arrangements as well as market structure and concentration at CCP level. The indicators cover all CCPs that are authorised within the EU, although the values of individual measures across CCPs should be analysed and interpreted with caution, bearing in mind that there are significant differences between individual CCPs’ business models, membership structures and products cleared. JEL Classification: G10, G18, G23, G28
G10|From the horse’s mouth: surveying responses to stress by banks and insurers|Existing stress tests do not capture feedback loops between individual institutions and the financial system. To identify feedback loops, the European Systemic Risk Board has developed macroprudential surveys that ask banks and insurers how they would behave in a macroeconomic stress scenario. In a pilot application of these surveys, we find evidence of herding behaviour in the banking sector, notably concerning credit retrenchment. Results show that the consequences can be large, potentially undoing the initial effects of banks’ remedial actions by worsening their solvency position. In contrast, insurers’ responses to the survey provide little evidence of herding in response to macroeconomic stress. These results highlight the usefulness of macroprudential surveys in identifying feedback loops. JEL Classification: E30, E44, G10, G18, G21, G22, G28
G10|Financial and non-financial global stock market volatility shocks|We decompose global stock market volatility shocks into financial originated shocks and non-financial originated shocks. Global stock market volatility shocks arising from financial sources reduce substantially more global outputs and inflation than non-financial sources shocks. Financial stock market volatility shocks forecasts 16.85% and 16.88% of the variation in global growth and inflation, respectively. In contrast, the non-financial stock market volatility shocks forecasts only 8.0% and 2.19% of the variation in global growth and inflation. Beside this markable difference global interest/policy rate responds similarly to both shocks.
G10|Bilateral Capital Flows: Gravity, Push, and Pull|Using bilateral capital flows data from 10 advanced reporting economies—with over 186 bilateral country pairs—for 2000 to 2016, this paper provides strong evidence on the significance of gravity factors, including distance and bilateral trade ties, in explaining cross-border financial asset flows. This finding is new to the capital flows literature that consider push and pull factors. In addition, this study offers new evidence of regional contagion as bilateral capital flows decrease more for country pairs with closer geographic proximity (or with less information frictions) than those that are farther apart when global risk aversion rises. These findings have policy implications on the importance of information frictions, bilateral trade ties, and regional cooperation on bilateral financial asset flows.
G10|A Time-Varying Parameter Model for Local Explosions|Locally explosive behavior is observed in many economic and financial time series when bubbles are formed. We introduce a time-varying parameter model that is capable of describing this behavior in time series data. Our proposed model can be used to predict the emergence, existence and burst of bubbles. We adopt a flexible observation driven model specification that allows for different bubble shapes and behavior. We establish stationarity, ergodicity, and bounded moments of the data generated by our model. Furthermore, we obtain the consistency and asymptotic normality of the maximum likelihood estimator. Given the parameter estimates, our filter is capable of extracting the unobserved bubble process from observed data. We study finite-sample properties of our estimator through a Monte Carlo simulation study. Finally, we show that our model compares well with noncausal models in a financial application concerning the Bitcoin/US dollar exchange rate.
G10|Financial development and industrial pollution|"We study the impact of financial market development on industrial pollution in a large panel of countries and industries over the period 1974-2013. We find a strong positive impact of credit markets, but a strong negative impact of stock markets, on aggregate CO2 emissions per capita. Industry-level analysis shows that stock market development (but not credit market development) is associated with cleaner production processes in technologically ""dirty"" industries. These industries also produce more green patents as stock markets develop. Moreover, our results suggest that stock markets (credit markets) reallocate investment towards more (less) carbon-efficient sectors. Together, these findings indicate that the evolution of a country's financial structure helps explain the non-linear relationship between economic development and environmental quality documented in the literature."
G10|Hedging Labor Income Risk over the Life-Cycle|We show that the decision to participate in the stock market depends on the ability of equities to hedge the individual permanent earnings shocks, consistent with implications of life-cycle models. Those households who refrain from stock investing display positive correlation between their own permanent income innovations and market returns. These results owe to a two-step empirical strategy. First, a minimum distance estimation disentangles the aggregate from the idiosyncratic permanent of labor income risks. The second step reconstructs the individual life-cycle dynamics of persistent shocks through a Kalman filter applied to the estimated labor income process. We are thus able to obtain the full cross-sectional distribution of individual correlations between permanent shock and market returns.
G10|Are equity market anomalies disappearing? Evidence from the U.K|We study the persistence over time of nine well-known equity market anomalies in the cross-section of U.K. stocks. We find strong evidence of diminished statistical significance for most of these anomalies including the return reversal and momentum effects. Two anomalies – firm profitability and stock turnover – remain quite robust throughout our sample period. These results hold for both portfolio sorts and Fama-MacBeth regression analyses and are robust to the use of alternative methods of risk adjustment. Our findings are consistent with improvements in market efficiency overtime with respect to well-known anomaly variables.
G10|Cash Holdings and the Performance of European Mutual Funds|We investigate the determinants and performance implications of cash holdings for a large sample of actively-managed equity funds domiciled in the European Union (EU). In line with recent evidence from the US, we observe that cash holdings are strongly influenced by a fund's fee structure, past flows and flow volatility, and a fund's investment strategy. EU Funds with cash holdings in excess of the level predicted by fund attributes (i.e., high abnormal cash funds) outperform their low abnormal cash peers by risk-adjusted 0.96% per annum.
G10|London calling: Nonlinear mean reversion across national stock markets|This paper revisits empirical evidence of mean reversion of relative stock prices in international stock markets. We implement a strand of univariate and panel unit root tests for linear and nonlinear models of 18 national stock indices from 1969 to 2016. Our major findings are as follows. First, we find strong evidence of nonlinear mean reversion of the relative stock price with the UK index as the reference, calling attention to the stock index in the UK, but not with the US index. Our results imply an important role of the local common factor in the European stock markets. Second, panel tests yield no evidence of linear and nonlinear stationarity when the cross-section dependence is considered, which provides conflicting results from those of the univariate tests. Last, we show how to understand these results via dynamic factor analysis. When the stationary common factor dominates nonstationary idiosyncratic components in small samples, panel tests that filter out the stationary common factor may yield evidence against the stationarity null hypothesis in finite samples. We corroborate this conjecture via extensive Monte Carlo simulations.
G10|Corporate borrowing and debt maturity : the effects of market access and crises|This paper studies how access to different markets and crises impact debt financing and maturity. Using data on worldwide corporate issuance activity in domestic and international bond and syndicated loan markets during 1991-2014, the paper shows that these markets are affected differently by crises, while providing financing to different firms at distinct maturities. During the global financial crisis and domestic banking crises, large firms moved away from the crisis-hit markets toward less affected, longer-term ones, switching their financing sources. Hence, firms that switched markets compensated for the financing shocks and maintained, or increased, their borrowing maturity. Country-level maturities also remained stable or even lengthened. However, firms that did not move across markets typically experienced declining financing and shorter borrowing maturities. Firm movements across markets are consistent with credit tightening during crises due to supply-side shocks, significantly affecting debt composition, borrowing maturity, and credit redistribution across firms of different sizes.
G10|An experiment on the efficiency of bilateral exchange under incomplete markets|We test in a controlled laboratory environment whether traders in a bilateral exchange internalize the impact of their actions on market prices better than in a large market. In this model, traders choose asset holdings, constrained by a technology frontier. Next, each trader experiences a random shock which makes only one type of asset profitable. In a general equilibrium environment with incomplete markets, this leads to pecuniary externalities because traders increase scarce asset holdings beyond what is socially optimal. This behavior is especially exacerbated in large experimental markets as traders fail to internalize the impact of their actions on prices. We find that when markets are incomplete, a bilateral exchange can slightly mitigate the extent of pecuniary externalities, and weakly increase welfare.
G10|Limits to arbitrage in markets with stochastic settlement latency|Distributed ledger technologies rely on consensus protocols confronting traders with random waiting times until the transfer of ownership is accomplished. This time consuming settlement process exposes arbitrageurs to price risk and imposes limits to arbitrage. We derive theoretical arbitrage boundaries under general assumptions and show that they increase with expected latency, latency uncertainty, spot volatility, and risk aversion. Using high-frequency data from the Bitcoin network, we estimate arbitrage boundaries due to settlement latency of on average 124 basis points, covering 88% of the observed cross-exchange price differences. Settlement through decentralized systems thus induces non-trivial frictions affecting market efficiency and price formation.
G10|Forecasting European economic policy uncertainty|Forecasting the economic policy uncertainty in Europe is of paramount importance given the ongoing sovereign debt crisis. This paper evaluates monthly economic policy uncertainty index forecasts and examines whether ultra‐high frequency information from asset market volatilities and global economic uncertainty can improve the forecasts relatively to the no‐change forecast. The results show that the global economic policy uncertainty provides the highest predictive gains, followed by the European and US stock market realized volatilities. In addition, the European stock market implied volatility index is shown to be an important predictor of the economic policy uncertainty.
G10|Responses of macroeconomy and stock markets to structural oil price shocks: New evidence from Asian oil refinery|In extensive oil-related literature, less attention has been paid to Asia and particularly little evidence is known for oil-refining countries. This paper examines how the economy of an oil-refining country reacts to an oil price shock and performs cross-country comparisons with oil-exporting and oil-importing countries. Singapore (oil refiner), Japan (oil importer), and Malaysia (oil exporter) have been analysed through a SVAR model using both macroeconomic and financial variables. Results show limited reactions of both macroeconomic indicators and stock returns to an oil supply shock and an oil aggregate demand shock negatively impacts economic activities. Our findings reveal that the countryâ€™s status in the oil market matters is important when an oil specific demand shock is analysed. Our findings inform policymakers of the effectiveness of using monetary policy tools such as interest rate and exchange rate to mitigate the adverse effects of an oil price shock.
G10|The Effect of Monetary Policy on Global Fixed Income Covariances|We analyse the effect of monetary policy on dynamic covariances on global fixed income markets, using a novel measure for monetary policy attention based on Google Search data. We filter covariances using a Dynamic Conditional Correlation model as baseline case and a BEKK model as well as a long-memory exponential smoother proposed by RiskMetrics for robustness. We find evidence for direct impact of policy on both asset variances and covariances domestically and internationally, supporting both signalling and portfolio rebalancing channels in the context of international policy transmission.
G10|Measuring the Impact of Monetary Policy Attention on Global Asset Volatility Using Search Data|We study monetary policy introducing a novel measure for policy attention based on Google Trends data. We apply the obtained indices to fixed income data for the US and the Eurozone in a specification motivated by a preferred-habitat model to test for monetary policy transmission domestically and internationally. Our findings suggest an impact of monetary policy on variance processes only and provides evidence for an international channel of monetary transmission on both money and capital markets. This is, to our knowledge, the first attempt to use search-engine data in the context of monetary policy.
G10|Government of Canada Fixed-Income Market Ecology|"This discussion paper is the third in the Financial Markets Department's series on the structure of Canadian financial markets. These papers are called ""ecologies"" because they study the interactions among market participants, infrastructures, regulations and the terms of the traded contract itself. In this ecology, we discuss the Government of Canada's domestic fixed-income market. We begin with an overview of Government of Canada securities and their characteristics. We then outline common market practices and the typical participants in the market. We provide high-level statistics on activity in the market and describe the market infrastructures that support trading. Finally, we discuss risks in these securities markets."
G10|The Government of Canada Debt Securities Data Set|We present the daily time series of the outstanding amounts of all Government of Canada marketable debt securities from July 2001 to June 2017. The data set is accompanied by a matching data set describing the most relevant events for each bond on each day: auction, repurchase, benchmark status and maturity. This previously unavailable data set is designed with academic researchers and market participants in mind and could be regularly updated in the future. We discuss the construction of the data set and potential uses for empirical asset pricing and related studies.
G10|The BoC-BoE Sovereign Default Database Revisited: What’s New in 2018?|Until recently, there have been few efforts to systematically measure and aggregate the nominal value of the different types of sovereign government debt in default. To help fill this gap, the Bank of Canada’s Credit Rating Assessment Group (CRAG) has developed a comprehensive database of sovereign defaults posted on the Bank of Canada’s website that now is updated in partnership with the Bank of England. Our database draws on previously published data sets compiled by various public and private sector sources. It combines elements of these, together with new information, to develop estimates of stocks of government obligations in default, including bonds and other marketable securities, bank loans, and official loans in default, valued in US dollars, for the years 1960 to 2017 on both a country-by-country and a global basis. This update of CRAG’s database, and subsequent updates, will be useful to researchers analyzing the economic and financial effects of individual sovereign defaults and, importantly, the impact on global financial stability of episodes involving multiple sovereign defaults.
G10|Calibrating the Magnitude of the Countercyclical Capital Buffer Using Market-Based Stress Tests|This paper proposes a novel methodology to calibrate the magnitude of the cap on the countercyclical capital buffer (CCyB) using market-based stress tests. The macroprudential authority in our paper aims to contain the possibility of a breach of a minimum capital ratio in the event of a severe system-wide shock within a certain permissible failure probability. To meet its objective during periods of challenging macro-financial conditions, the macroprudential authority requires banks to build up the CCyB during credit booms. We show how market-based stress tests can be used to estimate the necessary magnitude of the CCyB. We apply the methodology to major banks in six advanced economies. Our estimates suggest a magnitude of the cap on the CCyB in a range from 1.4 to 1.7 per cent of total assets, depending on the ability of the macro-prudential authority to forecast macrofinancial conditions.
G10|Adverse Selection with Heterogeneously Informed Agents|A model of over-the-counter markets is proposed. Some asset buyers are informed in that they can identify high quality assets. Heterogeneous sellers with private information choose what type of buyers they want to trade with. When the measure of informed buyers is low, there exists a unique and stable equilibrium, and interestingly, price, trading volume and welfare typically decrease with more informed buyers. When the measure of informed buyers is intermediate, multiple equilibria arise, and price, trading volume and welfare may decrease or increase with more informed buyers, depending on the equilibrium being played. A switch from one equilibrium to another can lead to large drops in liquidity, price, trading volume and welfare, like a financial crisis. The measure of informed buyers is then endogenized by allowing buyers to invest in a technology that enables them to identify high quality assets. In this case, the model features endogenous strategic complementarity in acquiring the information technology. Multiple equilibria still exist, with different measures of informed buyers, but a scheme of tax/subsidy on information acquisition sometimes leads to the unique equilibrium.
G10|The Impact of Surprising Monetary Policy Announcements on Exchange Rate Volatility|We identify a few Bank of Canada press releases that had the largest immediate impact on the exchange rate market. We find that volatility increases after these releases, but the effect is short-lived and mostly dissipates after the first hour, on average. Beyond the first hour, the size of the effect is similar to what we observe for other economic releases, such as those for inflation or economic growth data.
G10|Economic growth, volatility and their interaction: What’s the role of finance?|This paper examines the relation between financial depth and the interaction of economic growth and its volatility. We use a sample of 52 countries for the period 1980–2011, and our main finding is that, at moderate levels of financial depth, further deepening increases the ratio of average growth to volatility; however, as financial depth increases, this relation reverts, and the rise in volatility overcomes that of economic growth. This result is obtained both in the medium and long run; however, the peak of the relation seems to be lower in the medium run (around 40%–55% of domestic credit/GDP) than in the long run (around 75%–99%). This suggests that increasing the level of domestic credit may intensify relative volatility in the medium term, but still raise relative long-term growth before the long-run threshold is achieved.
G10|Missing Investors in the Italian Corporate Bond Market|We study the allocation of Italian corporate bonds among investors using a unique dataset that matches, for each security, information on the holding sectors with those of the bond and the issuer. Our main findings are the following: i) large companies issue bonds mainly on international markets, whereas smaller firms mainly target domestic markets; ii) in Italy, differently than in economies with more developed bond markets, the role of domestic institutional investors is limited, especially for SMEs’ securities, while domestic households hold larger shares of these issues; iii) Italian households hold bonds of financially sounder firms, whereas foreign investors concentrate their holdings in riskier ones; for the other Italian investors we do not find evidence of a significant risk taking attitude. Even if in recent years institutional investors have significantly increased their holdings of Italian SMEs bonds, our findings suggest that the development of this market is still hampered by the limited presence of intermediaries specialized in the subscription of financial instruments issued by smaller, unlisted and riskier firms.
G10|Does Monetary Policy in Advanced Economies Have Differentiated Effects on Portfolio Flows to Emerging Economies?|This work analyzes whether monetary policy in advanced economies has differentiated effects on portfolio flows towards emerging economies coming from the US, the Euro Area and the UK. The results show the following: First, portfolio flows' response to US monetary policy events is vastly homogeneous across regions, whilst the reaction to Euro Area or UK polices are more diverse. Second, US policies have a bigger effect on portfolio flows from each of the selected advanced economies. Third, the magnitude of investors' responses is stronger towards Emerging Europe and Latin America than to Emerging Asia. These results could be useful for policymakers in emerging economies as a benchmark to anticipate differentiated effects in portfolio flows caused by monetary policy in advanced economies.
G10|El uso de forwards peso dólar en las empresas colombianas del sector real|Desde hace más de 20 años, Colombia cuenta con un mercado de derivados financieros, y desde hace 10 con una plataforma de negociación para instrumentos estandarizados. Sin embargo, la participación de las empresas colombianas del sector real en este mercado es muy baja. Para una muestra de más de 5.000 firmas del sector real colombiano, tan sólo el 17% utiliza estos instrumentos, cifra inferior a lo observado en economías avanzadas donde el porcentaje es superior al 60%. La evidencia indica una concentración significativa en el uso de forwards de tasa de cambio y un uso esporádico de este tipo de coberturas cambiarias. Las empresas con operaciones de comercio exterior, deuda en moneda extranjera y con mayores ingresos operacionales son las principales usuarias de las coberturas a través de forwards. Reformas encaminadas al uso más generalizado de estos instrumentos podrían reducir significativamente las consecuencias negativas de las fluctuaciones fuertes del tipo de cambio en el sector real colombiano. **** RESUMEN: More than 20 years ago, a market for financial derivatives started in Colombia, and more than 10 years ago it was launched a trading platform for standardized instruments. However, the portion of Colombian non financial firms that relies on derivatives contracts is very low. For a sample of more than 5.000 firms, only 17% uses these derivatives, a share that is small when compared with advanced economies where it is higher than 60%. Evidence indicates a significant concentration in the use of Exchange rate forwards and sporadic use of this type of hedges. Firms with international trade, debt in foreing currency and with higher income are the main users of hedges through forwards. Reforms aimed to a more widespread use of these instruments could significantly reduce the negative consequences of strong fluctuations of the exchange rate in the Colombian real sector.
G10|Monetary Policy and Collateral Constraints since the European Debt Crisis|With the European debt crisis, the role of assets accepted by the Eurosystem as collateral for refinancing operations took on a new place in the public debate, as, against a backdrop of shifting demand for refinancing, movements in European bond prices led to significant fluctuations in the collateral constraints of credit institutions. This paper documents the change in and heterogeneity of these constraints. We assess the impact attributable to the downgrade of sovereign ratings and the decline in asset prices during the European debt crisis on the valuation of collateral available for refinancing. We also construct indicators that track the change in the quality and liquidity of posted collateral. Our findings suggest that the flexibility of the Eurosystem collateral framework enabled credit institutions to cushion the shock created by the European debt crisis by depositing assets that were less liquid than bonds without causing a relative deterioration in the average rating of assets posted as collateral compared with the average rating on the market, as measured by eligible marketable assets.
G10|An explanation of negative swap spreads: demand for duration from underfunded pension plans|The 30-year U.S. swap spreads have been negative since September 2008. We offer a novel explanation for this persistent anomaly. Through an illustrative model, we show that underfunded pension plans optimally use swaps for duration hedging. Combined with dealer banks' balance sheet constraints, this demand can drive swap spreads to become negative. Empirically, we construct a measure of the aggregate funding status of Defined Benefit pension plans and show that this measure is a significant explanatory variable of 30-year swap spreads. We find a similar link between pension funds' underfunding and swap spreads for two other regions.
G10|Bank solvency risk and funding cost interactions in a small open economy: evidence from Korea|Using proprietary balance sheet data for Korean banks and a simultaneous equation model, we document that increased marginal funding costs lead to larger solvency risk (as measured by the Tier 1 regulatory capital ratio), which, in turn, leads to larger marginal funding costs. A 100 bp increase in marginal funding costs (solvency risk) is associated with a 155 (77) bp increase in solvency risk (marginal funding costs). The findings of an economically and statistically significant relationship are robust to considering different proxies for solvency risk, types of banks, interest rate regimes, and interest margin management strategies. They also hold irrespective of the funding profile considered. FX-related macroprudential policies can affect the negative feedback loop by muting the effect of marginal funding costs on solvency risk. Our findings can inform the calibration of macroprudential stress tests.
G10|Financial structure and income inequality|This paper empirically investigates the link between financial structure and income inequality. Using data for a panel of 97 economies over the period 1989-2012, we find that the relationship is not monotonic. Up to a point, more finance reduces income inequality. Beyond that point, inequality rises if finance is expanded via market-based financing, while it does not when finance grows via bank lending. These findings concur with a well-established literature indicating that deeper financial systems help reduce poverty and inequality in developing countries, but also with recent evidence of rising inequality in various financially advanced economies.
G10|Measuring risks to UK financial stability|We present a framework for measuring the evolution of risks to financial stability over the financial cycle, which we apply to the United Kingdom. We identify 29 indicators of financial stability risk, drawing from the literature on early warning indicators of banking crises. We normalise and aggregate these indicators to produce three composite measures, capturing: leverage in the private nonfinancial sector, including the level and growth of household and corporate debt, as well as the United Kingdom’s external debt; asset valuations in residential and commercial property markets, and in government and corporate bond and equity markets; and credit terms facing household and corporate borrowers. We assess these composite measures relative to their historical distributions. And we present preliminary evidence for how they influence downside risks to economic growth and different horizons. The measures provide an intuitive description of the evolution of the financial cycle of the past three decades. And they could lend themselves to simple communication, both with macroprudential policymakers and the wider public.
G10|The BoC-BoE sovereign default database revisited: what’s new in 2018?|Until recently, there have been few efforts to systematically measure and aggregate the nominal value of the different types of sovereign government debt in default. To help fill this gap, the Bank of Canada’s Credit Rating Assessment Group (CRAG) has developed a comprehensive database of sovereign defaults posted on the Bank of Canada’s website that now is updated in partnership with the Bank of England. Our database draws on previously published data sets compiled by various public and private sector sources. It combines elements of these, together with new information, to develop estimates of stocks of government obligations in default, including bonds and other marketable securities, bank loans, and official loans in default, valued in US dollars, for the years 1960 to 2017 on both a country-by-country and a global basis. This update of CRAG’s database, and future updates, will be useful to researchers analyzing the economic and financial effects of individual sovereign defaults and, importantly, the impact on global financial stability of episodes involving multiple sovereign defaults.
G10|Liquidity resilience in the UK gilt futures market: evidence from the order book|We analyse liquidity dynamics in the UK long gilt futures market. We use a novel order book dataset to assess liquidity resilience to sources of pressure such as policy operations or episodes of financial distress. Our results provide evidence in favour of resilience. We further show that this resilience does not come at the expense of a negative liquidity trend. These findings mitigate the potential trade-off faced by policy makers such as regulators in maintaining an adequate level of liquidity in the UK long gilt futures market.
G10|Repo market functioning: The role of capital regulation|This paper shows that the leverage ratio affects repo intermediation for banks and non-bank financial institutions. We exploit a novel regulatory change in the UK to identify an exogenous intensification of the leverage ratio and combine this with supervisory transaction-level data capturing the near-universe of gilt repo trading. Studying adjustments at the dealer-client level and controlling for demand and confounding factors, we find that dealers subject to a more binding leverage ratio reduced liquidity in the repo market. This affected their small but not their large clients. We further document a reduction in frequency of transactions and a worsening of repo pricing, but no adjustment in haircuts or maturities. Finally, we find evidence of market resilience, based on existing, rather than new repo relationships, with foreign, non-constrained dealers stepping in. Overall, our findings help shed light on the impact of Basel III capital regulation on repo markets.
G10|“Much Ado about Nothing”? The Effect of Print Media Tone on Stock Indices|We translate print media coverage into a gauge of human sentiment and the equivalent advertisement value, and find that the tone of media coverage substantially impacts stock markets. The tone has a positive effect on both overnight and daily stock returns but not on intraday returns, while conditional variance and daily price gaps are negatively influenced. This effect is significant on days of sharp price declines. The coverage of negative events in the capital market is about double the coverage of positive events. This asymmetry is greater when distinguishing between professional and unprofessional financial print media.
G10|Who Improves or Worsens Liquidity in the Korean Treasury Bond Market?|This study analyzes how heterogenous institutional investors affect Korean Treasury bond liquidity in the over-the-counter (OTC) market using a unique individual bond-level data set over the period from January 2007 to December 2016. We find that bonds with higher foreign bond holding have a greater price impact of trades and lower trading activities, all indicating lower liquidity. The liquidity-reducing effects of foreign investors are stronger for off-the-runs than on-the-runs and for the post-crisis period (2010-2016) than the crisis period (2007-2009). In contrast, bond holdings by domestic financial investment companies contribute to enhancing liquidity. Furthermore, the effect of bond holdings by domestic banks, insurance companies and pension funds on liquidity varies with issuance maturities.
G10|Identification and estimation issues in Structural Vector Autoregressions with external instruments|In this paper we discuss general identification results for Structural Vector Autoregressions (SVARs) with external instruments, considering the case in which r valid instruments are used to identify g ≥ 1 structural shocks, where r ≥ g. We endow the SVAR with an auxiliary statistical model for the external instruments which is a system of reduced form equations. The SVAR and the auxiliary model for the external instruments jointly form a `larger' SVAR characterized by a particularly restricted parametric structure, and are connected by the covariance matrix of their disturbances which incorporates the `relevance' and `exogeneity' conditions. We discuss identification results and likelihood-based estimation methods both in the `multiple shocks' approach, where all structural shocks are of interest, and in the `partial shock' approach, where only a subset of the structural shocks is of interest. Overidentified SVARs with external instruments can be easily tested in our setup. The suggested method is applied to investigate empirically whether commonly employed measures of macroeconomic and financial uncertainty respond on-impact, other than with lags, to business cycle uctuations in the U.S. in the period after the Global Financial Crisis. To do so, we employ two external instruments to identify the real economic activity shock in a partial shock approach.
G10|Nonparametric estimation of infinite order regression and its application to the risk-return tradeoff|This paper studies nonparametric estimation of the infinite order regression [see code in paper] with stationary and weakly dependent data. We propose a Nadaraya-Watson type estimator that operates with an infinite number of conditioning variables. The established theories are applied to examine the intertemporal risk-return relation for the aggregate stock market, and some new empirical evidence is reported. With a bandwidth sequence that shrinks the effects of long lags, the influence of all conditioning information is modelled in a natural and flexible way, and the issues of omitted information bias and specification error are effectively handled. Asymptotic properties of the estimator are shown under a wide range of static and dynamic regressions frameworks, thereby allowing various kinds of conditioning variables to be used. We establish pointwise/uniform consistency and CLTs. It is shown that the convergence rates are at best logarithmic, and depend on the smoothness of the regression, the distribution of the marginal regressors and their dependence structure in a non-trivial way via the Lambert W function. The empirical studies on S&P 500 daily data from 1950-2016 using our estimator report an overall positive risk-return relation. We also .find evidence of strong time variation and counter- cyclical behaviour in risk aversion. These conclusions are attributable to the inclusion of otherwise neglected information in our method.
G10|Financial markets and the allocation of capital: the role of productivity|The efficient allocation of credit is a key element for the success of an economy. Traditional measures of allocative efficiency focus on the Q-theory of investment and, in particular, on the elasticity of finance to investment opportunities proxied by firm real value added. This paper introduces a theorybased alternative measure that focuses instead on the elasticity of credit to firm productivity. In doing so, it develops a simple theoretical framework that delivers clear predictions for the elasticity of credit to current and future productivity depending on capital market frictions. When applied to the novel firm-level dataset of the Competitiveness Research Network (CompNet) set up by the EU System of Central Banks, the proposed measure leads to normative statements about the efficiency of credit allocation across the largest Eurozone economies, changing the conclusions that one would reach based on traditional empirical applications of Q-theory.
G10|How do Households Value the Future? Evidence from Property Taxes|Despite the near ubiquity of inter-temporal choice, there is little consensus on the rate at which individuals trade present and future costs and benefits. We contribute to this debate by estimating discount rates from extensive data on housing transactions and spatio-temporal variation in property taxes in England. Our findings imply longterm average discount rates that are between 3 and 4%. The close correspondence to prevailing market interest rates gives little reason to suggest that households misoptimise by materially undervaluing very long term financial flows in this high stakes context.
G10|Revealing Downturns|When Bayesian risk-averse investors are uncertain about their assets' cash flows' exposure to systematic risk, stock prices react more to news in downturns than in upturns, implying higher volatility in downturns and negatively skewed returns. The reason is that, in good times, less desirable assets with low average cash flows and high loading on market risk perform similar to more desirable assets with high average cash flows and low market risk, rendering them difficult to distinguish. However, their relative fundamental performance diverges in downturns, enabling better inference. Consistent with these predictions, stocks' reaction to earnings news is up to 70% stronger in downturns than in upturns.
G10|The Rate of Return on Everything, 1870–2015|What is the aggregate real rate of return in the economy? Is it higher than the growth rate of the economy and, if so, by how much? Is there a tendency for returns to fall in the long-run? Which particular assets have the highest long-run returns? We answer these questions on the basis of a new and comprehensive dataset for all major asset classes, including housing. The annual data on total returns for equity, housing, bonds, and bills cover 16 advanced economies from 1870 to 2015, and our new evidence reveals many new findings and puzzles.
G10|Common Ownership Concentration and Corporate Conduct|The question of whether and how partial common-ownership links between strategically interacting firms affect firm behavior has been the subject of theoretical inquiry for decades. Since then, consolidation and increasing concentration in the asset-management industry has led to more pronounced common ownership concentration (CoOCo). Moreover, recent empirical research has provided evidence consistent with the literature's key predictions. The resulting antitrust concerns have received much attention from policy makers worldwide. However, the implications are more general: CoOCo affects the objective function of the firm, and therefore has implications for all subfields of economics studying corporate conduct -- including corporate governance, strategy, industrial organization, and all of financial economics. This article connects the papers establishing the theoretical foundations, reviews the empirical and legal literatures, and discusses challenges and opportunities for future research.
G10|The Relative Effectiveness of Spot and Derivatives‐Based Intervention|This paper studies the relative effectiveness of foreign exchange intervention in spot and derivatives markets. We use Brazilian data where spot and nondeliverable futures intervention have been used in tandem for more than a decade. The analysis finds evidence of a link between both modes of intervention and the exchange rate. In line with theory, the impact of spot intervention is strikingly similar to that of futures intervention when convertibility risk is limited. We show that both types of interventions also affect the level and the price of hedging risk in the foreign exchange market.
G10|Exchange Competition, Entry, and Welfare|We assess the consequences for market quality and welfare of different entry regimes and exchange pricing policies in a context of limited market participation. To this end we integrate a two-period market microstructure model with an exchange competition model with entry in which exchanges supply technological services, and have market power. We find that technological services can be strategic substitutes or complements in platform competition. Free entry of platforms delivers a superior outcome in terms of liquidity and (generally) welfare compared to the case of an unregulated monopoly. Controlling entry or, even better typically, platform fees may further increase welfare. The market may deliver excessive or insufficient entry. However, if the regulator is constrained to not making transfers to platforms then there is never insufficient entry.
G10|Does Monetary Policy Impact Market Integration? Evidence from Developed and Emerging Markets|We reconsider the microeconomic foundations of financial economics under Knightian Uncertainty. In a general framework, we discuss the absence of arbitrage, its relation to economic viability, and the existence of suitable nonlinear pricing expectations. Classical financial markets under risk and no ambiguity are contained as special cases, including various forms of the Efficient Market Hypothesis. For Knightian uncertainty, our approach unifies recent versions of the Fundamental Theorem of Asset Pricing under a common framework.
G10|Making No-Arbitrage Discounting-Invariant: A New FTAP Beyond NFLVR and NUPBR|In general multi-asset models of financial markets, the classic no-arbitrage concepts NFLVR and NUPBR have a serious shortcoming — they depend crucially on the way prices are discounted. To avoid this unnatural economic behaviour, we introduce a new idea for defining “absence of arbitrage”. It rests on the new notion of strongly index weight maximal strategies, which allows us to generalise both NFLVR (by dynamic index weight efficiency) and NUPBR (by dynamic index weight viability). These new no-arbitrage concepts do not change when we look at discounted or undiscounted prices, and they can be used in open-ended models under very weak assumptions on asset prices. We establish corresponding versions of the FTAP, i.e., dual characterisations of our concepts in terms of martingale properties. A key new feature is that as one expects, “properly anticipated prices fluctuate randomly”, but with an endogenous discounting process which is not a priori chosen exogenously. We also illustrate our results by a wide range of examples. In particular, we show that the classic Black–Scholes model on [0,1) is arbitrage-free in our sense if and only if its parameters satisfy m−r ε {0, σ²} or, equivalently, either bond-discounted or stock-discounted prices are martingales.
G10|Dissection of Bitcoin's Multiscale Bubble History|We present a detailed bubble analysis of the Bitcoin to US Dollar price dynamics from January 2012 to February 2018. We introduce a robust automatic peak detection method that classifies price time series into periods of uninterrupted market growth (drawups) and regimes of uninterrupted market decrease (drawdowns). In combination with the Lagrange Regularisation Method for detecting the beginning of a new market regime, we identify 3 major peaks and 10 additional smaller peaks, that have punctuated the dynamics of Bitcoin price during the analyzed time period. We explain this classification of long and short bubbles by a number of quantitative metrics and graphs to understand the main socio-economic drivers behind the ascent of Bitcoin over this period. Then, a detailed analysis of the growing risks associated with the three long bubbles using the Log-Periodic Power Law Singularity (LPPLS) model is based on the LPPLS Confidence Indicators, defined as the fraction of qualified fits of the LPPLS model over multiple time windows. Furthermore, for various fictitious present analysis times t2, positioned in advance to bubble crashes, we employ a clustering method to group LPPLS fits over different time scales and the predicted critical times tc (the most probable time for the start of the crash ending the bubble). Each cluster is argued to provide a plausible scenario for the subsequent Bitcoin price evolution. We present these predictions for the three long bubbles and the four short bubbles that our time scale of analysis was able to resolve. Overall, our predictive scheme provides useful information to warn of an imminent crash risk.
G10|A Corporate Financing-Based Asset Pricing Model|I show that an asset pricing model for the equity claims of a value-maximizing firm can be constructed from its optimal financial contracting behavior. I study a dynamic contracting model in which firms trade off the costs and benefits of a given promise to pay external lenders in a specific economic state. Deals between firms and financiers reveal the importance of that state for firm's equity value, namely the stochastic discount factor the firm responds to. I empirically evaluate the model in the cross section of expected equity returns. I find that the financial contracting approach goes a long way in rationalizing observed cross-sectional differences in average returns, also in comparison to leading asset pricing models. In addition, the model discloses that two easily measured variables, the growth rates on net worth and profitability, generate sizeable cross-sectional spreads in returns. Finally, a calibrated version of the model is broadly consistent with observed corporate policies of US listed firms.
G10|Inefficient Bubbles and Efficient Drawdowns in Financial Markets|At odds with the common “rational expectations” framework for bubbles, economists like Hyman Minsky, Charles Kindleberger and Robert Shiller have documented that irrational behavior, ambiguous information or certain limits to arbitrage are essential drivers for bubble phenomena and financial crisis. Following this understanding that asset price bubbles are generated by market failures, we present a framework for explosive semimartingales that is based on the antagonistic combination of (i) an excessive, unstable pre-crash process and (ii) a drawdown starting at some random time. This unifying framework allows one to accommodate and compare many discrete and continuous time bubble models in the literature that feature such market inefficiencies. Moreover, it significantly extends the range of feasible asset price processes during times of financial speculation and frenzy and provides a strong theoretical background for future model design. Our framework also allows us to elucidate the status of rational expectation bubbles, which are by design afflicted with an inherent error in both discrete and continuous time models that can be traced down to a problematic definition of the fundamental value. While the discrete time case has been extensively discussed in the literature and is most criticized for a structure that is based on a payoff at infinity, we show that a new version of this error also permeates the continuous, finite time “strict local martingale”-approach to bubbles. In summary, our framework will simplify and foster interdisciplinary exchange at the intersection of economics and mathematical finance and encourage further research.
G10|Large Financial Markets, Discounting, and No Asymptotic Arbitrage|For a large financial market (which is a sequence of usual, “small” financial markets), we introduce and study a concept of no asymptotic arbitrage (of the first kind) which is invariant under discounting. We give two dual characterisations of this property in terms of (1) martingale-like properties for each small market plus (2) a contiguity property of suitably chosen “generalised martingale measures” along the sequence of small markets. Our results extend the work of Rokhlin and of Klein/Schachermayer and Kabanov/Kramkov to a discounting-invariant framework. We also show how a market on [0,∞) can be viewed as a large financial market and how no asymptotic arbitrage, both classic and in our new sense, then relates to no-arbitrage properties directly on [0,∞).
G10|Participants' Reputation in the Syndicated Lending Market|How do lenders use their reputation when participating in syndicated loans? I address this question by focusing on syndicate composition with respect to participants’ reputation and its impact on loan spreads. I find that lender reputation enables it to compete in terms of choosing the types of loans to be involved in, so more reputable lenders participate in loans to safer, more transparent, and larger borrowers. In general, more reputable lenders participate in loans with more market finance features, rather than bank finance. However I find no evidence that lenders use their reputation and the corresponding market power for direct price competition. Any significant price effects of participants’ reputation seem to aid the certification process, rather than exploit their market power.
G10|Does board diversity affect institutional investor preferences? Evidence from Latin America|This paper enquires whether institutional investors have specific preferences on the composition of the board of directors in Latin American firms they hold shares in. The result show that preferences vary significantly in terms of the type of institutional investor. The econometric results suggest grey institutional investors (pension funds and insurance companies) prefer experience and education, while dislike CEO entrenchment. Independent institutional investors value more directors’ professional experience i.e., former CEOs and founders of any firm. Grey investors are more concern on firm corporate governance mechanisms consistent with the agency view, while independent investors are focused in business opportunities in accordance with the resource-based-view of board of directors.
G10|Riesgo De Crédito Y Ciclos Del Crecimiento Económico|En este documento se estima la relación entre los diferenciales de riesgo de impago y el ciclo económico en Estados Unidos. Se emplea una muestra mensual que va desde noviembre del 2008 hasta agosto del 2017. Para la estimación se utiliza la metodología de cambios de régimen planteada por Hamilton (1989), con la cual se puede hacer uso del supuesto de que hay dos estados en la economía (uno de expansión y otro de recesión) y observa la forma en la que cambian las dinámicas económicas respecto al riesgo de impago. Se encuentra un efecto de la caída del sector financiero sobre el sector real, donde este último también cae.
G10|Wealth shocks and health outcomes: evidence from stock market fluctuations|Do wealth shocks affect the health of the elderly in developed countries? The economic literature is skeptical about such effects which have so far only been found for poor retirees in poor countries. In this paper I show that wealth shocks also matter for the health of wealthy retirees in the US. I exploit the booms and busts in the US stock market as a natural experiment that generated considerable gains and losses in the wealth of stock-holding retirees. Using data from the Health and Retirement Study I construct wealth shocks as the interaction of stock holdings with stock market changes. These constructed wealth shocks are highly predictive of changes in reported wealth. And they strongly affect health outcomes. A 10% wealth shock leads to an improvement of 2-3% of a standard deviation in physical health, mental health and survival rates. Effects are heterogeneous across physical health conditions, with most pronounced effects for the incidence of high blood pressure, smaller effects for heart problems and no effects for arthritis, diabetes, lung diseases and cancer. The comparison with the cross-sectional relationship of wealth and health suggests that the estimated effects of wealth shocks are larger than the long-run wealth elasticity of health.
G10|Revealing Downturns|When Bayesian risk-averse investors are uncertain about their assets’ cash flows’ exposure to systematic risk, stock prices react more to news in downturns than in upturns, implying higher volatility in downturns and negatively skewed returns. The reason is that, in good times, less desirable assets with low average cash flows and high loading on market risk perform similar to more desirable assets with high average cash flows and low market risk, rendering them difficult to distinguish. However, their relative fundamental performance diverges in downturns, enabling better inference. Consistent with these predictions, stocks’ reaction to earnings news is up to 70% stronger in downturns than in upturns..
G10|Common-Ownership Concentration and Corporate Conduct|The question of whether and how partial common-ownership links between strategically interacting firms affect firm objectives and behavior has been the subject of theoretical inquiry for decades. Since then, the growth of intermediated asset management and consolidation in the asset-management sector has led to more pronounced common ownership links at the beneficial-owner level. Recent empirical research has provided evidence consistent with the literature’s prediction that common ownership concentration (CoOCo) can affect product market outcomes. The resulting antitrust concerns have received worldwide attention. However, because CoOCo can change the objective function of the firm, the potential implications span all fields of economics that involve corporate conduct, including corporate governance, strategy, industrial organization, and financial economics. This article connects the papers establishing the theoretical foundations, reviews the empirical and legal literatures, and discusses challenges and opportunities for future research.
G10|The Leading Premium|In this paper, we compute conditional measures of lead-lag relationships between GDP growth and industry-level cash-flow growth in the US. Our results show that firms in leading industries pay an average annualized return 4% higher than that of firms in lagging industries. The difference in the returns of leading and lagging firms is priced in the cross section of equity returns, even after we control for a large number of risk factors. This finding can be rationalized in a model in which (a) agents price growth news shocks, and (b) leading industries provide valuable resolution of uncertainty about the growth prospects of lagging industries.
