G13|Variance swap payoffs, risk premia and extreme market conditions|This paper estimates the Variance Risk Premium (VRP) directly from synthetic variance swap payoffs. Since variance swap payoffs are highly volatile, we extract the VRP by using signal extraction techniques based on a state-space representation of our model in combination with a simple economic constraint. Our approach, only requiring option implied volatilities and daily returns for the underlying, provides measurement error free estimates of the part of the VRP related to normal market conditions, and allows constructing variables indicating agents' expectations under extreme market conditions. The latter variables and the VRP generate different return predictability on the major US indices. A factor model is proposed to extract a market VRP which turns out to be priced when considering Fama and French portfolios.
G13|Modelling time-varying income elasticities of health care expenditure for the OECD|Income elasticity dynamics of health expenditure is considered for the OECD and the Eurozone over the period 1995-2014. This paper studies a novel non-linear cointegration model with fixed effects, controlling for cross-section dependence and unobserved heterogeneity. Most importantly, its coefficients can vary over time and its variables can be non-stationary. The resulting asymptotic theory is fundamentally different with a faster rate of convergence to similar kernel smoothing methodologies. A fully modified kernel regression method is also proposed to reduce the asymptotic bias. Results show a steep increase in the income elasticity for the OECD and a small increase for the Eurozone.
G13|Resuscitating the co-fractional model of Granger (1986)|We study the theoretical properties of the model for fractional cointegration proposed by Granger (1986), namely the FVECM d,b. First, we show that the stability of any discrete time stochastic system of the type II(L)Yt = E t can be assessed by means of the argument principle under mild regularity condition on II (L) where L is the lag operator. Second, we prove that, under stability, the FVECMd,b allows for a representation of the solution that demonstrates the fractional and co-fractional properties and we find a closed-form expression for the impulse response functions. Third, we prove that the model is identifed for any combination of number of lags and cointegration rank, while still being able to generate polynomial co-fractionality. Finally, we show that the asymptotic properties of the maximum likelihood estimator reconcile with those of the FCVARd,b model studied in Johansen and Nielsen (2012).
G13|Risk premium in the era of shale oil|The boom in the production of shale oil in the United States has triggered a structural transformation of the oil market. We show, both theoretically and empirically, that this process has significant consequences for oil risk premium. We construct a model based on shale producers interacting with financial speculators in the futures market. Compared to conventional oil, shale oil technology is more flexible, but producers have higher risk aversion and face additional costs due to their reliance on external finance. Our model helps to explain the observed pattern of aggregate hedging by US oil companies in the last decade. The empirical analysis shows that the hedging pressure of shale producers has become more important than that of conventional producers in explaining the oil futures risk premium.
G13|A Theory of Scenario Generation|We show how distributions can be reduced to low-dimensional scenario trees. Applied to intertemporal distributions, the scenarios and their probabilities become time-varying factors. From S&P 500 options, two or three time-varying scenarios suffice to forecast returns, implied variance or skewness on par, or better, than extant multivariate stochastic volatility jump-diffusion models, while reducing the computational effort to fractions of a second.
G13|Discounting the Future: on Climate Change, Ambiguity Aversion and Epstein-Zin Preferences|We focus on the effect of preference specifications on the current day valuation of future outcomes. Specifically, we analyze the effect of risk aversion, ambiguity aversion and the elasticity of intertemporal substitution on the willingness to pay to avoid climate change risk. The first part of the paper analyzes a general disaster (jump) risk model with a constant arrival rate of disasters. This provides useful intuition in how preferences influence valuation of long-term risk. The second part of the paper extends this model with a climate model and a temperature dependent arrival rate. Since the model yields closed form solutions up to solving an integral, our model does not suffer from the curse of dimensionality of numerical IAMs with several state variables. Introducing Epstein-Zin preferences with an elasticity of substitution higher than one and ambiguity aversion leads to much larger estimates of the social cost of carbon than obtained under power utility. The dominant parameters are the risk aversion coefficient and the elasticity of intertemporal substitution. Ambiguity aversion is of second order importance.
G13|Sentiment and Speculation in a Market with Heterogeneous Beliefs|"We present a dynamic model featuring risk-averse investors with heterogeneous beliefs. Individual investors have stable beliefs and risk aversion, but agents who were correct in hindsight become relatively wealthy; their beliefs are overrepresented in market sentiment, so ""the market"" is bullish following good news and bearish following bad news. Extreme states are far more important than in a homogeneous economy. Investors understand that sentiment drives volatility up, and demand high risk premia in compensation. Moderate investors supply liquidity: they trade against market sentiment in the hope of capturing a variance risk premium created by the presence of extremists."
G13|Correlation Risk, Strings and Asset Prices|Standard asset pricing theories treat return volatility and correlations as two intimately related quantities, which hinders achieving a neat definition of a correlation premium. We introduce a model with a continuum of securities that have returns driven by a string. This model leads to new arbitrage pricing restrictions, according to which, holding any asset requires compensation for the granular exposure of this asset returns to changes in all other asset returns: an average correlation premium. We find that this correlation premium is both statistically and economically significant, and considerably fluctuates, driven by time-varying correlations and global market developments. The model explains the cross-section of expected returns and their counter-cyclicality without making reference to common factors affecting asset returns. It also explains the time-series behavior of the premium for the risk of changes in asset correlations (the correlation-risk premium), including its inverse relation with realized correlations.
G13|The Term Structure of Government Debt Uncertainty|How valuable would it be to mitigate government debt volatility? This paper introduces a model that accounts for the complex structure of government bond volatility and provides predictions on the fair value of government bond variance swaps and derivatives referenced thereon. Our calibrated model predicts that expected volatilities frequently oscillate between episodes of backwardation and contango, a feature that is in stark contrast with dynamics observed in equity markets. We use the model in risk-management experiments and evaluate scenarios such as the reaction of the U.S. Treasury volatility curve to shocks including unanticipated Fed decisions or global economic imbalances. Unlike equity volatility dynamics, which may be specified exogenously without violating no-arbitrage conditions, government bond volatility must be consistent with the dynamics of the whole yield curve. The paper provides quasi-closed form solutions that can readily be implemented despite the high-dimensional no-arbitrage restrictions that underlie the model dynamics.
G13|What Option Prices tell us about the ECB's Unconventional Monetary Policies|We use a series of different approaches to extract information about crash risk from option prices for the Euro-Dollar exchange rate, with each step sharpening the focus on extracting more specific measures of crash risk around dates of ECB measures of Unconventional Monetary Policy. Several messages emerge from the analysis. Announcing policies in general terms without precisely describing what exactly they entail does not move asset markets or actually increases crash risk. Also, policies directly focused on changing relative asset supplies do seem to have an impact, while measures aiming at easing financing costs of commercial banks do not.
G13|Fair Pensions|This paper examines the allocation of market risk in a general class of collective pension arrangements: Collective Defined Contribution (CDC) schemes. In a CDC scheme participants collectively share funding risk through benefit level adjustments. There is a concern that, if not well designed, CDC schemes are unfair and will lead to an unintended redistribution of wealth between participants and, in particular, between generations. We define a pension scheme as fair if all participants receive an arbitrage-free return on the market risk they bear. The fact that the participants' claim on the CDC schemes' collective assets is expressed in terms of a stochastic future benefit, makes the arbitrage-free allocation of market risk non-trivial. It depends crucially on the specification of the discount rate process in combination with the benefit adjustment process. We show that fair CDC schemes may use a default-free market interest rate in combination with a specific horizon-dependent benefit adjustment process. Alternative discount rates are also permissible, but require additional correction terms in the benefit adjustment process.
G13|Mind the Conversion Risk: a Theoretical Assessment of Contingent Convertible Bonds|We develop a theoretical model to assess the merits of principal-write down contingent convertible (CoCo) bonds. The conversion risk is the key feature of CoCo bonds. Because of this conversion risk, CoCo bonds are hard to price and an equilibrium price does not necessarily exist. In our model, for such a price to exist, the bank needs to hold a minimum amount of equity and/or the expected return associated with its asset portfolio needs to be large enough. When an equilibrium price exists, it is a decreasing function in the amount of equity held by the bank. Well-capitalized banks can thus issue CoCo bonds at a lower price than least-capitalized banks. This is the reason why CoCo bonds are to be thought of more as a complement to equity than as a substitute. In addition, because of the conversion risk, self-fulfilling panics may occur in the CoCo bonds' market. We indeed define a game between CoCo bonds' holders and the Central Bank that allows us to exhibit situations where a panic occurs in the CoCo bonds' market. Using the global game technique, we show that the probability of crisis can be expressed as a function of the return associated with the asset portfolio of the bank. The probability of crisis is shown to be sensitive to the precision of the information available to CoCo bonds' holders. Taken together, our results call for cautiousness when assessing the relevance of regulatory requirements in CoCo bonds, especially concerning their systemic impact.
G13|The Two-Pillar Policy for the RMB|"We document stylized facts about China's recent exchange rate policy for its currency, the renminbi (RMB). Our empirical findings suggest that a ""two-pillar policy"" is in place, aiming to balance RMB index stability and exchange rate flexibility. We then develop a tractable no-arbitrage model of the RMB under the two-pillar policy. Using derivatives data on the RMB and the U.S. dollar index, we estimate the model to assess financial markets' views about the fundamental exchange rate and sustainability of the policy. Our model is able to predict the modification of the two-pillar policy in May 2017, when a discretion-based ""countercyclical factor"" was introduced for the first time. We also examine the model's ability to forecast RMB movements."
G13|Variance Disparity and Market Frictions|This paper introduces a new model-free approach to measuring the expectation of market variance using VIX derivatives. This approach shows that VIX derivatives carry different information about future variance than S&P 500 (SPX) options, especially during the 2008 financial crisis. I find that the segmentation is associated with frictions such as funding illiquidity, market illiquidity, and asymmetric information. When they are segmented, VIX derivatives contribute more to the variance discovery process than SPX options. These findings imply that VIX derivatives would offer a better estimate of expected variance than SPX options, and that a measure of segmentation may be useful for policymakers as it signals the severity of frictions.
G13|Variance Risk Premium Components and International Stock Return Predictability|No abstract is available for this item.
G13|Do Minimum Wage Increases Benefit Intended Households? Evidence from the Performance of Residential Leases|Prior studies debating the eﬀects of changes to the minimum wage concentrate on impacts on household income and spending or employment. We extend this debate by examining the impact of changes to the minimum wage on expenses associated with shelter, a previously unexplored area. Increases in state minimum wages signiﬁcantly reduce the incidence of renters defaulting on their lease contracts by 1.29 percentage points over three months, relative to similar renters who did not experience an increase in the minimum wage. This represents 25.7% fewer defaults post treatment in treated states. To put this into perspective, a 1% increase in minimum wage translates into a 2.6% decrease in rental default. This evidence is consistent with wage increases having an immediate impact on relaxing renter budget constraints. However, this eﬀect slowly decreases over time as landlords react to wage increases by increasing rents. Our analysis is based on a unique data set that tracks household rental payments.
G13|Effect of Stock Price Information on Timing of Share Repurchases|Objective – This study investigates whether private information newly incorporated into stock price enhances performance in timing share repurchases. Methodology/Technique – Cost saving gained in share repurchases is used a proxy for performance of market-timing in share repurchases and firm-specific stock return variation is used to gauge stock price informativeness. A sample of 334 U.S. repurchasing firms are tested using panel data regression. Findings – The paper concludes that managers possess better market timing skill by obtaining more cost saving from their share repurchases when private information is reflected in stock price. Stock price informativeness may be the tool for managers to improve their market timing skill to take advantage of the stock market. Furthermore, firms with smaller size and a higher market-to-book ratios, and firms with higher cash-to-assets ratios are found to achieve more cost saving in buying back their shares indicating that these firms are able to time the market in share repurchasing. Novelty – Despite numerous previous studies focusing solely on using share repurchases announcement for computing cumulative abnormal returns in testing managerial market timing, this study contributes to the literature in several ways: (i) providing evidence relating stock price informativeness and performance of market-timing in share repurchases; (ii) developing a better timing measure constructed using actual repurchasing data; (iii) adopting a cost saving measure as the timing measure instead of cumulative abnormal return. Type of Paper: Empirical.
G13|Bilateral Defaultable Financial Derivatives Pricing and Credit Valuation Adjustment|The one-side defaultable financial derivatives valuation problems have been studied extensively, but the valuation of bilateral derivatives with asymmetric credit qualities is still lacking convincing mechanism. This paper presents an analytical model for valuing derivatives subject to default by both counterparties. The default-free interest rates are modeled by the Market Models, while the default time is modeled by the reduced-form model as the first jump of a time-inhomogeneous Poisson process. All quantities modeled are market-observable. The closed-form solution gives us a better understanding of the impact of the credit asymmetry on swap value, credit value adjustment, swap rate and swap spread.
G13|CDS index options in Markov chain models|We study CDS index options in a credit risk model where the defaults times have intensities which are driven by a finite-state Markov chain representing the underlying economy. In this setting we derive compact computationally tractable formulas for the CDS index spread and the price of a CDS index option. In particular, the evaluation of the CDS index option is handled by translating the Cox-framework into a bivariate Markov chain. Due to the potentially very large, but extremely sparse matrices obtained in this reformulating, special treatment is needed to efficiently compute the matrix exponential arising from the Kolmogorov Equation. We provide details of these computational methods as well as numerical results. The finite-state Markov chain model is calibrated to data with perfect fits, and several numerical studies are performed. In particular we show that under same exogenous circumstances, the CDS index options prices in the Markov chain framework can be close to or sometimes larger than prices in models which assume that the CDS index spreads follows a log-normal process. We also study the different default risk components in the option prices generated by the Markov model, an investigation which is difficult to do in models where the CDS index spreads follows a log-normal process.
G13|Wrong-way Risk in Credit Valuation Adjustment of Credit Default Swap with Copulas|We compare several wrong-way risk models for the credit valuation adjustment of a credit default swap under a copula approach with stochastic default intensities. We show that the tail dependent copulas well capture the wrong-way risk for the credit valuation adjustment. To that end, we employ an affine jump diffusion process for the default intensity to derive the distribution function of the cumulative intensity, based on the copula approach. To reduce computing time, we propose an approximation method using the fractional fast Fourier transform and numerical integration to the characteristic function of the cumulative intensity.
G13|Market Timing with Option-Implied Distributions in an Exponentially Tempered Stable Lévy Market|This paper explores the empirical implementation of a dynamic asset allocation strategy using option-implied distributions when the underlying risky asset price is modeled by an exponential Lévy process. One month risk-neutral densities are extracted from option prices and are subsequently transformed to the risk-adjusted, or real-world densities. Optimal portfolios consisting of a risky and risk-free asset rebalanced on a monthly basis are then constructed and their performance analyzed. It is found that the portfolios formed using option-implied expectations under the Lévy market assumption, which are flexible enough to capture the higher moments of the implied distribution, are far more robust to left-tail market risks and offer statistically significant improvements to risk-adjusted performance when investor risk aversion is low, however this diminishes as risk aversion increases.
G13|Investors’ Perspective on Portfolio InsuranceExpected Utility vs Prospect Theories|This study supports the use of behavioural finance to explain the popularity of portfolio insurance. Portfolio insurance strategies are important financial solutions sold to institutional and individual investors, that protect against downside risk while maintaining some upside valuation potential. The way some of these strategies are engineered has been criticised, and portfolio insurance itself blamed for increasing market volatility in depressed markets. Despite this, investors keep on buying portfolio insurance that has a solid market share. This study contributes to understand the phenomenon. We compare investors' decision using two distinct frameworks: expected utility theory and behavioural theories. Based upon Monte Carlo simulation techniques we compare portfolio insurance strategies against uninsured basic benchmark strategies. We conclude that cumulative prospect theory may be a viable framework to explain the popularity of portfolio insurance. However, among portfolio insurance strategies, naive strategies seem to be preferable to most commonly traded strategies.
G13|Forward trading and collusion in supply functions|This paper studies the effect of forward contracts on the stability of collusion among firms, competing in supply functions on the spot market. A forward market can increase the range of discount factors which allow to sustain collusion. On the contrary, collusion is destabilised when a potential deviator sells a significant amount forward. Results do not depend on the type (financial or physical) of contract fulfilment and are robust to different levels of demand uncertainty. As a policy implication, the study finds that liquid and anonymous forward markets are incompatible with collusion.
G13|Negative Swap Spreads and Limited Arbitrage|Since October 2008 fixed rates for interest rate swaps with a thirty year maturity have been mostly below treasury rates with the same maturity. Under standard assumptions this implies the existence of arbitrage opportunities. This paper presents a model for pricing interest rate swaps where frictions for holding bonds limit arbitrage. I show analytically that negative swap spreads should not be surprising. In the calibrated model, swap spreads can reasonably match empirical counterparts without the need for large demand imbalances in the swap market. Empirical evidence is consistent with the relation between term spreads and swap spreads in the model
G13|The Time Variation in Risk Appetite and Uncertainty|We develop measures of time-varying risk aversion and economic uncertainty that are calculated from financial variables at high frequencies. We formulate a dynamic no-arbitrage asset pricing model for equities and corporate bonds. The joint dynamics among asset-specific cash flows, macroeconomic fundamentals and risk aversion feature heteroskedasticity and non-Gaussianity. Variance risk premiums on equity are very informative about risk aversion, whereas credit spreads and corporate bond volatility are highly correlated with economic uncertainty. Model-implied risk premiums outperform standard instruments for predicting excess returns on equity and corporate bonds. A financial proxy to our economic uncertainty predicts output growth significantly negatively.
G13|Can Financial Participants Improve Price Discovery and Efficiency in Multi-Settlement Markets with Trading Costs?|The introduction of purely financial participants into commodity markets is thought to yield forward prices that better reflect future spot prices, and ultimately, more efficient future production and consumption decisions. However, there are sizable transaction costs associated with trading in most commodity markets. This paper develops a statistical test of the null hypothesis that expected forward/spot price spreads cannot be arbitraged even after accounting for these transactions costs. We apply this test to hourly, location-specific day-ahead and real-time prices from California's wholesale electricity market. The implied trading cost required to reject the null hypothesis of no profitable arbitrage opportunities falls significantly after California allowed purely financial participation. Moreover, variable input costs per MWh of electricity produced fell by 3.6% in high demand hours after the introduction of purely financial participants. Combined, our evidence supports the hypothesis that the introduction of purely financial participants into the California wholesale electricity market decreased the average difference and the volatility of the difference between day-ahead and real-time prices, which ultimately lowered the total variable cost of serving demand
G13|Hedging Macroeconomic and Financial Uncertainty and Volatility|"We study the pricing of uncertainty shocks using a wide-ranging set of options that reveal premia for macroeconomic risks. Portfolios hedging macro uncertainty have historically earned zero or even significantly positive returns, while those exposed to the realization of large shocks have earned negative premia. The results are consistent with an important role for ""good uncertainty"". Options for nonfinancials are particularly important for spanning macro risks and good uncertainty. The results dictate the role of uncertainty and volatility in structural models and we show they are consistent with a simple extension of the long-run risk model."
G13|Real options with illiquidity of exercise opportunities|This paper presents a framework to study real options with illiquidity of option exercise opportunities. I incorporate a constraint that the investment time is chosen from Poisson arrival times in the standard real option value (ROV) model. I derive the closed-form solution and show that illiquidity decreases the option value of waiting and the investment threshold. I extend the results to a case with different types of projects and show that an inferior project can be undertaken in the presence of illiquidity. I prove that the solution of the illiquid model converges to that of the ROV model for higher liquidity and converges to that of the net present value (NPV) model for lower liquidity. I also show that the solution agrees with the limit of the corresponding regime-switching model. The results fill the gaps in the NPV, ROV, and regime-switching models and reveal the effects of illiquidity on investment decisions.
G13|The effects of asset liquidity on dynamic bankruptcy decisions|We develop a dynamic bankruptcy model with asset illiquidity. In the model, a distressed firm chooses between sell-out and default, as well as its timing under the assumption that sell-out is feasible only at Poisson jump times, where the arrival rate of acquirers stands for asset liquidity. With lower asset liquidity, the firm increases the sell-out region to mitigate the risk of not finding an acquirer until bankruptcy. Despite the larger sell-out region, lower asset liquidity increases the default probability and decreases the equity, debt, and firm values. In the optimal capital structure, with lower asset liquidity, the firm reduces leverage, but the cautious capital structure does not fully offset the increased default risk. The stock price reaction caused by sell-out depends on the sell-out timing. When the firm's asset value is not sufficiently high, the stock price jump size is an inverted U-shape with the economic state variable. Lower asset liquidity increases the jump size due to greater surprise. These results fit empirical observations.
G13|Price Discovery in Agricultural Commodity Markets: Do Speculators Contribute?|Previous literature on price discovery in commodity markets is mainly focused on the question whether the spot or the futures market dominates the price discovery process. Little attention, however, has been paid to the question how the price discovery process is affected by futures speculation. Using different measures for speculation and hedging and a new price discovery metric, the present study analyzes this relationship for various agricultural commodities. The results indicate that speculative activity generally reduces the level of noise in the futures market, while increasing the relative contribution of the futures market to the price discovery process.
G13|Price discovery in cryptocurrency markets|We ask which markets drive bitcoin prices and how price discovery happens across different exchanges. Does the greater exuberance for cryptocurrencies outside the United States affect prices only on local markets or does it impact price formation on global cryptocurrency markets? We document significant heterogeneity in which price formation happens across exchanges and time. When markets are more integrated, shocks to prices on all exchanges contribute to price discovery. However, when markets become segmented, those exchanges that have large arbitrage spreads relative to the US price, i.e. where investors are more exuberant become much less important for price discovery.
G13|Volumetric Risk Hedging Strategies and Basis Risk Premium for Solar Power|This paper studies volumetric risk hedging strategies for solar power under incomplete market settings with a twofold proposal of temperature-based and solar power generation-based models for solar power derivatives and discusses the basis risk arising from solar power volumetric risk hedge with temperature. Based on an indirect modeling of solar power generation using temperature and a direct modeling of solar power generation, we design two types of call options written on the accumulated non cooling degree days (ANCDDs) and the accumulated low solar power generation days (ALSPGDs), respectively, which can hedge cool summer volumetric risk more appropriately than those on well-known accumulated cooling degree days. We offer the pricing formulas of the two options under the good-deal bounds (GDBs) framework, which can consider incompleteness of solar power derivative markets. To calculate the option prices numerically, we derive the partial differential equations for the two options using the GDBs. Empirical studies using Czech solar power generation and Prague temperature estimate the parameters of temperature-based and solar power generation-based models, respectively. We numerically calculate the call option prices on ANCDDs and ALSPGDs, respectively, as the upper and lower price boundaries using the finite difference method. Results show that the call option prices based on a solar power generation process are bigger than the call option prices based on a temperature process. This is consistent with the fact that the solar power generation approach takes into account more comprehensive risk than the temperature approach, resulting in the bigger prices for the solar power generation approach. We finally show that the basis risk premiums, i.e., solar power generation-based call option prices minus temperature-based call option prices, decrease in line with initial temperature greater than around 25 ◦C. This may be because the uncertainty in solar power generation by temperature decreases due to the cancellation between the increase in solar power generation due to the increase in solar radiation and the decrease in solar power generation due to the decrease in solar panel efficiency.
G13|Tranched Value Securities|Structured financial products and derivatives were one of the major financial innovations since 18th century, which improve market completeness by transforming risk-sharing mechanisms. Since then, thousands of derivative types were created, and its market has grown to over six-times greater than global GDP, but capital markets still exhibit efficiency only to a limited extent. This paper assesses the potential performance of Tranched Value Securities (patent pending) – a new financial instrument that transforms a single underlying to asymmetrically paying derivative, and has a potential to further improve capital markets by facilitating risk sharing, and satisfy a wide range of investment objectives.
G13|Pricing Interest Rate Swap Subject to Bilateral Counterparty Risk|This paper presents an analytical model for valuing interest rate swaps, subject to bilateral counterparty credit risk. The counterparty defaults are modeled by the reduced-form model as the first jump of a time-inhomogeneous Poisson process. All quantities modeled are market-observable. The closed-form solution gives us a better understanding of the impact of the credit asymmetry on swap value, credit value adjustment, swap rate and swap spread.
G13|Pricing Financial Derivatives Subject to Multilateral Credit Risk and Collateralization|This article presents a new model for valuing financial contracts subject to credit risk and collateralization. Examples include the valuation of a credit default swap (CDS) contract that is affected by the trilateral credit risk of the buyer, seller and reference entity. We show that default dependency has a significant impact on asset pricing. In fact, correlated default risk is one of the most pervasive threats in financial markets. We also show that a fully collateralized CDS is not equivalent to a risk-free one. In other words, full collateralization cannot eliminate counterparty risk completely in the CDS market.
G13|Pricing Credit Default Swap Subject to Counterparty Risk and Collateralization|This article presents a new model for valuing a credit default swap (CDS) contract that is affected by multiple credit risks of the buyer, seller and reference entity. We show that default dependency has a significant impact on asset pricing. In fact, correlated default risk is one of the most pervasive threats in financial markets. We also show that a fully collateralized CDS is not equivalent to a risk-free one. In other words, full collateralization cannot eliminate counterparty risk completely in the CDS market.
G13|The Valuation of Financial Derivatives Subject to Counterparty Risk and Credit Value Adjustment|This article presents a generic model for pricing financial derivatives subject to counterparty credit risk. Both unilateral and bilateral types of credit risks are considered. Our study shows that credit risk should be modeled as American style options in most cases, which require a backward induction valuation. To correct a common mistake in the literature, we emphasize that the market value of a defaultable derivative is actually a risky value rather than a risk-free value. Credit value adjustment (CVA) is also elaborated. A practical framework is developed for pricing defaultable derivatives and calculating their CVAs at a portfolio level.
G13|Mapping Thailand's Financial Landscape: A Perspective through Balance Sheet Linkages and Contagion|This paper conducts in-depth profiling of players and interlinkages in the Thai financial system based on sectoral balance sheet data and disaggregated supervisory data on banks and mutual funds. Several aspects of Thailand ' s financial landscape have been documented. We find that financial interconnectedness has risen and become more complex, with the financial landscape increasingly tilted toward non-bank intermediaries. Network topology suggests a segmented landscape, with the presence of a core cluster where key players including households, firms, large domestic banks, and mutual funds of large banks' asset management arms are located, indicating their tight interconnections. Leveraging on entity-level balance sheet profiles, we develop a stress-testing framework that is based on a network model of financial contagion. Two types of shocks are studied. For industry shocks, we find that losses generally propagate via the liability and ownership channel and the reverse liquidity channel. But when the losses are large enough, the fire-sale effects dominate. For bank reputational shocks, we simulate a loss of confidence in major banks via deposit withdrawal and fund redemption. While the overall losses are much smaller than those of industry shocks, these risks cannot be ignored since the mutual fund industry stands to suffer and panic selling could amplify the losses.
G13|Approaches to Price Formation in Financialised Commodity Markets|A recent debate over the financialisation of commodity markets has stimulated the development of approaches to price formation which incorporate index traders as a new trader category in commodity futures markets. I survey these new approaches by retracing their emergence to traditional price formation models and show that these new models arise from a synthesis between commodity arbitrage pricing and asset pricing theories in the tradition of Keynesian inspired hedging pressure models. Based on these insights, I derive testable hypotheses to provide guidance for a growing literature that seeks to empirically evaluate the effects of index traders on price discovery and risk management in commodity futures markets.
G13|Estimation of FX Option Implied Density Functions: Nonparametric-Malz Approach|This paper estimates risk-neutral density (RND) for USD-TRY exchange rate through the nonparametric-Malz approach using European FX options for various tenors and a wide range of tails. FX option implied risk-neutral density is a valuable tool in terms of extraction of market assessment about future exchange rates, valuation of financial derivatives, portfolio risk management and monitoring financial stability. However, RND estimation for FX options requires non-trivial data adjustment due to the fact that these options are traded/quoted as structured products in over-the-counter (OTC) markets and the conventions are in terms of deltas rather than strike prices. In this regard, one of the main contributions of the study is that premium-adjusted delta convention used in the quotation of options on USD-TRY exchange rate is taken into account in the construction of implied volatility-delta space, which has been overlooked in the previous studies. Absence of this adjustment leads to a biased estimation of the implied volatility curve and RND, especially at longer-maturity horizons. Empirical findings provide evidence for the existence of volatility smile for the options on USD-TRY exchange rate. Furthermore, the examination of RND surface in recent periods displays the variation in the dispersion of option implied distributions of USD-TRY exchange rate due to volatility in financial markets.
G13|Dynamics between trading volume, volatility and open interest in agricultural futures markets: A Bayesian time-varying coefficient approach|The dynamics between trading volume and volatility for seven agricultural futures markets are examined by drawing on the large literature for equity markets and by allowing for heterogeneity of investors beliefs proxied by open interest. In addition, time-varying effects on the transmission mechanism of shocks are also accounted for by implementing a Bayesian VAR model, which allows for time-variation stemming from both the coefficients and the variance covariance structure of the model's disturbances. This is important since it accounts for changes in the number of trades and the size of trades across diï¬€erent periods, which can have different effects on the volatility-volume relation. The results show that the Granger causality and the reaction to shocks varies substantially over time. This highlights the importance to allow for time-variation when modeling the relationship between volatility, trading volume and open interest for agricultural futures markets. In general, the findings indicate that volatility of agricultural futures markets is driven by previous period's trading volume and open interest. However, the reversed relationship from lagged volatility to trading volume and open interest is limited to certain periods of time.
G13|Discounting the Future: on Climate Change, Ambiguity Aversion and Epstein-Zin Preferences|We focus on the effect of preference specifications on the current day valuation of future outcomes. Specifically, we analyze the effect of risk aversion, ambiguity aversion and the elasticity of intertemporal substitution on the willingness to pay to avoid climate change risk. The first part of the paper analyzes a general disaster (jump) risk model with a constant arrival rate of disasters. This provides useful intuition in how preferences influence valuation of long-term risk. The second part of the paper extends this model with a climate model and a temperature dependent arrival rate. Since the model yields closed form solutions up to solving an integral, our model does not suffer from the curse of dimensionality of numerical IAMs with several state variables. Introducing Epstein-Zin preferences with an elasticity of substitution higher than one and ambiguity aversion leads to much larger estimates of the social cost of carbon than obtained under power utility. The dominant parameters are the risk aversion coefficient and the elasticity of intertemporal substitution. Ambiguity aversion is of second order importance.
G13|Nonparametric Assessment of Hedge Fund Performance|We propose a new class of performance measures for Hedge Fund (HF) returns based on a family of empirically identiable stochastic discount factors (SDFs). The SDF-based measures incorporate no-arbitrage pricing restrictions and naturally embed information about higher-order mixed moments between HF and benchmark factors returns. We provide a full asymptotic theory for our SDF estimators to test for the statistical signicance of each fund's performance and for the relevance of individual benchmark factors within each proposed measure. We apply our methodology to a panel of 4815 individual hedge funds. Our empirical analysis reveals that fewer funds have a statistically signicant positive alpha compared to the Jensen's alpha obtained by the traditional linear regression approach. Moreover, the funds' rankings vary considerably between the two approaches. Performance also varies between the members of our family because of a dierent fund exposure to higherorder moments of the benchmark factors, highlighting the potential heterogeneity across investors in evaluating performance.
G13|Static use of options in dynamic portfolio optimization under transaction costs and solvency constraints|We study a dynamic portfolio optimization problem where it is possible to invest in a risk-free bond, in a risky stock modeled by a lognormal diffusion and in call options written on the stock. The use of the options is limited to static strategies at the beginning of the investment period. The investor faces transaction costs with a fixed component and solvency constraints and the objective is to maximize the expected utility of the final wealth. We characterize the value function as a constrained viscosity solution of the associated quasi-variational inequality and we prove the local uniform convergence of a Markov chain approximation scheme to compute numerically the optimal solution. Because of transaction costs and solvency constraints the options cannot be pefectly replicated and despite the restriction to static policies our numerical results show that in most cases the investor will keep a significant part of his portfolio invested in options.
G13|Market risk when hedging a global credit portfolio|Hedging a credit portfolio using single name CDS is affected by high spread volatility that induces continuous changes in a portfolio mark to market, which is a nuisance. Often, the problem is that CDS on firms in the portfolio are not being traded. To get around that, a derivative portfolio can be hedged by taking a contrary position in a credit index, and we examine in this paper the efficiency of such an imperfect hedge. We find over the 2007-2012 period an 80% hedging efficiency for a European portfolio, 60% for North American and Japanese portfolios, and around 70% for a global portfolio, as measured by the reduction in mark-to-market variance. We also consider sectorial credit portfolios for Europe and North America, for which hedging efficiency is not as high, due to their more import- ant idiosyncratic component. Taking into account the quality of the credit counterpart improves the effectiveness of the hedge, although it requires using less liquid credit indices, with higher transaction costs. Standard conditional volatility models provide similar results to the least squares hedge, except for extreme market movements. An efficient hedge for a credit portfolio made up of the most idiosyn- cratic firms would seem to require more than 50 firms, while the hedge for portfolios made up of the less idiosyncratic firms achieves high efficiency even for a small number of firms. The efficiency of the hedge is higher when portfolio volatility is high and also when short term interest rates or exchange rate volatility are high. Increases in VIX, in the 10-year swap rate or in liquidity risk tend to decrease hedging efficiency. Credit indices offer a moderately efficient hedge for corporate bond portfolios, which we have examined with a reduced sample of firms over 2006-2018. This analysis also shows that the current efficiency of a credit index hedge has recovered at pre-crisis levels.
G13|The Impact of Jumps on American Option Pricing: The S&P 100 Options Case|This paper analyzes the importance of asset and volatility jumps in American option pricing models. Using the Heston (1993) stochastic volatility model with asset and volatility jumps and the Hull and White (1987) short rate model, American options are numerically evaluated by the Method of Lines. The calibration of these models to S&P 100 American options data reveals that jumps, especially asset jumps, play an important role in improving the models’ ability to fit market data. Further, asset and volatility jumps tend to lift the free boundary, an effect that augments during volatile market conditions, while the additional volatility jumps marginally drift down the free boundary. As markets turn more volatile and exhibit jumps, American option holders become more prudent with their exercise decisions, especially as maturity of the options approaches.
G13|Benchmarked Risk Minimizing Hedging Strategies for Life Insurance Policies|Traditional life insurance policies offer no equity investment opportunities for the premium paid, and suffer from low returns over the long insurance terms. Modern equity-linked insurance policies offer equity investment opportunities exposed to equity market risk. To combine the low-risk of traditional policies with the high returns offered by equity-linked policies, we consider insurance policies under the benchmark approach (BA), where the policyholders’ funds are invested in the growth-optimal portfolio and the locally risk-free savings account. Under the BA, life insurance policies can be delivered at their minimal costs, lower than the classical actuarial theory predicts. Due to unhedgeable mortality risk, life insurance policies cannot be fully hedged. In this case benchmarked risk-minimization can be applied to obtain hedging strategies with minimally fluctuating profit and loss processes, where the fluctuations can further be reduced through diversification.
G13|Spot and Futures Prices of Bitcoin: Causality, Cointegration and Price Discovery from a Time-Varying Perspective|This paper investigates the causal relationships, cointegration and price discovery between spot and futures markets of Bitcoin using the daily data from a time-varying perspective for the first time in the literature. We apply the time-varying Granger causality test of Shi et al. (2018) to explore the causal relationship between spot and futures markets and find that futures prices Granger cause spot prices. We identify the existence of a cointegration relationship under the consideration of a time-varying cointegrating coefficient between spot and futures prices based on the Park and Hahn (1999) test. We also explore the time-varying price discovery process and find that futures prices dominate in the process, implying a leading informational role.
G13|Volatility forecasting across tanker freight rates: The role of oil price shocks|This paper examines whether the inclusion of oil price shocks of different origin as exogenous variables in a wide set of GARCH-X models improves the accuracy of their volatility forecasts for spot and 1-year time-charter tanker freight rates. Kilian’s (2009) oil price shocks of different origin enter GARCH-X models which, among other stylized facts of the tanker freight rates examined, take into account the presence of asymmetric and long-memory effects. The results reveal that the inclusion of aggregate oil demand and oil-specific (precautionary) demand shocks improves significantly the accuracy of the volatility forecasts drawn.
G13|What Option Prices tell us about the ECB's Unconventional Monetary Policies|We use a series of different approaches to extract information about crash risk from option prices for the Euro-Dollar exchange rate, with each step sharpening the focus on extracting more specific measures of crash risk around dates of ECB measures of Unconventional Monetary Policy. Several messages emerge from the analysis. Announcing policies in general terms without precisely describing what exactly they entail does not move asset markets or actually increases crash risk. Also, policies directly focused on changing relative asset supplies do seem to have an impact, while measures aiming at easing financing costs of commercial banks do not.
G13|Spurious Cross-Sectional Dependence in Credit Spread Changes|In order to understand the lingering credit risk puzzle and the apparent segmentation of the stock market from credit markets, we need to be able to assess the strength of the cross-sectional dependence in credit spreads. This turns out to be a non-trivial task due to the extreme data sparsity that is typical for any panel of credit spreads that is extracted from corporate bond transactions. The problem of data sparsity has led to some erroneous conclusions in the literature, including inferences that have been drawn from spurious cross-sectional dependence in credit spread changes. Understanding the pitfalls leads to a new and improved estimator of the latent factor in credit spread changes and its characteristics.
G13|Pricing American Options with Jumps in Asset and Volatility|Jump risk plays an important role in current financial markets, yet it is a risk that cannot be easily measured and hedged. We numerically evaluate American call options under stochastic volatility, stochastic interest rates and jumps in both the asset price and volatility. By employing the Method of Lines (Meyer (2015)), the option price, the early exercise boundary and the Greeks are computed as part of the solution, which makes the numerical implementation time efficient. We conduct a numerical study to gauge the impact of jumps and stochastic interest rates on American call option prices and on their free boundaries. Jumps tend to increase the values of OTM and ATM options while decreasing the value of ITM options. The option delta is affected in a similar way. The impact of jumps on the free boundary is substantial and depends on the time to maturity. Near expiry, including asset jumps lowers the free boundary and the option holder is more likely to exercise the option, whilst including asset-volatility jumps elevates the free boundary and the option holder is less likely to exercise the option. This relation reverses at the beginning of the options life. The volatility, interest rates and their volatilities have a positive impact on the free boundaries and the option holder is less likely to exercise as these parameters increase.
G13|Momentum and contrarian effects on the cryptocurrency market|We report the results of investigation of the momentum and contrarian effects on cryptocurrency markets. The investigated investment strategies involve 100 (amongst over 1200 present as of date Nov 2017) cryptocurrencies with the largest market cap and average 14-day daily volume exceeding a given threshold value. Investment portfolios are constructed using different assumptions regarding the portfolio reallocation period, width of the ranking window, the number of cryptocurrencies in the portfolio, and the percent transaction costs. The performance is benchmarked against: (1) equally weighted and (2) market-cap weighted investments in all of the ranked assets, as well as against the buy and hold strategies based on (3) S&P500 index, and (4) Bitcoin price. Our results show a clear and significant dominance of the short-term contrarian effect over both momentum effect and the benchmark portfolios. The information ratio coefficient for the contrarian strategies often exceeds two-digit values depending on the assumed reallocation period and the width of the ranking window. Additionally, we observe a significant diversification potential for all cryptocurrency portfolios with relation to the S&P500 index.
G13|Why you should not invest in mining endeavour? The efficiency of BTC mining under current market conditions|The main aim of this paper is to analyse the efficiency of BTC mining under current market conditions. After thorough analysis of initial assumptions concerning the (1) price of mining machine and its effective amortization period, (2) difficulty and hash rate of BTC network, (3) BTC transaction fees and (4) energy costs, we have found that currently BTC mining is not profitable, except for some rare cases. The main reason of this phenomenon is the fast and unpredictable increase of difficulty of BTC network over time which results in decreasing participation of our mining machines in BTC network hash rate. The research is augmented with detailed sensitivity analysis of mining efficiency to initial parameters assumptions, which allows to observe that the conditions for BTC mining to be efficient and profitable are very challenging to meet.
G13|Speculative activity and returns volatility of Chinese major agricultural commodity futures|Chinese futures markets for agricultural commodities are among the fastest growing futures markets in the world and trading behaviour in those markets is perceived as highly speculative. Therefore, we empirically investigate whether speculative activity in Chinese futures markets for agricultural commodities destabilizes futures returns. To capture speculative activity a speculation and a hedging ratio are used. Applying GARCH models, we first analyse the influence of both ratios on the conditional volatility of eight heavily traded Chinese futures contracts. Additionally, VAR models in conjunction with Granger causality tests, impulse-response analyses and variance decompositions are used to obtain insight into the lead-lag relationship between speculative activity and returns volatility. For most of the commodities, we find a positive influence of the speculation ratio on conditional volatility. The results relying on the hedging ratio are inconclusive.
G13|Risk premia and seasonality in commodity futures|We develop and estimate a multifactor affine model of commodity futures that allows for stochastic seasonality. We document the existence of stochastic seasonal fluctuations in commodity futures and that properly accounting for the cost‐of‐carry curve requires at least three factors. We estimate the model using data on heating oil futures and analyze the contribution of the factors to risk premia. Correctly specifying seasonality as stochastic is important to avoid erroneously assigning those fluctuations to other risk factors. We also estimate a nonlinear version of the model that imposes the zero lower bound on interest rates and find similar results.
G13|Convertible bonds and bank risk-taking|We study how contingent capital affects banks’ risk choices. When triggered in highly levered states, going-concern conversion reduces risk-taking incentives, unlike conversion at default by traditional bail-inable debt. Interestingly, contingent capital (CoCo) may be less risky than bail-inable debt as its lower priority is compensated by a lower induced risk. The main beneficial effect on risk incentives comes from reduced leverage upon conversion, while any equity dilution has the opposite effect. This is in contrast to traditional convertible debt, since CoCo bondholders have a short option position. As a result, principal write-down CoCo debt is most desirable for risk preventive purposes, although the effect may be tempered by a higher yield. The risk reduction effect of CoCo debt depends critically on the informativeness of the trigger. As it should ensure deleveraging in all states with high risk incentives, it is always inferior to pure equity.
G13|How to intervene in foreign exchange market without buying/selling dollars?|The Emerging Market Economies are vulnerable to adverse external shocks. Such shocks cause excessive volatility in foreign exchange markets. Faced with high volatility, the central banks in EMEs often end up, in futility, depleting their foreign exchange reserves by selling dollars to restore stability. Few central banks use currency-options based intervention to contain volatility and anchor market expectations. In the Indian context, this paper demonstrates that such options-based intervention policies can be considered to contain excessive volatility and anchoring market expectations. Using the risk-neutral densities extracted from currency options data, it is demonstrated that certain options-trading strategy can be effective in stabilizing markets. Therefore, options-based intervention may be a viable policy alternative, which is more cost-effective than the conventional spot-market intervention.
G13|A Temporal Analysis of Intraday Volatility of Nifty Futures on the National Stock Exchange|This paper aims to establish trends in intraday volatility in context of the Indian stock market and analyze the impact of development in the Indian economy on its stock market volatility. One minute tick data of Nifty 50 futures from Jan 1, 2011 to Aug 31, 2018 was used for the purpose of this research. Volatility was computed for each day of week and various time intervals. Our analysis shows evidence of the expected U-shaped pattern of intraday volatility (higher at the beginning and end of the day). We also observed a decline in the hourly volatility over the time period studied. However, sufficient evidence to determine the impact of development in the Indian economy on volatility in the stock market was not found.
G13|Zero-coupon interest rates: Evaluating three alternative datasets|The zero-coupon yield curve is a common input for most financial purposes. The authors consider three popular yield curve datasets, and explore the extent to which the decision as to what dataset to use for an application may have implications on the results. The paper illustrates why such decision may matter, examines the properties of each dataset, and explores what effect such datasets have on some important variables derived from the analysis of the time series of zero coupon yield curves. The authors provide guidance to final users for selecting a yield curve dataset.
G13|Volatility-of-volatility risk|We show that time-varying volatility of volatility is a significant risk factor which affects the cross-section and the time-series of index and VIX option returns, beyond volatility risk itself. Volatility and volatility-of-volatility measures, identified modelfree from the option price data as the VIX and VVIX indices, respectively, are only weakly related to each other. Delta-hedged index and VIX option returns are negative on average, and are more negative for strategies which are more exposed to volatility and volatility-of-volatility risks. Volatility and volatility of volatility significantly and negatively predict future delta-hedged option payoffs. The evidence is consistent with a no-arbitrage model featuring time-varying market volatility and volatility-of-volatility factors, both of which have negative market price of risk.
G13|Optimal Short-Termism|This paper studies incentives in a dynamic contracting framework of a levered firm. In particular, the manager selects long-term and short-term efforts, while shareholders choose initially optimal leverage and ex-post optimal default policies. There are three results. First, shareholders trade off the benefits of short-termism (current cash flows) against the benefits of higher growth from long-term effort (future cash flows), but because shareholders only split the latter with bondholders, they find short-termism ex-post optimal. Second, bright (grim) growth prospects imply lower (higher) optimal levels of short-termism. Third, the endogenous default threshold rises with the substitutability of tasks and, for a positive correlation of shocks, the endogenous default threshold is hump-shaped in the volatility of permanent shocks, but increases monotonically with the volatility of transitory shocks. Finally, we quantify agency costs of short-term and long-term effort, cost of short-termism, effects of investor time horizons, credit spreads, and risk-shifting.
G13|Generalized Recovery|We characterize when physical probabilities, marginal utilities, and the dis- count rate can be recovered from observed state prices for several future time periods. Our characterization makes no assumptions of the probability distribu- tion, thus generalizing the time-homogeneous stationary model of Ross (2015). Our characterization is simple and intuitive, linking recovery to the relation between the number of time periods and the number of states. When recovery is feasible, our model is easy to implement, allowing a closed-form linearized solution. We implement our model empirically, testing the predictive power of the recovered expected return and other recovered statistics.
G13|Expected Correlation and Future Market Returns|We document that information about the comovement of individual stocks, jointly extracted from index options and individual stock options, can be used to predict future market excess returns for horizons of up to 1 year, both in-sample and out-of-sample. The predictive power is incremental to that of risk measures exclusively based on the marginal distribution of the market, including (semi)variances and their risk premiums.~We attribute this predictability to the ability of expected correlation to capture expected variations in idiosyncratic risk and in the cross-sectional dispersion in systematic risk. A novel extension of the contemporaneous-beta approach significantly improves out-of-sample predictability.
G13|Accounting Noise and the Pricing of CoCos|Contingent Convertible bonds (CoCos) are debt instruments that convert into equity or are written down in times of distress. Existing pricing models assume conversion triggers based on market prices and on the assumption that markets can always observe all relevant firm information. But all Cocos issued so far have triggers based on accounting ratios and/or regulatory intervention. We incorporate that markets receive information through noisy accounting reports issued at discrete time instants, which allows us to distinguish between market and accounting values, and between automatic triggers and regulator-mandated conversions. Our second contribution is to incorporate that coupon payments are contingent too: their payment is conditional on the Maximum Distributable Amount not being exceeded. We examine the impact of CoCo design parameters, asset volatility and accounting noise on the price of a CoCo; and investigate the interaction between CoCo design features, the capital structure of the issuing bank and their implications for risk taking and investment incentives. Finally, we use our model to explain the crash in CoCo prices after Deutsche Bank's profit warning in February 2016.
G13|Options and the Gamma Knife|I survey work of Steve Ross (1976) and of Douglas Breeden and Robert Litzenberger (1978) that first showed how to use options to synthesize more complex securities. Their results made it possible to infer the risk-neutral measure associated with a traded asset, and underpinned the development of the VIX index. The other main result of Ross (1976), which shows how to infer joint risk-neutral distributions from option prices, has been much less influential. I explain why, and propose an alternative approach to the problem. This paper is dedicated to Steve Ross, and was written for a special issue of the Journal of Portfolio Management in memory of him.
G13|Option Prices and Costly Short-Selling|Much empirical evidence shows that stock short-selling costs and bans have significant effects on option prices. We reconcile these findings by providing a dynamic analysis of option prices with costly short-selling and option marketmakers. In our framework, short-sellers incur a shorting fee to borrow stock shares from lenders, who only partially lend their long positions. We obtain simple, closed-form, unique option bid and ask prices that represent option marketmakers' expected hedging costs, and are weighted-averages of well-known benchmark prices (Black-Scholes, Heston). Consistent with evidence, we show that bid-ask spreads of typical options, put option implied volatilities, and apparent put-call parity violations are increasing in the shorting fee. Our analysis also uncovers several novel predictions, most notably, option bid-ask spreads are decreasing in the partial lending, the option marketmakers' participation in the stock lending market is decreasing in the shorting fee for each call option sold, and the effects of short-selling costs on option bid-ask spreads are more pronounced for relatively illiquid options. We also apply our methodology to corporate bonds, which have option-like payoffs.
G13|An intermediation-based model of exchange rates|We develop a general equilibrium model with intermediaries at the heart of international financial markets. In our model, intermediaries bargain with their customers and extract rents for providing access to foreign claims. The behavior of intermediaries, by tilting state prices, generates an explicit, non-linear risk structure in exchange rates. We show how this endogenous risk structure helps explain a number of anomalies in foreign exchange and international capital markets, including the safe haven properties of exchange rates and the breakdown of covered interest parity.
G13|Variation margins, fire sales, and information-constrained optimality|Protection buyers use derivatives to share risk with protection sellers, whose assets are only imperfectly pledgeable because of moral hazard. To mitigate moral hazard, privately optimal derivative contracts involve variation margins. When margins are called, protection sellers must liquidate some of their own assets. We analyse, in a general-equilibrium framework, whether this leads to ineﬃcient fire sales. If investors buying in a fire sale interim can also trade ex ante with protection buyers, equilibrium is information-constrained eﬃcient even though not all marginal rates of substitution are equalized. Otherwise, privately optimal margin calls are ineﬃciently high. To address this ineﬃciency, public policy should facilitate ex-ante contracting among all relevant counterparties. JEL Classification: G18, D62, G13, D82
G13|Golden options in financial mathematics|This paper deals with the construction of smooth good deals (SGD), i.e., sequences of self- nancing strategies whose global risk diverges to ∞ and such that every security in every strategy of the sequence is a smooth derivative with a bounded delta. If the selected risk measure is the value at risk then these sequences exist under quite weak conditions, since one can involve risks with both bounded and unbounded expectation, as well as non-friction-free pricing rules. Moreover, every strategy in the sequence is composed of an European option plus a position in a riskless asset. The strike of the option is easily computed in practice, and the ideas may also apply in some actuarial problems such as the selection of an optimal reinsurance contract. If the chosen risk measure is a coherent one then the general setting is more limited. Indeed, though frictions are still accepted, expectations and variances must remain nite. The existence of SGDs will be characterized, and computational issues will be properly addressed as well. It will be shown that SGDs often exist, and for the conditional value at risk they are composed of the riskless asset plus easily replicable European puts. Numerical experiments will be presented in all of the studied cases.
G13|Estimating a Latent Risk Premium in Exchange Rate Futures|Using exchange rates futures instead of forwards completes the maturity spectrum of the correlation between the spot return and the premium. The correlation decreases with increasing maturity, presumably due to a latent risk premium. We hypothesize that the influence of the unobserved risk factor has a contract-specific risk component. Our main contribution is to control for the omitted variable bias by using a modified version of the CCE panel estimator in combination with futures data. This renders the coefficient on the futures premium insignificantly different from one. Subsequently, the contract-specific part is related to conventional proxies of risk.
G13|Variation margins, fire sales, and information-constrained optimality|Protection buyers use derivatives to share risk with protection sellers, whose assets are only imperfectly pledgeable because of moral hazard. To mitigate moral hazard, privately optimal derivative contracts involve variation margins. When margins are called, protection sellers must liquidate some of their own assets. We analyse, in a general-equilibrium framework, whether this leads to inefficient fire sales. If investors buying in a fire sale interim can also trade ex ante with protection buyers, equilibrium is information-constrained efficient even though not all marginal rates of substitution are equalized. Otherwise, privately optimal margin calls are inefficiently high. To address this inefficiency, public policy should facilitate ex-ante contracting among all relevant counterparties.
G13|The Response of European Energy Prices to ECB Monetary Policy|To our knowledge, this paper is the first to discuss the response of European energy commodity prices to unexpected monetary policy surprises from the European Central Bank (ECB). Using the Rigobon (2003) identification through heteroscedasticity method, we find a significant and positive response during the crisis period for Brent and coal. Similar results are obtained by other authors for European financial assets in this period. This result reinforces the idea that during this period, financial assets and some commodities positively responded to conventional and unconventional expansionary monetary policy measures, increasing confidence about the survival of the European monetary union. The remaining European energy commodities (electricity, EUAs, and natural gas prices) seem to be unaffected by monetary policy actions. We think these results are of interest to those economic agents and institutions involved in European energy markets and are especially important for the European Central Bank in order to predict the consequences of its monetary policy on the inflation objective.
G13|Financial density forecasts: A comprehensive comparison of risk‐neutral and historical schemes|We investigate the forecasting ability of the most commonly used benchmarks in financial economics. We approach the usual caveats of probabilistic forecasts studies—small samples, limited models, and nonholistic validations—by performing a comprehensive comparison of 15 predictive schemes during a time period of over 21 years. All densities are evaluated in terms of their statistical consistency, local accuracy and forecasting errors. Using a new composite indicator, the integrated forecast score, we show that risk‐neutral densities outperform historical‐based predictions in terms of information content. We find that the variance gamma model generates the highest out‐of‐sample likelihood of observed prices and the lowest predictive errors, whereas the GARCH‐based GJR‐FHS delivers the most consistent forecasts across the entire density range. In contrast, lognormal densities, the Heston model, or the nonparametric Breeden–Litzenberger formula yield biased predictions and are rejected in statistical tests.
G13|Accounting Noise and the Pricing of Cocos|Contingent Convertible bonds (CoCos) are debt instruments that convert into equity or are written down in times of distress. Existing pricing models assume conversion triggers based on market prices and on the assumption that markets can always observe all relevant firm information. But all Cocos issued sofar have triggers based on accounting ratios and/or regulatory intervention. We incorporate that markets receive information through noisy accounting reports issued at discrete intervals, which allows us to distinguish between market and accounting values, and between automatic triggers and regulator-mandated conversions. Our second contribution is to incorporate that coupon payments are contingent too: their payment is conditional on the maxumum Distributable Amount not being exceeded. We examine the impact of CoCo design parameters, asset volatility and accounting noise on the price of a CoCo; and investigate the interaction between CoCo design features, the capital structure of the issuing bank and their implications for risk taking and investment incentives. Finally, we use our model to explain the crash in coco prices after Deutsche Bank's profit warning february 2016.
G13|A New Model for Pricing Collateralized Financial Derivatives|This paper presents a new model for pricing financial derivatives subject to collateralization. It allows for collateral arrangements adhering to bankruptcy laws. As such, the model can back out the market price of a collateralized contract. This framework is very useful for valuing outstanding derivatives. Using a unique dataset, we find empirical evidence that credit risk alone is not overly important in determining credit-related spreads. Only accounting for both collateral posting and credit risk can sufficiently explain unsecured credit costs. This finding suggests that failure to properly account for collateralization may result in significant mispricing of derivatives. We also empirically gauge the impact of collateral agreements on risk measurements. Our findings indicate that there are important interactions between market and credit risk.
G13|The WTI/Brent oil futures price differential and the globalisation-regionalisation hypothesis|This study examines the globalisation-regionalisation hypothesis in the WTI/Brent crude oil futures price differential by considering a set of the potential determinants at 1, 3 and 6 months to maturity contracts. To this end, we employ monthly data over the period 1993:1-2016:12 for a set of crude oil-market specific (convenience yield, consumption, production) and oil-futures market specific (open interest, trading volume) determinants. Our results can be outlined as follows. First, the WTI/Brent convenience yield spread can drive a wedge between the WTI and Brent oil futures prices for the nearby month and 3-month contracts. Second, the WTI/Brent oil production spread is a significant determinant for the 1-month, the 3-month and the 6-month to maturity contracts, while the WTI/Brent oil consumption spread is significant for the 6-month contract. Third, the WTI/Brent open interest spread appears to influence the oil futures price variability between the WTI and Brent for the 3-month and the 6-month contracts, while the WTI/Brent trading volume spread lends predictive power for the 1-month and the 3-month contracts. Fourth, the oil futures market does not appear to be globalised in every time period. We provide evidence of a regionalised oil futures market in the short-run horizon. Fifth, our robustness analysis lends support to the above findings. The findings of this study provide valuable information to energy investors, traders and hedgers.
G13|The “Too Big to Fail” Subsidy in Canada: Some Estimates|Implicit government guarantees of banking-sector liabilities reduce market discipline by private sector stakeholders and temper the risk sensitivity of funding costs. This potentially increases the likelihood of bailouts from taxpayers, especially in the absence of effective resolution frameworks. Estimates of “too big to fail” (TBTF) implicit subsidies are useful to understand bank agents’ incentives, measure potential resolution costs and assess the credibility of regulatory reform. Given the implicit nature of the subsidy, I propose a framework that adopts two empirical approaches to assess the quantum of the subsidies accruing to systemic banks in Canada. The first is based on credit rating agencies’ assessment of public support and the second relies on a contingent claims analysis. Results suggest more progress on resolution is needed, such as the implementation of a credible statutory bail-in regime for senior obligations, to increase market discipline and help address TBTF externalities. That said, Canada being an early adopter of Basel III might help explain the significant reduction in the government’s contingent liability since the peak years of the crisis.
G13|Analyzing the structural transformation of commodity markets: financialization revisited|The first decade of the 21st century saw wide fluctuations in commodity prices and a massively increased participation of financial investors in the commodity derivatives markets. The investigation of whether the presence of financial investors was responsible for these fluctuations - and, more in general, whether large trades affected futures and spot prices - has yielded mixed results in the literature. We take up this question by linking financialization to the ongoing structural transformation of the commodity markets. First, we discuss issues related to the identification of the price effects of financialization; then, we present models of commodity markets with heterogeneous agents and informational frictions and discuss the role of financial investors as the counterparts of commercial hedgers. Lastly, we suggest some avenues for future research, including the possible implications of the shale revolution and of commodity trading in the financialization process.
G13|An explanation of negative swap spreads: demand for duration from underfunded pension plans|The 30-year U.S. swap spreads have been negative since September 2008. We offer a novel explanation for this persistent anomaly. Through an illustrative model, we show that underfunded pension plans optimally use swaps for duration hedging. Combined with dealer banks' balance sheet constraints, this demand can drive swap spreads to become negative. Empirically, we construct a measure of the aggregate funding status of Defined Benefit pension plans and show that this measure is a significant explanatory variable of 30-year swap spreads. We find a similar link between pension funds' underfunding and swap spreads for two other regions.
G13|An Intermediation-Based Model of Exchange Rates|We develop a general equilibrium model with intermediaries at the heart of international financial markets. In our model, intermediaries bargain with their customers and extract rents for providing access to foreign claims. The behavior of intermediaries, by tilting state prices, generates an explicit, non-linear risk structure in exchange rates. We show how this endogenous risk structure helps explain a number of anomalies in foreign exchange and international capital markets, including the safe haven properties of exchange rates and the breakdown of covered interest parity.
G13|Stochastic volatility, jumps and leverage in energy and stock markets: evidence from high frequency data|In this paper, we propose a model for futures returns that has the potential to provide both individual investors and firms who have positions in financial and energy commodity futures a valid tail risk management tool. In doing so, we also aim to explore the commonalities between these markets and the degree of financialization of energy commodities. Unlike most of the existing studies in energy derivative markets based on daily data, our empirical analysis makes use of high-frequency (tick-by-tick) data from the futures markets, aggregated to 10-minute intervals during the trading day. The intraday variation is then utilized to generate daily time series of prices, returns and realized variance. We estimate stochastic volatility models using a GMM approach based on the moment conditions of the Integrated Volatility derived from high frequency data. While existing empirical studies in energy markets embed either leverage or jumps in the futures return dynamics, we show that the introduction of both features improves the ability to forecast volatility as an indicator for risk for both the S&P500 and natural gas futures markets using both the RMSE and MAE criteria. Our analysis also shows that overall, the introduction of both leverage and jumps in the SVJL model provides the best forecast for risk in both a VaR and a CVaR sense for investors who have any position in natural gas futures regardless of their degree of risk aversion. In the S&P500 market, the SVJL model provides the most precise forecast of risk in a CVaR sense for risk-averse investors with any position in futures, regardless of their degree of risk aversion. Focusing on a firm's internal risk management, the introduction of both jumps and leverage in the SVJL model would benefit speculative firms who are short natural gas futures aiming at minimizing tail risk in a VaR sense, as well as speculative firms who are long S&P500 futures and use either VaR or CVaR as financial risk management criteria while wanting to minimize the opportunity cost of capital.
G13|Formation of Market Beliefs in the Oil Market|We characterize formation of market beliefs in the oil market by providing a complete characterization of the market reaction to oil inventory surprises. We utilize the unique sequential nature of inventory announcements to identify inventory shocks. We estimate an AR-ARCH-MEM model of the joint dynamics of returns, return volatilities and trading volumes around the announcements using high frequency data on oil futures contracts. Our model (i) handles illiquidity of long maturity contracts by accounting for trading inactivity, (ii) captures time varying trading intensity, and (iii) allows for structural changes in the dynamics and responses to news over time. We show (i) uniform formation of expectations across oil futures contracts with different maturities, (ii) a strong negative relation between inventories surprises and returns, (iii) no effect on the term premium, which suggests that inventory shocks are always considered to be permanent, and (iv) differentiation in the reaction of volume by maturity. We demonstrate how our results can be used to test theories of oil price determination and contribute to the debate on the recent oil glut.
G13|Asian Option Pricing with Orthogonal Polynomials|In this paper we derive a series expansion for the price of a continuously sampled arithmetic Asian option in the Black-Scholes setting. The expansion is based on polynomials that are orthogonal with respect to the log-normal distribution. All terms in the series are fully explicit and no numerical integration nor any special functions are involved. We provide sufficient conditions to guarantee convergence of the series. We address the moment indeterminacy of the log-normal distribution and numerically investigate its impact on the asymptotic behavior of the series.
G13|S&P 500 Index, an Option-Implied Risk Analysis|The forward-looking nature of option market data allows one to derive economically-based and model-free conditional risk measures. The option-implied methodology is a tool for regulators and companies to perform external or internal risk analysis without posing assumptions on the distribution of returns. The article proposes the first comprehensive and extensive analysis of the performances of these measures compared with classical risk measures for the S&P500. Delivering good results both at short and long time horizons, the option-implied estimates emerge as a convenient alternative to the existing risk measures.
G13|Crash Risk in Individual Stocks|In this study, I implement a novel methodology to extract crash risk premia from options and stock markets. I document a dramatic increase in crash risk premia after the 2008/2009 financial crisis, indicating that investors are willing to pay high insurance to hedge against crashes in individual stocks. My results apply to all sectors but are most pronounced for the financial sector. At the same time, crash risk premia on the market index remained at pre-crisis levels. I theoretically explain this puzzling feature in an economy where investors face short-sale constraints. Under short-sale constraints, prices are less informationally efficient which can explain the increase in downside risk in individual stocks. In the data, I document a strong link between proxies of short-sale constraints and crash risk premia.
G13|Polynomial Processes for Power Prices|Polynomial processes have the property that expectations of polynomial functions (of degree n, say) of the future state of the process conditional on the current state are given by polynomials (of degree
G13|Are CoCo Bonds a Good Substitute for Equity? Evidence from European Banks|Following the 2008-9 financial crisis, large banks increasingly issued contingent convertible bonds (CoCo bonds) to increase their capital buffers – a policy supported by national bank regulators. This paper examines whether the issuance of CoCo bonds provides the same reduction in bank default risk as the corresponding issuance of common equity by analyzing the premium reduction in (single name) credit default swaps (CDS) around the corresponding issuance announcement events. We find that the default risk reduction associated with issuance crucially depends on the CoCo bond’s design features: Only CoCo bond designs with permanent write-down features provide a default risk reduction similar to equity. CoCo bonds with equity conversion features come with a lower subsequent volatility of the bank asset value, but are inferior to equity in terms of their default risk reduction.
G13|Ambiguity Aversion and the Variance Premium|This paper offers an ambiguity-based interpretation of the variance premium — the difference between risk-neutral and objective expectations of market return variance — as a compounding effect of both belief distortion and variance differential regarding the uncertain economic regimes. Our calibrated model can match the variance premium, the equity premium, and the risk-free rate in the data. We find that about 97% of the mean–variance premium can be attributed to ambiguity aversion. A three-way separation among ambiguity aversion, risk aversion, and intertemporal substitution, permitted by the smooth ambiguity preferences, plays a key role in our model’s quantitative performance.
G13|Relative pricing and risk premia in equity volatility markets|This paper provides empirical evidence that volatility markets are integrated through the time-varying term structure of variance risk premia. These risk premia predict the returns from selling volatility for different horizons, maturities, and products, including variance swaps, straddles, and VIX futures. In addition, the paper derives a closed-form relationship between the prices of variance swaps and VIX futures. While tightly linked, VIX futures exhibit deviations of varying significance from the no-arbitrage prices and bounds implied by the variance swap market. The paper examines these pricing errors and their relationship to VIX futures’ return predictability.
G13|The skewness of commodity futures returns|This article studies the relation between the skewness of commodity futures returns and expected returns. A trading strategy that takes long positions in commodity futures with the most negative skew and shorts those with the most positive skew generates significant excess returns that remain after controlling for exposure to well-known risk factors. A tradeable skewness factor explains the cross-section of commodity futures returns beyond exposures to standard risk premia. The impact that skewness has on future returns is explained by investors’ preferences for skewness under cumulative prospect theory and selective hedging practices.
G13|Are BRICS Markets Equally Exposed to Trump’s Agenda?|There is no doubt that politicians exert a significant impact on stock markets. The evolving financial market volatility over the United States presidential election is a prime example of how elections have an impact on financial markets. This study assessed whether BRICS stock markets were equally vulnerable to Trump’s agenda using event-study methodology and regression-based intention votes over a period of 120 days toward the final election result on 08 November 2016. It was shown that although Trump’s win had a negative effect on some markets, it had a positive effect on others. It had the most adverse impact on China together with Brazil. Although not to the same degree as these two countries, India and South Africa were also affected negatively. These adverse reactions can be explained by Trump’s neo-mercantilist attitude, which involves cancelling trade deals and instituting tariffs. However, the effects on Russia appear to be positive due to the expectations about the easing of sanctions imposed on Russia because of the Russian role in the conflict of Ukraine.
G13|Toward generalization of futures contracts for raw materials: A probabilistic answer applied to metal markets|In this paper, we aim at identifying root causes linked to presence or absence of futures contracts for raw materials. Unlike previous analyses focused on the success of futures contracts via exchange volume and open interest, we offer an alternative logit model applied to the presence or absence of futures contracts for 53 metal markets. We use different factors (price and physical quantities produced, geographical concentration…) and several combinations of variables in order to explore the root causes of futures contracts. The model shows both great explaining capability and a good prediction power which are robust to data resampling. According to the model, it is unlikely that minor metals successfully introduce futures contracts in the coming years. We also discuss the use and interest of this model by institutions and financial authorities devoted to the development of futures contracts for raw material markets.
G13|Pricing Credit Default Swap Subject to Counterparty Risk and Collateralization|This article presents a new model for valuing a credit default swap (CDS) contract that is affected by multiple credit risks of the buyer, seller and reference entity. We show that default dependency has a significant impact on asset pricing. In fact, correlated default risk is one of the most pervasive threats in financial markets. We also show that a fully collateralized CDS is not equivalent to a risk-free one. In other words, full collateralization cannot eliminate counterparty risk completely in the CDS market.
G13|Pricing Financial Derivatives Subject to Counterparty Risk and Credit Value Adjustment|This article presents a generic model for pricing financial derivatives subject to counterparty credit risk. Both unilateral and bilateral types of credit risks are considered. Our study shows that credit risk should be modeled as American style options in most cases, which require a backward induction valuation. To correct a common mistake in the literature, we emphasize that the market value of a defaultable derivative is actually a risky value rather than a risk-free value. Credit value adjustment (CVA) is also elaborated. A practical framework is developed for pricing defaultable derivatives and calculating their CVAs at a portfolio level.
G13|Die Theorie der fairen geometrischen Rendite<BR>[The Theory of Fair Geometric Returns]|"The theory of fair geometric returns, F theory for short, rejects the generally accepted notion that volatility is the risk of risky assets. Instead, it claims that capital market volatility, in turn, constitutes the maximum achievable geometric return. In order to get to the point, F theory, in addition to its own ideas, resorts to information theoretical considerations (centrally Shannon, 1948). The starting point of the analysis is a specific initial observation concerning the geometric mean return (G): Consecutive geometric returns of fairly (properly) exchange-traded assets ex post almost always turn out to be unequal. The author proposes two consequences to be drawn from this observation, which can be made daily at the financial market: (1) E[G]≠G dominates E[G]=G. Then what is E[G]? When does E[G]=G hold? (2) Since (it seems) there is volatility in G, is this volatility usable as part of a contrarian ""buy low, sell high"" strategy? If yes, how? In answer to these and other questions, the master's degree candidate presents a formulae system along with qualitative context, which essentially comprises: a formula for the expected geometric mean return; a measure of the abnormal return on an asset; movement probabilities in relation to the return process; an equivalent to Claude Shannon's famous information flow formula; the (here so-called) concept of the fugue – a novel countercyclical investment strategy borrowed from music theory; as well as an F-theory consistent option price and self-insurance model."
G13|Futures risk premia in the era of shale oil|The advent of shale oil in the United States triggered a structural transformation in the oil market. We show, both theoretically and empirically, that this process has relevant consequences on oil risk premia. We construct a consumption-based model with shale producers interacting with financial speculators in the futures market. Compared to conventionals, shale producers have a more flexible technology, but higher risk aversion and additional costs due to their reliance on external finance. Our model helps to explain the observed pattern of aggregate hedging by US firms in the last decade. The empirical analysis shows that the hedging pressure of shale producers has become more relevant than that of conventional producers in explaining the oil futures risk premium.
G13|A Temporal Analysis of Intraday Volatility of Nifty Futures on the National Stock Exchange|This paper aims to establish trends in intraday volatility in context of the Indian stock market and analyze the impact of development in the Indian economy on its stock market volatility. One minute tick data of Nifty 50 futures from Jan 1, 2011 to Aug 31, 2018 was used for the purpose of this research. Volatility was computed for each day of week and various time intervals. Our analysis shows evidence of the expected U-shaped pattern of intraday volatility (higher at the beginning and end of the day). We also observed a decline in the hourly volatility over the time period studied. However, sufficient evidence to determine the impact of development in the Indian economy on volatility in the stock market was not found.
G13|Navigating the oil bubble: A non-linear heterogeneous-agent dynamic model of futures oil pricing|We analyze short-term futures oil pricing over the 2003-2016 time-period in order to analyze the bubble-like dynamics, which characterizes the 2007-2009 years according to a large body of recent literature. Our investigation, based on a flexible three-agent model (hedgers, fundamentalist speculators and chartists), confirms the presence of a bubble price pattern, which we attribute to the strong destabilizing behaviour of fundamentalist speculators (e.g. hedge funds). The inclusion of the 2009-2016 sub-period, in spite of sharp and unexpected fluctuations in oil prices and a significant increase in the influence of geopolitical factors, fails to invalidate our financial interpretation.
G13|A Second Look at Post Crisis Pricing of Derivatives - Part I: A Note on Money Accounts and Collateral|The paper reviews origins of the approach to pricing derivatives post-crisis by following three papers that have received wide acceptance from practitioners as the theoretical foundations for it - [Piterbarg 2010], [Burgard and Kjaer 2010] and [Burgard and Kjaer 2013]. The review reveals several conceptual and technical inconsistencies with the approaches taken in these papers. In particular, a key component of the approach - prescription of cost components to a risk-free money account, generates derivative prices that are not cleared by the markets that trade the derivative and its underlying securities. It also introduces several risk-free positions (accounts) that accrue at persistently non-zero spreads with respect to each other and the risk free rate. In the case of derivatives with counterparty default risk [Burgard and Kjaer 2013] introduces an approach referred to as semi-replication, which through the choice of cost components in the money account results in derivative prices that carry arbitrage opportunities in the form of holding portfolio of counterparty's bonds versus a derivative position with it. This paper derives no-arbitrage expressions for default-risky derivative contracts with and without collateral, avoiding these inconsistencies. It will be followed by a part two paper that deals with the derivation of XVA expressions based on the approach in this paper.
G13|The Effects of Trading Suspensions in China|We study the effects of both mandatory and voluntary trading suspensions on stock prices, volatility and trading volume in China’s stock market. It is found that both voluntary and mandatory suspensions generate negative abnormal returns. Trading volume and volatility rise significantly in the post-suspension period. Our results suggest that suspensions are not effective in calming down investors in China. Ownership structure and duration of suspension explain the ineffectiveness of suspensions.
G13|Herding Behaviour in the Cryptocurrency Market|This study examines the presence of herding in the cryptocurrency market. The latter is the outcome of mass collaboration and imitation. Results from the static model suggest no significant herding. However, the presence of structural breaks and nonlinearities in the data series suggests applying a static model is not appropriate. Accordingly, we conduct a rolling-window analysis, and those results point to significant herding behavior, which varies over time. Using a logistic regression, we find that herding tends to occur as uncertainty increases. Our findings induce useful insights related to portfolio and risk management, trading strategies, and market efficiency.
G13|A New Predictor of US. Real Economic Activity: The S&P 500 Option Implied Risk Aversion| We propose a new predictor of U.S. real economic activity (REA), namely the representative investor’s implied relative risk aversion (IRRA) extracted from S&P 500 option prices. IRRA is forward-looking and hence, it is expected to be related to future economic conditions. We document that U.S. IRRA predicts U.S. REA both in- and out-of-sample once we control for well-known REA predictors and take into account their persistence. An increase (decrease) in IRRA predicts a decrease (increase) in REA. We extend the empirical analysis by extracting IRRA from the South Korea, UK, Japanese and German index option markets. We find that South Korea IRRA predicts the South Korea REA both in- and out-of-sample, as expected given the high liquidity of its index option market. We show that a parsimonious yet flexible production economy model calibrated to the U.S. economy can explain the documented negative relation between risk aversion and future economic growth.
G13|Positive Stock Information In Out-Of-The-Money Option Prices| We examine whether the option market leads the stock market with respect to positive in addition to negative price discovery. We document that out-of-themoney (OTM) option prices, which determine the Risk-Neutral Skewness (RNS) of the underlying stock return’s distribution, can embed positive information regarding the underlying stock. A long-only portfolio of stocks with the highest RNS values yields significant positive alpha in the post-ranking week during the period 1996-2014. This outperformance is mainly driven by stocks that are relatively underpriced but are also exposed to greater downside risk. These findings are consistent with a trading mechanism where investors choose to exploit perceived stock underpricing via OTM options due to their embedded leverage, rather than directly buying the underlying stock to avoid exposure to its potential downside. Due to the absence of severe limits-to-arbitrage for the long-side, the price correction signalled by RNS is very quick, typically overnight.
G13|The Contribution of Frictions to Expected Returns| We derive a model-free option-based formula to estimate the contribution of market frictions to expected returns (CFER) within an asset pricing setting. We estimate CFER for the U.S. optionable stocks. We document that CFER is sizable, it predicts stock returns and it subsumes the effect of frictions on expected returns as expected theoretically. The sizable alpha of a long-short portfolio formed on CFER is consistent with the size of market frictions and it is not due to model mis-specification. Moreover, we show that various option-implied measures proxy CFER, thus providing a theoretical explanation for their ability to predict stock returns.
G13|The impact of central clearing on the market for single-name credit default swaps|In this paper, we examine the impact of the voluntary central clearing scheme on the CDS market for North American firms during the period spanning 2009 to 2015. In order to address the endogeneity problem arising from the fact that central clearing is not mandatory for single-name CDSs, we use a methodology that relies on propensity-score matching combined with generalized difference-in-differences. Our empirical findings show that initiating the central clearing results in an increase in CDS spreads, while there is no evidence of an associated improvement in CDS market liquidity and trading activity or of a deterioration in the default risk of the underlying bond. These results suggest that the increase in CDS spreads of centrally cleared entities can be mainly attributed to the reduction in CDS counterparty risk, and that the magnitude of this price increase (19 bps) could be used as an assessment of counterparty risk in the non-cleared CDS market.
G13|Mis-pricing in Single Stock Futures: Evidence from National Stock Exchange of India|We examine the determinants of mispricing in single stock futures traded in the National Stock Exchange of India, the second largest global trading venue for such contracts. We compute mispricing bounds using multi-regime models for over one hundred stocks. The size of the mispricing window - defined as the distance between these bounds - increases with decrease in liquidity. Liquidity of the futures market has a larger impact on the size of the mispricing window as compared to that of the spot market. After controlling for such liquidity effects, the size of the mispricing window is found to increase with increase in volatility. This suggests that concerns related to margin calls and execution shortfalls dominate early exit options. Volatility has an asymmetrical effect on mispricing bounds. We attribute this to short-sale constraints since they make the early exit option difficult to exercise when futures are under-priced.
G13|Markovian and multi-curve friendly parametrisation of HJM model used in valuation adjustment of interest rate derivatives|We consider feasible Heath-Jarrow-Morton framework specifications that are easily implementable in XVA engines when pricing linear and non-linear interest rate derivatives in multicurve environment. Our particular focus is on relatively less liquid markets (Polish PLN) and the calibration problems arising from that fact. We first develop necessary tool-kit for multicurve construction and XVA integration and then show and discuss various specifications of HJM model with regard to their practical usage. We demonstrate the importance of Cheyette subclass and derive dynamics of instantaneous forward rates in generic form. We performed calibrations of several one-factor models of that form and found out that even with relatively simple specification i.e. Hull-White with two summands we may achieve satisfactory results in terms of calibration's quality and calculation time.
G13|On the trade-offs in money market benchmarks' stabilisation|We propose a theoretical stochastic set-up for a panel of contributors to a volume weighted raw money market index, which is the main contribution of this research. 'The hypothetical problems with: changes in the panel's composition as well as the irregu- larity of daily contributions may strongly influence the utility of a final benchmark to be used in medium and long term loan contracts, especially with retail clients. Our focus is on several classes of benchmarks' formulae that are derived from this raw index and allow for some confinement of the mentioned drawbacks while decreasing quality measured by other criteria (goodness of fit). The set of classes include: the geometric time weights with different smoothing parameters and observation window's length used on the original raw index, stabilisation of the raw index in bands, rolling window volume weights rebalancing and finally the geometric time weights performed on log-transformed index (log-raw index is calculated from volume logarithms). The potential trade-offs in such a benchmark's stabilisation efforts are shown.
G13|Too Much of a Good Thing? Speculative Effects on Commodity Futures Curves|The increasing inflow of institutional investors replicating broad based indices into commodity futures markets has been linked to excessive calendar spreads and anomalies in futures curves. At the same time, these investors have been welcomed as liquidity providers. This paper hypothesises that this apparent dissent can be reconciled by considering the relative size of index positions to hedging positions, rather than the presence of index traders alone. The hypothesis is tested empirically for three soft commodity markets: cocoa, coffee, and cotton. By use of factor decomposition, the paper shows empirically that (a) index and hedging positions have inverse and offsetting effects on futures curves, and (b) index positions, net of hedging positions, are associated with upward sloping and peaked futures curves and occasionally wave-like shapes linked to roll-effects. The paper concludes that index traders are welcomed liquidity providers but can become Ã«too much of a good thingÃ­ if exceeding hedgers' demand for counterparty.
G13|Price discovery in commodity futures and cash markets with heterogeneous agents|Since 2004, commodity futures markets have seen an unprecedented liquidity inflow linked to noise traders that follow global liquidity cycles rather than market fundamentals. This paper develops a price discovery model for commodity futures markets that incorporates noise trader effects by assuming two forms of limits to arbitrage: transaction costs and noise trader risk. It is shown that under these assumptions, commodity prices are driven by both market fundamentals and noise trader positions. Further, noise trader effects spill over to the cash market if limits to arbitrage due to transaction costs are imperfect but are confined to the futures market otherwise. The model is empirically tested using data from six grain and soft commodity markets.
G13|Equilibrium Prices of the Market Portfolio in the CAPM with Incomplete Financial Markets|In the Capital Asset Pricing Model, we consider how introducing new assets will affect the prices of the existing ones. We prove that introducing new assets into financial markets increases the relative price of the market portfolio with respect to the risk-free bond if the elasticity of the marginal rates of substitution of the mean for standard deviation with respect to the latter is greater than one for every consumer; the relative price of the market portfolio decreases if the elasticity is less than one; and the relative price is left unchanged if the elasticity is equal to one.
G13|Forecasting International Index Returns using Option-implied Variables|This paper investigates international index return predictability using option-implied information. We document the significant predictive power of the variance risk premium (VRP), Foster-Hart risk (FH), and higher-order moments for horizons ranging from 1 to 250 days. Our results from predictive regressions show that these four risk-neutral metrics, which have the advantage of daily updating, perform well internationally. VRP and FH risk are significant predictors for several horizons, including less than one month (VRP) and longer horizons (FH). Risk-neutral skewness and kurtosis are significant for several countries across multiple horizons. Out-of-sample forecasts and utility gain calculations confirm the statistical and economic significance of these risk-neutral variables internationally.
G13|The use of option prices in order to evaluate the skewness risk premium|The objectives of this study are twofold. First, to determine the sign and to assess the magnitude of the skewness risk premium (SRP) in the Italian index option market using two methods: (i) skewness swap contracts, and (ii) option trading strategies. Second, to investigate the behavior of the skewness risk premium for short and medium-term maturities in order to provide investors with a proper time horizon for skewness trading strategies. Several results are obtained. First, the SRP, defined as the difference between the physical and the risk-neutral measure of skewness, is positive and it is both statistically and economically significant. This indicates that SRP does exists, it is positive in sign, and it can be quantified. Second, SRP is the highest in magnitude for the 30-day maturity (€35 on a €100 of notional) while it is lower for 60-day and 90-day maturity (both close to €27 on a €100 of notional). Third, skewness trading strategies confirm our finding of a positive and economically significant risk premium for skewness. In particular, the profitability of trading strategies is concentrated on the left tail of the distribution, suggesting a considerable overvaluation of out-of-the-money put options. Fourth, as regards the proper time horizon for skewness trading, we find that a strategy that sells out-of-the-money puts is more profitable, if options with maturity ranging from 30 to 70 days are used. On the other hand, a strategy that takes a long position in out-of-the-money calls, and a short position in out-of-the-money puts, yields a higher return, if options with short-term maturity are used. This suggests that investors are more averse to tail risk for short-term horizons than they are for medium-term horizons.
G13|The properties of a skewness index and its relation with volatility and returns|The objectives of this study are threefold. First, we investigate the properties of a skewness index in order to determine whether it captures fear (fear of losing money), or greed in the market (fear of losing opportunities). Second, we uncover the contemporaneous linear relationship among skewness, volatility and returns. Third, we provide evidence on the information content of skewness on future returns, which is highly debated in the literature. Fourth, we investigate the Italian market, where a skewness index is not traded yet. The methodology we propose for the construction of the Italian skewness index is applicable also to other European and non-European countries characterized by a limited number of option traded. Several results are obtained. First, in the Italian market the skewness index acts as measures of market greed, as opposed to market fear, namely that it measures more investors’ excitement than investors’ fear. Second, for almost 70% of the daily observations, the implied volatility and the skewness index move together but in opposite directions. Increases (decreases) in volatility and decreases (increases) in the skewness index are associated with negative (positive) returns. Last, we find strong evidence that positive returns are reflected both in a decrease in the implied volatility index and in an increase in the skewness index the following day. Implications for investors and policy makers are drawn.
G13|Modelling Time-Varying Income Elasticities of Health Care Expenditure for the OECD|Income elasticity dynamics of health expenditure is considered for the OECD and the Eurozone over the period 1995-2014. This paper studies a novel non-linear cointegration model with fixed effects, controlling for cross-section dependence and unobserved heterogeneity. Most importantly, its coefficients can vary over time and its variables can be non-stationary. The resulting asymptotic theory is fundamentally different with a faster rate of convergence to similar kernel smoothing methodologies. A fully modified kernel regression method is also proposed to reduce the asymptotic bias. Results show a steep increase in the income elasticity for the OECD and a small increase for the Eurozone.
G13|Corporate Credit Risk Premia|We measure credit risk premia, meaning the price for bearing corporate default risk in excess of expected default losses, using Markit CDS and Moody's Analytics EDF data. We find dramatic variation over time in credit risk premia, with peaks in 2002, during the global financial crisis of 2008-09, and in the second half of 2011. These risk premia comove with economic indicators, even after controlling for variation in expected default losses, with higher premia per unit of expected loss during times of market-wide distress. Countercyclical variation of premia-to-expected-loss ratios is more pronounced for investment-grade issuers than for high-yield issuers.
G13|Shadow Funding Costs: Measuring the Cost of Balance Sheet Constraints|Recent theory suggests that balance sheet frictions and constraints faced by financial intermediaries can have major asset pricing implications. We propose a new measure of the impact of these constraints on intermediary funding costs that is based on the implied cost of renting intermediary balance sheet space. On average, balance sheet constraints add 81 basis points to intermediary funding costs, but the impact often exceeds 200 basis points during a crisis. We find that these balance sheet costs have real effects on intermediary investment decisions and asset holdings. Increases in balance sheet costs are associated with short-term increases in the use of derivatives, but longer-term declines in risk-taking by financial institutions. Balance sheet costs introduce a wedge between on- and off-balance-sheet investments which may help resolve a number of asset pricing puzzles.
G13|Do Properly Anticipated Prices Fluctuate Randomly? Evidence from VIX Futures Markets|The VIX index is not traded on the spot market. Hence, in contrast to other futures markets, the VIX futures contract and spot index are not linked by a no-arbitrage condition. We examine (a) whether predictability in the VIX index carries over to the futures market, and (b) whether there is independent time series predictability in VIX futures prices. The answer to both questions is no. Samuelson (1965) was right: VIX futures prices properly anticipate predictability in volatility, and are themselves unpredictable.
G13|The Valuation of Fisheries Rights: A Real Options Approach|This article develops and implements a Real Option approach to value renewable natural resources in the case of Marine Fisheries. The model includes two sources of uncertainty: the resource biomass and the price of fish, and it can be used by fisheries to optimally adapt their harvesting strategy to changing conditions in these stochastic variables. The model also features realistic operational cash flows and fisheries can shutdown and reopen operations. Using publicly available data on the British Columbia halibut fishery, the required parameters are estimated and the model solved. The results indicate that the conservation of the biomass is both optimal from a financial and a social perspective. The approach could be extended to other fish species and natural resources if the appropriate data were available.
G13|The impact of uncertainty shocks on the volatility of commodity prices|In this paper, we empirically examine the impact of uncertainty shocks on the volatility of commodity prices. Using several alternative measures of economic uncertainty for the U.S., we estimate their effects on commodity price volatility through VAR analysis. We find that the latent uncertainty shocks have the most significant impact on commodity price volatility when compared to observable measures of economic uncertainty. In specific, our results show that the unobservable economic uncertainty measures of Jurado et al. (2015) have a significant and long-lasting positive effect on the volatility of commodity prices. Our findings indicate that a positive shock in unobservable macroeconomic and financial uncertainty leads to a persistent increase in the volatility of the broad commodity market index and of individual commodity prices, with the macroeconomic effect being more significant. Finally, we show that the impact is stronger in energy commodities compared to agricultural and metals markets.
G13|Speculative Activity and Returns to Volatility of Chinese Major Agricultural Commodity Futures|Chinese futures markets for agricultural commodities are among the fastest growing futures markets in the world and trading behaviour in those markets is perceived as highly speculative. Therefore, we empirically investigate whether speculative activity in Chinese futures markets for agricultural commodities destabilizes futures returns. To capture speculative activity a speculation and a hedging ratio are used. Applying GARCH models we first analyse the influence of both ratios on the conditional volatility of eight heavily traded Chinese futures contracts. Additionally, VAR models in conjunction with Granger causality tests, impulse-response analyses and variance decompositions are used to obtain insight into the lead-lag relationship between speculative activity and returns volatility. For most of the commodities, we find a positive influence of the speculation ratio on conditional volatility. The results relying on the hedging ratio are inconclusive.
G13|Spurious Cross-Sectional Dependence in Credit Spread Changes|In order to understand the lingering credit risk puzzle and the apparent segmentation of the stock market from credit markets, we need to be able to assess the strength of the cross-sectional dependence in credit spreads. This turns out to be a non-trivial task due to the extreme data sparsity that is typical for any panel of credit spreads that is extracted from corporate bond transactions. The problem of data sparsity has led to some erroneous conclusions in the literature, including inferences that have been drawn from spurious cross-sectional dependence in credit spread changes. Understanding the pitfalls leads to a new and improved estimator of the latent factor in credit spread changes and its characteristics.
G13|Discontinuous payoff option pricing by Mellin transform: A probabilistic approach|The Mellin transform technique is applied for solving the Black-Scholes equation with time-dependent parameters and discontinuous payoff. We show that the option pricing is equivalent to recovering a probability density function on the positive real axis based on its moments, which are integer or fractional Mellin transform values. Then the Mellin transform can be effectively inverted from a collection of appropriately chosen fractional (i.e. non-integer) moments by means of the Maximum Entropy (MaxEnt) method. An accurate option pricing is guaranteed by previous theoretical results about MaxEnt distributions constrained by fractional moments. We prove that typical drawbacks of other numerical techniques, such as Finite Difference schemes, are bypassed exploiting the Mellin transform properties. An example involving discretely monitored barrier options is illustrated and the accuracy, efficiency and time consuming are discussed.
G13|Understanding transactions prices in the credit default swaps market|The price determination of over-the-counter derivatives is a major concern for market participants and policy makers since the recent global financial crisis, which triggered substantial law-making and new regulations. We use a unique, comprehensive dataset to examine the tick-by-tick price changes associated with both trades and quotes on credit default swaps (CDS). We find that, while fundamental factors such as volatility are important drivers of CDS spread changes, especially during the crisis period, CDS spread movements are also affected by supply–demand imbalance and market liquidity, reflecting the impact of slow-moving capital, as well as the capacity constraints of financial intermediation.
G13|Credit derivatives and stock return synchronicity|The role of credit default swaps (CDS) in the 2008 financial crisis has been widely debated among regulators, investors, and researchers. While CDS were blamed for destabilizing the financial system, they remain effective tools for hedging credit risk, especially for major banks, and produce positive informational externalities to market participants. This paper examines whether the introduction of CDS enhances the amount of firm-specific information impounded in stock prices. We use stock return synchronicity to measure the amount of firm-specific information reflected in stock prices, with more firm-specific information being associated with a lower level of synchronicity. We find that a firm’s stock return synchronicity decreases after the commencement of CDS trading. This finding is robust to different model specifications, synchronicity measures, and endogeneity controlling methodologies. Furthermore, the decrease in stock return synchronicity is more pronounced for CDS firms with higher credit risk. Overall, our evidence supports the positive role of CDS in improving informativeness of stock prices.
G13|Range-based and GARCH volatility estimation: Evidence from the French asset market|This paper aims to measure and compare French stock and bond market volatilities using various range-based volatility estimators and conditional heteroskedasticity models. Particularly, we measure volatility for stock returns related to five major companies operating in different sectors and four French bonds with different maturity dates and different reference indices.
G13|An empirical comparison of transformed diffusion models for VIX and VIX futures|Transformed diffusions (TDs) are nonlinear functions of continuous-time affine diffusion processes. Since they are flexible models with tractable analytic properties, financial modelling with TDs has become increasing popular in recent years. We first provide a formal classification of TD models into drift-driven, diffusion-driven, and distribution-driven according to their empirical emphases and specification strategies. Motivated by the stylized distributional features of VIX such as skewness and excess kurtosis, we then propose a pair of new distribution-driven TDs for modelling VIX dynamics and pricing VIX futures by directly incorporating such information into the specification of the transformation. We conduct a comprehensive empirical investigation into the relative performance of the three classes of models against several empirically relevant criteria. Our focus is on the in-sample goodness-of-fit measure and the out-of-sample forecast accuracy for modelling VIX and pricing VIX futures, as well as the stock return predictability of the implied Variance Risk Premium. Our findings demonstrate that the newly proposed distribution-driven models have clear advantages over well-established alternatives in most of our exercises.
G13|Discrete-time option pricing with stochastic liquidity|Classical option pricing theories are usually built on the law of one price, neglecting the impact of market liquidity that may contribute to significant bid-ask spreads. Within the framework of conic finance, we develop a stochastic liquidity model, extending the discrete-time constant liquidity model of Madan (2010). With this extension, we can replicate the term and skew structures of bid-ask spreads typically observed in option markets. We show how to implement such a stochastic liquidity model within our framework using multidimensional binomial trees and we calibrate it to call and put options on the S&P 500.
G13|Semi-analytical valuation for discrete barrier options under time-dependent Lévy processes|Simple analytical solutions for the prices of discretely monitored barrier options do not yet exist in the literature. This paper presents a semi-analytical and fully explicit solution for pricing discretely monitored barrier options when the underlying asset is driven by a general Lévy process. The explicit formula only involves elementary functions, and the Greeks are also explicitly available with little additional computation. By performing a Z-transform, we reduce the valuation problem to an integral equation. This equation is solved analytically with the solution expressed in terms of a Fourier cosine series. We then manage to analytically carry out the Z-transform inversion, and obtain a semi-analytical formula for pricing discrete barrier options. We establish the theoretical error bound and analyze the convergence order of our method. Numerical implementation demonstrates that our numerical results are accurate and efficient, and match up with the results from the benchmark methods in the literature.
G13|The joint cross-sectional variation of equity returns and volatilities|This paper analyzes the determinants of the simultaneous cross-sectional variation of return and volatility risk premia. Independently of the model specification employed, the estimated risk premium associated with the default premium beta is always positive and statistically different from zero. Moreover, the risk premium of the market volatility risk premium beta is negative and statistically significant. However, both risk factors are priced economically and statistically differently in the volatility and return segments of the market. On average, common factors in both segments explain 90% of the variability of volatility risk premium portfolios, but only 65% of the variability of equity return portfolios.
G13|Corporate liquidity and dividend policy under uncertainty|We examine optimal liquidity (retained earnings) and dividend choice incorporating debt financing with risk of default and bankruptcy costs as well as growth options under revenue uncertainty. We revisit the conditions for dividend policy irrelevancy and the broader role of retained earnings and dividends. Retained earnings have a net positive impact on firm value in the presence of growth options, high external financing costs and low default risk. High levels of retained earnings enhance debt capacity but have a negative effect on equity value due to the likelihood of losing accumulated cash balances in case of default, unless offset by high external financing costs. Opposite directional effects of retained earnings on equity and debt create a U-shaped relation with firm value. The framework is extended to analyze management-shareholder conflicts, demonstrating that managers accumulate higher than optimal cash.
G13|Slow diffusion of information and price momentum in stocks: Evidence from options markets|This paper investigates the source of price momentum in the stock market using information from options markets. We provide direct evidence of the gradual information diffusion model in Hong and Stein (1999): momentum profits are larger for stocks whose information diffuses slowly into the stock market. We exploit the options markets to identify stocks with slow information diffusion speed. As informed traders trade options to realize the information that has not been fully incorporated in the stock price, we are able to enhance the momentum strategy by selecting winner/loser stocks with high growth/large drop in call option implied volatility. Our empirical strategy generates a risk-adjusted alpha of 1.8% per month over the 1996–2011 period, during which the simple momentum strategy fails to perform. The results are robust to the impact of earnings announcement, transaction costs, industry concentration, and choice of options’ moneyness and time-to-maturity. Finally, our finding is not driven by existing stock- or option-related characteristics that are known to improve momentum.
G13|Option pricing under time-varying risk-aversion with applications to risk forecasting|We present a two-factor option-pricing model, which parsimoniously captures the difference in volatility persistences under the historical and risk-neutral probabilities. The model generates an S-shaped pricing kernel that exhibits time-varying risk aversion. We apply our model for two purposes. First, we analyze the risk preference implied by S&P500 index options during 2001–2009 and find that risk-aversion level strongly increases during stressed market conditions. Second, we apply our model for Value-at-Risk (VaR) forecasts during the subprime crisis period and find that it outperforms several leading VaR models.
G13|The composition of CMBS risk|This paper identifies the put-option, liquidity availability proportion, and shadow liquidity risk premia embedded within commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS) using reduced form and structural generalization models. These risk values are then interpreted as trading signals which are tested with automated trading strategies that buy undervalued and sell overvalued CMBS from November 2007 through June 2015. All three signals generate substantial positive trading profits in testing for the reduced form model but not for the structural generalization. The risk signals constructed independently of market pricing provide more profitable automated trading insights than those constructed from interactions between modeled risk measures and market spreads. In my tests of the information content of the risk signals with respect to future macroeconomic indicators, I find statistically significant evidence in keeping with recent studies. While I cannot reject CMBS efficiency, this paper’s disclosure of new risk measures, the profitability of automated strategies based on those risk measures, and the statistical significance of their forward guidance capabilities, together contributes to our understanding of CMBS risk and the credit spread puzzle debate.
G13|Pricing and disentanglement of American puts in the hyper-exponential jump-diffusion model|We analyze American put options in a hyper-exponential jump-diffusion model. Our contribution is threefold. Firstly, by following a maturity randomization approach, we solve the partial integro-differential equation and obtain a tight lower bound for the American option price. Secondly, our method allows to disentangle the contributions of jumps and diffusion for the early exercise premium. Finally, using American-style options on the S&P 100 index from January 2007 until December 2012, we estimate various hyper-exponential specifications and investigate the implications for option pricing and jump-diffusion disentanglement. We find that jump risk accounts for a large part of the early exercise premium.
G13|Stochastic idiosyncratic cash flow risk and real options: Implications for stock returns|Stocks with high idiosyncratic volatility perform poorly relative to low idiosyncratic volatility stocks. We offer a novel explanation of this anomaly based on real options, which is consistent with earlier findings on idiosyncratic volatility (the positive contemporaneous relation between firm-level stock returns and idiosyncratic volatility). Our approach is based on introducing stochastic idiosyncratic cash flow risk into an equity valuation model of firms with growth options. Within our model, a firm's systematic risk depends on the delta of its growth option. The growth option's delta is lower when idiosyncratic volatility rises, driving down the firm's systematic risk and hence its expected return – firms with higher idiosyncratic volatility therefore have lower expected returns. Our model additionally offers the following novel empirical predictions: (i) returns correlate positively with idiosyncratic volatility during intervals between large changes in idiosyncratic volatility (the switch effect), and (ii) the anomalies and the switch effect are stronger for firms with more real options and which undergo larger changes in idiosyncratic volatility. Empirical results support the predictions of our model.
G13|The price of variance risk|Between 1996 and 2014, it was costless on average to hedge news about future variance at horizons ranging from 1 quarter to 14 years. Only unexpected, transitory realized variance was significantly priced. These results present a challenge to many structural models of the variance risk premium, such as the intertemporal CAPM and recent models with Epstein–Zin preferences and long-run risks. The results are also difficult to reconcile with macro models in which volatility affects investment decisions. At the same time, the data allows us to distinguish between different disaster models; a model in which the stock market has a time-varying exposure to disasters and investors have power utility fits the major features of the variance term structure.
G13|The term structure of credit spreads, firm fundamentals, and expected stock returns|We explore the link between credit and equity markets by considering the informational content of the term structure of credit spreads. A shallower credit term structure predicts decreases in default risk and increases in future profitability, as well as favorable earnings surprises. Further, the slope of the credit term structure negatively predicts future stock returns. While systematic slope risk is priced, information diffusion from the credit market to equities, particularly in less visible stocks, plays an additional role in accounting for return predictability from credit slopes. That is, such predictability is less evident in stocks with high institutional ownership, analyst coverage, and liquidity, and vice versa.
G13|Violations of uncovered interest rate parity and international exchange rate dependences|The uncovered interest rate parity puzzle questions the economic relation existing between short term interest rate differentials and exchange rates. One would indeed expect that the differential of interest rates between two countries should be offset by an opposite evolution of the exchange rate between them, hence ruling out any limited risk profit opportunities. However, it has been shown empirically that this relation is not holding and accordingly has led, over the past two decades, to the reinforcement of a well-known trading strategy in financial markets, namely the currency carry trade. This paper investigates how highly leveraged, mass speculator behaviour affects the dependence structure of currency returns. We propose a rigorous statistical modelling approach using two complementary techniques in order to demonstrate that speculative carry trade volumes are informative in both the covariance and tail dependence of high and low interest rate currency returns, whereas the price based factors previously suggested in the literature hold little explanatory power. We add a new feature to the understanding of the link between the UIP condition and the carry trade strategy, specifically attributed to the large joint exchange rate movements in high and low risk environments.
G13|Financial tail risks in conventional and Islamic stock markets: A comparative analysis|This paper makes use of two types of extreme value distributions, namely: the generalized extreme value distribution often referred to as the block of maxima method (BMM), and the peak-over-threshold method (POT) of the extreme value distributions, to model the financial tail risks associated with the empirical daily log-return distributions of the Dow Jones Islamic market (DJIM), the U.S. S&P 500, the S&P Europe (SPEU), and the Asian S&P (SPAS50) indexes during the period between 01/01/1998 and 16/09/2015. Using both the maximum likelihood (ML) method and the bootstrap simulations to estimate the parameters of these extreme value distributions in the left and right tails separately, we find that the empirical distributions of conventional stock markets are characterized by a fat-left tail behaviour, which implies high probability of price drops during a financial crisis, and by a right-tail characterized by a truncation. This finding implies the existence of an upper bound on possible profit during an extreme event. The empirical distribution of the Islamic market is characterized by a thin-left tail behaviour, implying moderately low probability of price drops during a financial crisis, and by a right-tail without truncation implying large probability of positive returns during an extreme event. We divide our sample period into three equal sub-periods in order avoid the impact of outliers and structural breaks. The results in each sub-period remain the same and also suggest that for all stock returns the BMM method performs better than the POT method, and that the Islamic stock market is less risky than the conventional stock markets during extreme events.
G13|Optimal capital structure with moral hazard|This paper extends the classic optimal capital structure model to the case of moral hazard based on the principal-agent problem, where the firm's output dynamically depends on the agent's efforts. We derive closed-form results for the value of risky debt, credit spread, default threshold, and for optimal capital structure with moral hazard. The numerical results indicate that the firm issues more debt with higher coupon ex ante and defaults earlier ex post than without manager moral hazard. The different initial values of firms' cash flow induce different risk preferences of the manager to his value and consequently the manager acts in the opposite approaches especially when the firm is on the verge of bankruptcy. The paper also consider the occasions in which hiring a manager is optimal for the principal.
G13|Liquidity basis between credit default swaps and corporate bonds markets|Liquidity risk has drawn much attention among academic researchers, institutional professionals and financial regulators in various financial markets. This paper empirically investigates the difference and relationship between the liquidities of CDS and corporate bond markets. The liquidity basis which is defined as the difference of liquidity between CDS and corporate bond are negative most of the time across different rating categories, implying more illiquid corporate bond market and the fact that CDS market moves quickly in reflecting credit quality changes. There exists significant Granger-causality from CDS liquidity to bond liquidity, and some bidirectional Granger-causality for some investment grade reference entities. The empirical tests are performed in the VAR system including the monetary policy variables and financial market variables. The relative bid-ask spread adopted by many researchers turns out to be less reliable as a measure of liquidity for CDS and corporate bond where the credit spread and liquidity risk are positively correlated.
G13|Liquidity, information, strategic trading in an electronic order book: New insights from the European carbon markets|The electronic limit order book (LOB hereafter) has rapidly become the primary way of trading European carbon assets over the 4 years of the EU ETS programme (2008–2012). In this first attempt of examining the informational content of an electronic order book, we evidence that order flow imbalances have a moderate capacity to predict short term price changes. However, we find that both LOB slope and immediacy costs help to forecast quote improvements and volatility in the next 30min. Further, we explain why informed trading is highly influential and show that it consists in mixing order splitting strategies and posting fleeting orders once the asymmetric information is reduced (Rosu, 2009). Overall, the consolidated status of the order book mirrors a high level of market uncertainty and a low degree of informational efficiency. In this way, strategic trading can in itself explain some of order book properties, independently of the degree of traders’ sophistication and market competition.
G13|Economic information transmissions and liquidity between shipping markets: New evidence from freight derivatives|Economic return and volatility spillovers of derivatives markets on a number of assets have been extensively examined in the general economics literature. However, there are only a limited number of studies that investigate such interactions between freight rates and the freight futures, and no studies that also consider potential linkages with freight options. This study fills this gap by investigating the economic spillovers between time-charter rates, freight futures and freight options prices in the dry-bulk sector of the international shipping industry. Empirical results indicate the existence of significant information transmission in both returns and volatilities between the three related markets, which we attribute to varying trading activity and market liquidity. The results also point out that, consistent with theory, the freight futures market informationally leads the freight rate market, though surprisingly, freight options lag behind both futures and physical freight rates. The documented three-way economic interactions between the related markets can be used to enhance budget planning and risk management strategies, potentially attract more investors, and thus, improve the liquidity of the freight derivatives market.
G13|A comment on Wu and Xia (2016) from a macroeconomic perspective|Counter to the comments in Wu and Xia (2016), I show that the results from macroeconomic models are sensitive to the Shadow Short Rate (SSR) series used. That is, using a standard small macroeconomic vector autorregression model with a range of estimated SSR series obtains counterfactuals for unemployment ranging from 0.4 to 1.8 percentage points, if the Federal Funds Rate rather than the SSR series had been applied in the lower bound period. The counterfactuals for inflation range from -0.2 to -2.2 percentage points. Vetting the various SSR series from several perspectives indicates that some are more preferable than others, but there are reasons to remain cautious on the associated results.
G13|Continuous-time perpetuities and time reversal of diffusions|We consider the problem of estimating the joint distribution of a continuous-time perpetuity and the underlying factors which govern the cash flow rate, in an ergodic Markovian model. Two approaches are used to obtain the distribution. The first identifies a partial differential equation for the conditional cumulative distribution function of the perpetuity given the initial factor value, which under certain conditions ensures the existence of a density for the perpetuity. The second (and more general) approach, using techniques of time reversal, identifies the joint law as the stationary distribution of an ergodic multidimensional diffusion. This latter approach allows efficient use of Monte Carlo simulation, as the distribution is obtained by sampling a single path of the reversed process.
G13|Watermark options|We consider a new family of derivatives whose payoffs become strictly positive when the price of their underlying asset falls relative to its historical maximum. We derive the solution to the discretionary stopping problems arising in the context of pricing their perpetual American versions by means of an explicit construction of their value functions. In particular, we fully characterise the free-boundary functions that provide the optimal stopping times of these genuinely two-dimensional problems as the unique solutions to highly non-linear first order ODEs that have the characteristics of a separatrix. The asymptotic growth of these free-boundary functions can take qualitatively different forms depending on parameter values, which is an interesting new feature.
G13|Change of numeraire in the two-marginals martingale transport problem|In this paper, we apply change of numeraire techniques to the optimal transport approach for computing model-free prices of derivatives in a two-period setting. In particular, we consider the optimal transport plan constructed in Hobson and Klimmek (Finance Stoch. 19:189–214, 2015) as well as the one introduced in Beiglböck and Juillet (Ann. Probab. 44:42–106, 2016) and further studied in Henry-Labordère and Touzi (Finance Stoch. 20:635–668, 2016). We show that in the case of positive martingales, a suitable change of numeraire applied to Hobson and Klimmek (Finance Stoch. 19:189–214, 2015) exchanges forward start straddles of type I and type II, so that the optimal transport plan in the subhedging problems is the same for both types of options. Moreover, for Henry-Labordère and Touzi’s (Finance Stoch. 20:635–668, 2016) construction, the right-monotone transference plan can be viewed as a mirror coupling of its left counterpart under the change of numeraire.
G13|State-controlled companies and political risk: Evidence from the 2014 Brazilian election|The 2014 Brazilian election offers an opportunity to estimate the vulnerability of state-controlled companies to political risk. This paper proposes a method for studying the effect of an election on asset prices using only data on stock options. We apply this method to the 2014 Brazilian Presidential election. Results suggest that Petrobras, the Brazilian oil company, would be worth around 60%–65% more if the incumbent, Ms. Rousseff, had not been reelected. We also find that reelection had a negative impact on the stock market index, but state-controlled companies were more strongly affected.
G13|Airline fuel hedging and management ownership|Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to study the value effects of hedging in the airline industry during a period of high volatility and high fuel costs. The authors also study the determinants of hedging in the airline industry, most importantly whether managerial ownership affects airlines’ tendency to hedge their fuel price risk. Design/methodology/approach - This study’s research design follows closely previous studies in the area. This allows comparison of the results of this study to those reported earlier, and thus the authors can draw conclusions about the effects of the different market conditions during the sample period. Findings - The authors find a positive relationship between hedging and firm value, but the relationship is weaker than what is reported in prior studies. The result appears driven by the early part of the sample, whereas in the latter half of the sample, when uncertainty and fuel price are higher, the hedging premium is smaller. The authors also find that hedging premium is larger for firms that follow passive hedging strategies and that managerial ownership increases the firms’ degree of hedging. Originality/value - This study provides new results on the old question of whether hedging generates value in the airline industry. The recent period of high volatility and high fuel prices makes this an interesting question to re-visit.
G13|Analyzing Barrel Purchasing Decisions on Winery Costs|No abstract is available for this item.
G13|Investing for the Long Run|This paper studies long term investing by an investor that maximizes either expected utility from terminal wealth or from consumption. We introduce the concepts of a generalized stochastic discount factor (SDF) and of the minimum price to attain target payouts. The paper finds that the dynamics of the SDF needs to be captured and not the entire market dynamics, which simplifies significantly practical implementations of optimal portfolio strategies. We pay particular attention to the case where the SDF is equal to the inverse of the growth-optimal portfolio in the given market. Then, optimal wealth evolution is closely linked to the growth optimal portfolio. In particular, our concepts allow us to reconcile utility optimization with the practitioner approach of growth investing. We illustrate empirically that our new framework leads to improved lifetime consumption-portfolio choice and asset allocation strategies.
G13|Enhancing binomial and trinomial equity option pricing models|We extend the classical Cox–Ross–Rubinstein binomial model in two ways. We first develop a binomial model with time-dependent parameters that equate all moments of the pricing tree increments with the corresponding moments of the increments of the limiting Itô price process. Second, we introduce a new trinomial model in the natural (historical) world, again fitting all moments of the pricing tree increments to the corresponding geometric Brownian motion. We introduce the risk-neutral trinomial tree and derive a hedging strategy based on an additional perpetual derivative used as a second asset for hedging at any node of the trinomial pricing tree.
G13|On the Tail Risk Premium in the Oil Market|This paper shows that changes in market participants’ fear of rare events implied by crude oil options contribute to oil price volatility and oil return predictability. Using 25 years of historical data, we document economically large tail risk premia that vary substantially over time and significantly forecast crude oil futures and spot returns. Oil futures prices increase (decrease) in the presence of upside (downside) fears in order to allow for smaller (larger) returns thereafter. This increase (decrease) is amplified for the spot price because of time varying-benefits from holding physical oil inventories that work in the same direction. We also provide support for view that that time variation in the relative importance of oil demand and supply shocks is an important determinant of oil price fluctuations and their interaction with aggregate outcomes. However, the option-implied tail risk premia are not spanned by traditional macroeconomic and oil market uncertainty measures, suggesting that time-varying oil price fears are an additional source of oil price volatility and predictability.
G13|The eurozone (expected) inflation: An option's eyes view|We estimate inflation risk-neutral densities (RNDs) in the euro area, using inflation swaps and caps/floors options, and introduce a parsimonious approach to jointly estimate the RNDs across horizons. Thus, we obtain daily implicit RNDs for forward measures, such as the 5-year-on-5-year inflation rate, which, although not directly traded in the market, is a key reference for monetary policy. Then, we discuss several indicators derived from the information content of those historical RNDs that are relevant for policy makers, and compare them in light of the ECB's decisions and communication since 2009. Specifically, we study the evolution of tail risks (associated with deflation and high inflation), the balance of inflation risks, risk aversion, and how forward inflation rates react to the ECB's non-conventional monetary policies (Longer Term Refinancing Operations, LTRO; Securities Market Programme, SMP; Asset Purchase Programme, APP; and its variants and extensions).
G13|A new indicator of inflation expectations anchoring|We compare the degree of anchoring of inflation expectations in the euro area, the United States and the United Kingdom, focusing on the post-crisis period. First of all, we estimate a set of measures of average and tail correlation using inflation swaps and options, following Natoli and Sigalotti (2016). To quantify the degree of anchoring, we also propose a new indicator based on the results of a logistic regression, measuring the odds that strong negative shocks to short-term expectations are channelled to large declines in long-term expectations. The results reveal, for the euro area, an increase in the de-anchoring risk during the last quarter of 2014; while showing a significant reduction after the peak, our de-anchoring indicator remains high and volatile in 2015 and 2016. Expectations in the US and UK are instead found to be firmly anchored. JEL Classification: C14, C58, E31, E44, G13
G13|Borderline: judging the adequacy of return distribution estimation techniques in initial margin models|The advent of mandatory central clearing for certain types of over-the-counter derivatives and margin requirements for others means that margin is the most important mitigation mechanism for many counterparty credit risks. Initial margin requirements are typically calculated using risk-based margin models, and these models must be tested to ensure that they are prudent. However, two different margin models can calculate substantially different levels of margin yet both pass the usual tests. This paper presents a new approach to parameter selection based on the statistical properties of the worst loss over a margin period of risk estimated by the margin model under test. This measure is related to risk estimated at a fixed confidence interval yet leads to a more powerful test which is better able to justify the choice of parameters used in margin models. The test proposed is used on a variety of volatility estimation techniques applied to a long history of returns of the S&P 500 index. Well known techniques, including exponentially weighted moving average volatility estimation and generalised autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity approaches are considered, and novel approaches derived from signal processing are also analysed. In each case a range of model parameters which give rise to acceptable risk estimates is identified.
G13|Is there accuracy of forward freight agreements in forecasting future freight rates? An empirical investigation|Participants in the maritime industry place much interest in the Forward Freight Agreements (FFA/FFAs), being an indispensable tool for hedging shipping freight risk. Our paper innovates by directly comparing the FFA predictions with their actual future settlement prices as well as by examining contracts going forward as far as next calendar year. We combine straightforward comparison measurements with cointegration analysis to test for the accuracy and efficiency of the FFA projections. We find that FFAs display limited usefulness in predicting future freights, only slightly superior than simple naive models. The shorter the contract period and the smaller the vessel the better the forecast. We also find FFAs being relatively good predictors of future market direction but missing the turning points of the market cycles.
G13|Does the Design of Spot Markets Matter for the Success of Futures Markets? Evidence from Dairy Futures|This study provides evidence of the importance of a well-defined and functioning spot market for the success of the associated futures market. The United States (US) spot market for nonfat dry milk has several distinct pricing indices, whereas the New Zealand (NZ) market has a single spot reference price. Our analysis of hedging effectiveness and hedge ratio persistence shows that none of the US spot market indices may be hedged effectively with the Chicago Mercantile Exchange nonfat dry milk futures at short hedging horizons, whereas the NZ Stock Exchange whole milk powder futures contract is an effective hedge for the Global Dairy Trade spot pricing benchmark. Four important dimensions of spot market design are identified – timeliness, market-based measurement, forward-spot separation, and inclusiveness.
G13|Price Discovery in Some Primary Commodity Markets in India|With the onset of wide-ranging economic reforms in India in 1991, agents have been exposed to increased price risk in commodity markets. Futures markets are one important instrument for reducing price risk, and in this study we focus on the price discovery role of futures markets. Employing daily price data for nine crops for the period 2009-2014, we find strong causation running from futures to spot prices. Since spot prices impinge on the storage and cropping pattern decisions of farmers, our results imply that providing information on futures price to farmers on a daily basis would enable them to take more efficient decisions in the present.
G13|Subprime assets and financial crisis: theory, policy and the law|In this paper, we explore three specific aspects of the US subprime crisis, using both theoretical models and the outcome of subsequent legal proceedings. First, the role of pecuniary externalities in amplifying shocks to the quality of MBS held by Investment Banks. Second, the role of adverse selection in the marketing of such assets by Investment Banks; and third the role of financial panic in making shadow banking disaster prone. The relevance of these differing perspectives is attested by the nature of state support and, more especially, the findings of law courts. Janet Yellen has recently argued that the vulnerabilities within the US financial system in the mid-2000s were “numerous and familiar from past financial panics”. That the aforementioned threats to stability should be complements and not substitutes is of more than technical interest. It helps to show why the US financial system was so exposed to radical failure.Keywords: Financial Instability, Pecuniary Externalities, Asymmetric Information, Bank run JEL Classification: D52, D53, G01, G12, G13
G13|Product Market Competition and Option Prices|Most firms face some form of competition in product markets. The degree of competition a firm faces feeds back into its cash flows and affects the values of the securities it issues. We demonstrate that, through its effects on stock prices, product market competition also affects the prices of options on equity and naturally leads to an inverse relationship between equity returns and volatility, generating a negative volatility skew in option prices. Using a large sample of U.S. equity options, we provide empirical support for this finding and demonstrate the importance of accounting for product market competition when explaining the cross-sectional variation in option skew.
G13|Market Discipline Through Credit Ratings and Too-Big-To-Fail in Banking?|We assess whether credit ratings help enforce market discipline on banks. We nd that rating downgrades for internal reasons, such as adverse changes in the operating performance or capital structure of the banks, are associated with a significant CDS spread widening, but only for banks that are not perceived to be Too-Big-to-Fail. Our findings question the reliability of credit ratings as a tool to discipline large banks and suggests regulatory monitoring should remain the main mechanism for disciplining these banks.
G13|Front‐Running and Market Quality: An Evolutionary Perspective on High Frequency Trading|We study front‐running by high‐frequency traders (HFTs) in a limit order model with continuous trading. The model describes an evolutionary equilibrium of low‐frequency traders who compete in portfolio management services by offering investment styles. The introduction of front‐runners inflicts heavy losses on speculators, while leaving passive investors relatively unscathed. This encourages investment in the market portfolio and markedly reduces overall turnover. Speculative trading persists despite its lower profitability. By most measures, market quality is not affected to any significant extent by front‐running HFTs.
G13|Unspanned Stochastic Volatility in the Multi-Factor CIR Model|Empirical evidence suggests that fixed income markets exhibit unspanned stochastic volatility (USV), that is, that one cannot fully hedge volatility risk solely using a portfolio of bonds. While Collin-Dufresne and Goldstein (2002) showed that no two-factor Cox-Ingersoll-Ross (CIR) model can exhibit USV, it has been unknown to date whether CIR models with more than two factors can exhibit USV or not. We formally review USV and relate it to bond market incompleteness. We provide necessary and sufficient conditions for a multi-factor CIR model to exhibit USV. We then construct a class of three-factor CIR models that exhibit USV. This answers in the affirmative the above previously open question. We also show that multi-factor CIR models with diagonal drift matrix cannot exhibit USV.
G13|Dynamic Mean-Variance Optimisation Problems with Deterministic Information|We solve the problems of mean-variance hedging (MVH) and mean-variance portfolio selection (MVPS) under restricted information. We work in a setting where the underlying price process S is a semimartingale, but not adapted to the filtration G which models the information available for constructing trading strategies. We choose as G = Fdet the zero-information filtration and assume that S is a time-dependent affine transformation of a square-integrable martingale. This class of processes includes in particular arithmetic and exponential Lévy models with suitable integrability. We give explicit solutions to the MVH and MVPS problems in this setting, and we show for the Lévy case how they can be expressed in terms of the Lévy triplet.
G13|Option Pricing with Orthogonal Polynomial Expansions|We derive analytic series representations for European option prices in polynomial stochastic volatility models. This includes the Jacobi, Heston, Stein--Stein, and Hull--White models, for which we provide numerical case studies. We find that our polynomial option price series expansion performs as efficiently and accurately as the Fourier transform based method in the affine case.
G13|A Term Structure Model for Dividends and Interest Rates|Over the last decade, dividends have become a standalone asset class instead of a mere side product of an equity investment. We introduce a framework based on polynomial jump-diffusions to jointly price the term structures of dividends and interest rates. Prices for dividend futures, bonds, and the dividend paying stock are given in closed form. We present an efficient moment based approximation method for option pricing. In a calibration exercise we show that a parsimonious model specification has a good fit with Euribor interest rate swaps and swaptions, Euro Stoxx 50 index dividend futures and dividend futures options, and Euro Stoxx 50 index options.
G13|Polynomial Jump-Diffusion Models|We develop a comprehensive mathematical framework for polynomial jump-diffusions, which nest affine jump-diffusions and have broad applications in finance. We show that the polynomial property is preserved under exponentiation and subordination. We present a generic method for option pricing based on moment expansions. As an application, we introduce a large class of novel financial asset pricing models that are based on polynomial jump-diffusions.
G13|Speed and biases of Fourier-based pricing choices: Analysis of the Bates and Asymmetric Variance Gamma models|This paper compares the CPU effort and numerical biases of six Fourier-based implementations. Our analyses focus on two jump models that can consistently price options with different strikes and maturities: (i) the Bates jump-diffusion model, which combines jumps with stochastic volatility and (ii) the Asymmetric Variance Gamma (AVG) model, a pure-jump process where an infinite number of jumps can occur in any interval of time. We show that both truncation and discretization errors significantly increase as we move away from the diffusive Black-Scholes-Merton dynamics. While most pricing choices converge to the Bates reference values, Attari’s formula is the only Fourier-based method that does not completely blow up in any AVG problematic region. In terms of CPU speed, the strike vector computations proposed by Zhu (2010) significantly improve the computational burden, rendering the use of fast Fourier transforms and plain delta-probability decompositions inefficient.
G13|Riesgo idiosincrático y retornos en el mercado accionario de Colombia|Resumen: En la literatura no existe un consenso sobre la relación entre riesgo y rendimientos. Específicamente el riesgo idiosincrático tiene efectos ambiguos sobre los rendimientos considerando diferentes mercados y periodos de tiempo. Este trabajo tiene como objetivo analizar a relación entre riesgo idiosincrático y retornos esperados del mercado accionario colombiano en el periodo de 2009 a 2014. Se adopta la metodología de Fu (2009) usando el modelo de Tres Factores de Fama y French y se estiman las volatilidades condicionales con un modelo EGARCH. Los resultados muestran que el riesgo idiosincrático no tiene efectos significativos sobre los retornos esperados. En conclusión, los inversionistas bajo diversificación no son compensados por el mercado al asumir el riesgo idiosincrático. Así, dadas las posibilidades de diversificación en el mercado accionario colombiano, sólo el riesgo sistemático recibe compensación en función de un mayor rendimiento esperado. Abstract : In the literature there is no consensus on the relationship between risk and returns. Specifically idiosyncratic risk has ambiguous effects on financial performance considering different markets and periods of time. This work aims to analyze a link between idiosyncratic risk and expected returns of the Colombian stock market in the period 2009 to 2014. We adopted the methodology from Fu (2009) using the three-factor model of Fama and French and then, we estimated conditional volatilities with EGARCH model. The results show that the idiosyncratic risk has no significant effect on the expected returns. In conclusion, low diversification Investors not is compensated for the market to take the idiosyncratic risk. Given the possibilities of diversification in the market, only systematic risk is compensated via a higher expected return.
G13|Illiquidity transmission from spot to futures markets|We develop a model of illiquidity transmission from spot to futures markets that formalizes the derivative hedge theory of Cho and Engle (1999). The model shows that spot market illiquidity does not translate one to one to the futures market but, rather, interacts with price risk, liquidity risk, and the risk aversion of the market maker. The model's predictions are tested empirically with data from the stock market and markets for single-stock futures and index futures. The results support our model and show that the derivative hedge theory provides an explanation for the liquidity link between spot and futures markets.
G13|The effectiveness of seasonal investments in European Share Portfolios|In this paper, calendar seasonality patterns are examined from day-of-the-week effect across weekly patterns, monthly analysis and whole-year seasonal strategies such as Sell in May and Halloween effect. The analysis is done across six indices, DAX, MDAX, SDAX, Eurostoxx 50, Stoxx Europe Mid 200 and Stoxx Europe Small 200. The observation period is from 1990 to 2015. The evidence found in this paper cannot support the Monday effect across all Indices. The Sell in May effect and Halloween effect were found to be existent over the whole observation period and being mostly influenced by the absence of investment in August and September.
G13|General economic equilibrium with financial markets and retainability|Abstract A theory of economic equilibrium for incomplete financial markets in general real assets is developed in a new formulation with currency-denominated prices. The “goods” are not only commodities, and they can influence utility through retention as an alternative to consumption. Perfect foresight is relinquished in a rolling horizon approach to markets which lets agents pursue long-term interests without being sure of future prices. The framework is that of an economy operating in a fiat currency that agents find attractive to retain, in balance with other needs. The attractiveness comes from Keynesian considerations about uncertainty which until now have not been brought in. The existence of equilibrium is established directly—not just generically—and moreover under weaker assumptions on endowments than before, except that utility functions are taken to be concave. Agents do not need to start out with, or end up with, positive amounts of everything. With a single currency denominating the units of account in all states, price indeterminacy is avoided and all contracts issued in the financial markets can be interpreted as “real contracts.” Derivative instruments and collateralized contracts based on money prices are thereby encompassed for the first time. Transaction costs on sales of contracts, generated endogenously, lead to bid–ask spreads and in particular to a gap between interest rates for lending and borrowing money.
G13|A fractionally integrated Wishart stochastic volatility model| There has recently been growing interest in modeling and estimating alternative continuous time multivariate stochastic volatility models. We propose a continuous time fractionally integrated Wishart stochastic volatility (FIWSV) process, and derive the conditional Laplace transform of the FIWSV model in order to obtain a closed form expression of moments. A two-step procedure is used, namely estimating the parameter of fractional integration via the local Whittle estimator in the first step, and estimating the remaining parameters via the generalized method of moments in the second step. Monte Carlo results for the procedure show a reasonable performance in finite samples. The empirical results for the S&P 500 and FTSE 100 indexes show that the data favor the new FIWSV process rather than the one-factor and two-factor models of the Wishart autoregressive process for the covariance structure.
G13|On the equivalence of large individualized and distributionalized games|The theory of large one-shot simultaneous-play games with a bio-social typology has been presented in both the individualized and distributionalized forms, LIG and LDG respectively. Using an example of an LDG with two actions and a single trait in which some Nash equilibrium distributions cannot be induced by the Nash equilibria of the representing LIG, this paper offers three equivalence results that delineate a relationship between the two game-forms. Our analysis also reveals the different roles that the Lebesgue unit interval and a saturated space play in the theory.
G13|In the Nick of Time: A Heteroskedastic SVAR Model and Its Application to the Crude Oil Futures Market|Many economic analyses revolve around the identification of shocks. However, this becomes difficult if we do not have enough information, for example because we do not observe the underlying process at a high enough frequency. As a result, if the response of one variable to a shock to another takes place `in the nick of time' this shock remains unidentified. We introduce a structural vector-autoregression model with Markov-switching heteroskedasticity in the data generating process that allows us to study instantaneous impulse-response relationships with the proper selection of a supporting `catalyst', which can be easier to find than an instrumental variable.
G13|GARCH option pricing models with Meixner innovations|Abstract The paper presents GARCH option pricing models with Meixner-distributed innovations. The risk-neutral dynamics are derived by means of the conditional Esscher transform. Assessing the option pricing performance both in-sample and out-of-sample, we find that the models compare favorably against the benchmark models. Simulations suggest that the driver of these results is the impact of conditional skewness and conditional excess kurtosis on option prices.
G13|Statistical arbitrage in the U.S. treasury futures market|We argue empirically that the U.S. treasury futures market is informational inefficient. We show that an intraday strategy based on the assumption of cointegrated treasury futures prices earns statistically significant excess return over the equally weighted portfolio of treasury futures. We also provide empirical backing for the claim that the same strategy, financed by taking a short position in the 2-Year treasury futures contract, gives rise to a statistical arbitrage.
G13|Investing for the Long Run|This paper studies long term investing by an investor that maximizes either expected utility from terminal wealth or from consumption. We introduce the concepts of a generalized stochastic discount factor (SDF) and of the minimum price to attain target payouts. The paper finds that the dynamics of the SDF needs to be captured and not the entire market dynamics, which simplifies significantly practical implementations of optimal portfolio strategies. We pay particular attention to the case where the SDF is equal to the inverse of the growth-optimal portfolio in the given market. Then, optimal wealth evolution is closely linked to the growth optimal portfolio. In particular, our concepts allow us to reconcile utility optimization with the practitioner approach of growth investing. We illustrate empirically that our new framework leads to improved lifetime consumption-portfolio choice and asset allocation strategies.
G13|A Consistent Stochastic Model of the Term Structure of Interest Rates for Multiple Tenors|"Explicitly taking into account the risk incurred when borrowing at a shorter tenor versus lending at a longer tenor (""roll-over risk""), we construct a stochastic model framework for the term structure of interest rates in which a frequency basis (i.e. a spread applied to one leg of a swap to exchange one floating interest rate for another of a different tenor in the same currency) arises endogenously. This roll-over risk consists of two components, a credit risk component due to the possibility of being downgraded and thus facing a higher credit spread when attempting to roll over short-term borrowing, and a component reflecting the (systemic) possibility of being unable to roll over short-term borrowing at the reference rate (e.g., LIBOR) due to an absence of liquidity in the market. The modelling framework is of ""reduced form"" in the sense that (similar to the credit risk literature) the source of credit risk is not modelled (nor is the source of liquidity risk). However, the framework has more structure than the literature seeking to simply model a different term structure of interest rates for each tenor frequency, since relationships between rates for all tenor frequencies are established based on the modelled roll-over risk. We proceed to consider a specific case within this framework, where the dynamics of interest rate and roll-over risk are driven by a multifactor Cox/Ingersoll/Ross-type process, show how such model can be calibrated to market data, and used for relative pricing of interest rate derivatives, including bespoke tenor frequencies not liquidly traded in the market."
G13|Corporate Debt Maturity Profiles|We study a novel aspect of a firm's capital structure, namely the profile of its debt maturity dates. In a simple theoretical framework we show that the dispersion of debt maturities constitutes an important dimension of capital structure choice, driven by firm characteristics and debt rollover risk. Guided by these predictions we establish two main empirical results. First, using an exogenous shock to rollover risk, we document a significant increase in maturity dispersion for firms that need to roll over maturing debt. Second, we find strong support that maturities of newly issued debt are influenced by pre-existing maturity profiles.
G13|Examining the Common Dynamics of Commodity Futures Prices|We investigate the extent and dynamic nature of co-movement in daily futures prices of 18 non-energy commodities over the period 1994-2016. Our analysis provides evidence that co-movement between individual commodities and between commodities and outside financial markets varies strongly over time and that economic events play a key role in shaping the dynamics of co-movement. Our main findings suggest a steady rise in the co-movement of commodity returns between 2004 and 2010, with clear peaks during the period of global financial turmoil, but a steep decline in co-movement after 2013. We also find that overall connectedness of commodity futures markets to shocks in financial markets shows an increasing trend after 2004. Using several risk measures we show that financial investors' risk aversion affects the systematic component of commodity futures returns.
G13|Random coefficient continuous systems: Testing for extreme sample path behavior|This paper studies a continuous time dynamic system with a random persistence parameter. The exact discrete time representation is obtained and related to several discrete time random coefficient models currently in the literature. The model distinguishes various forms of unstable and explosive behavior according to specific regions of the parameter space that open up the potential for testing these forms of extreme behavior. A two-stage approach that employs realized volatility is proposed for the continuous system estimation, asymptotic theory is developed, and test statistics to identify the different forms of extreme sample path behavior are proposed. Simulations show that the proposed estimators work well in empirically realistic settings and that the tests have good size and power properties in discriminating characteristics in the data that differ from typical unit root behavior. The theory is extended to cover models where the random persistence parameter is endogenously determined. An empirical application based on daily real S&P 500 index data over 1928–2018 reveals strong evidence against parameter constancy over the whole sample period leading to a long duration of what the model characterizes as extreme behavior in real stock prices.
G13|Continuous Workout Mortgages: Efficient pricing and systemic implications|This paper studies the Continuous Workout Mortgage (CWM), a two in one product: a fixed rate home loan coupled with negative equity insurance, to advocate its viability in mitigating financial fragility. In order to tackle the many issues that CWMs embrace, we perform a range of tasks. We optimally price CWMs and take a systemic market-based approach, stipulating that mortgage values and payments should be linked to housing prices and adjusted downward to prevent negative equity. We illustrate that amortizing CWMs can be the efficient home financing choice for many households. We price CWMs as American option style, defaulting debt in conjunction with prepayment within a continuous time, analytic framework. We introduce random prepayments via the intensity approach of Jarrow and Turnbull (1995). We also model the optimal embedded option to default whose exercise is motivated by decreasing random house prices. We adapt the Barone-Adesi and Whaley (1987) (BAW) approach to work within amortizing mortgage context. We derive new closed-form and new analytical approximation methodologies which apply both for pricing CWMs, as well as for pricing the standard US 30-year Fixed Rate Mortgage (FRM).
G13|Random Coefficient Continuous Systems: Testing for Extreme Sample Path Behaviour|This paper studies a continuous time dynamic system with a random persistence parameter. The exact discrete time representation is obtained and related to several discrete time random coefficient models currently in the literature. The model distinguishes various forms of unstable and explosive behaviour according to specific regions of the parameter space that open up the potential for testing these forms of extreme behaviour. A two-stage approach that employs realized volatility is proposed for the continuous system estimation, asymptotic theory is developed, and test statistics to identify the different forms of extreme sample path behaviour are proposed. Simulations show that the proposed estimators work well in empirically realistic settings and that the tests have good size and power properties in discriminating characteristics in the data that differ from typical unit root behaviour. The theory is extended to cover models where the random persistence parameter is endogenously determined. An empirical application based on daily real S&P 500 index data over 1964-2015 reveals strong evidence against parameter constancy after early 1980, which strengthens after July 1997, leading to a long duration of what the model characterizes as extreme behaviour in real stock prices.
G13|Identifying Speculative Demand Shocks in Commodity Futures Markets through Changes in Volatility|This paper studies the effects of financial speculation on commodity futures returns, using publicly available data from the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission, aggregated by trader groups. We exploit the heteroskedasticity in the weekly data to identify exogenous variation in speculators’ positions. The results suggest that idiosyncratic net long demand shocks of both index investors and hedge funds increase futures returns. They further indicate that these shocks are a relevant driver of returns, especially during periods of high speculative demand volatility. These findings confirm significant price effects of financial investments, complementing existing evidence based on disaggregated and proprietary daily data.
G13|Entropy-based implied moments|This paper investigates the maximum entropy method for estimating the option implied volatility, skewness and kurtosis.The maximum entropy method allows for non-parametric estimation of the risk neutral distribution and construction of confidence intervals around the implied volatility. Numerical study shows that the maximum entropy method outperforms the existing methods such as the Black-Scholes model and model-free method when the underlying risk neutral distribution exhibits heavy tail and skewness. By applying this method to the S&P 500 index options, we find that the entropy-based implied volatility outperforms the Black-Scholes implied volatility and model-free implied volatility, in terms of in-sample fit and out-of-sample predictive power. The differences between entropy based and model-free implied moments can be explained by the level of the higher-order implied moments of the underlying distribution.
G13|An indicator of inflation expectations anchoring|We compare the degree of anchoring of inflation expectations in the euro area, the United States and the United Kingdom, focusing on the post-crisis period. First of all, we estimate a set of measures of average and tail correlation using inflation swaps and options, as proposed by Natoli and Sigalotti (2016). To quantify the degree of anchoring, we also propose a new indicator based on the results of a logistic regression, obtained by measuring the odds that strong negative shocks to short-term expectations are connected to large declines in long-term expectations. The results reveal an increase in the risk of de-anchoring during the last quarter of 2014 for the euro area. While showing a significant reduction after the peak, our de-anchoring indicator remains high and volatile for 2015 and 2016. Inflation expectations in the US and the UK are instead found to be firmly anchored.
G13|Tail Co-movement in Inflation Expectations as an Indicator of Anchoring|We analyze the degree of anchoring of inflation expectations in the euro area during the post-crisis period, with a focus on the time span from 2014 onwards when long-term beliefs have substantially drifted away from the policy target. Using a new estimation technique, we look at tail co-movements between short- and long-term distributions of inflation expectations, estimated from daily quotes of inflation derivatives. We find that, during 2014, average correlations between short- and long-term inflation expectations rose sharply; moreover, negative tail events impacting short-term beliefs have been increasingly channeled to long-term views, triggering both downward revisions in expectations and upward changes in uncertainty. Overall, our results signal a risk of downside de-anchoring of long-term inflation expectations.
G13|The Time Dimension of the Links Between Loss Given Default and the Macroeconomy|Most studies focusing on the determinants of loss given default (LGD) have largely ignored possible lagged effects of the macroeconomy on LGD. We fill this gap by employing a wide set of macroeconomic covariates on a retail portfolio that represents 15% of the Czech consumer credit market over the period 2002–2012. We find an important time dimension to the links between LGD and the aggregate economy in the Czech Republic. The model that allows exclusively for contemporaneous effects includes a number of significant macroeconomic variables, some of which have non-intuitive signs. Nonetheless, a more general time structure of the LGD model makes current macroeconomic variables largely irrelevant and highlights the importance of delayed responses of LGD to the macroeconomic environment.
G13|De Facto Seniority, Credit Risk, and Corporate Bond Prices|We study the effect of a bond's place in its issuer's maturity structure on credit risk. Using a structural model as motivation, we argue that bonds due relatively late in their issuers' maturity structure have greater credit risk than do bonds due relatively early. Empirically, we find robust evidence that these later bonds have larger yield spreads and greater comovement with equity and that the magnitude of the effects is consistent with model predictions for investment-grade bonds. Our results highlight the importance of bond-specific credit risk for understanding corporate bond prices.
G13|Forecasting house prices using dynamic model averaging approach: Evidence from China|Forecasting house price has been of great interests for macroeconomists, policy makers and investors in recent years. To improve the forecasting accuracy, this paper introduces a dynamic model averaging (DMA) method to forecast the growth rate of house prices in 30 major Chinese cities. The advantage of DMA is that this method allows both the sets of predictors (forecasting models) as well as their coefficients to change over time. Both recursive and rolling forecasting modes are applied to compare the performance of DMA with other traditional forecasting models. Furthermore, a model confidence set (MCS) test is used to statistically evaluate the forecasting efficiency of different models. The empirical results reveal that DMA generally outperforms other models, such as Bayesian model averaging (BMA), information-theoretic model averaging (ITMA) and equal-weighted averaging (EW), in both recursive and rolling forecasting modes. In addition, in recent years it is found that the Google search index, instead of fundamental macroeconomic or monetary indicators, has developed greater predictive power for house price in China.
G13|Price disagreements and adjustments in index derivatives markets|We examine whether index futures and options markets disagree with regard to their underlying spot prices and the mechanism whereby futures and options prices adjust to eliminate the price disagreements by comparing the actual and option-implied futures prices. The analysis of the microstructure dataset indicates that the price disagreement rates between the two markets are relatively low and both futures and options prices are adjusted in the case of disagreements.
G13|Volatility and expected option returns: A note|We show analytically that the relationship between asset volatility and expected option return is ambiguous. Numerical results elaborate how the direction and magnitude of the relationship depend on asset beta and volatility levels, and option moneyness and maturity.
G13|Blending under uncertainty: Real options analysis of ethanol plants and biofuels mandates|The value of a representative ethanol producer, that benefits from both low and high gasoline prices in the short-run, is modeled. Ethanol producers make a modest competitive profit in the mandate-induced region of production. A low price of gasoline increases the demand for blend ethanol and consequently increases the profit of ethanol producers. On the other hand, when gasoline becomes costlier than ethanol, the capacity constraints of the biofuels sector bind and ethanol producers gain large quasi-monopoly margins. This is an interesting example of a market where two commodities are complement up to a point and then substitute after that. We postulate the value of an ethanol producer as a strangle option consisting of two real options: the option to substitute gasoline at times of expensive crude oil and the option to expand supply of blend at times of cheap gasoline. Using a dynamic model we show that the higher volatilities of crude oil and ethanol costs increase biofuels firms' value. We also find non-monotonic relationships between the value of an ethanol plant and several underlying variables, including gasoline price level. We estimate the value provided by a 10% blend mandate to be around $150,000,000 for a representative ethanol unit. Our results offer a novel view of oil and feedstock price risks in contrast to the common belief that considers those risks as a negative factor for the biofuels sector.
G13|Joint price and volumetric risk in wind power trading: A copula approach|This paper examines the dependence between wind power production and electricity prices and discusses its implications for the pricing and the risk distributions associated with contracts that are exposed to joint price and volumetric risk. We propose a copula model for the joint behavior of prices and wind power production, which is estimated to data from the Danish power market. We find that the marginal behavior of the individual variables is best described by ARMA–GARCH models with non-Gaussian error distributions, and the preferred copula model is a time-varying Gaussian copula. As an application of our joint model, we consider the case of an energy trading company entering into longer-term agreements with wind power producers, where the fluctuating future wind power production is bought at a predetermined fixed price. We find that assuming independence between prices and wind power production leads to an underestimation of risk, as the profit distribution becomes left-skewed when the negative dependence that we find in the data is accounted for. By performing a simple static hedge in the forward market, we show that the risk can be significantly reduced. Furthermore, an out-of-sample study shows that the choice of copula influences the price of correlation risk, and that time-varying copulas are superior to the constant ones when comparing actual profits generated with different models.
G13|On the multiplicity of option prices under CEV with positive elasticity of variance|Abstract The discounted stock price under the Constant Elasticity of Variance model is not a martingale when the elasticity of variance is positive. Two expressions for the European call price then arise, namely the price for which put-call parity holds and the price that represents the lowest cost of replicating the call option’s payoffs. The greeks of European put and call prices are derived and it is shown that the greeks of the risk-neutral call can substantially differ from standard results. For instance, the relation between the call price and variance may become non-monotonic. Such unfamiliar behavior then might yield option-based tests for the potential presence of a bubble in the underlying stock price.
