G15|Economic Policy Uncertainty and Long-Run Stock Market Volatility and Correlation|We use Baker, Bloom, and Davis’s (2016) economic policy uncertainty indices in combination with the mixed data sampling (MIDAS) approach to investigate long-run stock market volatility and correlation, primarily for the US and UK. Long-run US–UK stock market correlation depends positively on US economic policy uncertainty shocks. The dependence is asymmetric, with only positive shocks - increasing uncertainty - being of importance. The US long-run stock market volatility depends significantly on US economic policy uncertainty shocks but not on UK shocks, while the UK long-run stock market volatility depends significantly on both. Allowing for US economic policy uncertainty shocks improves the out-of-sample forecasting of US–UK stock market correlation and enhances portfolio performance. Similar results apply to the long-run correlation between the US and Canada, China, and Germany.
G15|The Economic Value of VIX ETPs|The fairly new VIX ETPs have been promoted for providing effective and easily accessible diversification. We examine the economic value of using VIX ETPs for diversification of stock-bond portfolios. We consider seven different investment strategies based on short-sales constrained and unconstrained investors who use four different investment styles for their optimization strategy. Our analysis begins in 2009, when the first VIX ETPs are introduced, and therefore only considers the period after the recent financial crisis. For investors prohibited from short selling, the diversification benefits of the VIX ETPs do not offset the negative returns on the VIX ETPs. Hence there is a negative economic value of including VIX ETPs in stock-bond portfolios. This applies to all investment styles. It even applies when adjusting for a simulated market crash. For investors who are not constrained from selling assets short, the results are mixed as the economic value of VIX ETPs vary with respect to investment style and product.
G15|The Role of Asymmetry and Uncertainties in the Capital Flows- Economic Growth Nexus|This study examines the asymmetry between capital flows and economic growth in 42 countries for the period 1990-2017. It further argues that uncertainty is an important channel through which asymmetry operates. As such, the three measures of uncertainty are macroeconomic, fiscal and institutional. The Generalised Method of Moments is used as an empirical strategy. The existence of an asymmetry is confirmed by the findings as capital flows are more reactive to economic drag when compared to economic growth. Furthermore, the channels through which asymmetry operate are heterogeneous to measures of capital flows and proxies for uncertainty.
G15|The Rise of Domestic Capital Markets for Corporate Financing: Lessons from East Asia|During the past decades, firms from emerging economies have significantly increased the amount of financing obtained in capital markets. Most of the literature has focused on issuances in international markets, which appear to have been a key driver of the overall activity in a context of financial globalization. This paper explores whether domestic issuances have also played a role in this increase in financing. By examining the case of East Asia, which captures most of the capital raisings among emerging economies, this paper shows that domestic issuances have been the main component of the overall expansion in capital market financing since 2000. As domestic markets developed, more and smaller firms accessed capital markets, while larger corporations increased their funding sources and their resilience to international shocks. The experience of East Asia shows that domestic capital markets can play a useful role and that numerous policies might aid in their development.
G15|Capital Inflows, Equity Issuance Activity, and Corporate Investment|This paper uses issuance-level data to study how equity capital inflows that enter emerging market economies affect equity issuance and corporate investment. It shows that foreign inflows are strongly correlated with country-level issuance. The relation especially reflects the behavior of large firms. To identify supply-side shocks, capital inflows into each country are instrumented with exogenous changes in other countriesâ€™ attractiveness to foreign investors. Shifts in the supply of foreign capital are important drivers of increased equity inflows. Instrumented contemporaneous and lagged capital inflows lead large firms to raise new equity, which they use to fund investment.
G15|FDI, banking crises and growth: direct and spill over effects|"This study suggests a new decomposition of the effect of foreign direct investment (FDI) on the long-term growth of developing countries. It reveals that FDI not only has a direct positive effect on growth, but also increases it by reducing the recessionary effect resulting from a banking crisis. However, these advantages are conditioned by the FDI threshold, which in turn depends on the ""absorption capacity"" of the host country. JEL: F65, F36, G01, G15"
G15|The Interplay between Oil and Food Commodity Prices: Has It Changed over Time?|Using time-varying BVARs, we find that oil price increases caused by oil supply shocks did not affect food commodity prices before the start of the millennium, but had positive spillover effects in more recent periods. Likewise, shortfalls in global food commodity supply—resulting from bad harvests—have positive effects on crude oil prices since the early 2000s, in contrast to the preceding era. Remarkably, we also document greater spillover effects of both supply shocks on metals and minerals commodity prices in recent periods, as well as a stronger impact on the own price compared to earlier decades. This (simultaneous) time variation of commodity price dynamics cannot be explained by the biofuels revolution and is more likely the consequence of heightened informational frictions and information discovery in more globalized and financialized commodity markets.
G15|The BoC-BoE Sovereign Default Database: What’s New in 2019?|Until recently, few efforts have been made to systematically measure and aggregate the nominal value of the different types of sovereign government debt in default. To help fill this gap, the Bank of Canada (BoC) developed a comprehensive database of sovereign defaults that is posted on its website and updated in partnership with the Bank of England (BoE). Our database draws on previously published datasets compiled by various public and private sector sources. It combines elements of these, together with new information, to develop comprehensive estimates of stocks of government obligations in default. These include bonds and other marketable securities, bank loans and official loans, valued in US dollars, for the years 1960 to 2018 on both a country-by-country and a global basis. This update of the BoC-BoE database, and future updates, will be useful to researchers analyzing the economic and financial effects of individual sovereign defaults and, importantly, the impact on global financial stability of episodes involving multiple sovereign defaults.
G15|Trade and credit: revisiting the evidence|This paper explores the effects of bank lending shocks on export behavior of Spanish firms. For that purpose, we combine Balance of Payments data on exports at the firmproduct-destination level with a matched bank-firm dataset incorporating information on the universe of corporate loans from 2002 to 2013. Armed with this dataset, we identify bankyear specific credit supply shocks following Amiti and Weinstein (2018) and estimate their impact on firms’ exports at the product-destination level. According to our estimates, credit supply shocks have sizable effects on both the intensive margin (amount exported) and the extensive margin of trade (decision to export).
G15|Higher multilateral development bank lending, unchanged capital resources and triple-A rating. A possible trinity after all?|This paper contributes to the literature on Multilateral Development Banks’ (MDBs) balance sheet optimization in two ways. First, it looks at solutions to alleviate the ‘trilemma’ faced by MDBs – stemming from G20 shareholders’ calls for increasing development lending while, simultaneously, keeping capital resources and triple-A credit ratings unchanged. The employment of rating methodologies that take into account MDBs’ peculiarities more appropriately represents one viable solution, as it would allow them to significantly increase available lending capacity for given rating levels and equity resources. Second, the econometric evidence suggests the existence of a rather narrow difference in the cost of funding between triple-A and AA+ rated institutions. Combining the two results, the paper concludes that applying an alternative rating methodology and opting for an AA+ credit rating (instead of triple-A), the four MDBs considered (IBRD, ADB, IADB and AfDB) could more than triple their spare lending capacity, from USD 415 bn to 1.370 bn, with a relatively limited impact on funding costs, estimated at between 40 and 50 bps.
G15|Bank foreign currency funding and currency markets: the case of Mexico post GFC|This paper examines the impact of foreign currency hedging demand on the foreign exchange market. First, the paper documents deviations from covered interest parity (CIP) for Mexico after the global financial crisis (GFC), and then it evaluates the effect of two variables in a regression-based analysis: (i) the FX funding gap of domestic bank balance sheets and (ii) external foreign currency hedging demand. The main result is that both variables directly influenced CIP deviations in Mexico, and it was robust to including arbitrage funding and foreign exchange transaction costs in the regression. These results suggest hedging demand can be an important factor in emerging economies’ foreign exchange forward markets, even at short maturities. One of the implications is that banks’ ability to manage the currency mismatch is affected by global shocks in the foreign currency market.
G15|Measuring the cost of U.S. housing policy|Unlike other developed countries, the U.S. has a high proportion of long-term fixed-rate mortgages (30 years). This is partly because the Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSE), which operate in the secondary mortgage market, reduce the interest rate of these contracts. This document measures the cost and studies the consequences of such policy. GSE's actions are modeled as an interest rate subsidy applied directly to 30-year mortgages, in the context of a general equilibrium model with two types of agents, housing and default. The cost of this policy is measured as the minimum subsidy that makes households choose 30-year fixed-rate contracts over one-year contracts, in equilibrium. The resulting subsidy is 36 basis points. Finally, I investigate how the results vary with the duration of the fixed-rate mortgage contract, and I find that mortgage terms under 30 years require smaller subsidies.
G15|El rol del sector real en el mercado de derivados y su impacto sobre la tasa de cambio|Aunque las negociaciones de los intermediarios del mercado cambiario (IMC) con el sector real en el mercado de forwards peso-dólar son bajas en comparación con las operaciones transadas con agentes offshore, es importante entender el comportamiento de dicho sector y su impacto en el mercado cambiario. En este trabajo se evalúa si el sector real ha tenido un impacto en la tasa de cambio, analizando la evolución diaria de su posición neta en el mercado de forwards peso-dólar. De acuerdo con la evolución de los montos negociados en el mercado de forwards por parte de los IMC con diferentes contrapartes, se observa que el sector real en algunas ocasiones ha tomado posiciones que parecen ir en sentido contrario a las operaciones negociadas por los agentes offshore, las cuales podrían tener un efecto estabilizador en la tasa de cambio. Mediante modelos EGARCH y VARX-MGARCH se encuentra evidencia de que las posiciones que toma el sector real tienen un impacto sobre la tasa de cambio. Sin embargo, ese efecto no ha sido estable entre 2008 y 2015, y se ha reducido en el tiempo. Igualmente, las posiciones del sector real en el mercado forward no tienen un efecto estabilizador sobre el tipo de cambio pues ante compras netas del offshore en dicho mercado no se encuentra evidencia que el sector real tome una posición vendedora neta. **** ABSTRACT: Although transactions of foreign exchange market intermediaries with the real sector in the peso-dollar market are low in comparison to the ones with offshore agents, it is important to understand the behavior of the real sector and its impact on the exchange market. This paper assesses whether the real sector has an impact on the spot exchange rate by analyzing the daily evolution of its net position in the peso-dollar forward market. According to the amounts negotiated in this market segment, it is observed that the real sector has sometimes taken positions that go in the opposite direction to the operations negotiated by offshore agents. This behavior could have a stabilizing effect on the exchange rate. Through EGARCH and VARX-MGARCH models, there is evidence that the positions taken by the real sector have an impact on the spot exchange rate. However, this effect has not been stable between 2008 and 2015, and has been reduced over time. Likewise, the positions of the real sector in the forward market do not have a stabilizing effect on the exchange rate, since against net purchases of the offshore market there is no evidence that the real sector takes a net selling position.
G15|The Exchange Rate and Oil Prices in Colombia: A High Frequency Analysis|We study the relationship between daily oil prices and nominal exchange rates between 1995 and 2019 in Colombia through a Time-Varying Vector Auto-Regressions with residual Stochastic Volatility, TV-VAR-SV, model. For this task we also employ cointegration, Univariate Auto-Regressions with residual Stochastic Volatility, UAR-SVTV, and De-trended Cross Correlation, DCC analyses. We found that a stable longrun relationship between the two processes is lacking. We also found significant time variation in residual volatility and co-volatility. More specifically, we found that both periods of time, the international financial crisis and the oil price drop of 2015, behave conspicuously different from other “more normal” times. These results are consistent with a shift in the features of the DCC at the start of the crisis. Before the crises the DCCs are positive but weak for different windows sizes, turning negative and significant after it. The latter DCCs and their significance increase with the window size. These results are concurrent, also, with two clearly differentiated periods of time; one when oil production was not financially feasible, and thus production, exports and oil related currency inflows were small, and the other when oil production became feasible because of the price increase, which led to a boom in exploration, production, exports and oil related currency inflows. **** RESUMEN: Estudiamos la evolución de la relación entre los precios diarios del petróleo y la tasa de cambio nominal Colombiana entre 1995 y 2019 a través de un modelo de Vectores Auto-Regresivos Tiempo-Variantes con Volatilidad Estocástica Residual. Para esto empleamos también técnicas de co-integración, Auto-Regresiones Univariadas con Volatilidad Estocástica Residual, y Correlaciones Cruzadas Des-tendeciadas. Se encontró que no existe una relación estable de largo plazo entre estos dos procesos. También hallamos evidencia de variación temporal de la volatilidad y co-volatilidad residual. Más específicamente, encontramos que tanto la crisis financiera global como la reducción de los precios de petróleo de 2015 son periodos particularmente distintos de otros periodos “más normales”. Estos resultados son consistentes con un cambio en el comportamiento de las DCC al inicio de la crisis financiera de 2008. En efecto, antes de la crisis estas correlaciones eran positivas pero poco significativas para diferentes tama˜nos de la ventana de estimación, pero después de la crisis se tornaron negativas y significancias. Las últimas DCCs y su significancia se incrementaron a mayores tama˜nos de la ventana. Estos resultados coinciden con dos periodos de tiempo claramente diferenciados en Colombia, uno en el cual la producción petrolera no era financieramente factible, y en consecuencia la producción, exportación y flujos entrantes de divisas por petróleo eran pequeños, y otro donde la producción fue factible, conduciendo a un boom en la exploración, producción, exportación y en los flujos entrantes de divisas relacionados con petróleo.
G15|Safe assets: made, not just born|"Official reserve managers have a big stake in the debate over safe assets: their portfolios just about define such assets. This paper conveys the message that reserve managers need not worry about a shortage of safe assets. The debate turns first on whether demand for dollar safe assets will grow as rapidly as emerging market economies (EMEs). Second, it turns on whether the supply of dollar safe assets only grows with US fiscal deficits. Neither holds. On the demand side, EMEs' growth does not require ever higher dollar reserves. Indeed, the global economy may have reached ""peak reserves"" in 2014. On the supply side, law and policy extend state backing to various IOUs, thereby creating safe assets. US government support for the housing agencies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac has made their debt into safe assets, albeit with wobbles. Federal Reserve liquidity, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance, and, in extremis as in 2008, Treasury equity also work to make US bank deposits safe. Elsewhere, government support of banks allows those from well rated countries to compete with US banks in issuing safe dollar deposits. Moreover, supranational organisations, non-US sovereigns and their agencies all compete with the US Treasury in issuing safe dollar bonds. In allocating their dollar foreign exchange reserves, central banks make room for such competitors. In particular, they hold more than a third of such reserves in instruments other than US Treasury securities."
G15|From carry trades to trade credit: financial intermediation by non-financial corporations|We use unique firm level data from Mexico to document that non-financial corporations engage in carry trades by borrowing in foreign currency and lending in domestic currency, largely to related partners (trade credit), accumulating currency risk in the process. The interest rate differential between local and foreign currency borrowing largely drives this behavior at a quarterly frequency, inducing an expansion in gross trade credit and sales. Firms that were active in carry-trade have decreased investment following a large depreciation, independent of currency exposure levels and export status, but maintain their supply of trade credit.
G15|Bond risk premia and the exchange rate|In emerging market economies, currency appreciation goes hand in hand with compressed sovereign bond spreads, even for local currency sovereign bonds. This yield compression comes from a reduction in the credit risk premium. Crucially, the relevant exchange rate involved in yield compression is the bilateral US dollar exchange rate, not the trade-weighted exchange rate. Our findings highlight endogenous co-movement of bond risk premia and exchange rates through the portfolio choice of global investors who evaluate returns in dollar terms.
G15|Dominant currency debt|"We propose a ""debt view"" to explain the dominant international role of the dollar. We develop an international general equilibrium model in which firms optimally choose the currency composition of their nominal debt. Expansionary monetary policy in downturns prevents Fisherian debt deflation through its effects on inflation and exchange rates, and alleviates financial distress. Theoretically, the dominant currency is the one that depreciates in global downturns over horizons of corporate debt maturity. Empirically, the dollar fits this description, despite being a short-run safe-haven currency. We provide broad empirical support for the debt view. We also study the globally optimal monetary policy."
G15|Geographic spread of currency trading: the renminbi and other EM currencies|This paper studies the ongoing diffusion of renminbi trading across the globe, the first such research of an international currency. It analyses the distribution in offshore renminbi trading in 2013 and 2016, using comprehensive data from the Triennial Central Bank Survey of Foreign Exchange and Over-the-Counter Derivatives Market Activity. In 2013, Asian centres favoured by the policy of renminbi internationalisation had big shares in global renminbi trading. In the following three years, renminbi trading seemed to converge to the spatial pattern of all currencies, with a half-life of seven to eight years. The previously most traded emerging market currency, the Mexican peso, shows a similar pattern, although it is converging to the global norm more slowly. Three other major emerging market currencies show a qualitatively similar evolution in the geography of their offshore trading. Overall the renminbi's internationalisation is tracing an arc from the influence of administrative measures to the working of market forces.
G15|A disaster under-(re)insurance puzzle: Home bias in disaster risk-bearing|The losses from the 2011 earthquakes in Japan remained in Japan, while reinsurance spread the losses from that year’s New Zealand earthquake to the rest of the world.This paper finds that the Japanese case is more typical: losses from natural disasters are shared internationally to a generally very limited extent. This finding of home bias in disaster risk-bearing poses a puzzle of international risk-sharing. We decompose international risk-sharing into the portion of losses insured and the portion ofinsurance that is internationally re-insured. We find that the failure of international risk-sharing begins at home with low participation in insurance. Regression analysis points to economic development and institutional/legal quality as important determinants of insurance participation. We propose a new method to measure international reinsurance payments with balance of payments data. This method identifies for the first time the cross-border flow of reinsurance payments to 88 economies that experienced insured disasters in the 1985–2017 period. Regression analysis of these data points to small size and de facto financial integration as positively related to the reinsurance share, as one might expect. However, we also find that more internationally wealthy economies reinsure less, suggesting that net foreign assets substitute for international sharing of disaster risk. For advanced economies, a lack of international risk-sharing is correlated with a lack of fiscal space. Thus, the governments under more pressure to provide ex post government insurance through the budget have less room to manoeuvre to do so. At high levels of public debt, a lack of ex ante insurance can turn disaster risk into financial risk.
G15|The ‘risk dividend’ in banks’ internal capital markets|We examine the impact of banks’ internal capital markets (ICMs) before the 2008-09 financial crisis on bank risk-taking during the crisis in a panel of 8,068 banks across 16 countries. The size of ICMs was an important driver of risk during the crisis when banks with larger ICMs exhibited lower risk levels. Larger ICMs reduced risk further for well capitalized banks. Banks more likely to be in trouble in a crisis are likely to have smaller ICMs, be larger in size, less well capitalized, less efficient, less profitable, and more dependent on market funding.
G15|Currency mispricing and dealer balance sheets|We relate currency mispricing originating from the breakdown of covered interest rate parity to the dealer balance-sheet constraints resulting from the post-crisis financial regulation. Using a unique data set on contract-level foreign exchange derivatives with disclosed counterparty identities, we find that dealers with a higher leverage ratio demand an additional premium from their clients for synthetic dollar funding. We handle endogeneity using two exogenous variations associated with the public disclosure of the leverage ratio, and the introduction of the UK leverage ratio framework while controlling for changes in demand conditions at the client level.
G15|Attention to the tail(s): global financial conditions and exchange rate risks|We document how the entire distribution of exchange rate returns responds to changes in global financial conditions. We measure global financial conditions as the common component of country-specific financial condition indices, computed consistently across a large panel of developed and emerging economies. Based on quantile regression results, we provide a characterisation and ranking of the tail behaviour of a large sample of currencies in response to a tightening of global financial conditions, corroborating some of the prevailing narratives about safe haven and risky currencies. We then carry out a portfolio sorting exercise to identify the macroeconomic fundamentals associated with such different tail behaviour, and find that currency portfolios sorted on the basis of relative interest rates, current account balances and levels of international reserves display a higher likelihood of large losses in response to a tightening of global financial conditions.
G15|The BoC-BoE sovereign default database: what’s new in 2019?|Until recently, few efforts have been made to systematically measure and aggregate the nominal value of the different types of sovereign government debt in default. To help fill this gap, the Bank of Canada (BoC) developed a comprehensive database of sovereign defaults that is posted on its website and updated in partnership with the Bank of England (BoE). Our database draws on previously published datasets compiled by various public and private sector sources. It combines elements of these, together with new information, to develop comprehensive estimates of stocks of government obligations in default. These include bonds and other marketable securities, bank loans and official loans, valued in US dollars, for the years 1960 to 2018 on both a country-by-country and a global basis. This update of the BoC-BoE database, and future updates, will be useful to researchers analyzing the economic and financial effects of individual sovereign defaults and, importantly, the impact on global financial stability of episodes involving multiple sovereign defaults.
G15|A simple return generating model in discrete time; implications for market efficiency testing|A linear return generating model is introduced. This model is a generalization in discrete time of the differential equation describing dynamical systems in continuous time. The model is useful in its own right, as it provides a simplified, yet credible, quantitative description of the reality. Further, the model is used as a tool for a theoretical study of market efficiency testing. This is obtained by modelling certain market conditions under which new information is released and reflected in asset prices on the one hand, and, on the other hand, by recording what established econometric testing approaches conclude, about the hypothesis of market efficiency. Amongst others it is argued that, contrary to the general belief, theoretically a random walk in asset prices, under certain conditions, could be associated with profoundly inefficient markets. Furthermore, an enhancement of the battery of statistical tests for market efficiency is proposed by the potential application of specific forms of the suggested linear dynamic model and the possible advantages over the existing techniques are discussed.
G15|Financial Interconnectedness, Amplification, and Cross-Border Activity|Interconnectedness is an essential feature of banks, but it can be a shock-amplifier. We explore changes in, and implications and underlying drivers of interconnectedness among major banks in the world, focusing on their stock market volatilities. The estimated vector autoregressive model reveals significant changes in interconnectedness between before and after the global financial crisis of 2007-09. Specifically, the estimation shows a significant increase in connectedness from foreign banks to Japanese banks. The impulse responses to a credit shock show that changes in the estimated interconnectedness can be an amplifier for Japanese banks in particular. A panel regression analysis suggests that Japanese banks' cross-border activity, especially lending, has likely driven an increase in connectedness from foreign banks.
G15|Fast trading and the virtue of entropy: evidence from the foreign exchange market|Focusing on the foreign exchange reaction to macroeconomic announcements, we show that fast trading is positively and significantly correlated with the entropy of the distribution of quoted prices in reaction to news: a larger share of fast trading increases the degree of diversity of quotes in the order book, for given liquidity, order book depth and size of order flows. Exploiting the WM Reuters’ reform of the fixing methodology in February 2015 as a natural experiment, we provide evidence that fast trading raises entropy, rather than reacting to it. While more entropy in quoted prices means noisier information and arguably complicates price discovery from an individual trader’s perspective, we show that, in the aggregate, more entropy actually brings traded prices closer to the random walk hypothesis, and improves indicators of market efficiency and quality of trade execution. We estimate that a 10 percent increase in entropy reduces the negative impact of macro news by over 60% for effective spreads, against over 40% for realized spreads and price impacts. Our findings suggest that the main mechanism by which fast trading may have desirable effects on market performance specifically hinges on enhanced heterogeneity in trading patterns, best captured by entropy. JEL Classification: F31, G14, G15
G15|Foreign Direct Investment as a Determinant of Cross-Country Stock~Market Comovement|We develop a theoretical framework in order to investigate the link between two recent trends: (i) the rise in cross-country stock market correlations over the past three decades, and (ii) the increase in global foreign direct investment (FDI) positions over the same period. Our objective is twofold: first, we investigate empirically the channel through which the rise in global stock market correlations is associated with the observed increase in global FDI. Second, we develop a two-country stochastic asset pricing model with multinational firms that allows us to quantify the extent to which the recent rise in global FDI can account for the observed increase in cross-country stock market comovement. Calibrating three versions of the model (finnancial autarky, incomplete markets and complete markets) to the US and the rest-of-the-world, we find that a permanent inrcease in FDI positions, as observed from mid 1990s to mid 2000s, leads to substantial increase in cross-country stock market comovements. Increases in FDI alone can account for approximately one third of the observed increase in stock market correlations. We also discuss the role of portfolio diversification and, more generally, asset market integration.
G15|Emerging Markets and the Conditional CAPM|Emerging Market equity returns have proved challenging to model using conventional statistical tools. In this paper we use the conditional capital asset pricing model (CCAPM) together with an explicit expectations structure to arrive at a framework which can be easily estimated. We take the perspective that US equity corresponds to the market and that our investors are US dollar investors and use this approach to explain emerging market country index equity returns. Different choices of US equity index provide, unsurprisingly, different results. A noteworthy finding is that the Russell 2000 seems a better explanatory variable than the Russell 1000 suggesting that it is the small to medium capitalised US companies that help us understand emerging market returns.
G15|America First? A US-centric view of global capital flows|Both academic researchers and policymakers posit a unique role for the US in the inter-national financial system. This paper investigates the characteristics and determinants of US cross-border financial flows and examines how these contrast with those of the rest of the world. We analyse the relative importance of US, country-specific, and global variables as determinants of aggregate and bilateral US financial flows and as determinants of country-level cross-border financial flows excluding those directly involving the US. Our results indicate that variation in US variables – notably the VIX and US dollar exchange rate – has a quantitatively important influence on global financial flows, but mostly via US cross-border flows. Global and national risk indicators perform better in explaining “rest of the world” flows. Moreover, we find that the correlation between US and rest of the world flows peaks in periods of elevated uncertainty. We interpret our findings as evidence for the existence of a global financial cycle, only some of which is driven by policies and events in the US. JEL Classification: F15, F21, F36, F42, G15
G15|Securisation special purpose entities, bank sponsors and derivatives|This paper documents the use of derivatives by securitisation special purpose entities (SPEs), also known as financial vehicle corporations (FVCs), domiciled in Ireland using transaction-level data established by the European Market Infrastructure Regulation. We show that these entities primarily engaged in interest rate derivatives over the period of 2015-2017. We find that larger entities that already engage in international capital markets are more likely to have derivative exposures. We also show that entities sponsored by banks and non-bank financial institutions are relatively more likely to engage in derivative markets. The characteristics of these bank sponsors are important in determining SPEs' engagement in derivative markets. SPEs' heavy reliance on debt finance coupled with their strong interconnectedness with bank sponsors underscores the importance of continuous monitoring and macroprudential surveillance of their derivative activities. JEL Classification: F30, F36, G15, G23
G15|Money Market Funds and Unconventional Monetary Policy|Using a unique dataset, covering more than 40 percent of euro area money market funds by asset value, we assess monetary policy effects on fund behaviour and performance.We find a strong but heterogeneous association between fund performance and the policy rate of the currency in which funds report and from this we ascertain how different combinations of conventional and unconventional monetary policies affect fund behaviour. Evidence from the speed of response to policy changes indicates a shortening of investment term when policy is easing and vice versa. This has supply-offunding implications across the first two years of the term structure. When euro area monetary policy is at its limit and when policy is expanded to include the use of unconventional measures, the gap between the rate earned at the ECB’s deposit facility and the yield on short term debt securities widens. In these conditions euro-reporting funds make indirect recourse to the deposit facility and raise their investments in euro-denominated tradable certificates of deposits. This behaviour progressively reduces the impact of unconventional measures on MMF performance. Otherwise, heterogeneity in fund responses to the monetary policy mix can be attributed to differential mandates and involves some combination of increased risktaking and diversification into assets issued by foreign entities.
G15|Private bank deposits and macro/fiscal risk in the euro-area|We examine the relationship between private bank deposits and macro/fiscal risk in the euro area. We test three hypotheses: First, private bank deposits relative to Germany are determined by macro/fiscal risk factors. Second, this relationship is time-varying. Third, time-variation is driven by the level of macro/fiscal risk. Our findings validate all three tested hypotheses. They also reveal persistent fragmentation between EMU core and periphery banking systems caused by a deficit of trust in periphery banking systems, unmitigated by the introduction of OMT and European Banking Union. Our findings have implications for the introduction of the European Deposits Insurance Scheme (EDIS), for which they offer tentative support.
G15|Accumulation of foreign currency reserves and risk-taking|We assess whether the accumulation of foreign currency reserves in the Asia-Pacific region may have unintended consequences in the form of increased private sector risk-taking. To do so we carry out a country-specific daily data event study analysis of the relationship between official announcements of reserves stocks and various proxy measures of risk-taking. Overall, our results suggest that reserves accumulation exerts no significant influence on risk-taking.
G15|Post-Crisis Changes in the Pattern of Capital Flows - The Case of Korea|This paper investigates pattern changes in international capital flows after the Global Financial Crisis using the Korean case. It follows capital flows of Korea during the last couple of decades to characterize three significant changes after the crisis. First, after the introduction of macroprudential policies, the bank external borrowing was curbed while the bank external lending started an increasing trend. Second, the resident’s outward portfolio investments outpaced foreign portfolio investments on domestic assets after the crisis. The net outflow is closely associated with changes in return differentials between domestic and foreign assets. Third, the continued current account surpluses were saved as private assets held abroad, while it was saved as FX reserves before the crisis. The precautionary role of reserves is now complemented by currency swap arrangements with major countries. Simple VAR results confirm the increased resilience of the bank’s foreign borrowing to external shocks, and the increased association of net portfolio inflows with the interest rate differential after the crisis.
G15|Exchange Rates, Foreign Currency Exposure and Sovereign Risk|We quantify the causal link between exchange rate movements and sovereign risk of 16 major emerging market economies (EMEs) by means of structural vector autoregressive models (SVARs) using data from 10/2004 through 12/2016. We apply a novel data based identification approach of the structural shocks that allows to account for the complex interrelations within the triad of exchange rates, sovereign risks and interest rates. We find that the direction and size of the response of sovereign risk to FX rate movements depend on the type of exchange rate measure we look at and on the size of the net foreign currency exposure of an economy. A depreciation of the domestic currency against the USD increases sovereign risk. In contrast, a depreciation of the effective exchange rate turns out to have only a significant effect on sovereign risk for countries with large negative net foreign currency exposures of the private sector. In this case, a depreciation of the NEER also induces an increase in sovereign risk. We conclude that the `financial channel' is more important in the transmission of exchange rate shocks to sovereign risk in comparison with the traditional `net trade channel'.
G15|Did Spillovers From Europe Indeed Contribute to the 2010 U.S. Flash Crash?|Using intraday data, we study spillovers from European stock markets to the U.S. in the hours before the flash crash on 6 May 2010. Many commentators have pointed to negative market sentiment and high volatility during the European trading session before the Flash Crash. However, based on a range of vector autoregressive models, we find no robust evidence that spillovers increased at that time. On the contrary, spillovers on 6 May were mostly smaller than in the preceding days, during which there was great uncertainty surrounding the Greek sovereign debt crisis. The absence of evidence for spillovers underscores the difficulties in understanding the nature of flash events in financial markets.
G15|Euro area sovereign risk spillovers before and after the ECB's OMT announcement|We study the dynamics of sovereign risk spillovers from (and between) Spain and Italy, before and after the ECB's announcement of the OMT program. We identify domestic Italian and Spanish sovereign risk shocks through an intraday event study. The shocks are used as external instruments in bilateral, daily, local projection regressions. Prior to the announcement of the OMT, changes in the Spanish and, to a lesser extent, Italian spread spilled over to many other euro area member states, and also affected the euro-dollar exchange rate. Peak effects generally materialized after 2-3 days. Since the OMT announcement, spillovers to non-crisis, non-safe haven countries have disappeared. Some spillovers among crisis countries persist, but are smaller and shorter-lived than before. Overall, our results are consistent with the view that the OMT, through eliminating equilibrium multiplicity, has largely stopped contagion.
G15|Medium-term asymmetric fluctuations and EMU as an optimum currency area|Recent studies find that short-term fluctuations in EMU have been symmetric. This finding leads to benign views on the functioning of EMU as an optimum currency area (OCA), that are difficult to reconcile with the sovereign debt crisis. We try to solve this puzzle by looking at medium-term fluctuations instead, and reach five conclusions. First, medium-term fluctuations in EMU are much larger and less symmetric than short-term fluctuations. Second, medium-term fluctuations have become larger and less symmetric over time, while short-term fluctuations have become smaller and more symmetric. Third, medium-term fluctuations in EMU are less symmetric than in the US, while short-term fluctuations are more symmetric. Fourth, medium-term fluctuations in the euro area have become more strongly correlated with financial variables like credit and house prices, and less strongly correlated with real variables like productivity. Finally, medium-term fluctuations are more closely related to imbalances in price competitiveness, current accounts and budget deficits than short-term fluctuations. We conclude that our medium-term perspective has become relevant in the monetary union, due to the increasing importance of financial factors. It leads to less benign views on the functioning of EMU and on the endogenous OCA hypothesis.
G15|Institutional Quality and Capital Inflows: Evidence and Theory|"This paper analyzes, empirically and theoretically, the link between capital inflows and the quality of economic institutions. Starting with the example of Southern European countries (Spain, Portugal, Italy and Greece), we show that they experienced a significant decline in the quality of their institutions in the run-up to the euro currency, a period of cheap external funding and large capital inflows. We confirm this joint pattern of capital flows and institutional decline in a large panel of countries since the mid-1990s. We then develop an open-economy model of the ""soft budget constraint"" syndrome wherein persistently cheap funding from abroad (i) raises the prevalence of extractive projects and (ii) expands their support by the (benevolent) government ex post. While the government may in principle limit the prevalence of extractive projects ex ante, we show that the incentives to do so is limited when foreign borrowing is cheap."
G15|Time-Varying Risk Premia in Large International Equity Markets|We use an estimation methodology tailored for large unbalanced panels of individual stock returns to address key economic questions about the factor structure, pricing performance of factor models, and time-variations in factor risk premia in international equity markets. We estimate factor models with time-varying factor exposures and risk premia at the individual stock level using 62,320 stocks in 46 countries over the 1985-2018 period. We consider market, size, value, momentum, profitability, and investment factors aggregated at the country, regional, and world level. We find that adding an excess country market factor to world or regional factors is sufficient to capture the factor structure for both developed and emerging markets. We do not reject asset pricing restriction tests for multifactor models in 74% to 91% of countries. Value and momentum premia show more variability over time and across countries than profitability and investment premia. The excess country market premium is statistically significant in many developed and emerging markets but economically larger in emerging markets.
G15|Role of cross currency swap markets in funding and investment decisions|A US dollar funding premium in the EUR/USD cross currency swap market has been in existence since 2008. Whilst there are many reasons behind this dislocation, since 2014 the divergence in monetary policy between the euro area and the United States has played a growing role. This paper aims at exploring and gaining more insight into the role the Eurosystem’s Expanded Asset purchase Programme (APP) has had in guiding investment and funding decisions and its influence on the cross currency basis. The downward pressure on yields, exerted by the APP, has made euro assets less attractive and has led investors to search for yield abroad. At the same time, the decline in yields and tighter credit spreads have attracted US corporate issuers to the euro market in search of cheaper funding costs. These cross-border flows from issuers and investors have played a strong role in driving the US dollar funding premium. The purpose of this study is to gauge whether these changing trends in cross-border flows have implications for the implementation of the Eurosystem’s APP. Beyond the structural increase in the US dollar funding premium described above, a cyclical component has led to an amplification of the premium over balance sheet reporting dates, due to new bank regulations. This paper also analyses the behaviour of euro area banks in cross currency swap markets over balance sheet reporting dates, using the money market statistical reporting (MMSR) dataset in order to discern whether the increase in the US dollar funding premium at these specific points in time has an adverse impact on the transmission of monetary policy. JEL Classification: D53, E52, G11, G15, G18
G15|Financial stability assessment for EU candidate countries and potential candidates|This paper reviews and assesses financial stability challenges in countries preparing for EU membership, i.e. Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia and Turkey. The paper mainly focuses on the period since 2016 (unless the analysis requires a longer time span) and on the banking sectors that dominate financial systems in this group of countries. For the Western Balkans, the paper analyses recent trends in financial intermediation, as well as the two main challenges that have been identified in the past. Asset quality continues to improve, but the share of non-performing loans is still high in some countries, while regulatory, legal and tax impediments are still to be resolved in most cases. High unofficial euroisation is a source of indirect credit risk for countries with their own national legal tender, which calls for continued efforts to promote the use of domestic currencies in the financial system. At the same time, banking systems seem less prone to financial stress from maturity mismatches than certain EU peers. These risks are met with a solid shock-absorbing capacity in the Western Balkans, as exemplified by robust capital and liquidity buffers. Turkey experienced a period of heightened financial stress during 2018 and, while its banking system appears to have sufficient buffers to absorb shocks overall, significant forex borrowing of corporates and high rollover needs of banks in foreign exchange on the wholesale market constitute considerable financial stability risks. JEL Classification: F31, F34, F36, G15, G21, G28
G15|America First? A US-centric view of global capital flows|Both academic researchers and policymakers posit a unique role for the US in the international financial system. This paper investigates the characteristics and determinants of US cross-border financial flows and examines how these contrast with those of the rest of the world. We analyse the relative importance of US, country-specific, and global variables as determinants of aggregate and bilateral US financial flows and as determinants of country-level cross-border financial flows excluding those directly involving the US. Our results indicate that variation in US variables – notably the VIX and US dollar exchange rate – has a quantitatively important influence on global financial flows, but mostly via US cross-border flows. Global and national risk indicators perform better in explaining “rest of the world” flows. Moreover, we find that the correlation between US and rest of the world flows peaks in periods of elevated uncertainty. We interpret our findings as evidence for the existence of a global financial cycle, only some of which is driven by policies and events in the US.
G15|Fiscal multipliers and foreign holdings of public debt|This paper explores a natural connection between fiscal multipliers and foreign holdings of public debt. Although fiscal expansions can raise domestic economic activity through various channels, they can also have crowding-out effects if the resources used to acquire public debt reduce domestic consumption and investment. Thus, these crowding-out effects are likely to be weaker when public debt is purchased by foreigners. We test this hypothesis on (i) post-war US data and (ii) data for a panel of 17 advanced economies from the 1980’s to the present. To do so, we assemble a novel database of public debt holdings by domestic and foreign creditors for a large set of advanced economies. We combine this data with standard measures of fiscal policy shocks and show that, indeed, the size of fiscal multipliers is increasing in the share of public debt held by foreigners. In particular, the fiscal multiplier is smaller than one when the foreign share is low, such as in the U.S. in the 1950’s and 1960’s and Japan today, and larger than one when the foreign share is high, such as in the U.S. and Ireland today
G15|The CSPP at work: Yield heterogeneity and the portfolio rebalancing channel|We assess the impact of the corporate sector purchase programme (CSPP), the corporate arm of the ECB's quantitative easing, over its first year of activity (June 2016 – June 2017). Focusing on the primary bond market, we find evidence of a significant impact of the CSPP on yield spreads, both directly on purchased and targeted bonds and indirectly on all other bonds. The magnitude and the timing of the changes in yield spreads, coupled with the evolution of bond placements, are fully consistent with the proper unfolding the portfolio rebalancing channel.
G15|Institutional presence in secondary bank bond markets: how does it affect liquidity and volatility?|Using newly available information on euro area sectoral holdings of securities, this paper investigates to what extent the presence of institutional investors affects volatility and liquidity in secondary bank bond markets. We find that non-bank financial intermediaries, in particular money market funds (MMFs), have a positive impact on secondary bank bond markets’ liquidity conditions, at the cost of significantly increasing volatility of daily returns. The effect translates to more than a 19% improvement in liquidity conditions and up to 57% increase in daily-return volatility, assuming MMFs hold about 10% of the notional amount in the secondary market of a representative euro area bank bond. The effect is relative to the impact the non-financial private sector has on markets. Investment funds, insurance corporations and pension funds are found to similarly affect market conditions, though to a lesser magnitude. We find a trade-off between volatility and liquidity, where the stronger presence of institutional investors at the same time improves liquidity and increases volatility. The results suggest that possible structural shifts in investor composition matter for market conditions and should be monitored by financial stability authorities. JEL Classification: G10, G15, G23
G15|EME financial conditions: which global shocks matter?|This paper provides a quantitative assessment of the relative importance of global structural shocks for changes in financial conditions across a sample of emerging market economies. We disentangle four key drivers of global financial markets (oil supply shocks, global economic news shocks, US-specific economic news shocks and US monetary shocks) and show that these global factors account for about half of the variation in risky asset prices across EMEs. The influence of global factors for EME interest rates and currencies is much smaller, suggesting that factors beyond the identified global shocks (e.g. domestic or regional shocks) might be more important. In contrast to the recent literature on the global financial cycle which has emphasised the prominent role of US monetary policy, we find that although US monetary shocks have some influence in shaping EME financial markets, the broader global environment plays a significantly stronger role. JEL Classification: E44, E52, G15
G15|Competition among high-frequency traders, and market quality|We study empirically how competition among high-frequency traders (HFTs) affects their trading behavior and market quality. Our analysis exploits a unique dataset, which allows us to compare environments with and without high-frequency competition, and contains an exogenous event - a tick size reform - which we use to disentangle the effects of the rising share of high-frequency trading in the market from the effects of high-frequency competition. We find that when HFTs compete, their speculative trading increases. As a result, market liquidity deteriorates and short-term volatility rises. Our findings hold for a variety of market quality and high-frequency trading behavior measures. JEL Classification: G12, G14, G15, G18, G23, D4, D61
G15|Fast Trading and the Virtue of Entropy: Evidence from the Foreign Exchange Market|Focusing on the foreign exchange reaction to macroeconomic announcements, we show that fast trading is positively and significantly correlated with the entropy of the distribution of quoted prices in reaction to news: a larger share of fast trading increases the degree of diversity of quotes in the order book, for given liquidity, order book depth and size of order flows. Exploiting the WM Reuters’ reform of the fixing methodology in February 2015 as a natural experiment, we provide evidence that fast trading raises entropy, rather than reacting to it. While more entropy in quoted prices means noisier information and arguably complicates price discovery from an individual trader’s perspective, we show that, in the aggregate, more entropy actually brings traded prices closer to the random walk hypothesis, and improves indicators of market efficiency and quality of trade execution. We estimate that a 10 percent increase in entropy reduces the negative impact of macro news by over 60% for effective spreads, against over 40% for realized spreads and price impacts. Our findings suggest that the main mechanism by which fast trading may have desirable effects on market performance specifically hinges on enhanced heterogeneity in trading patterns, best captured by entropy.
G15|International debt and Special Purpose Entities: evidence from Ireland|This paper examines international debt issuance through Irish-resident Special Purpose Entities (SPEs). Using a unique new dataset covering the population of Irish-resident SPEs reporting to the Central Bank of Ireland over the period 2005-2017, we identify cross-country debt financing links channelled through SPEs. The empirical analysis suggests that tax optimisation is an important motive, particularly for sponsors of Irish-resident securitisation vehicles, while investor protection and financial development are important additional considerations for sponsors of non-securitisation vehicles. JEL Classification: F36, G23, G15
G15|Financial integration in Europe through the lens of composite indicators|This paper develops composite indicators of financial integration within the euro area for both price-based and quantity-based indicators covering money, bond, equity and banking markets. Prior to aggregation, individual integration indicators are harmonised by applying the probability integral transform. We find that financial integration in Europe increased steadily between 1995 and 2007. The subprime mortgage crisis marked a turning point, bringing about a marked drop in both composite indicators. This fragmentation trend reversed when the European banking union and the ECB's Outright Monetary Transactions Programme were announced in 2012, with financial integration recovering more strongly when measured by price-based indicators. In a growth regression framework, we find that higher financial integration tends to be associated with an increase in per capita real GDP growth in euro area countries. This correlation is found to be stronger the higher a country's growth opportunities. JEL Classification: F36, F43, F45, G01, G15
G15|Sovereign Bonds since Waterloo|This paper studies external sovereign bonds as an asset class. We compile a new database of 220,000 monthly prices of foreign-currency government bonds traded in London and New York between 1815 (the Battle of Waterloo) and 2016, covering 91 countries. Our main insight is that, as in equity markets, the returns on external sovereign bonds have been sufficiently high to compensate for risk. Real ex-post returns averaged 7% annually across two centuries, including default episodes, major wars, and global crises. This represents an excess return of around 4% above US or UK government bonds, which is comparable to stocks and outperforms corporate bonds. The observed returns are hard to reconcile with canonical theoretical models and with the degree of credit risk in this market, as measured by historical default and recovery rates. Based on our archive of more than 300 sovereign debt restructurings since 1815, we show that full repudiation is rare; the median haircut is below 50%.
G15|Housing Cycle and Exchange Rates|This paper documents that U.S. housing capital investment is a strong negative predictor of U.S. dollar changes and excess returns over the next six months to five years. Other advanced economies exhibit similar patterns. Moreover, positive housing supply shocks predict lower prices of housing services and nontradables relative to that of tradables, as well as higher output growth and macroeconomic volatility. An analytical model shows that these channels generate the exchange rate predictability under incomplete and complete markets, respectively. Cross-sectionally, currencies with higher loadings on the U.S. housing cycle carry higher average currency premia, compensating the U.S. investor for bearing the U.S. long-run consumption risk.
G15|Private bank deposits and macro/fiscal risk in the euro-area|We examine the relationship between private bank deposits and macro/fiscal risk in the euro area. We test three hypotheses: First, private bank deposits relative to Germany are determined by macro/fiscal risk factor. Second, this relationship is time-varying. Third, time-variation is driven by the level of macro/fiscal risk. Our findings validate all three tested hypotheses. They also reveal persistent fragmentation between EMU core and periphery banking systems caused by a deficit of trust in periphery banking systems, unmitigated by the introduction of OMT and European Banking Union. Our findings have implications for the introduction of the European Deposits Insurance Scheme (EDIS), for which they offer tentative support.
G15|Stock market linkages between the ASEAN countries, China and the US: a fractional cointegration approach|This paper examines stock market integration between the ASEAN five and the US and China, respectively, over the period from November 2002 to March 2018. The linkages between both aggregate and financial sector stock indices (both weekly and monthly) are analysed using fractional integration and fractional cointegration methods. Further, recursive cointegration analysis is carried out for the weekly series to study the impact of the 2007-8 global financial crisis and the 2015 China stock market crash on the pattern of stock market co-movement. The main findings are the following. All stock indices exhibit long memory. There is cointegration between the ASEAN five and the US but almost none between the former and China, except between Indonesia and China in the case of the financial sector. The 2007-8 global financial crisis and the 2015 Chinese stock market plunge weakened the linkages between the ASEAN five and both China and the US. The implications of these results for market participants and policy makers are discussed.
G15|High and low prices and the range in the European stock markets: a long-memory approach|This paper uses fractional integration techniques to examine the stochastic behaviour of high and low stock prices in Europe and then to test for the possible existence of long-run linkages between them by looking at the range, i.e., the difference between the two logged series. Specifically, monthly, weekly and daily data on the following five European stock market indices are analysed: DAX30 (Germany), FTSE100 (UK), CAC40 (France), FTSE MIB40 (Italy) and IBEX35 (Spain). In all cases, the order of integration of the range is lower than that of the original series, which implies the existence of a long-run equilibrium relationship between high and low prices. Further, the estimated fractional differencing parameter is positive in all cases, which represents evidence of long memory.
G15|Bitcoin and web search query dynamics: is the price driving the hype or is the hype driving the price?|Using a battery of timely multivariate time series techniques I study the Bitcoin cryptocurrency price series and web search queries with regard to their mutual predictability, Granger-causality and cause-effect delay structure. The Bitcoin is at first treated as a general currency, then as a generic asset. Google queries, although cointegrated, are found to be not helpful in predicting the USD exchange rate of Bitcoin as the speculative bubble in the latter antedates explosive behavior in the former. Chinese Baidu engine queries and compounded Baidu-Google queries predict Bitcoin price dynamics at relatively high frequencies ranging from two to five months. In the other direction, causality runs from the cryptocurrency price to queries statistics across nearly all frequencies. In both directions, the reaction time computed from a phase delay measure for the relevant frequency bands with significant causality ranges from slightly more than one month to about four months.
G15|Financial integration in the GCC region: market size versus national effects|This paper examines financial spillovers between the four largest equity markets (by market capitalization) in the GCC region using a VAR-GARCH (1,1) framework that sheds light on interdependence as well as the effects of the 2014 oil crisis. Since the UAE is a federation including two stock exchanges (Abu Dhabi and Dubai), it is possible to test whether being part of a federal union matters more than market size in terms of financial integration. Our results suggest that the latter is more important, since we could not find evidence of stronger linkages between the Abu Dhabi and Dubai markets compared to those between other markets in the region. By contrast, there are significant spillover effects, both in the mean and in the volatility, from the largest market of Saudi Arabia to Qatar and the two markets in the UAE, which confirms that market capitalization is a more important determinant of financial integration than belonging to a federal union. Further, spillovers from the larger markets have become stronger as a result of the 2014 oil crisis. Finally, there is also evidence of spillovers from the smaller to the larger markets.
G15|Total, asymmetric and frequency connectedness between oil and forex markets|We analyze total, asymmetric and frequency connectedness between oil and forex markets using high-frequency, intra-day data over the period 2007 -- 2017. By employing variance decompositions and their spectral representation in combination with realized semivariances to account for asymmetric and frequency connectedness, we obtain interesting results. We show that divergence in monetary policy regimes affects forex volatility spillovers but that adding oil to a forex portfolio decreases the total connectedness of the mixed portfolio. Asymmetries in connectedness are relatively small. While negative shocks dominate forex volatility connectedness, positive shocks prevail when oil and forex markets are assessed jointly. Frequency connectedness is largely driven by uncertainty shocks and to a lesser extent by liquidity shocks, which impact long-term connectedness the most and lead to its dramatic increase during periods of distress.
G15|The Interplay between Oil and Food Commodity Prices: Has It Changed over Time?|Using time-varying BVARs, we find that oil price increases caused by oil supply shocks did not affect food commodity prices before the start of the millennium, but had positive spillover effects in more recent periods. Likewise, shortfalls in global food commodity supply —resulting from bad harvests — have positive effects on crude oil prices since the early 2000s, in contrast to the preceding era. Remarkably, we also document greater spillover effects of both supply shocks on metals and minerals commodity prices in recent periods, as well as a stronger impact on the own price compared to earlier decades. This (simultaneous) time variation of commodity price dynamics cannot be explained by the biofuels revolution and is more likely the consequence of heightened informational frictions and information discovery in more globalized and financialized commodity markets.
G15|Centralized versus Decentralized Banking: Bank-level evidence from U.S. Call Reports|This paper demonstrates that decentralized banking has been the primary model of banking in the US since the mid-90s. This evidence is obtained by using a large number of bank-level observations from US Call Reports. The ownership structure that I infer from these data allow me to use a unique identification strategy to determine the independent effects of subsidiary-specific and owner-specific financial conditions (decentralized and centralized effects, respectively) on subsidiaries’ lending. The results show that subsidiaries financial conditions were, in general, more important for lending decisions than those of its owners. In other words, decentralized banking is more pronounced than centralized banking. Considering a broad set of factors that have a systematic effect on financial markets, I also find that the effects of these push factors on subsidiary lending mainly feed through the financial conditions of the subsidiaries and not their owners.
G15|Foreign Direct Investment as a Determinant of Cross-Country Stock Market Comovement|We develop a theoretical framework in order to investigate the link between two recent trends: (i) the rise in cross-country stock market correlations over the past three decades, and (ii) the increase in global foreign direct investment (FDI) positions over the same period. Our objective is twofold: first, we investigate empirically the channel through which the rise in global stock market correlations is associated with the observed increase in global FDI. Second, we develop a two-country stochastic asset pricing model with multinational firms that allows us to quantify the extent to which the recent rise in global FDI can account for the observed increase in cross-country stock market comovement. Calibrating three versions of the model (financial autarky, incomplete markets and complete markets) to the US and the rest-of-the-world, we find that a permanent inrcease in FDI positions, as observed from mid 1990s to mid 2000s, leads to substantial increase in cross-country stock market comovements. Increases in FDI alone can account for approximately one third of the observed increase in stock market correlations. We also discuss the role of portfolio diversification and, more generally, asset market integration.
G15|Owners' Portfolio Diversification and Firm Investment: Theory and Evidence from Private and Public Firms|Portfolio diversification of firms' controlling owners influences their firms' capital investment. Empirically, the effect of owners' portfolio diversification on their firms' investment levels is positive for publicly-traded firms and tends to be negative for privately-held ones. These findings are consistent with predictions of a model in which a risk-averse investor simultaneously chooses her portfolio structure, and the level and riskiness of capital investment of the firm she controls, and in which the firm can be potentially constrained in its capital investment choices. Overall, our results indicate that owners' portfolio underdiversification and firms' financial constraints can impact firms' resource allocation.
G15|Arbitrage Free Dispersion|We develop a theory of arbitrage-free dispersion (AFD) that characterizes the testable restrictions of asset pricing models. AFD measures Jensen’s gap in the cumulant generating function of pricing kernels and returns. It implies a wide family of model-free dispersion constraints, which extend dispersion and co-dispersion bounds in the literature and are applicable with a unifying approach in multivariate and multiperiod settings. Empirically, the dispersion of stationary and martingale pricing kernel components in the benchmark long-run risk model yields a counterfactual dependence of short- vs. long-maturity bond returns and is insufficient for pricing optimal portfolios of market equity and short-term bonds.
G15|Crude Awakening: Oil Prices and Bond Returns|Oil price changes fail to predict asset returns because they are too noisy. We construct an oil trend factor that fi lters out noise and provide evidence that it predicts bond risk premiums well. This result holds in developed and emerging markets, both in sample and out of sample. Notably, the oil trend factor improves predictions based on current term structure predictors, such as the first three principal components of yields and the Cochrane and Piazzesi (2005) factor. A puzzle emerging from our results is that oil price increases, which are generally thought to precede economic recessions, are in fact associated with subsequent lower bond returns. To solve this puzzle, we demonstrate that not all oil price shocks are alike: Although oil demand and supply shocks have opposite implications for economic activity and bond risk premiums, the oil trend factor is mainly related to demand shocks. Therefore, increases in the oil trend tend to signal a strong economy and lower bond returns.
G15|The Effect of Unconventional Monetary Policy on Cross‐Border Bank Loans: Evidence from an Emerging Market|We analyze the impact of quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve, European Central Bank and Bank of England on cross‐border credit flows. Relying on comprehensive loan‐level data, we find that Fed QE strongly boosts cross‐border credit granted to Turkish banks by banks located in the US, Euro Area and UK, while ECB and BoE QEs work only moderately through banks in the EA and UK, respectively. In general QE works at short maturities across bank locations and loan currencies, more strongly for weaker lenders and borrowers, and may have resulted in maturity mismatches in Turkish banks searching for yield.
G15|Unintended Consequences of Unemployment Insurance Benefits: The Role of Banks|Unemployment insurance (UI) policies are implemented by many countries to lower individual income risk and to automatically stabilize macroeconomic fluctuations. To the extent that these policies are successful, however, they should be reducing precautionary savings and hence bank deposits – households' major saving instrument. In this paper, we use this lower incentive to save and uncover a novel distortionary mechanism through which UI policies affect the economy. In particular, we show that when state UI benefits become more generous bank deposits decrease. Since deposits are the main and uniquely stable funding source for banks, the decrease in deposits squeezes bank commercial lending, which in turn reduces firm investment.
G15|How ETFs Amplify the Global Financial Cycle in Emerging Markets| Since the early 2000s exchange-traded funds (ETFs) have grown to become an important in- vestment vehicle worldwide. In this paper, we study how their growth affects the sensitivity of international capital flows to the global financial cycle. We combine comprehensive fund- level data on investor flows with a novel identification strategy that controls for unobservable time-varying economic conditions at the investment destination. For dedicated emerging mar- ket funds, we find that the sensitivity of investor flows to global risk factors for equity (bond) ETFs is 1.5 (1.25) times higher than for equity (bond) mutual funds. In turn, we show that in countries where ETFs hold a larger share of financial assets, total cross-border equity flows and prices are significantly more sensitive to global risk factors. We conclude that the growing role of ETFs as a channel for international capital flows amplifies the incidence of the global financial cycle in emerging markets.
G15|The design of a sovereign debt restructuring mechanism for the euro area: Choices and trade-offs|This paper critically assesses several dimensions of a sovereign debt restructuring mechanism (SDRM) for the euro area. The novelty of our analysis is that we abstain from recommending one ideal model for a restructuring mechanism. Instead, we apply a menu-type approach. For five key institutional SDRM dimensions, we discuss the underlying fundamental trade-offs and discuss the pros and cons of different design choices. Specifically, we investigate the following SDRM dimensions: (i) the institutional assignments of responsibilities, (ii) the condition or decision rule that triggers a debt restructuring, (iii) the design and size of debt restructuring, (iv) the role and details of collective action clauses (CACs), and (v) the safeguards for financial stability in support for a SDRM. We conclude that there is no such thing as the single optimal SDRM. Design decisions require judgements on the underlying trade-offs and related assumptions on relative costs. Also, the search for an appropriate euro area SDRM design can benefit from complementarities. Ambition in one dimension can offer more degrees of freedom in another dimension. Our analysis implies that there is no convincing reason to further taboo the search for a euro area SDRM, as there are ways to combine the opportunities of a credible SDRM with financial stability.
G15|Setting the Stage for RMB Internationalisation - Liberalizing the Capital Account and Strengthening the Domestic Bond Market|Internationalizing the Renminbi pertains to the new era of China’s reform, starting at the 19th Congress of the Communist Party. It is not a technical reform, but a political one. The objective is threefold: to match China’s autonomy in economic policy, to further Asian integration, and to safeguard worldwide multilateralism against by the rise of protectionist forces. The challenge has been aggravated by the protectionist policies pursued by the US, degrading ipso facto the functions assumed by the dollar in the international payment system. China’s authorities have drawn lessons from the Asian crisis of 1997-98 and the systemic crisis of 2008-09. They are now searching for a second-best option in advocating a multilateral international payment system based on the SDR. The process of currency internationalization is linked to the modernization of domestic capital markets. Studying the progress in both dimensions makes the first two parts of the paper We ask the following questions. In the first part: which steps has China taken, and should take in the future, to complete the gradual process of currency internationalization currently under way? In the second part: how can China build the deep and resilient bond market required to attract international investors? A shorter third part examines why emerging market countries are incentivized to issue their government debt in their own currencies to attract foreign investors in the lingering context of ultra-low interest rates in the main convertible currencies. The status of a freely usable currency, already reached by the Renminbi in its prudent internationalization, together with a reform of the huge domestic bond market, should make China able to attract foreign saving. This is compatible with the Belt and Road Initiative, which is bound to mobilize massive capital exports in the form of long-term loans.
G15|Análisis de sentimientos de noticias e inversionistas en el mercado bursátil|Este trabajo estudia en la relación estadística entre el sentimiento de inversionistas y de noticias con la dirección del movimiento del S&P 500 en ventanas de 30 minutos. Específicamente, se utilizan algoritmos de Machine Learning para estimar una medida representativa del sentimiento de los inversionistas y de noticias a partir de mensajes de usuarios de StockTwits, que luego se utilizaron de manera conjunta e individual para pronosticar la dirección del SP 500. Se encontró que con la inclusión del sentimiento de los inversionistas se alcanzó una exactitud del 58%, por encima del 50% obtenido por un modelo autorregresivo. No obstante, se determinó que la integración del análisis de sentimiento de noticias no aumentó la predictibilidad del índice en cuestión.
G15|Análisis de correlacción condicional. Evidencia para el mercado colombiano|El artículo investiga la incertidumbre y la interdependencia entre el mercado accionario colombiano y los principales mercados internacionales. Se estima un modelo Correlación Condicional Dinámica (DCC) para estudiar la interdependencia entre los mercados accionarios seleccionados y un modelo GARCH para analizar la volatilidad condicional. Analizó el período que abarca desde enero de 2001 hasta Septiembre de 2018. Los resultados muestran que el periodo de crisis subprime genera un efecto positivo significativo en la volatilidad condicional. Además, encuentro evidencia de un co-movimiento significativo en el tiempo entre el mercado bursátil colombiano y los mercados nacionales e internacionales. En cuanto a la persistencia, la co-variabilidad con los mercados nacionales es mayor, en relación a los mercados internacionales.
G15|Análisis de correlacción condicional. Evidencia para el mercado colombiano|El artículo investiga la incertidumbre y la interdependencia entre el mercado accionario colombiano y los principales mercados internacionales. Se estima un modelo Correlación Condicional Dinámica (DCC) para estudiar la interdependencia entre los mercados accionarios seleccionados y un modelo GARCH para analizar la volatilidad condicional. Analizó el período que abarca desde enero de 2001 hasta Septiembre de 2018. Los resultados muestran que el periodo de crisis subprime genera un efecto positivo significativo en la volatilidad condicional. Además, encuentro evidencia de un co-movimiento significativo en el tiempo entre el mercado bursátil colombiano y los mercados nacionales e internacionales. En cuanto a la persistencia, la co-variabilidad con los mercados nacionales es mayor, en relación a los mercados internacionales.
G15|China vs. U.S.: IMS Meets IPS|Currently both the International Monetary System (IMS) and the International Price Systems (IPS) are dominated by the U.S. The emergence of China, both as reserve currency and as a currency of invoicing, is likely to disrupt this status quo. We provide a framework to understand the forces that will shape this transition and identify sources of instability. We highlight the risk of an abrupt shift triggered by a run on the dollar.
G15|Currency regimes and the carry trade|This study exploits a new long-run data set of daily bid and offered exchange rates in spot and forward markets from 1919 to the present to analyze carry returns in fixed and floating currency regimes. We first find that outsized carry returns occur exclusively in the floating regime, being zero in the fixed regime. Second, we show that fixed-to-floating regime shifts are associated with negative returns to a carry strategy implemented only on floating currencies, robust to the inclusion of volatility risks. These shifts are typically characterized by global flight-to-safety events that represent bad times for carry traders.
G15|The Total Risk Premium Puzzle?|The risk premium puzzle is worse than you think. Using a new database for the U.S. and 15 other advanced economies from 1870 to the present that includes housing as well as equity returns (to capture the full risky capital portfolio of the representative agent), standard calculations using returns to total wealth and consumption show that: housing returns in the long run are comparable to those of equities, and yet housing returns have lower volatility and lower covariance with consumption growth than equities. The same applies to a weighted total-wealth portfolio, and over a range of horizons. As a result, the implied risk aversion parameters for housing wealth and total wealth are even larger than those for equities, often by a factor of 2 or more. We find that more exotic models cannot resolve these even bigger puzzles, and we see little role for limited participation, idiosyncratic housing risk, transaction costs, or liquidity premiums.
G15|Covered Interest Parity Arbitrage|We show that it is crucial to account for the heterogeneity in funding costs, both across banks and across currency areas, in order to understand recently documented deviations from Covered Interest Parity (CIP). When CIP arbitrage is implemented accounting for marginal funding costs and realistic risk-free investment instruments, the no-arbitrage relation holds fairly well for the majority of market participants. A narrow set of global high-rated banks, however, does enjoy riskless arbitrage opportunities. Such arbitrage opportunities emerge as an equilibrium outcome as FX swap dealers set prices to avoid inventory imbalances. Low-rated banks find it attractive to turn to the FX swap market to cover their U.S. dollar funding, while swap dealers elicit opposite (arbitrage) flows by high-rated banks. Such arbitrage opportunities are difficult to scale, with funding rates adjusting as soon as arbitrageurs increase their positions.
G15|Forward-Looking Policy Rules and Currency Premia|We evaluate the cross-sectional predictive ability of a forward-looking monetary policy reaction function, or Taylor rule, in both statistical and economic terms. We find that investors require a premium for holding currency portfolios with high implied interest rates while currency portfolios with low implied rates offer negative currency excess returns. Our forward-looking Taylor rule signals are orthogonal to current nominal interest rates and disconnected from carry trade portfolios and other currency investment strategies. The profitability of the Taylor rule portfolio spread is mainly driven by inflation forecasts rather than the output gap and is robust to data snooping and a wide range of robustness checks.
G15|Exportweltmeister: The Low Returns on Germany's Capital Exports|"Germany is world champion in exporting capital (\Exportweltmeister""). No other country invests larger amounts of savings outside its borders. However, Germany plays in the third division when it comes to investment performance, as we show in this paper. We study the returns on German foreign investments from 1950 to 2017 and find that: (1) Germany's annual returns on foreign assets were 2 to 5 percentage points lower than those of comparable countries. Germany ranks last among the G7 countries, also in the last decade; (2) Domestic returns on German assets have outperformed foreign returns abroad by about 3 percentage points per year; (3) Germany's external wealth provides very little consumption insurance as foreign returns are highly correlated with domestic activity; (4) The capital exports do little to diversify demographic risks as Germany mainly invests in countries with similar demographics. Taken together, these facts raise substantial doubts whether German households, firms, and banks allocate their savings in a beneficial way."
G15|China's overseas lending|"Compared with China's dominance in world trade, its expanding role in global finance is poorly documented and understood. Over the past decades, China has exported record amounts of capital to the rest of the world. Many of these financial flows are not reported to the IMF, the BIS or the World Bank. ""Hidden debts"" to China are especially significant for about three dozen developing countries, and distort the risk assessment in both policy surveillance and the market pricing of sovereign debt. We establish the size, destination, and characteristics of China's overseas lending. We identify three key distinguishing features.First, almost all of China's lending and investment abroad is official. As a result, the standard ""push"" and ""pull"" drivers of private cross-border flows do not play the same role in this case. Second, the documentation of China's capital exports is (at best) opaque. China does not report on its official lending and there is no comprehensive standardized data on Chinese overseas debt stocks and flows. Third, the type of flows is tailored by recipient. Advanced and higher middle-income countries tend to receive portfolio debt flows, via sovereign bond purchases of the People's Bank of China. Lower income developing economies mostly receive direct loans from China's state-owned banks, often at market rates and backed by collateral such as oil. Our new dataset covers a total of 1,974 Chinese loans and 2,947 Chinese grants to 152 countries from 1949 to 2017. We find that about one half of China's overseas loans to the developing world are ""hidden""."
G15|Exchange Rate Reconnect|The failure to find fundamentals that co-move with exchange rates or forecasting models with even mild predictive power – facts broadly referred to as “exchange rate disconnect” – stands among the most disappointing, but robust, facts in all of international macroeconomics. In this paper, we demonstrate that U.S. purchases of foreign bonds, which did not co-move with exchange rates prior to 2007, have provided significant in-sample, and even some out-of-sample, explanatory power for currencies since then. We show that several proxies for global risk factors also start to co-move strongly with the dollar and with U.S. purchases of foreign bonds around 2007, suggesting that risk plays a key role in this finding. We use security-level data on U.S. portfolios to demonstrate that the reconnect of U.S. foreign bond purchases to exchange rates is largely driven by investment in dollar-denominated assets rather than by foreign currency exposure alone. Our results support the narrative emerging from an active recent literature that the US dollar’s role as an international and safe-haven currency has surged since the global financial crisis.
G15|Covered Interest Parity Deviations: Macrofinancial Determinants|For several decades until the Global Financial Crisis (GFC), Covered Interest Parity (CIP) appeared to hold quite closely—even as a broad macroeconomic relationship applying to daily or weekly data. Not only have CIP deviations significantly increased since the GFC, but potential macrofinancial drivers of the variation in CIP deviations have also become significant. The variation in CIP deviations seems to be associated with multiple factors, not only regulatory changes. Most of these do not display a uniform importance across currency pairs and time, and some are associated with possibly temporary drivers (such as asynchronous monetary policy cycles).
G15|Global Dimensions of U.S. Monetary Policy|This paper is a partial exploration of mechanisms through which global factors influence the tradeoffs that U.S. monetary policy faces. It considers three main channels. The first is the determination of domestic inflation in a context where international prices and global competition play a role, alongside domestic slack and inflation expectations. The second channel is the determination of asset returns (including the natural real safe rate of interest, r*) and financial conditions, given integration with global financial markets. The third channel, which is particular to the United States, is the potential spillback onto the U.S. economy from the disproportionate impact of U.S. monetary policy on the outside world. In themselves, global factors need not undermine a central bank's ability to control the price level over the long term -- after all, it is the monopoly issuer of the numeraire in which domestic prices are measured. Over shorter horizons, however, global factors do change the tradeoff between price-level control and other goals such as low unemployment and financial stability, thereby affecting the policy cost of attaining a given price path.
G15|Foreign currency loan conversions and currency mismatches|This paper examines the effect of currency conversion programs from Swiss franc-denominated loans to other currency loans on currency risk for banks in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE). Swiss franc mortgage loans proliferated in CEE countries prior to the financial crisis and contributed to the volume of non-performing loans as the Swiss franc strongly appreciated during the post-crisis period. Empirical findings suggest that Swiss franc loan conversion programs reduced currency mismatches in Swiss francs but increased currency mismatches in other foreign currencies in individual countries. This asymmetric effect of conversion programs arises from the loan restructuring from Swiss francs to a non-local currency and the high level of euro mismatches in the CEE banking system.
G15|Business Cycles and Currency Returns|We find a strong link between currency excess returns and the relative strength of the business cycle. Buying currencies of strong economies and selling currencies of weak economies generates high returns both in the cross section and time series of countries. These returns stem primarily from spot exchange rate predictability, are uncorrelated with common currency investment strategies, and cannot be understood using traditional currency risk factors in either unconditional or conditional asset pricing tests. We also show that a business cycle factor implied by our results is priced in a broad currency cross section.
G15|Sup-ADF-style bubble-detection methods under test|In this paper we analyze the performance of supremum augmented Dickey-Fuller (SADF), generalized SADF (GSADF), and backward SADF (BSADF) tests, as introduced by Phillips et al. (International Economic Review 56:1043-1078, 2015) for detecting and date-stamping financial bubbles. In Monte Carlo simulations, we show that the SADF and GSADF tests may reveal substantial size distortions under typical financial-market characteristics (like the empirically well-documented leverage effect). We consider the rational bubble specification suggested by Rotermann and Wilfl ing (Applied Economics Letters 25:1091-1096, 2018) that is able to generate realistic stock-price dynamics (in terms of level trajectories and volatility paths). Simulating stock-price trajectories that contain these parametric bubbles, we demonstrate that the SADF and GSADF tests can have extremely low power under a wide range of bubble-parameter constellations. In an empirical analysis, we use NASDAQ data covering a time-span of 45 years and find that the outcomes of the bubble date-stamping procedure (based on the BSADF test) are sensitive to the data-frequency chosen by the econometrician.
G15|Analyzing Credit Risk Transmission to the Non-Financial Sector in Europe: A Network Approach|A high-dimensional network of European CDS spreads is modeled to assess the transmission of credit risk to the non-financial corporate sector in Europe. We build on a network connectedness approach that uses variance decompositions in vector autoregressions (VARs) to characterize the dependence structure in the panel of CDS spreads. Our main findings suggest a sectoral clustering in the CDS network, where financial institutions are located in the center of the network and non-financial as well as sovereign CDS are grouped around the financial center. The network has a geographical component re flected in differences in the magnitude and direction of real-sector risk transmission across European countries. We identify an increase in the transmission of financial and sovereign credit risk to the non-financial sector during the global financial crisis and the European debt crisis. By contrast, we find that the transmission of risk within the non-financial sector remains largely unaffected by crisis events.
G15|Price discovery in cryptocurrency markets|We ask which markets drive bitcoin prices and how price discovery happens across different exchanges. Does the greater exuberance for cryptocurrencies outside the United States affect prices only on local markets or does it impact price formation on global cryptocurrency markets? We document significant heterogeneity in which price formation happens across exchanges and time. When markets are more integrated, shocks to prices on all exchanges contribute to price discovery. However, when markets become segmented, those exchanges that have large arbitrage spreads relative to the US price, i.e. where investors are more exuberant become much less important for price discovery.
G15|Group affiliation and default prediction|Using a large sample of business groups from more than one hundred countries around the world, we show that group information matters for parent and subsidiary default prediction. Group firms may support each other when in financial distress. Potential group support represents an off-balance sheet asset for the receiving firm and an off-balance sheet liability for the firm offering support. We find that subsidiary information improves parent default prediction over and above group-level consolidated information possibly because intra-group exposures are netted out upon consolidation. Moreover, we document that the improvements in parent default prediction are decreasing in the extent of parent-country financial reporting transparency which suggests that within-group information matters most when consolidated financial statements are expected to be of lower quality. We also show that parent and other group-firms’ default risk exhibits predictive power for subsidiary default. Lastly, we find that within-group information explains cross-sectional variation in CDS spreads. Taken together, our findings contribute to prior literature on default prediction and have direct relevance to investors, credit-rating agencies and accounting regulators.
G15|The Role of Asymmetry and Uncertainties in the Capital Flows- Economic Growth Nexus|This study examines the asymmetry between capital flows and economic growth in 42 countries for the period 1990-2017. It further argues that uncertainty is an important channel through which asymmetry operates. As such, the three measures of uncertainty are macroeconomic, fiscal and institutional. The Generalised Method of Moments is used as an empirical strategy. The existence of an asymmetry is confirmed by the findings as capital flows are more reactive to economic drag when compared to economic growth. Furthermore, the channels through which asymmetry operate are heterogeneous to measures of capital flows and proxies for uncertainty.
G15|What Wavelet-Based Quantiles Can Suggest about the Stocks-Bond Interaction in the Emerging East Asian Economies?|This paper investigates bidirectional interdependence between 10Y bond yields and stock returns in the eight emerging East Asian economies. The method of choice is wavelet-based quantile approach, which can provide an answer about spillover effect in different market conditions and in different time horizons. We find that shock spillover effect is much more intense from the bond markets to the stock markets in all the selected economies, than vice-versa. Also, the nexus is dominantly positive in the more developed financial markets in both tranquil and crisis periods, particularly in the short and midterm horizons, which is an indication that capital reallocation takes place between these markets in a search for safer and more profitable investments. As for the less developed East Asian economies, we find negative quantile parameters in all quantiles and in all wavelet scales, which suggests that dividend discount model is a decisive factor that drives the stock-bond interdependence in all time horizons.
G15|News Releases, Credit Rating Announcements, and Anti-Crisis Measures as Determinants of Sovereign Bond Spreads in the Peripheral Euro-Area Countries|This paper aims to contribute to the understanding of the determinants of the sovereign bond yields of the peripheral euro-area countries in recent years. We consider news releases, credit rating announcements, and anti-crisis measures undertaken by the ECB, for the EU/euro area as a whole as well as at the level of individual countries, as potential determinants. Our study is based on the daily sovereign bond spreads (with regard to German bunds) of Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, and Spain in the years 2010-2016. We use the VARX-GARCH-BEKK model. Our results suggest that the spreads were most strongly influenced by the ECB’s measures and bailout programs, while the initiatives undertaken at the EU/euro area level played a less significant role. Rating changes proved to be significant, but some discrepancies with the results of previous studies occurred. Different sets of news variables were received for each country. Nonetheless, similarities were also identified.
G15|Determinants of the Public Debt and the Role of the Natural Resources: A Cross-Country Analysis|This paper investigates the major drivers of the public debt growth in 184 countries. The underlying cross-country survey is conducted on the basis of the improved compilation of datasets on the central government debt for 2013. The study finds that oil abundance, economic growth rate, the share of mineral rent in the total revenue, interest rate payments for foreign borrowings, and being a developing country have statistically significant impact on the growth of the public debt. In contrast, defense spending, unemployment rate, and inflation rate do not have a statistically significant positive impact on the public debt rate.
G15|The Two-Pillar Policy for the RMB|"We document stylized facts about China's recent exchange rate policy for its currency, the renminbi (RMB). Our empirical findings suggest that a ""two-pillar policy"" is in place, aiming to balance RMB index stability and exchange rate flexibility. We then develop a tractable no-arbitrage model of the RMB under the two-pillar policy. Using derivatives data on the RMB and the U.S. dollar index, we estimate the model to assess financial markets' views about the fundamental exchange rate and sustainability of the policy. Our model is able to predict the modification of the two-pillar policy in May 2017, when a discretion-based ""countercyclical factor"" was introduced for the first time. We also examine the model's ability to forecast RMB movements."
G15|The Total Risk Premium Puzzle|The risk premium puzzle is worse than you think. Using a new database for the U.S. and 15 other advanced economies from 1870 to the present that includes housing as well as equity returns (to capture the full risky capital portfolio of the representative agent), standard calculations using returns to total wealth and consumption show that: housing returns in the long run are comparable to those of equities, and yet housing returns have lower volatility and lower covariance with consumption growth than equities. The same applies to a weighted total-wealth portfolio, and over a range of horizons. As a result, the implied risk aversion parameters for housing wealth and total wealth are even larger than those for equities, often by a factor of 2 or more. We find that more exotic models cannot resolve these even bigger puzzles, and we see little role for limited participation, idiosyncratic housing risk, transaction costs, or liquidity premiums.
G15|The Role of U.S. Monetary Policy in Global Banking Crises|We examine the role of U.S. monetary policy in global financial stability by using a cross-country database spanning the period from 1870-2010 across 69 countries. U.S. monetary policy tightening increases the probability of banking crises for those countries with direct linkages to the U.S., either in the form of trade links or significant share of USD-denominated liabilities. Conversely, if a country is integrated globally, rather than having a direct exposure, the effect is ambiguous. One possible channel we identify is capital flows: If the correction in capital flows is disorderly (e.g., sudden stops), the probability of banking crises increases. These findings suggest that the effect of U.S. monetary policy in global banking crises is not uniform and largely dependent on the nature of linkages with the U.S.
G15|Institutional Investors, the Dollar, and U.S. Credit Conditions|This paper documents that an appreciation of the U.S. dollar is associated with a reduction in the supply of commercial and industrial loans by U.S. banks. An increase in the broad dollar index by 2.5 points (one standard deviation) reduces U.S. banks' corporate loan originations by 10 percent. This decline is driven by a reduction in the demand for loans on the secondary market where prices fall and liquidity worsens when the dollar appreciates, with stronger effects for riskier loans. Today, the main buyers of U.S. corporate loans---and, hence, suppliers of funding for these loans---are institutional investors, in particular mutual funds, which experience outflows when the dollar appreciates. A shift of traditional financial intermediation to these relatively unregulated entities, which are more sensitive to global developments, has led to the emergence of this new channel through which the dollar affects the U.S. economy, which we term the secondary market channel.
G15|Variance Risk Premium Components and International Stock Return Predictability|No abstract is available for this item.
G15|Credit Migration and Covered Interest Rate Parity|This paper examines the connection between deviations in covered interest rate parity and differences in the credit spread of bonds of similar risk but different currency denomination. These two pricing anomalies are highly aligned in both the time series and the cross-section of currencies. The composite of these two pricing deviations – the corporate basis – represents the currency-hedged borrowing cost difference between currency regions and explains up to a third of the variation in the aggregate corporate debt issuance flow. I show that arbitrage aimed at exploiting one type of security anomaly can give rise to the other.
G15|A Pedagogical Note on Risk Sharing Versus Instability in International Financial Integration: When Obstfeld Meets Stiglitz|Abstract The pure risk sharing mechanism implies that financial liberalization is growth enhancing for all countries as the world portfolio shifts from safe low-yield capital to riskier high-yield capital. This result is typically obtained under the assumption that the volatilities for risky assets prevailing under autarky are not altered after liberalization. We relax this assumption within a simple two-country model of intertemporal portfolio choices. By doing so, we put together the risk sharing effect and a well-defined instability effect. We identify the conditions under which liberalization may cause a drop in growth. These conditions combine the typical threshold conditions outlined in the literature, which concern the deep characteristics of the economies, and size conditions on the instability effect induced by liberalization.
G15|External debt financing and macroeconomic instability in emerging market economies|We study the relationship between external debt financing and risk to macroeconomic stability using a panel vector autoregression model for a sample of ten major emerging market economies. We also focus on the linkages of key channels of external debt financing, namely external debt securities and cross-border loans. We find that external debt securities substantially impact the yield spread and the exchange rate for emerging market economies, both before and after the global financial crisis of 2008. On the other hand, the impact of cross-border flows is found to be relatively subdued for these economies in the post-crisis period. We also find that emerging economies that were already receiving a high level of external debt securities inflows experienced a relatively larger yield compression and greater exchange rate pressure compared to the economies that had a low level of external debt securities flows. It indicates higher risk exposure for EMEs with larger external debt securities flows.
G15|“Uncovering the time-varying relationship between commonality in liquidity and volatility”|This study examines the dynamic linkages between commonality in liquidity in international stock markets and market volatility. Using a recently proposed liquidity measure as input in a variance decomposition exercise, we show that innovations to liquidity in most markets are induced predominately by inter-market innovations. We also find that commonality in liquidity peaks immediately after large market downturns, coinciding with periods of crisis. The results from a dynamic Granger causality test indicate that the relationship between commonality in liquidity and market volatility is bi-directional and time-varying. We show that while volatility Granger-causes commonality in liquidity throughout the entire sample period, market volatility is enhanced by commonality in liquidity only in sub-periods. Our results are helpful for practitioners and policy makers.
G15|The dynamic relationship between stock market indexes and foreign exchange|his empirical study analyses the dynamic relationship between the FTSE100 Index and the EuroSTOXX50 Index and the USD/EUR and USD/GBP exchange rates, from January 2007 to April 2017. The Johansen co-integration tests suggest that these variables have a long-term relationship.The Granger causality test was conducted through the use of VECM equations, showing that the FTSE100 and the EuroSTOXX50 Index both have a causal feedback relationship. A unidirectional relationship was found between the FTSE100 Index stock prices and the USD/EURexchange rate.The presence of a unidirectional relationship between the USD/GBP exchange rate and FTSE100 and EuroSTOXX50 Index stock priceswas also detected.
G15|Ratings matter: announcements in times of crisis and the dynamics of stock markets|In this paper we propose a novel approach in analysing the impact of changes in sovereign credit ratings on stock markets. We study the evolution of a segmented form of the stock market index for several crisis-hit countries, including both European and Asian markets. Such evolution is modelled by a homogeneous Markov chain, where the transition probabilities from one starting level of the index to a new (lower or higher) level in the next period depend on some explanatory variables, namely the country’s rating, GDP and interest rate, through a generalised ordered probit model. The credit ratings turn out to be determinant in the dynamics of the stock markets for all three European countries considered - Portugal, Spain and Greece, while not all considered Asian countries show evidence of correlation of market indices with the ratings.
G15|Gains from Policy Cooperation in Capital Controls and Financial Market Incompleteness|We examine how the degree of financial market incompleteness affects welfare gains from policy cooperation in capital controls. When financial markets are incomplete, international risk sharing is disturbed. However, the optimal global policy significantly reverses the welfare deterioration due to inefficient risk-sharing. We find that when financial markets are more incomplete, the welfare gap between the optimal global policy and the Nash equilibrium increases, and the welfare gains from policy cooperation in capital controls then become larger.
G15|Speculative Bubbles in Segmented Markets|We propose a novel approach for testing for rational speculative bubbles in segmented capital markets. The basic idea is that, under capital controls, heterogeneity of speculative expectations across international equity markets causes financial assets with identical cash flow promises to trade at different prices. Because these deviations from the law of one price inherit the properties of the speculative bubble process, they display periods of explosive dynamics and have predictive power for future movements in equity prices in sample. These two hypotheses can be examined empirically using sequential unit root tests and predictive regressions. An attractive feature of this approach for bubble detection is that it does not require the specification of a model for market fundamentals, thus mitigating the well-known joint hypothesis problem. The focus of the paper is on mainland Chinese companies that cross list shares in Hong Kong. China is an ideal setting for our analysis because of the significant restrictions on capital movements imposed by the authorities and the turbulent behaviour of its stock market over the last decades.
G15|Corporate debt, firm size and financial fragility in emerging markets|The post-Global Financial Crisis period shows a surge in corporate leverage in emerging markets and a number of countries with deteriorated corporate financial fragility indicators (Altman's Z-score). Firm size plays a critical role in the relationship between leverage, firm fragility and exchange rate movements in emerging markets. While the relationship between firm-leverage and distress scores varies over time, the relationship between firm size and corporate vulnerability is relatively time-invariant. All else equal, large firms in emerging markets are more financially vulnerable and also systemically important. Consistent with the granular origins of aggregate fluctuations in Gabaix (2011), idiosyncratic shocks to the sales growth of large firms are positively and significantly correlated with GDP growth in our emerging markets sample. Relatedly, the negative impact of exchange rate shocks has a more acute impact on the sales growth of the more highly levered large firms.
G15|China vs. U.S.: IMS Meets IPS|Currently both the International Monetary System (IMS) and the International Price Systems (IPS) are dominated by the U.S. The emergence of China, both as reserve currency and as a currency of invoicing, is likely to disrupt this status quo. We provide a framework to understand the forces that will shape this transition and identify sources of instability. We highlight the risk of an abrupt shift triggered by a run on the dollar.
G15|Sovereign Bonds since Waterloo|This paper studies external sovereign bonds as an asset class. We compile a new database of 220,000 monthly prices of foreign-currency government bonds traded in London and New York between 1815 (the Battle of Waterloo) and 2016, covering 91 countries. Our main insight is that, as in equity markets, the returns on external sovereign bonds have been sufficiently high to compensate for risk. Real ex-post returns averaged 7% annually across two centuries, including default episodes, major wars, and global crises. This represents an excess return of around 4% above US or UK government bonds, which is comparable to stocks and outperforms corporate bonds. The observed returns are hard to reconcile with canonical theoretical models and with the degree of credit risk in this market, as measured by historical default and recovery rates. Based on our archive of more than 300 sovereign debt restructurings since 1815, we show that full repudiation is rare; the median haircut is below 50%.
G15|Monetary Policy and Exchange Rate Returns: Time-Varying Risk Regimes|We develop an empirical model of exchange rate returns, applied separately to samples of developed (DM) and developing (EM) economies’ currencies against the dollar. Monetary policy stance of the global central banks, measured via a natural-language-based approach, has a large effect on exchange rate returns over the ensuing year, is closely linked to the VIX, and becomes increasingly important in the post-crisis era. We document an important spillover effect: monetary policy of the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan and the ECB is as important as Fed policy in forecasting currency returns against the dollar. In the post-crisis era, a one standard deviation increase in dovishness of all four central banks forecasts a 5.8% (4.0%) one-year excess return of DM (EM) currencies. Furthermore, we find that the relation between a DM country’s interest rate differential relative to the dollar (carry) and the future returns from investing in its currency switches sign from the pre- to the post-crisis subperiod, while for EMs the carry variable is never a significant predictor of returns. The high profit from the carry trade for EM currencies reflects persistent country characteristics likely reflective of risk rather than the interest differential per se. While measures of global monetary policy stance forecast exchange rate returns against the dollar, they do not predict exchange rate returns against other base currencies. Results regarding returns from carry, however, are insensitive to the choice of the base currency. We construct a no-arbitrage pricing model which reconciles many of our empirical findings.
G15|Business Groups and the Incorporation of Firm-specific Shocks into Stock Prices|In lower-income economies, stocks exhibit less idiosyncratic volatility and business groups are more prevalent. This study connects these two findings by showing that business group affiliated firms’ stock returns exhibit less idiosyncratic volatility than do the returns of otherwise similar unaffiliated firms. Global commodity price shocks are common shocks that contribute to firm-level idiosyncratic risk because they affect industries heterogeneously. Idiosyncratic components of commodity shocks are incorporated less into idiosyncratic returns of group affiliates than unaffiliated firms in the same industry and economy. Identification follows from difference-in-difference tests exploiting successful and matched-exogenously-failed control block transactions.
G15|Search for Yield in Large International Corporate Bonds : Investor Behavior and Firm Responses|"Emerging market corporations have significantly increased their borrowing in international markets since 2008. This paper shows that this increase was driven by large-denomination bond issuances, most of them with face value of US$500 million. Large issuances are eligible for inclusion in international market indexes, which attract institutional investors. Emerging market firms were able to cut their cost of funds by roughly 100 basis points by issuing large-denomination bonds. Firms face a tradeoff: issue large, index-eligible bonds to borrow at a lower cost (about 100 basis points) but pay the expense of hoarding cash. Because of the""size yield discount,""many companies issued index-eligible bonds, increasing their cash holdings. The willingness to issue large bonds and hoard cash was greater for firms in countries with high carry trade opportunities. These post-2008 behaviors reflected a search for yield by institutional investors into higher-risk securities and are not apparent in developed economies."
G15|Are Intermediary Constraints Priced?|Violations of no-arbitrage conditions measure the shadow cost of constraints on intermediaries, and the risk that these constraints tighten is priced. We demonstrate in an intermediary-based asset pricing model that violations of no-arbitrage such as covered interest rate parity (CIP) violations, along with intermediary wealth returns, can be used to price assets. We describe a “forward CIP trading strategy” that bets on CIP violations becoming smaller, and show that its returns help identify the price of the risk that the shadow cost of intermediary constraints increases. This risk contributes substantially to the volatility of the stochastic discount factor, and appears to be priced consistently in U.S. treasury, emerging market sovereign bond, and foreign exchange portfolios.
G15|Global Dimensions of U.S. Monetary Policy|This paper is a partial exploration of mechanisms through which global factors influence the tradeoffs that U.S. monetary policy faces. It considers three main channels. The first is the determination of domestic inflation in a context where international prices and global competition play a role, alongside domestic slack and inflation expectations. The second channel is the determination of asset returns (including the natural real safe rate of interest, râ??) and financial conditions, given integration with global financial markets. The third channel, which is particular to the United States, is the potential spillback onto the U.S. economy from the disproportionate impact of U.S. monetary policy on the outside world. In themselves, global factors need not undermine a central bank's ability to control the price level over the long term -- after all, it is the monopoly issuer of the numeraire in which domestic prices are measured. Over shorter horizons, however, global factors do change the tradeoff between price-level control and other goals such as low unemployment and financial stability, thereby affecting the policy cost of attaining a given price path.
G15|Exchange Rate Reconnect|"The failure to find fundamentals that co-move with exchange rates or forecasting models with even mild predictive power â?? facts broadly referred to as ""exchange rate disconnect"" â?? stands among the most disappointing, but robust, facts in all of international macroeconomics. In this paper, we demonstrate that U.S. purchases of foreign bonds, which did not co-move with exchange rates prior to 2007, have provided significant in-sample, and even some out-of-sample, explanatory power for currencies since then. We show that several proxies for global risk factors also start to co-move strongly with the dollar and with U.S. purchases of foreign bonds around 2007, suggesting that risk plays a key role in this finding. We use security-level data on U.S. portfolios to demonstrate that the reconnect of U.S. foreign bond purchases to exchange rates is largely driven by investment in dollar-denominated assets rather than by foreign currency exposure alone. Our results support the narrative emerging from an active recent literature that the US dollar's role as an international and safe-haven currency has surged since the global financial crisis."
G15|Covered Interest Parity deviations: Macrofinancial determinants|For several decades until the Global Financial Crisis (GFC), Covered Interest Parity (CIP) appeared to hold quite closely-even as a broad macroeconomic relationship applying to daily or weekly data. Not only have CIP deviations significantly increased since the GFC, but potential macrofinancial drivers of the variation in CIP deviations have also become significant. The variation in CIP deviations seems to be associated with multiple factors, not only regulatory changes. Most of these do not display a uniform importance across currency pairs and time, and some are associated with possibly temporary drivers (such as asynchronous monetary policy cycles).
G15|Risk-Free Interest Rates|We estimate risk-free interest rates unaffected by convenience yields on safe assets. We infer them from risky asset prices without relying on any specific model of risk. We obtain a term structure of convenience yields with maturities up to 2.5 years at a minutely frequency. The convenience yield on treasuries equals about 40 basis points, is larger below 3 months maturity, and quadruples during the financial crisis. In high-frequency event studies, conventional and unconventional monetary stimulus reduce convenience yields, particularly during the crisis. We further study convenience-yield-free CIP deviations, and we show significant bond return predictability related to convenience yields.
G15|Towards an Unstable Hook: The Evolution of Stock Market Integration Since 1913|We examine equity market integration for 17 countries from 1913-2018. We use network analysis to measure the evolution of global stock market integration as well as stock market integration between and across countries. The empirical results suggest that long-run stock market integration looks like an unstable hook. Equity market integration first peaked in 1913 during the first era of globalization (1870-1913) when unfettered markets ruled the day. Integration declined over the next 60 years as countries experienced the Great Depression and shunned international capital markets. The end of the Bretton Woods system in the early 1970s ushered in the second period of globalization. Our empirical analysis suggests that stock market integration in the recent period of globalization has surpassed the first era of globalization in the last 10 years and currently has the highest level of equity market integration and network instability in world history.
G15|Business Cycles and Currency Returns|We find a strong link between currency excess returns and the relative strength of the business cycle. Buying currencies of strong economies and selling currencies of weak economies generates high returns both in the cross section and time series of countries. These returns stem primarily from spot exchange rate predictability, are uncorrelated with common currency investment strategies, and cannot be understood using traditional currency risk factors in either unconditional or conditional asset pricing tests. We also show that a business cycle factor implied by our results is priced in a broad currency cross section.
G15|Cojumps and asset allocation in international equity markets|This paper examines the patterns of intraday cojumps between international equity markets as well as their impact on international asset holdings and portfolio diversification benefits. Using intraday index-based data for exchange-traded funds as proxies for international equity markets, we document evidence of significant cojumps, with the intensity increasing during the global financial crisis of 2008–2009. The application of the Hawkes process also shows that jumps propagate from the US and other developed markets to emerging markets. Correlated jumps are found to reduce diversification benefits and foreign asset holdings in minimum risk portfolios, whereas idiosyncratic jumps increase the diversification benefits of international equity portfolios. In contrast, the impact of higher-order moments induced by idiosyncratic and systematic jumps on the optimal composition of international portfolios is not significant.
G15|Does Financial Globalization Still Spur Growth In Emerging And Developing Countries? Considering Exchange Rate Volatility'S Effects|We examine the effects of financial globalization and exchange rate volatility on growth in emerging and developing countries. We generate several measures of exchange rate volatility, as well as their interaction terms with indicators of disaggregated financial globalization. Using the two-step GMM system method on dynamic panel data, we find that exchange rate volatility has a negative impact on long-term growth. On the contrary, financial globalization, and particularly investment-globalization, promotes growth not only directly, but also indirectly, by reducing the negative impact of exchange rate volatility. However, the results show that indebtedness-globalization does not produce these benefits. In this way, the results inform the government's decision on the liberalization of the domestic financial market. JEL: E44, F21, F36, O42, G15, G18
G15|FDI, banking crisis and growth: direct and spill over effects|This study suggests a new decomposition of the effect of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) on long-term growth in developing countries. It reveals that FDI not only have a positive direct effect on growth, but also increase the latter by reducing the recessionary effect resulting from a banking crisis. Even more, they reduce its occurrence. JEL: F65, F36, G01, G15
G15|The Memory of Beta Factors|Researchers and practitioners employ a variety of time-series processes to forecast betas, using either short-memory models or implicitly imposing infinite memory. We find that both approaches are inadequate: beta factors show consistent long-memory properties. For the vast majority of stocks, we reject both the short-memory and difference-stationary (random walk) alternatives. A pure long-memory model reliably provides superior beta forecasts compared to all alternatives. Finally, we document the relation of firm characteristics with the forecast error differentials that result from inadequately imposing short-memory or random walk instead of long-memory processes.
G15|Quantification and Revolution: An Investigation of German Capital Flight after the First|It is well known that after the First World War there was a massive flight of capital from the major European countries to foreign financial centres. It is surprising, however, to note that no historian to date has actually taken the trouble to make a detailed study of the phenomenon. The aim of this article is to go beyond the impressionism that characterises the historical approach to the study of capital flight following the First World War. In order to show what can and cannot be established, the subject of study will be Germany. After presenting the main difficulties encountered in quantifying the flight of German capital, the article will go on to provide a new estimate of it. A wide range of sources were referred to for the survey: national archives, expert reports, bank statistics, and balances of payments. The application of rigorous historical method, with crosschecking and critical analysis of documents, have made it possible to establish new relevant facts regarding the flight of German capital following the First World War. The final figure obtained is greater than those generally accepted.
G15|Determinants of International Consumption Risk Sharing in Developing Countries|Complete financial markets allow countries to share their consumption risks internationally, thereby creating welfare gains through lower volatility of aggregate consumption. This paper empirically looks at international consumption risk sharing and its determinants in a panel of 120 countries from 1970 to 2014. Contrary to some previous studies, I show that financial liberalization and financial integration has a significantly positive impact on international consumption risk sharing in poorer developing countries, whereas in emerging market countries only capital account openness has an impact. Moreover, there is some evidence that high income inequality or a high share of low income individuals reduces consumption smoothing in less developed countries. Lack of financial reforms, a lower degree of financial integration and higher inequality can thus partly explain why the degree of risk sharing is lower in developing countries than in advanced economies.
G15|The Financial Instability Hypothesis and the Financial Crisis in Eastern European Emerging Economies|The present paper applies the financial instability hypothesis in order to explain the financial crises of 2008-2010 in eleven emerging Eastern European economies Also, it seeks to map if institutional frameworks of these countries enabled them to stand against the factors leading into the financial crisis. The paper maps cycles of three macroeconomic indicators representing the real economy, and four indicators representing financial markets. A cycle analysis is conducted with the help of a Hoderick-Prescott filter, made to isolate cycles from trends in time series. The paper concludes that there were substantial positive financial cycles previous to the financial crisis mirrored by similar cycles in the real economy. Similarly, the results show negative cycles in the same parameters during the years of crisis. It seems as an uncontrolled increase in money and credit caused the economy to overheat and thereafter contract in both substantial financial and real economy crises. Also, the paper compiles twelve different indices of institutional development. These are standardized and presented in an institutional development matrix, showing that the institutional framework for the eleven economies was weak previous to and under the melt down of the economy. The construction of an integrated institutional development index on the basis of the same twelve parameters confirm institutional shortcomings, which may have made the economies less able to guard themselves from a crisis initiated by both domestically and internationally financial instability.
G15|Accumulation of Foreign Currency Reserves and Risk-taking|We assess whether the accumulation of foreign currency reserves in the Asia-Pacific region may have unintended consequences in the form of increased private sector risk-taking. To do so we carry out a country-specific daily data event study analysis of the relationship between official announcements of reserves stocks and various proxy measures of risk-taking. Overall, our results suggest that reserves accumulation exerts no systematic influence on risk-taking.
G15|Nominal stock price anchors: A global phenomenon?|Weld et al. (2009) find that the average nominal U.S. stock price has been approximately $25 since the Great Depression. They report that this “nominal price fixation is primarily a U.S. or North American phenomenon.” Using a larger data set from 38 countries, we show that this nominal price fixation is a global phenomenon. We exploit the introduction of the euro in 1999 to show that stock splits maintain these nominal stock price anchors. Generally, firms in countries with larger drops in nominal prices had fewer stock splits after stock prices were displayed in euros.
G15|Capital Flight to Germany: Two Alternative Measures|We use two measures to study two capital flight channels for Germany. One measure is based on the concept of trade misinvoicing and one on net claims and liabilities in the Eurosystem of central banks. For both measures, we propose refinements to enhance the assessment of capital flight. We find that capital flight towards Germany via these two channels has been quite sizable in the recent decade and can tally to about 2% of GDP annually. Regarding their determinants, we show that the two capital flight measures are driven by both common and measure-specific factors. Traditional determinants such as covered interest differentials only play a limited role, while crisis-specific factors such as economic policy uncertainty, the ECB collateral policy, as well as currency misalignment are driving factors of the investors’ apparent flight-to-safety behavior.
G15|Central Bank Swap Lines: Evidence on the Effects of the Lender of Last Resort|Theory claims that central-bank lending programs put ceilings on private lending rates, reduce ex post funding risk, and encourage ex ante investment. Testing for these effects is challenging. Most programs either have long precedents or were introduced in response to large shocks with multiple effects. Swap lines between advanced-economy central banks are a significant new policy through which a source central bank provides source-currency credit to recipient-country banks using the recipient central bank as the monitor and as the bearer of the credit risk. This paper shows that, in theory, the swap lines should put a ceiling on deviations from covered interest parity, lower average market funding costs, and increase inflows from recipient-country banks into assets denominated in the source-country's currency. Empirically, these are tested using difference-in-difference strategies that exploit variation in the terms of the swap line over time, variation in the central banks that have access to the swap line, variation in the exposure of different securities to foreign funding, and variation in banks' exposure to dollar funding risk. The evidence suggests that the lender of last resort is very effective.
G15|The broad policy toolkit for financial stability: Foundations, fences, and fire doors|The post financial crisis period has been associated with increased countercyclical use of various financial policies, including residency-based measures. This paper analyses in a single analytical framework the relative effectiveness of three types of financial policies – macroprudential (foundations), currency-based (fences), and residency-based measures (fire doors). The findings in this paper are based on a granular quarterly database of adjustments in these policies that covers both advanced and emerging economies from 2000 to 2015. The results show that residency-based measures on bonds and credit reduce capital inflows but provide limited support for a credit-mitigation role. While no evidence emerges that macroprudential measures alter capital inflows, most appear effective in reducing credit growth. Currency-based measures may reduce both inflows and credit growth (particularly FX reserve requirements and FX lending regulations). These results indicate that the impact of policies needs to be analysed at a granular level and that policy makers should adopt an integrated view of the financial policy toolkit.
G15|Does international reserve accumulation crowd out domestic private investment?|Foreign exchange reserve accumulation is one of the preferred strategies to protect against susceptibility to financial crises. At the same time, maintaining a healthy international reserve position has the potential to promote domestic investment by reducing the cost of foreign borrowing through improving international creditworthiness. However, contractionary monetary policy in the form of sterilization operations implemented as part of reserve accumulation strategy could crowd out financing for domestic investment. This study examines the relationship between foreign reserve accumulation and domestic private investment by undertaking a dynamic panel data econometric analysis covering 58 countries over the period 2000–2014. The findings suggest that reserve accumulation is positively associated with domestic private investment in the long run.
G15|From CIP-Deviations to a Market for Risk Premia: A Dynamic Investigation of Cross-Currency Basis Swaps|The persistent deviations from the covered interest rate parity (CIP) since 2007 indicate that specific frictions continue to exist, which prevent them from being arbitraged away. In this study, we study the cross-currency basis swap market and put forward the argument that the risk premium expressed via the CIP-deviation constitutes a unique market that determines its own equilibrium price after receiving feedback from various sources, including contagion within the market itself. We investigate contagion using a TVP-VAR framework of analysis that measures the extent of connectedness across the bases on all G10 currencies against the US dollar between 2007 and 2018. Our main findings indicate that connectedness is event-dependent. Furthermore, we provide evidence that net-transmitting bases are typically associated with safe haven currencies (e.g. CHF) and banking sectors with significant overseas operations (e.g. EUR and JPY). On a pairwise level, results confirm that during tranquil times in international financial markets, connectedness subdues and even reaches negligible levels - particularly for stable banking systems (e.g. CAD) or without significant US dollar funding gaps (e.g. AUD).
G15|Conversion Theory II: the case for Recession Bonds|In a previous paper: “Conversion Theory: the key to understanding economic developments before and after the 2008 financial crisis”, the author stated that: * By 2007, U.S. subprime mortgages comprised 14% of outstanding mortgages, equivalent to $1.46 trillion. The securitized element was $1.1 trillion, which was about 15% of all outstanding mortgage backed securities ($7.3 trillion). * Over the period 2007-2014 21.228 million U.S. households were confronted with foreclosure proceedings out of the 51.234 million households who had a mortgage: 41.4% of all mortgage holders! * U.S Federal Government debt increased by $4.8 trillion between 2007-2010, while real GDP still shrank. This represented by far the fastest growth in debt compared to GDP over the last 50 years, from 62.9% Q4 2007 to 92.0% by Q4 2010. * Between May 2007 and October 2009, nearly 7 million U.S. individuals lost their jobs. New housing starts dropped from 2.273 million in January 2006 (annualized) to 478,000 by April 2009. Real median household income dropped from $59,534 by 2007 to $54,569 by 2012 or by 9.2%. The financial alchemy employed by bankers of the age entailed a conversion process, which turned long-term mortgage debt into daily tradable securities. The process failed for the simple reason that the risks posed by doubtful underlying debtors was transferred to investors, without clear provisions taken for such doubtful debtors. Liquidity disappeared when the curtain was pulled back and investors ran for the hills. The conversion method can also be applied to government debt in order to help overcome an economic recession. The method suggested is to create or convert a series of long-term bonds: Recession Bonds. Their defining characteristic is that the repayment of interest and some principal amount is halted during a recession period. A government can apply to the IMF to declare that a recession risk is imminent. Pay-outs of interest and some principal will be halted over the recession bonds until the recession is declared by the IMF to be over. Recession Bonds give a government the means to spend substantial additional amounts during a recession period without having to increase its borrowings. It is a cash flow transfer mechanism from financial investors to the real economy, benefitting consumer demand, wages and employment levels. This transfer mechanism also supports share prices. A version of financial alchemy but unlike the 2008 variety, the audience will not be repulsed if the curtain is pulled back!
G15|Is Gold a Safe Haven? International Evidence revisited|The literature has not settled down on safe haven property of gold in emerging and developing countries. Therefore, in this study, we revisit the international evidence on hedging and safe haven role of gold for 34 emerging and developing countries with a span of daily data covering January 2000 – November 2018. We employ GARCH-copula approach to estimate lower-tail extreme dependencies of the joint distribution of gold and equity returns. We also introduce a new definition for strong safe haven property of an asset. Our findings indicate that while gold serves as a hedge instrument for all countries in our sample, we got evidence of weak safe haven property for gold, for domestic investors, only in 18 countries, and a strong safe haven asset only in six countries.
G15|The Impact of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect on the Effectiveness of Price Limits in the Chinese Stock Market|Launched in 2014, the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect (SHSC) is the first mutual access channel between the Chinese and Hong Kong equity markets. The scheme allows Hong Kong and international investors to purchase eligible Shanghai-listed shares, while at the same time permitting eligible Chinese investors to purchase eligible Hong Kong-listed shares. This paper aims to examine the impact of the scheme on the effectiveness of the price limit rule, which is only imposed in China but not in Hong Kong. Results show that the scheme alleviates the delayed price discovery problem caused by price limits but has no significant effect on the problems of volatility spillover and trading interference.
G15|An analysis of the unbiased forward rate hypothesis in developed and emerging economies|This study assesses whether the unbiased forward rate hypothesis (UFRH) holds in its strong or weak form in selected developed and emerging economies. Moreover, the paper assesses whether this hypothesis, or the relationship between the forward and spot exchange rates, is better specified by a linear or nonlinear model. The paper makes use of the smooth transition error correction model (STECM) to account for long-run relationship and asymmetric adjustment between the two exchange rates. The results of the empirical analysis show the possibility of nonlinear cointegration between the spot and forward exchange rates in a number of developed and emerging economies. In addition, the results reveal that the magnitude of the speed of adjustment to cancel arbitrage opportunities is higher in emerging than in developed markets. This occurs because the size of arbitrage profit is higher in emerging markets compared to developed markets
G15|The impact of Brexit on Francophone Africa|Whereas the impact of Brexit on Anglophone Africa was a major issue in the controversial British discussions on the pros and cons of Brexit, possible repercussions on French-speaking Africa have been rarely mentioned up to now. If at all, mostly indirect general effects were declared, both concerning the former British Empire in Africa and a fortifori for the former French colonies as well. Yet, the range of possible Brexit effect is impressive. It spreads from direct influence on farm-gate cocoa-prices in the CFA-currency regions and subsequent percussions on the state budget of these countries, over more indirect effects, e.g. on the cooperation between CEMAC, WAEMU and the EU concerning EDF-programs of which Great Britain has been a major contributor so far, as well as enforced re-negotiation of controversial EPAs, to the revival of progressive social networks in Francophone Africa. The latter are already demanding more political and economic sovereignty, for example with respect to the increasingly anachronistic F CFA currency. Yet, in view of the lack of countervailing power of Britain within the EU in the case of Brexit, the murky network of Françafrique could be re-vitalized and consolidated as well. Besides, there could develop also direct effects of the Brexit. For example, on coca-farmers in Francophone West Africa, because their product is traditionally traded in Pound Sterling. Thus, any fall in the value of the Pound Sterling against the Euro once Britain leaves the EU would have damaging consequences, not only for the producers but also for public finances, because cocoa is priced in Sterling and the CFA franc is linked to the Euro. This impacts also on the revival of the long-standing controversy on the ill-adapted and increasingly anachronistic F CFA. African activists already demand a genuine African debate and a referendum on these issues similar to the Brexit vote.
G15|Bitcoin and gold prices: A fledging long-term relationship|This study applies threshold regression model in a bivariate framework to explore the nonlinear and long-term relationship among daily Bitcoin and gold prices over the period April 2010 to December 2018. Our empirical results are threefold: first, we show that gold is a significant predictor of Bitcoin prices. Second, we find evidence of a non-linear relationship between Bitcoin and gold prices characterized rather by a two-regime relationship with a structural break occurring in October 2017. Third, we explain the existence at before the break, there is statistically significant, negative but weak causality indicating that Bitcoin is a speculative asset. However, after the break, the relationship becomes positive and strong revealing the diversifier and hedge properties of Bitcoin.
G15|Modelación de la correlación condicional para el mercado bursátil colombiano: una aplicación de DCC – MGARCH<BR>[Modeling of the conditional correlation for the Colombian stock market: a DCC application - MGARCH]|El artículo investiga la incertidumbre y la interdependencia entre el mercado accionario colombiano y los principales mercados internacionales. Se estima un modelo Correlación Condicional Dinámica (DCC) para estudiar la interdependencia entre los mercados accionarios seleccionados y un modelo GARCH para analizar la volatilidad condicional. Para ello, se utiliza una muestra de datos diarios, que abarca el período comprendido entre el Enero de 2003 y Agosto de 2018. Los resultados muestran que el periodo de crisis subprime genera un efecto positivo significativo en la volatilidad condicional. Además, existe un co-movimiento significativo en el tiempo entre el mercado bursátil colombiano y los mercados nacionales e internacionales. En cuanto a la persistencia, la covariabilidad con los mercados nacionales es mayor, en relación a los mercados internacionales
G15|Pengaruh Kinerja Keuangan Terhadap Kualitas Informasi Internet Financial Reporting Dengan Kepemilikan Saham Publik Sebagai Variabel Moderasi<BR>[The Effect Of Financial Performance On Quality Of Internet Financial Reporting Information With Public Share Ownership As A Moderation Variable]|This study aims to test empirically whether public share ownership is able to moderate the relationship between the financial performance proxy with profitability on the quality of information. The quality of IFR information is measured through the disclosure index compiled by Boubaker et al (2012). This index contains 100 items of website-based disclosure that are commonly used in measuring the quality of accounting-based reporting information. The sample of this study is a manufacturing company listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange, where the data analysis techniques that will be used are moderated Regression Analysis with the help of Indirect macro created by Andrew F. Hayes (2015) in combination with SPSS 23. The results show that public shareholding is able to moderate the relationship between financial performance with the quality of IFR information.
G15|Stock Market Volatility Analysis using GARCH Family Models: Evidence from Zimbabwe Stock Exchange|Understanding the pattern of stock market volatility is important to investors as well as for investment policy. Volatility is directly associated with risks and returns, higher the volatility the more financial market is unstable. The volatility of the Zimbabwean stock market is modeled using monthly return series consisting of 109 observations from January 2010 to January 2019. ARCH effects test confirmed the use of GARCH family models. Symmetric and asymmetric models were used namely: GARCH(1,1), GARCH-M(1,1), IGARCH(1,1) and EGARCH(1,1). Post-estimation test for further ARCH effects were done for each model to confirm its efficiency for policy. EGARCH(1,1) turned to be the best model using both the AIC and SIC criterions; with the presence of asymmetry found to be significant. The study concludes that positive and negative shocks have different effects on the stock market returns series. Bad and good news will increase volatility of stock market returns in different magnitude. This simply imply that investors on the Zimbabwean stock exchange react differently to information depending be it positive or negative in making investment decisions.
G15|A Consumption-Based Approach to Exchange Rate Predictability|This paper provides evidence of short-run predictability for the real exchange rate by performing out-of-sample tests of a forecasting equation which is derived from a consumption-based asset pricing model. In this model, the real exchange rate is predictable as a result of the implications of preferences with habit persistence on the pricing of international assets. The implied predictors are: domestic, US and world consumption growth. Empirical exercises show evidence of short-term predictability on the bilateral rates of 15 out of 17 countries vis-à-vis the US over the post Bretton-Woods float. A GMM estimation of the parameters of the model also finds evidence of the presence of habits in consumers’ preferences.
G15|On the Growth and Interconnectedness of Financial Markets and the Bubble Effect|The paper considers how the interconnectedness of global financial markets has led their growth over time in line with the evolution of these institutions across the globe. This development leads inevitably to the ‘bubble effect’ in the global financial architecture as it continuously evolves in accordance with the learning process that is going in these markets. Descriptive and analytical methods were employed in carrying out the examination of the parameters involved.
G15|Superkurtosis|Very little is known on how traditional risk metrics behave in ultra high frequency trading (UHFT). We fi�ll this void �firstly by examining the existence of the intraday returns moments, and secondly by assessing the impact of their (non)existence in a risk management framework. We show that in the case of UHFT, the returns' third and fourth moments do not exist, which entails that traditional risk metrics are unable to judge capital adequacy adequately. Hence, the use of risk management techniques, such as VaR, by market participants who engage with UHFT impose serious threats to the stability of fi�nancial markets, given that capital ratios may be severely underestimated.
G15|Incremental Risk Charge Methodology|The incremental risk charge (IRC) is a new regulatory requirement from the Basel Committee in response to the recent financial crisis. Notably few models for IRC have been developed in the literature. This paper proposes a methodology consisting of two Monte Carlo simulations. The first Monte Carlo simulation simulates default, migration, and concentration in an integrated way. Combining with full re-valuation, the loss distribution at the first liquidity horizon for a subportfolio can be generated. The second Monte Carlo simulation is the random draws based on the constant level of risk assumption. It convolutes the copies of the single loss distribution to produce one year loss distribution. The aggregation of different subportfolios with different liquidity horizons is addressed. Moreover, the methodology for equity is also included, even though it is optional in IRC.
G15|The Determinants of Securities Trading Activity: Evidence from four European Equity Markets|Purpose: The main objective of this study is to obtain new empirical evidence about the connections between equity trading activity and five possible liquidity determinants: market capitalisation, dividend yield, earnings yield, company growth, and the distinction between recently-listed firms as opposed to more established ones. Design / Methodology / Approach: We use a sample of 172 stocks from four European markets and estimate models using the entire sample data and different sub-samples to check the relative importance of the above determinants. We also conduct a factor analysis to re-classify the variables into a more succinct framework. Findings: The evidence suggests that market capitalisation is the most important trading activity determinant, and the number of years listed ranks thereafter. Research limitations / implications: The positive relation between trading activity and market capitalisation is in line with prior literature, while the findings relating to the other determinants offer further empirical evidence which is a worthy addition in view of the contradictory results in prior research. Practical implications: This study is of relevance to practitioners who would like to understand the cross-sectional variation in stock liquidity at a more detailed level. Originality / value: The originality of the paper rests on two important grounds: (a) we focus on trading turnover rather than on other liquidity proxies, since the former is accepted as an important determinant of the liquidity generation process, and (b) we adopt a rigorous approach towards checking the robustness of the results by considering various sub-sample configurations.
G15|Do stock markets lead or lag macroeconomic variables? Evidence from select European countries|This study examines the connections between stock prices and key macroeconomic indicators: inflation, industrial production, interest rates, money supply and select interactions between the latter group of variables. Such links are evaluated through vector-autoregressions (VARs) on monthly data spanning over the period 1999–2017, for Belgium, France, Germany, Netherlands and Portugal. We check whether such relations are confirmed across different sub-periods and also adopt a non-parametric approach by using a Pesaran-Timmermann test. We find different contemporaneous and lead-lag relationships between stock prices and the selected variables, although there are variations across countries. VAR models indicate that stock prices significantly lead inflation across all countries during the sample period and in most cases this relationship was positive. In addition, stock prices significantly lead industrial production in four of the sampled countries and these relationships were positive as well. Contrary to long-established finance theories, we did not find numerous significant links between interest rates and stock indices; however the interaction between interest rates and money supply was a leading indicator of stock prices in France, Germany and Portugal.
G15|Do presidential elections affect stock market returns in Nigeria?|Evidences thrive globally on the effects of political regimes, presidential elections, on stock market returns. In the same vein, this paper analyses the effects of general elections on stock returns and volatility around the election periods at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) market. The paper applies an event study approach to delineate event windows, a 5-month event window for each election was adopted comprising of an election month, and 2 months before and after each election. Returns were calculated using daily closing prices of NSE’s All Share Index (ASI) for a total of 6 elections held between 1999 and 2019. Asymmetric GARCH – EGARCH and TARCH and the Markov Switching autoregressive methodologies were applied. ASI exhibits nonlinearity and structural breaks across all the presidential elections which makes single regime model ill appropriate for modelling stock runs volatility. Evidence of an unstable and explosive conditional variance is noticeable in the 2015 presidential election market returns while leverage effect was found in the 1999 and 2007 elections, that is, bad news produces more volatility on stock returns than good news. The MS-AR (3) model neatly characterizes the NSE’s daily stock returns into bearish and bullish regime, i.e., high (low) volatility low (high) returns as regime 1 and 2, respectively. The time varying transition volatility and regime durations corroborate, in different magnitude, the regime characterization across the 6 time horizons. The paper pioneer’s an analysis of effects of elections on stock returns in Nigeria and a useful information to investors.
G15|Political Tensions and Corporate Cross-border Financing: Evidence from the China-U.S. Trade War|A growing body of literature has explored the effects of political tensions on international trade and consumers’ behavior. Still, little is known whether or to what extend it matters to corporations’ cross-border financing activities. This study fills such gap in the literature by investigating the impacts of the recent China-U.S. trade war on Chinese firms’ international syndicated loans. This quasi-nature experiment facilitates the difference-in-differences (DD) identification strategy and we use Chinese corporations seeking international borrowing as the treatment group and non-Chinese counterparties as the control group. Our analysis is taken at both the aggregate level and the deal level. Preliminary results suggest significant negative aggregate consequences, including the number of loan initiations as well as their amount. Deal level estimations exhibit the similar pattern: loan spreads and maturities were adversely affected; and sizes of syndicates became bigger and the probability of secured loan occurrence was higher for Chinese corporations. To substantiate the argument that the observed gloom was caused by the trade war, we adopt the triple difference-in-differences (DDD) estimation method by exploiting U.S. borrowers as an additional level of variation.
G15|Market concentration and bank M&As: Evidence from the European sovereign debt crisis|Using a sample of 312 bank M&As announced between 1998 and 2016 in the EU-27 countries, this paper investigates the impact of market concentration and the European sovereign debt crisis on the way investors react to these corporate events. In Western European countries, we find results which contrast the conventional wisdom that acquiring banks lose around the merger announcement date. In fact, since 2009, acquiring banks shareholders gain approximately $34 million around the announcement, a $56 million improvement compared to the pre-crisis period. These documented shareholder gains are also accompanied by significant improvements in post-merger profitability. Markedly, we link this superior performance of the post-2008 acquirers with the degree of market concentration in the Western European region. Finally, results for the Eastern European countries indicate that the crisis did not have a significant impact on the quality of bank M&As in the region.
G15|Economies of Diversification in Microfinance: Evidence from Quantile Estimation on Panel Data|Prior studies of the diversification-driven cost savings from the joint provision of credit and deposits in microfinance usually ignore the multi-way heterogeneity across MFIs which vary substantially in size, business model, target clientele and operate in diverse environments. Using a quantile panel data model with correlated effects capable of accommodating multiple heterogeneity, we show that the typical measurement of economies of diversification at the mean provides an incomplete and distorted picture of their magnitude and prevalence in the industry. While we find statistically significant estimates, they are modest for most small-size MFIs but are quite substantial for large-scale institutions.
G15|The Relevance of Crude Oil Prices on Natural Gas Pricing Expectations: A Dynamic Model Based Empirical Study|The natural gas price is an important and often decisive variable for economic policy makers. Many studies have been developed in order to establish a stochastic process that can represent the movements or the returns of natural gas prices or variations of such prices time series to forecast price expectations. This work aims to study the relationship between natural gas and crude oil prices in the international market, proposing to investigate its nature and long term equilibrium, through the development of adequate econometric models for determining future expectations of major natural gas price benchmarks, or of their returns. In order to accomplish this, time series for both benchmark crude oil and natural gas prices are subjected to statistical tests with the purpose of verifying the underlying hypotheses behind the appropriate autoregressive dynamic models. The conditional heteroskedasticity and non-normality of the return series, which are prevalent characteristics in energy markets, are considered when elaborating these models. To reach the purpose of this work weekly natural gas and crude oil prices benchmarks traded in the international market were collected.
G15|Local Currency Bond Risk Premia of Emerging Markets: The Role of Local and Global Factors|This paper investigates the sources of variation in emerging market (EM) local currency bond risk premium. Empirical results suggest that both global and local factors contain valuable information in explaining the local currency bond excess returns. We show that economic policy uncertainty causes the excess bond returns to increase while positive innovations in the term spread, CP factor and implied FX volatility have downward impacts on the excess returns. Besides, the high level of spillover from developed markets to EMs may confine the diversification benefits from holding EM local currency bonds.
G15|The effect of global crises on stock market correlations: Evidence from scalar regressions via functional data analysis|This paper presents a novel, mixed-frequency based regression approach, derived from functional data analysis (FDA), to analyze the effect of global crises on stock market correlations, using a long span of data, dating as far back as early 1800s, thus covering a wide range of global crises that have not yet been examined in the literature in this context. Focusing on the advanced nations in the G7 group, we observe heterogeneous effects of global crises on the convergence patterns across developed stock markets. While the post World War II period experienced a general rise in the level of correlations among developed stock market returns, we find that global crises in general have led to a stronger association of stock market returns in the US, UK and Canada, whereas the opposite holds when it comes to how European and Japanese stock markets co-move with the US. Overall, our results suggest that crises that are global in nature generally contribute to the convergence of global stock markets, while the effect largely depends on the context and nature of the crises that possibly drive the perception of risk and/or contagion in financial markets. From an investment perspective, our findings suggest that, in the wake of global crises, diversification benefits will be limited by moving funds across the US and UK stock markets whereas possible diversification benefits would have been possible during the crises-ridden period of the early twentieth century by holding positions in equities in the remaining G7 nations to supplement positions in the US. However, these diversification benefits seem to have frittered away in the post World War II period, highlighting the role of emerging markets and alternative assets to improve diversification benefits in the modern era.
G15|The Risk Exposures of Safe Havens to Global and Regional Stock Market Shocks: A Novel Approach|This paper examines the fundamental linkages between stock markets and safe haven assets by developing a two-factor, regime-based volatility spillover model with global and regional stock market shocks as risk factors. The risk exposures of safe havens with respect to global and regional shocks are found to display significant time variation and regime-specific features, with the exception of VIX for which consistent negative risk exposures are observed with respect to both global and regional shocks. While traditional safe havens like precious metals exhibit positive risk exposures to both regional and global shocks during high volatility periods, Swiss Francs, Japanese Yen and U.S. Treasuries are found to display either insignificant or negative risk exposures during market stress periods to equity market shocks, implying these assets would serve as more effective hedges or safe havens for equity investors. Our findings highlight the importance of dynamic models in assessing the linkages between safe haven assets and stock returns as static models would introduce large biases in diversification measures and optimal hedge ratios.
G15|Contagion between Stock and Real Estate Markets: International Evidence from a Local Gaussian Correlation Approach|In this paper, we analyze contagion over the daily period of January 1, 1998 to September 13, 2018 between Real Estate Investments Trusts (REITs) and the equity markets of nineteen countries, which are at their different stages of development in terms of the REITs market. For our purpose, we use the local Gaussian correlation approach during the dot-com, global financial, European sovereign debt crises, and the more recent period involving the Brexit in the UK. In general, we find strong evidence of contagion between equities and REITs of not only matured and established markets, but also in economies with an emerging REITs sector, especially during the global financial and sovereign debt crises. Further, when we considered contagion across REITs of the US and the other countries, and between US REITs and equities of the remaining eighteen countries, a similar pattern emerges. Our results have important implications for investors and policymakers alike.
G15|Economic Policy Uncertainty and Herding Behavior Evidence from the South African Housing Market|This paper examines the link between economic policy uncertainty and herding behaviour in financial markets with an application to the South African housing market. Building on the evidence in the literature that herding behaviour driven by human emotions is not only limited to financial markets, but is also present in real estate investments, we examine the presence of herding in this emerging market via static and dynamic herding tests. While the static model fails to detect herding in the South African housing market, a dynamic model based on a two-regime Markov switching specification shows evidence of herding during the high volatility regime only, consistent with the notion that herd behaviour is primarily driven by increased market uncertainty. Extending our analysis via quantile regressions, we further show that higher quantiles of policy uncertainty are associated with greater likelihood of being in the herding regime, thus establishing a link between policy uncertainty and herding behaviour. Overall, our findings suggest that policy uncertainty can serve as a driver of market inefficiencies, which in our case, is associated by the presence of herding.
G15|Historical Volatility of Advanced Equity Markets: The Role of Local and Global Crises|We use a nonparametric quantiles-based model to analyse the predictability of long-spans (nearly or over one century) of annual volatility of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Switzerland, the United Kingdom (UK) and the United States (US), based on information contained in domestic (banking, currency, inflation, sovereign debt, and stock market) and global crises. We find that, in general, global crises tends to have a stronger causal impact on market volatility than domestic crises, but domestic stock market crashes also plays an important role in explaining equity market volatility of Germany, the UK and the US. Interestingly, extreme ends of the conditional distribution of market volatility cannot be predicted, irrespective of whether domestic or global crises are used as predictors.
G15|International Consumption Risk Sharing and Trade Transaction Costs|This paper investigates the implications of international consumption risk sharing for a panel 69 developed and developing countries over the period 1986-2006. We theoretically derive the international consumption insurance proposition within an international real business cycle setup that involves consumption correlation with the real exchange rate to incorporate salient features that impede consumption risk sharing, namely trade costs and capital market imperfections, making use of the gravity structural model to obtain the trade costs estimates and output volatility to proxy capital market imperfections. We analyze the implications of the theory based on panel data estimation. We find that trade costs significantly impede risk sharing for the aggregate sample of countries and a 10% increase in trade costs can decrease consumption by almost 0:7% and 0:6% for trade between developed and developing countries and for intra-developing country trade respectively while intra-developed country trade seems to be affected by temporary changes in trade costs. Developed countries seem to be in line with insuring against output volatility while low income group face asset market constraints as output uncertainty increases. Policy implication hence involves lowering international trade costs in an attempt to alleviate issues of consumption allocations.
G15|Cross-Border Capital Flows and Return Dynamics in Emerging Stock Markets: Relative Roles of Equity and Debt Flows|This paper examines the wealth and risk effects of cross-border capital flows on emerging stock markets by distinguishing between equity and debt flows and using a panel GARCH approach. We find that both equity and debt flows possess incremental information over emerging stock market returns and volatility that is not captured by aggregate capital market risk factors. While the explanatory power of debt flows is relatively stronger and more robust, even after controlling for world market return, volatility as well as leverage and asymmetric effects, we find that equity flows assume significant explanatory power, particularly during the post-global financial crisis period. Further analysis also shows that changes in debt flows can serve as a significant determinant of crash risks in emerging stock markets. Finally, our findings indicate a robust effect of debt flows on idiosyncratic risks at the country level with significant implications for asset valuations in emerging stock markets.
G15|Foreign Exchange Order Flows and the Thai Exchange Rate Dynamics|Applying the microstructure approach to exchange rates, this paper aims to shed light on the price formation process in the Thai foreign exchange market using a unique supervisory dataset of daily foreign exchange transactions from all licensed dealers in Thailand. We examine the main drivers of different types of order flows and the effect of resident and non-resident customer order flows on the Thai exchange rate. The results suggest that non-resident order flows have an important influence on movements in the Thai baht, while resident order flows do not. Regarding investors' trading behavior, we find that non-resident order flows are driven by both fundamentals and movements of the Thai baht. Specifically, non-resident players appear to be 'trend-followers' with regard to exchange rate returns, exerting buying pressure when the baht recently appreciated. In contrast, domestic players tend to behave as 'contrarians', by buying the Thai baht after it depreciates.
G15|Hierarchical Time Varying Estimation of a Multi Factor Asset Pricing Model| This paper presents a new hierarchical methodology for estimating multi factor dynamic asset pricing models. The approach is loosely based on the sequential approach of Fama and MacBeth (1973). However, the hierarchical method uses very flexible bandwidth selection methods in kernel weighted regressions which can emphasize local, or recent data and information to derive the most appropriate estimates of risk premia and factor loadings at each point of time. The choice of bandwidths and weighting schemes, are achieved by cross validation. This leads to consistent estimators of the risk premia and factor loadings. Also, out of sample forecasting for stocks and two large portfolios indicates that the hierarchical method leads to statistically significant improvement in forecast RMSE.
G15|Monetary Independence and Rollover Crises|This paper shows that the inability to use monetary policy for macroeconomic stabilization leaves a government more vulnerable to a rollover crisis. We study a sovereign default model with self-fulfilling rollover crises, foreign currency debt, and nominal rigidities. When the government lacks monetary autonomy, lenders anticipate that the government will face a severe recession in the event of a liquidity crisis, and are therefore more prone to run on government bonds. By contrast, a government with monetary autonomy can stabilize the economy and can easily remain immune to a rollover crisis. In a quantitative application, we find that the lack of monetary autonomy played a central role in making the Eurozone vulnerable to a rollover crisis. A lender of last resort can help ease the costs from giving up monetary independence.
G15|News, sovereign debt maturity, and default risk|Leading into a debt crisis, interest rate spreads on sovereign debt rise before the economy experiences a decline in productivity, suggesting that news may play an important role in these episodes. The empirical evidence also shows that a news shock has a significantly larger contemporaneous impact on sovereign credit spreads than a comparable shock to labor productivity. We develop a quantitative model of news and sovereign debt default with endogenous maturity choice that generates impulse responses very similar to the empirical estimates. The model allows us to interpret the empirical evidence and to identify key parameters. We find that, first, the increase in sovereign yield spreads around a debt crisis episode is due mostly to the lower expected productivity following a bad news shock, and not to the borrowing choices of the government. Second, a shorter debt maturity increases the chance that bad news shocks trigger a debt crisis. Third, an increase in the precision of news allows the government to improve its debt maturity management, especially during periods of high financial stress, and thus face lower spreads and default risk while holding the amount of debt constant.
G15|Measuring international uncertainty using global vector autoregressions with drifting parameters|This paper investigates the time-varying impacts of international macroeconomic uncertainty shocks. We use a global vector autoregressive (GVAR) specification with drifting coefficients and factor stochastic volatility in the errors to model six economies jointly. The measure of uncertainty is constructed endogenously by estimating a scalar driving the innovation variances of the latent factors, and is included also in the mean of the process. To achieve regularization, we use Bayesian techniques for estimation, and introduce a set of hierarchical global local shrinkage priors. The adopted priors center the model on a constant parameter specification with homoscedastic errors, but allow for time-variation if suggested by likelihood information. Moreover, we assume coefficients across economies to be similar, but provide sufficient flexibility via the hierarchical prior for country-specific idiosyncrasies. The results point towards pronounced real and financial effects of uncertainty shocks in all countries, with differences across economies and over time.
G15|A Quantile-based Asset Pricing Model|It is well-known that the standard estimators of the risk premium in asset pricing models are biased when some price factors are omitted. To address this problem, we propose a novel quantile-based asset pricing model and a new estimation method. Our new asset pricing model allows for the risk premium to be quantile-dependent and our estimation method is applicable to models with unobserved factors. It avoids biased estimation results and always ensures a positive risk premium. The method is applied to the U.S., Japan, and U.K. stock markets. The empirical analysis demonstrates the clear beneﬁts of our approach.
G15|QE in the euro area: Has the PSPP benefited peripheral bonds?|The asset purchase programme of the euro area, active between 2015 and 2018, constitutes an interesting special case of Quantitative Easing (QE) because the ECB's Public Sector Purchase Programme (PSPP) involved the purchase of peripheral euro area government bonds, which were clearly not riskless. Moreover, these purchases were undertaken by national central banks at their own risk. Intuition suggests, and a simple model confirms, that, ceteris paribus, large purchases by a national central bank of the bonds of their own sovereign should increase the risk for the remaining private bond holders. This might seem incompatible with the observation that risk spreads on peripheral bonds fell when QE in the euro area was announced. However, the initial fall in risk premiums may have been due to expectations of the bond purchases proving effective in lowering risk-free rates. When these expectations were disappointed, risk premiums returned to their initial level. Formal statistical tests confirm that indeed risk premiums on peripheral bonds did not follow a random walk (contrary to what is assumed in event studies). Nor did the announcements of bond buying change the stochastics of these premiums. There is thus no reason to consider the impact effect to have been permanent.
G15|The U.S. term structure and stock market volatility: Evidence from emerging stock markets|Decomposing the term structure of U.S. treasury yields into two components, the expectations factor and the maturity premium, we examine whether the U.S. term structure contains predictive information over emerging stock market volatility. Based on data from 20 emerging markets, we provide positive evidence that holds even after controlling for country specific factors including turnover and market size. Our findings indicate the market?s expectation of future short term rates, implied by the expectations factor, serves as a stronger predictor of stock market volatility compared to the maturity premium component of the yield spread. Moreover, the predictive power of the U.S. term structure increases following the global financial crisis.
G15|Ownership structure, political uncertainty and bank stock prices informativeness|This paper examines the relation between ownership structure and bank stock price informativeness across 59 countries over the period 2002?2014. We also evaluate how political uncertainty affects the impact of bank ownership on informative stock prices. Using a regression?s R-squared value of individual stock returns on market and industry indexes to gauge bank informative stock prices, we find evidence that more state-owned banks located in developing countries tend to have higher synchronous, i.e., lower informative, stock prices than their domestic private-owned and foreign-owned banks. The paper finds no strong correlation between ownership and stock price informativeness for banks located in developed countries. With respect to the impact of politics, we find that in developing countries political uncertainty dampens bank informative stock prices during election years, whereas in developed countries elections do not affect the stock price informativeness. Next, in order to test whether the differential in informative stock prices between state-owned banks and non-state banks is driven by political uncertainty, the paper checks whether this differential widens during election years; it finds strong support for this conjecture. The impact of elections on the relation between bank ownership and stock price informativeness also varies with different legal origins and political systems. These findings suggest that the political channel plays an important role in determining the expropriation behavior of government controlling shareholders, especially in developing countries.
G15|Reforms’ Effects on Chinese stock markets world integration - An Empirical analysis with t-DCCGARCH model|In recent years the Chinese government has instituted a series of reforms to restructure and open the Chinese financial system. This paper studies the dynamic correlations and sensitivities between Chinese mainland stock market and five major stock markets with the multivariate t-DCC-GARCH model. We also consider a Normal-DCC model and results show that t-DCC improves slightly the results. The analysis of reforms’ effects on dynamic correlations and sensitivities prove that the Chinese mainland market is more closely tied to Asian stock markets over time, followed by the United States, and with relatively lower correlations with Europe and the United Kingdom. We highlight that the implementation of reforms changes theirs correlations and sensitivities over time. Since the reforms, the correlation between China and international stock markets has been reinforced.
G15|Does the IMF Program Implementation Matter for Sovereign Spreads? The Case of Selected European Emerging Markets|The paper analyzes the impact of International Monetary Fund (IMF) programs, in conjunction with country-specific fundamentals and global factors, on the sovereign spreads in selected European emerging market economies (EMEs) from 2000 to 2016. For this purpose, we construct IMF indexes to capture the size of financial resources and the degree of implementation of IMF programs. Our sample is limited to countries belonging to the same region and having IMF programs and data on sovereign spreads over the same period. Our findings are unique in the current literature. They suggest that the size of financial resources and the degree of implementation of IMF programs matter for sovereign spreads, whereas the mere presence of IMF programs does not seem to affect them. Available IMF financial resources and a good implementation of IMF programs are associated with lower sovereign spreads in our panel. In addition, our results show that country-specific fundamentals and global factors remain the primary drivers of sovereign spreads.
G15|Quantification of feedback effects in FX options markets|We model the feedback effect of delta hedging for the spot market volatility of the forex market (dollar-yen and dollar-euro) using an economy of two types of traders, an option market maker (OMM) and an option market taker (OMT), whose exposures reflect the total outstanding positions of all option traders in the market. A different hedge ratio of the OMM and OMT leads to a net delta hedge activity that introduces market friction and feedback effects. This friction is represented by a simple linear permanent impact model for the net delta hedge volumes that are executed in the spot market. This approach allows us to derive the dependence of the spot market volatility on the gamma exposure of the trader that hedges a larger share of her delta exposure and on the market impact of the delta hedge transactions. We reconstruct the aggregated OMM's gamma exposure by using publicly available DTCC trade repository data and find that it is negative, as expected: the OMT usually buys options with either a view on the spot price or with the desire to hedge other positions and, thus, is net long on options. As the OMM provides liquidity as a service to the market, their position is reversed compared with the OMT. Our regressions show a high goodness of fit, a highly significant parameter for the gamma exposure of the OMM and, as expected, that the volatility is increased by the OMM's short gamma exposure. Quantitatively, a negative gamma exposure of the OMM of approximately -1000 billion USD (which is around what we observe from our reconstructed OMM data) leads to an absolute increase in volatility of 0.7% in EURUSD and 0.9% in USDJPY. If we assume that the hedge ratios in the two markets are the same, the difference can be directly explained by the higher market impact of a transaction in the USDJPY spot market compared to the EURUSD spot market, as the liquidity of the EURUSD spot market is higher than that of the USDJPY spot market. Our results are in line with and empirically confirm previous theoretical work on the feedback effect of delta hedging strategies on spot market volatility.
G15|Foreign currency loan conversions and currency mismatches|This paper examines the effect of currency conversion programs from Swiss franc-denominated loans to other currency loans on currency risk for banks in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE). Swiss franc mortgage loans proliferated in CEE countries prior to the financial crisis and contributed to the volume of non-performing loans as the Swiss franc strongly appreciated during the post-crisis period. Empirical findings suggest that Swiss franc loan conversion programs reduced currency mismatches in Swiss francs but increased bank exposure in other foreign currencies in individual countries. This asymmetric effect of conversion programs arises from the loan restructuring from Swiss francs to a non-local currency and the high level of euro mismatches in the CEE banking system.
G15|Covered interest rate parity, relative funding liquidity and cross-currency repos|Deviations from the covered interest rate parity (CIP) are considerably smaller or even zero when calculated based on a particular set of repo rates, so-called cross-currency repo rates, instead of standard interest rates, such as overnight indexed swap or Interbank Offered rates. We attribute this (partial) solution of the CIP puzzle to the nearly identical risk characteristics of foreign exchange swaps and cross-currency repos: both are virtually devoid of counterparty credit risk but incorporate a relative funding liquidity premium. In practice, CIP deviations can thus be exploited on a truly riskless basis using cross-currency repo transactions, which is not the case for other interest rates.
G15|Macroprudential policy spillovers and international banking - Taking the gravity approach|In this paper I study how the effects of nationally implemented macroprudential policy spill across borders via international lending. For a set of 157 countries, I estimate a gravity model applied to international banking where the use of different macroprudential policy measures enter as friction variables. My findings support the existence of cross-border spillovers from macroprudential policy. Moreover, I find that the overall effect from more macroprudential regulation is highly dependent on the income group of the countries in which banks operate: The effect is of opposite sign for advanced and for emerging economies. I argue that the difference may tell of banks having more opportunities for regulatory arbitrage in emerging market economies. JEL Classification: F42, G15, G21
G15|Use of credit default swaps by UCITS funds: evidence from EU regulatory data|Using a sample of more than 18,000 Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities,or UCITS, this paper aims to provide a first overview of the use of credit default swaps by EU UCITSfunds. We show that UCITS funds only account for a small share of the overall EU credit derivativesmarket. The CDS market is highly concentrated, with thirteen large dealers acting as counterparty to thevast majority of CDS transactions that involve UCITS funds. The use of CDS by UCITS is mainlyconcentrated in fixed-income funds and funds that rely on so-called alternative strategies. Funds that useCDS tend to be much larger on average. The analysis also reveals three salient features in the UCITSfunds’ use of CDS. Firstly, funds with directional strategies, such as fixed-income and allocation funds (ormixed funds), are on aggregate net sellers of CDS. Secondly, a large majority of CDS underlyings areindices, from which funds can gain exposure to multiple entities at once within one sector or region.Lastly, most sovereign single-name CDS are written on emerging market issuers, highlighting the rolethat these instruments can play in facilitating access to less liquid markets. JEL Classification: F30, G10, G15, G23
G15|Securitisation special purpose entities, bank sponsors and derivatives|This paper documents the use of derivatives by securitisation special purpose entities (SPEs), also known as financial vehicle corporations (FVCs), domiciled in Ireland using transaction-level data established by the European Market Infrastructure Regulation. We show that these entities primarily engaged in interest rate derivatives over the period of 2015–2017. We find that larger entities that already engage in international capital markets are more likely to have derivative exposures. We also show that entities sponsored by banks and non-bank financial institutions are relatively more likely to engage in derivative markets. The characteristics of these bank sponsors are important in determining SPEs’ engagement in derivative markets. SPEs’ heavy reliance on debt finance coupled with their strong interconnectedness with bank sponsors underscores the importance of continuous monitoring and macroprudential surveillance of their derivative activities.
G15|Global Liquidity and the Impairment of Local Monetary Policy Transmission|We show that global liquidity limits the transmission of local monetary policy on credit markets. For identification, we exploit global liquidity shocks in conjunction with monetary policy changes and exhaustive loan-level data (the credit and international interbank market registers) from a large emerging market, Turkey. We show that softer global liquidity conditions —proxied by lower VIX or expansionary US monetary policy— attenuate the pass-through of local monetary policy tightening on loan rates, especially for banks that borrow ex-ante more from international wholesale markets. Effects are also important for other credit margins and for bank risk-taking —especially for risky borrowers in FX loans. The mechanism at work is via a bank carry trade from international markets when local monetary conditions tighten.
G15|Intraday Volume-Volatility Nexus in the FX Markets: Evidence from an Emerging Market|Using a dataset on local banks' daily FX transaction volume segregated into counterparty and transaction types, this article investigates the relationship between trading volume and intraday realized volatility for the US dollar/Turkish lira parity (USDTRY), one of the most traded emerging market currencies against US dollar. We question whether type of counterparty and transaction affects intraday volume-volatility relationship across various trading sessions around the world. We reveal that only the spot transactions of domestic customers have positive contemporaneous relation with realized volatility and this significance is valid only in global trading sessions that mostly overlap with the local trading hours. Furthermore, we utilize a metric for the belief dispersion on the level of future exchange rate via currency options and find that the dispersion significantly strengthens the volume-volatility nexus, confirming the Dispersion of Beliefs Hypothesis.
G15|Nowhere to Run, Nowhere to Hide - Asset Diversification in a Flat World|We estimate trends in diversification potential for equity, debt, and real estate within and across asset classes and countries. After 2000, we uncover a marked and near ubiquitous decline in diversification potential, which coincides with sharply higher levels of investment risk. This decline is associated with gains in market liquidity, country economic development, and internet diffusion. Diversification potential also waned temporarily during the 1992 ERM and 2009-2010 European sovereign debt crises. The results are robust to controls for macro-financial influences, investor sentiment, and proxies for economic, political, and financial risks. Findings offer a cautionary note regarding asset class and geographic diversification of investment risk in an increasingly flat world.
G15|Market risk when hedging a global credit portfolio|Hedging a credit portfolio using single name CDS is affected by high spread volatility that induces continuous changes in a portfolio mark to market, which is a nuisance. Often, the problem is that CDS on firms in the portfolio are not being traded. To get around that, a derivative portfolio can be hedged by taking a contrary position in a credit index, and we examine in this paper the efficiency of such an imperfect hedge. We find over the 2007-2012 period an 80% hedging efficiency for a European portfolio, 60% for North American and Japanese portfolios, and around 70% for a global portfolio, as measured by the reduction in mark-to-market variance. We also consider sectorial credit portfolios for Europe and North America, for which hedging efficiency is not as high, due to their more import- ant idiosyncratic component. Taking into account the quality of the credit counterpart improves the effectiveness of the hedge, although it requires using less liquid credit indices, with higher transaction costs. Standard conditional volatility models provide similar results to the least squares hedge, except for extreme market movements. An efficient hedge for a credit portfolio made up of the most idiosyn- cratic firms would seem to require more than 50 firms, while the hedge for portfolios made up of the less idiosyncratic firms achieves high efficiency even for a small number of firms. The efficiency of the hedge is higher when portfolio volatility is high and also when short term interest rates or exchange rate volatility are high. Increases in VIX, in the 10-year swap rate or in liquidity risk tend to decrease hedging efficiency. Credit indices offer a moderately efficient hedge for corporate bond portfolios, which we have examined with a reduced sample of firms over 2006-2018. This analysis also shows that the current efficiency of a credit index hedge has recovered at pre-crisis levels.
G15|What is the Impact of Monetary Policy on Wealth Inequality?|We construct a global panel data set to examine the relationship between monetary policy and wealth inequality. Dynamic panel estimates suggest that both overall and inherited wealth inequality increase with growth in the base money supply. These results hold for countries with at least one billionaire and for OECD countries. Interest rates have an insigni cant distributional impact overall, but this relationship becomes signi cant in a sample of OECD countries.
G15|Does the World Bank Move Markets?|This paper examines the impact of World Bank loans on borrowing country equity markets. We exploit a rich dataset with World Bank loan commitments and stock market returns at the monthly level, allowing us to study short run market reactions to news about loan commitments. Given ex ante uncertainty over the influx of resources, we expect a positive overall response to loan size in terms of the local stock market returns. To address potential endogeneity, we use a supply-push instrument based on countries' historic budget shares and the overall World Bank budget. Estimation results point to a sizable positive short run impact of World Bank loan commitments on local markets that may reduce the cost of capital for local entrepreneurs.
G15|The effects of income and inflation on financial development: Evidence from heterogeneous panels|This paper examines four unresolved issues regarding the effects of GDP and inflation on financial development: (i) Does GDP have uniform impact on financial development in heterogeneous income countries? (ii) Is the relationship non-linear? (iii) Does financial development vary with inflation rates? (iv) Does inflation moderate the effect of GDP on financial development? The authors employ the newly developed dynamic Common Correlated Effects (CCE) and dynamic panel system Generalized Method of Moments (GMM) on data from 125 countries. These techniques enable us to control for crosssectional dependence, heterogeneity and endogeneity. They show that GDP has a positive impact on financial development in high and middle-income countries, and the relationship is non-linear in over 60% of the countries. The authors also reveal that inflation has a negative effect on financial development in high- and medium-inflationary countries. Besides, high inflation moderates the effect of GDP on financial development in over 70% of the countries. They also show the countries where higher GDP is better for financial development and where it is not. They recommend some policy options based on the findings.
G15|The portfolio theory of inflation (and policy effectiveness)|"The Portfolio Theory of Inflation (PIT) proposed in this study investigates the role of global financial markets in determining the effectiveness of macroeconomic policy in open and fully financial integrated economies. The PIT adopts a modified version of the portfolio balance approach to exchange rate determination and incorporates intertemporal optimal choices from global investors. These investors allocate resources across national economies based on local investment opportunities and policy credibility: when a country's credibility is low, they hold its economy to a tighter intertemporal budget constraint and the issuance of what they deem as ""excess"" public sector liabilities causes the country's currency to depreciate and inflation to rise due to a large exchange rate pass-through, with limited or no impact on output. On the other hand, high credibility creates space for effective and noninflationary macro policies but, if such space is abused, credibility gets dissipated and higher inflation reflects such dissipation."
G15|Global financial cycles since 1880|The authors analyze cyclical co-movement in credit, house prices, equity prices, and long-term interest rates across 17 advanced economies. Using a time-varying multi-level dynamic factor model and more than 130 years of data, they analyze the dynamics of co-movement and compare recent developments to earlier episodes such as the early era of financial globalization from 1880 to 1913 and the Great Depression. They find that joint global dynamics across various financial quantities and prices as well as variable-specific global co-movements are important to explain fluctuations in the data. From a historical perspective, global co-movement in financial variables is not a new phenomenon. For equity prices, however, global cycles play currently a historically unprecedented role, explaining more than half of the fluctuations in the data. Global cycles in credit and housing have become much more pronounced and longer, but their importance in explaining dynamics has only increased for some economies including the US, the UK and Nordic European countries. Regarding GDP, the authors also find an increasing role for a global business cycle.
G15|China's Overseas Lending|"Compared with China's dominance in world trade, its expanding role in global finance is poorly documented and understood. Over the past decades, China has exported record amounts of capital to the rest of the world. Many of these financial flows are not reported to the IMF, the BIS or the World Bank. ""Hidden debts"" to China are especially significant for about three dozen developing countries, and distort the risk assessment in both policy surveillance and the market pricing of sovereign debt. We establish the size, destination, and characteristics of China's overseas lending. We identify three key distinguishing features. First, almost all of China's lending and investment abroad is official. As a result, the standard ""push"" and ""pull"" drivers of private cross-border flows do not play the same role in this case. Second, the documentation of China's capital exports is (at best) opaque. China does not report on its official lending and there is no comprehensive standardized data on Chinese overseas debt stocks and flows. Third, the type of flows is tailored by recipient. Advanced and higher middle-income countries tend to receive portfolio debt flows, via sovereign bond purchases of the People's Bank of China. Lower income developing economies mostly receive direct loans from China's state-owned banks, often at market rates and backed by collateral such as oil. Our new dataset covers a total of 1,974 Chinese loans and 2,947 Chinese grants to 152 countries from 1949 to 2017. We find that about one half of China's overseas loans to the developing world are ""hidden""."
G15|Exportweltmeister: The low returns on Germany's capital exports|"Germany is world champion in exporting capital (""Exportweltmeister""). No other country invests larger amounts of savings outside its borders. However, Germany plays in the third division when it comes to investment performance, as we show in this paper. We study the returns on German foreign investments from 1950 to 2017 and find that: (1) Germany's annual returns on foreign assets were 2 to 5 percentage points lower than those of comparable countries. Germany ranks last among the G7 countries, also in the last decade; (2) Domestic returns on German assets have outperformed foreign returns abroad by about 3 percentage points per year; (3) Germany's external wealth provides very little consumption insurance as foreign returns are highly correlated with domestic activity; (4) The capital exports do little to diversify demographic risks as Germany mainly invests in countries with similar demographics. Taken together, these facts raise substantial doubts whether German households, firms, and banks allocate their savings in a beneficial way."
G15|Global financial cycles since 1880|We analyze cyclical co-movement in credit, house prices, equity prices, and long-term interest rates across 17 advanced economies. Using a time-varying multi-level dynamic factor model and more than 130 years of data, we analyze the dynamics of co-movement at different levels of aggregation and compare recent developments to earlier episodes such as the early era of financial globalization from 1880 to 1913 and the Great Depression. We find that joint global dynamics across various financial quantities and prices as well as variable-specific global co-movements are important to explain fluctuations in the data. From a historical perspective, global co-movement in financial variables is not a new phenomenon, but its importance has increased for some variables since the 1980s. For equity prices, global cycles play currently a historically unprecedented role, explaining more than half of the fluctuations in the data. Global cycles in credit and housing have become much more pronounced and longer, but their importance in explaining dynamics has only increased for some economies including the US, the UK and Nordic European countries. We also include GDP in the analysis and find an increasing role for a global business cycle.
G15|The European economic crisis from 2007 onwards in the context of a global crisis of over-production of capital - a Marxian monetary theory of value interpretation|This paper attempts to clarify how the European economic crisis from 2007 onwards can be understood from the perspective of a Marxian monetary theory of value that emphasizes in-trinsic, structural flaws regarding capitalist reproduction. Chapter two provides an empirical description of the European economic crisis, which to some extent already reflects the struc-tural theoretical framework presented in chapter three. Regarding the theoretical framework Michael Heinrich's interpretation of 'the' Marxian monetary theory of value will be presented. Heinrich identifies connections between production and realization, between profit and inter-est rate as well as between industrial and fictitious capital, which represent contradictory tendencies for which capitalism does not have simple balancing processes. In the context of a discussion of 'structural logical aspects' of Marx's Critique of the Political Economy, explana-tory deficits of Heinrich's approach are analyzed. In the following, it is argued that Fred Mose-ley's view of these 'structural logical aspects' allows empirical 'applications' of Marxian mon-etary theories of value. It is concluded that a Marxian monetary theory of value, with the characteristics of expansive capital accumulation and its limitations, facilitates a structural analysis of the European economic crisis from 2007 onwards. In this line of argument, expan-sive production patterns are expressed, among other things, in global restructuring processes, while consumption limitations are mitigated by expansive financial markets and shifts in ex-port destinations.
G15|Measuring connectedness of euro area sovereign risk|We introduce a method for measuring the default risk connectedness of euro zone sovereign states using credit default swap (CDS) and bond data. The connectedness measure is based on an out-of-sample variance decomposition of model forecast errors. Due to its predictive nature, it can respond to crisis occurrences more quickly than common in-sample techniques. We determine the sovereign default risk connectedness using both CDS and bond data in order to obtain a more comprehensive picture of the system. We find evidence that there are several observable factors that drive the difference between CDS and bonds, but both data sources still contain specific information for connectedness spill-overs. In general, we can identify countries that impose risk on the system and the respective spill-over channels. Our empirical analysis covers the years 2009–2014, such that the recovery paths of countries exiting EU and IMF financial assistance schemes and the responses to the ECB’s unconventional policy measures can be analyzed.
G15|QE in the euro area: has the PSPP benefited peripheral bonds?|The asset purchase program of the Euro area, active between 2015 and 2018, constitutes an interesting special case of Quantitative Easing (QE) because the ECB’s (Public Sector Purchase Program) PSPP program involved the purchase of the bonds of peripheral Euro area governments, which were clearly not riskless. Moreover, these purchases were undertaken by national central banks at their own risk. Intuition suggests, and a simple model confirms, that, ceteris paribus, large purchases of the bonds of the own sovereign by the national central bank should increase the risk for the remaining private bond holders. This might seem incompatible with the observation that risk spreads on peripheral bonds fell when the Euro area’s QE was announced. However, the initial fall in risk premia might have been due to the expectation of the bond being effective in lowering risk free rates. When these expectations were disappointed risk premia went back to their initial level. Formal statistical test confirm that indeed risk premia on peripheral bonds did not follow a random walk (contrary to what is assumed in event studies). Nor did the announcements of bond buying change the stochastics of these premia. One should thus not expect the impact effect to have been permanent.
G15|The relative performance of family firms depending on the type of financial market|The purpose of this multi-level meta-analytic study is to examine the impact of the financial environment on general performance differences between family firms and non-family firms. The considerable cross-country variability of meta-analyses focusing on this relationship suggests noticeable differences between firm- and country-based characteristics. We trace this variance to differences in the respective development of the financial markets and banking systems. We show that family firms outperform non-family firms in market-based economies. We further show that family firms report worse performance measures in well-developed financial markets. If, however, strong investor protection buttresses these already welldeveloped financial markets, family firms also outperform non-family firms. Our study has implications for banks, family firm owners, investors, and policy-makers.
G15|Can Economic Policy Uncertainty, Volume, Transaction Activity and Twitter Predict Bitcoin? Evidence from Time-Varying Granger Causality Tests|We examine the predictive power of economic policy uncertainty, volume, transaction activity, and Twitter on Bitcoin between 27 December 2013 and 11 February 2019 using the recently proposed time-varying Granger causality tests of Shi et al. (2018). First, of particular interest, we show that volume can only predict Bitcoin returns during two episodes (August 2016-January 2017 and May 2017-June 2017) based on a Wald test with a recursive evolving procedure under a homoskedasticity error assumption. However, volume cannot predict volatility under any speciﬁcations. Secondly, both US economic policy uncertainty and equity market uncertainty indices, which are used as proxies for policy uncertainty, have no effect on predicting Bitcoin returns. Thirdly, transaction activity also cannot predict Bitcoin returns. Lastly, the number of tweets about Bitcoin can Granger cause the volume of Bitcoin (for example, March 2015-August 2015 and January 2016-February 2019) but not returns or volatility.
G15|Lévy processes on the cryptocurrency market|Lévy processes are very often used in financial modelling since they address various characteristics of financial data. One of those characteristics is the heavy-tailedness of probability density functions - a very common empirical stylized fact on the cryptocurrency market. The aim of this study was to determine which type of Lévy motion fits the data of cryptocurrencies better, namely Alpha-Stable distribution or one of distributions from the family of generalized hyperbolic motions. The log-returns of 227 cryptocurrencies, standardized by the realized volatility estimated with the GARCH (1,1), were fitted to 11 types of distributions. The results show that the generalized hyperbolic motions fit the cryptocurrency data much more accurately than the Alpha-Stable distribution, similarly as in the case of TOP100 NASDAQ stocks. In the further stage of the analysis, it is shown how the distribution of cryptocurrency data varies over time, i.e. before, during, and after the ‘boom-period’ of 2017/2018.
G15|Search for Yield in Large International Corporate Bonds: Investor Behavior and Firm Responses|Emerging market corporations have significantly increased their borrowing in international markets since 2008. We show that this increase was driven by large-denomination bond issuances, most of them with face value of exactly US$500 million. Large issuances are eligible for inclusion in important international market indexes. These bonds appeal to institutional investors because they are more liquid and facilitate targeting market benchmarks. We find that the rewards of issuing index-eligible bonds rose drastically after 2008. Emerging market firms were able to cut their cost of funds by roughly 100 basis points by issuing bonds with a face value equal to or greater than US$500 million relative to smaller bonds. Firms contemplating whether to take advantage of this cost saving face a tradeoff: they can benefit from the lower yields associated with large, index-eligible bonds, but they pay the potential cost of having to hoard low-yielding cash assets if their investment opportunities are less than US$500 million. Because of the post-2008 “size yield discount,” many companies issued index-eligible bonds, while substantially increasing their cash holdings. The willingness to issue large bonds and hoard cash was greater for firms in countries with high carry trade opportunities that reduced the cost of holding cash. We present evidence suggesting that these post-2008 behaviors reflected a search for yield by institutional investors into higher-risk securities. These patterns are not apparent in the issuance of investment grade bonds by firms in developed economies.
G15|Dynamic Interactions Between Financial and Macroeconomic Imbalances: A Panel VAR Analysis|We use Bayesian and GMM panel VAR frameworks to study interactions between financial cycles and macroeconomic imbalances based on a global sample of 24 countries spanning the period 1998‑2012. We find that financial cycles play an important role in shaping macroeconomic imbalances with expansions inducing economic overheating and a downward pressure on public debt-to-GDP ratios, and vice versa. Bank-based economies exhibit a deeper and faster response of business cycles to financial misalignments, while the impact in market-based economies is milder, but more persistent, as well as more significant for current account and public debt dynamics. Financial cycles invoke a particularly strong reaction of current account balances and especially public debt ratios in the euro area.
G15|An arbitrage-free yield net model with application to the euro debt crisis|"We develop a parsimonious arbitrage-free yield net model for consistent bond pricing across maturities and issuers. Containing a core curve and multiple periphery curves, the yield net is spanned by three layers of factors: base factors spanning all curves, common spread factors spanning all periphery yield spreads, and specific factors each spanning yield spreads of a periphery issuer. Under the arbitrage-free assumption, we prove a parsimonious solution to the risk-neutral process that guarantees strong identification on the latent risk factors and parameters. We apply the model to Treasury yields of Germany and GIIPS countries from 2009 to 2016. The model fits data remarkably well and disentangles the common credit risk, market liquidity risk, and country-specific risks. The results demonstrate that relative risk pricing determines signs and magnitudes of the ""flight to liquidity"" effect and spillover effects among bonds of different issuers."
