G17|State-dependent Hawkes processes and their application to limit order book modelling|We study statistical aspects of state-dependent Hawkes processes, which are an extension of Hawkes processes where a self- and cross-exciting counting process and a state process are fully coupled, interacting with each other. The excitation kernel of the counting process depends on the state process that, reciprocally, switches state when there is an event in the counting process. We first establish the existence and uniqueness of state-dependent Hawkes processes and explain how they can be simulated. Then we develop maximum likelihood estimation methodology for parametric specifications of the process. We apply state-dependent Hawkes processes to high-frequency limit order book data, allowing us to build a novel model that captures the feedback loop between the order flow and the shape of the limit order book. We estimate two specifications of the model, using the bid-ask spread and the queue imbalance as state variables, and find that excitation effects in the order flow are strongly state-dependent. Additionally, we find that the endogeneity of the order flow, measured by the magnitude of excitation, is also state-dependent, being more pronounced in disequilibrium states of the limit order book. MSC 2010 Classification: 60G55, 62M09, 62P05
G17|Disappearing money illusion|In long-term US stock market data the price-dividend ratio strongly predicts future inflation with a positive slope coefficient up to the mid 1970s. Thereafter, the predictability turns negative. We argue that this phenomenon reflects money illusion that disappears during the 1970s. We develop a consumption-based asset pricing model with recursive preferences and either money illusion or inflation non-neutrality that can explain the predictive patterns. The model is also consistent with a structural shift around the mid 1970s in the real interest rate - inflation relationship, thus supporting the hypothesis of disappearing money illusion at that time.
G17|Forecasting Financial Stress Indices in Korea: A Factor Model Approach|We propose factor-based out-of-sample forecast models for the financial stress index and its 4 sub-indices developed by the Bank of Korea. We employ the method of the principal components for 198 monthly frequency macroeconomic data to extract multiple latent factors that summarize the common components of the entire data set. We evaluate the out-of-sample predictability of our models via the ratio of the root mean squared prediction errors and the Diebold-Mariano-West statistics. Our factor models overall outperform the random walk model in forecasting the financial stress indices for up to 1-year forecast horizon. Our models also perform fairly well relative to a stationary autoregressive model especially when the forecast horizon is short, which is practically useful because financial crises often occur abruptly with no systemic warning signals. Parsimonious models with small number of factors perform as well as bigger models. Overall, our findings imply that not only financial data but also real activity variables can help out-of-sample forecast the vulnerability in the financial markets.
G17|Improving Forecast Accuracy of Financial Vulnerability: PLS Factor Model Approach|We present a factor augmented forecasting model for assessing the financial vulnerability in Korea. Dynamic factor models often extract latent common factors from a large panel of time series data via the method of the principal components (PC). Instead, we employ the partial least squares (PLS) method that estimates target specific common factors, utilizing covariances between predictors and the target variable. Applying PLS to 198 monthly frequency macroeconomic time series variables and the Bank of Korea's Financial Stress Index (KFSTI), our PLS factor augmented forecasting models consistently outperformed the random walk benchmark model in out-of-sample prediction exercises in all forecast horizons we considered. Our models also outperformed the autoregressive benchmark model in short-term forecast horizons. We expect our models would provide useful early warning signs of the emergence of systemic risks in Korea's financial markets.
G17|Testing Nonlinearity through a Logistic Smooth Transition AR Model with Logistic Smooth Transition GARCH Errors|This paper analyzes the cyclical behavior of CAC 40 by testing the existence of nonlinearity through a logistic smooth transition AR model with logistic smooth transition GARCH errors. We study the daily returns of CAC 40 from 1990 to 2018. We estimate several models using nonparametric maximum likelihood, where the innovation distribution is replaced by a nonparametric estimate for the density function. We find that the rate of transition and the threshold value in both the conditional mean and conditional variance are highly significant. The forecasting results show that the informational shocks have transitory effects on returns and volatility and confirm nonlinearity.
G17|Memory that Drives! New Insights into Forecasting Performance of Stock Prices from SEMIFARMA-AEGAS Model|Stock price forecasting, a popular growth-enhancing exercise for investors, is inherently complex – thanks to the interplay of financial economic drivers which determine both the magnitude of memory and the extent of non-linearity within a system. In this paper, we accommodate both features within a single estimation framework to forecast stock prices and identify the nature of market efficiency commensurate with the proposed model. We combine a class of semiparametric autoregressive fractionally integrated moving average (SEMIFARMA) model with asymmetric exponential generalized autoregressive score (AEGAS) errors to design a SEMIRFARMA-AEGAS framework based on which predictive performance of this model is tested against competing methods. Our conditional variance includes leverage effects, jumps and fat tail-skewness distribution, each of which affects magnitude of memory in a stock price system. A true forecast function is built and new insights into stock price forecasting are presented. We estimate several models using the Skewed Student-t maximum likelihood and find that the informational shocks have permanent effects on returns and the SEMIFARMA-AEGAS is appropriate for capturing volatility clustering for both negative (long Value-at-Risk) and positive returns (short Value-at-Risk). We show that this model has better predictive performance over competing models for both long and/or some short time horizons. The predictions from SEMIRFARMA-AEGAS model beats comfortably the random walk model. Our results have implications for market-efficiency: the weak efficiency assumption of financial markets stands violated for all stock price returns studied over a long period.
G17|Market timing under public and private information|We design an experiment where subjects must choose between a risky investment, which evolves according to an autoregressive process, and a risk-free investment which has a constant payoff. The treatments vary the information available on the risky investment when players choose the risk-free alternative. We find that in the public information treatment, which captures the information structure of index funds, subjects stay out of the market longer compared to the private information environment, which captures elements of private equity investment. The difference in behavior across treatments can be explained by the demand for information, which appears to overcome risk aversion.
G17|Quest for robust optimal macroprudential policy|This paper contributes by providing a new approach to study optimal macroprudential policies based on economy wide welfare. Following Gerba (2017), we pin down a welfare function based on a first-and second order approximation of the aggregate utility in the economy and use it to determine the merits of different macroprudential rules for Euro Area. With the aim to test this framework, we apply it to the model of Clerc et al. (2015). We find that the optimal level of capital is 15.6 percent, or 2.4 percentage points higher tan the 2001-2015 value. Optimal capital reduces significantly the volatility of the economy while increasing somewhat the total level of welfare in steady state, even with a time-invariant instrument. Expressed differently, bank default rates would have been 3.5 percentage points lower while credit and GDP 5% and 0.8% higher had optimal capital level been in place during the 2011-2013 crisis. Further, using a model-consistent loss function, we find that the optimal Countercyclical Capital Buffer (CCyB) rule depends on whether observed or optimal capital levels are already in place. Conditional on optimal capital level, optimal CCyB rule should respond to movements in total credit and mortgage lending spreads. Gains in welfare from optimal combination of instruments is higher than the sum of their individual effects due to synergies and positive mutual spillovers.
G17|New Tests of Expectation Formation with Applications to Asset Pricing Models|We show unit root econometrics can be fruitfully employed to analyze expectations data and test expectation formation in financial and macroeconomic models with different informational assumptions. Survey data suggests stock price forecasts are not cointegrated with consumption forecasts and rejects this aspect of the formation of stock price expectations in a wide range of asset pricing models. The evidence casts some doubt on the modeling of expectation formation in asset pricing models which assume agents possess the knowledge of the equilibrium pricing function. Relaxing this knowledge appears necessary for models to reconcile the survey evidence and potential resolutions are discussed.
G17|Nonparametric Predictive Regressions for Stock Return Prediction|We propose two new nonparametric predictive models: the multi-step nonparametric predictive regression model and the multi-step additive predictive regression model, in which the predictive variables are locally stationary time series. We define estimation methods and establish the large sample properties of these methods in the short horizon and the long horizon case. We apply our methods to stock return prediction using a number of standard predictors such as dividend yield. The empirical results show that all of these models can substantially outperform the traditional linear predictive regression model in terms of both in-sample and out-of-sample performance. In addition, we _nd that these models can always beat the historical mean model in terms of in-sample fitting, and also for some cases in terms of the out-of-sample forecasting. We also compare our methods with the linear regression and historical mean methods according to an economic metric. In particular, we show how our methods can be used to deliver a trading strategy that beats the buy and hold strategy (and linear regression based alternatives) over our sample period.
G17|DCC-HEAVY: a multivariate GARCH model with realized measures of variance and correlation|This paper proposes a new class of multivariate volatility model that utilising high-frequency data. We call this model the DCC-HEAVY model as key ingredients are the Engle (2002) DCC model and Shephard and Sheppard (2012) HEAVY model. We discuss the models' dynamics and highlight their differences from DCC-GARCH models. Specifically, the dynamics of conditional variances are driven by the lagged realized variances, while the dynamics of conditional correlations are driven by the lagged realized correlations in the DCC-HEAVY model. The new model removes well known asymptotic bias in DCC-GARCH model estimation and has more desirable asymptotic properties. We also derive a Quasi-maximum likelihood estimation and provide closed-form formulas for multi-step forecasts. Empirical results suggest that the DCC-HEAVY model outperforms the DCC-GARCH model in and out-of-sample.
G17|Lured by the Consensus|We find that investors are fixated on analysts’ consensus outputs (earnings forecasts, recommendations, and forecast dispersion), which can be inferior signals compared to the corresponding outputs provided by high-quality analysts, especially when a large number of high-quality analysts follow the firm. This result, which holds at the firm and market level, implies inefficient use of the information contained in analysts’ outputs. Further, the post-earnings announcement drift (PEAD) phenomenon occurs only when high-quality analysts are more uncertain about the firm’s performance than all analysts following the firm. We conclude that the market’s fixation on consensus measures has significant negative economic implications.
G17|A Theory of Scenario Generation|We show how distributions can be reduced to low-dimensional scenario trees. Applied to intertemporal distributions, the scenarios and their probabilities become time-varying factors. From S&P 500 options, two or three time-varying scenarios suffice to forecast returns, implied variance or skewness on par, or better, than extant multivariate stochastic volatility jump-diffusion models, while reducing the computational effort to fractions of a second.
G17|A Flexible Regime Switching Model for Asset Returns|A non-Gaussian multivariate regime switching dynamic correlation model for fi nancial asset returns is proposed. It incorporates the multivariate generalized hyperbolic law for the conditional distribution of returns. All model parameters are estimated consistently using a new two-stage expectation-maximization algorithm that also allows for incorporation of shrinkage estimation via quasi-Bayesian priors. It is shown that use of Markov switching correlation dynamics not only leads to highly accurate risk forecasts, but also potentially reduces the regulatory capital requirements during periods of distress. In terms of portfolio performance, the new regime switching model delivers consistently higher Sharpe ratios and smaller losses than the equally weighted portfolio and all competing models. Finally, the regime forecasts are employed in a dynamic risk control strategy that avoids most losses during the fi nancial crisis and vastly improves risk-adjusted returns.
G17|Market Impact and Performance of Arbitrageurs of Financial Bubbles in An Agent-Based Model|"We analyse the consequences of predicting and exploiting financial bubbles in an agent-based model, with a risky and a risk-free asset and three different trader types: fundamentalists, noise traders and ""dragon riders"" (DR). The DR exploit their ability to diagnose financial bubbles from the endogenous price history to determine optimal entry and exit trading times. We study the DR market impact as a function of their wealth fraction. With a proportion of up to 10%, DR are found to have a beneficial effect, reducing the volatility, value-at-risk and average bubble peak amplitudes. They thus reduce inefficiencies and stabilise the market by arbitraging the bubbles. At larger proportions, DR tend to destabilise prices, as their diagnostics of bubbles become increasingly self-referencing, leading to volatility amplification by the noise traders, which destroys the bubble characteristics that would have allowed them to predict bubbles at lower fraction of wealth. Concomitantly, bubble-based arbitrage opportunities disappear with large fraction of DR in the population of traders."
G17|A Non-Elliptical Orthogonal GARCH Model for Portfolio Selection under Transaction Costs|Covariance matrix forecasts for portfolio optimization have to balance sensitivity to new data points with stability in order to avoid excessive rebalancing. To achieve this, a new robust orthogonal GARCH model for a multivariate set of non-Gaussian asset returns is proposed. The conditional return distribution is multivariate generalized hyperbolic and the dispersion matrix dynamics are driven by the leading factors in a principle component decomposition. Each of these leading factors is endowed with a univariate GARCH structure, while the remaining eigenvalues are kept constant over time. Joint maximum likelihood estimation of all model parameters is performed via an expectation maximization algorithm, and is applicable in high dimensions. The new model generates realistic correlation forecasts even for large asset universes and captures rising pairwise correlations in periods of market distress better than numerous competing models. Moreover, it leads to improved forecasts of an eigenvalue-based financial systemic risk indicator. Crucially, it generates portfolios with much lower turnover and superior risk-adjusted returns net of transaction costs, outperforming the equally weighted strategy even under high transaction fees.
G17|Análisis de sentimientos de noticias e inversionistas en el mercado bursátil|Este trabajo estudia en la relación estadística entre el sentimiento de inversionistas y de noticias con la dirección del movimiento del S&P 500 en ventanas de 30 minutos. Específicamente, se utilizan algoritmos de Machine Learning para estimar una medida representativa del sentimiento de los inversionistas y de noticias a partir de mensajes de usuarios de StockTwits, que luego se utilizaron de manera conjunta e individual para pronosticar la dirección del SP 500. Se encontró que con la inclusión del sentimiento de los inversionistas se alcanzó una exactitud del 58%, por encima del 50% obtenido por un modelo autorregresivo. No obstante, se determinó que la integración del análisis de sentimiento de noticias no aumentó la predictibilidad del índice en cuestión.
G17|Aplicación del modelo estocástico de difusion -salto de merton para la simulación del valor del índice colcap|ABSTRACT This working paper consist in apply the Stochastic Jump-Diffusion model proposed by Merton (1976 MJD model), as well as the process of estimating its parameters, applied to the COLCAP stock index. Authors like (Andersen, Benzoni, & Lund, 2002), (Hanson & Westman, 2002), (Hanson & Zongwu, 2004), (Penagos, Gabriel; Rubio, Gonzalo, 2013) (Tang, 2018) show how the incorporation of jumps, allows to obtain a Probability Density Function (PDF) according with skewed distributions and high kurtosis characterizing data log-returns financial. The results presented will have as reference the model Black & Scholes, 1973 (B&S) which is a pure diffusion model, whose base is the Gaussian distribution. The paper is composed by five parts, in the first one we could find the bibliographic review about the application of the stochastic jump-diffusion models, in the second and third one describes the COLCAP index, as well as its composition and history, the description of the data and the MJD model is defined; the fourth one shows the results and finally the conclusions. ***** RESUMEN Este trabajo de grado tiene como objetivo aplicar el modelo Estocástico de Salto-Difusión propuesto por Merton (1976) (MJD) así como el proceso de estimación de sus parámetros, aplicado al índice bursátil COLCAP. Autores como (Andersen, Benzoni, & Lund, 2002), (Hanson & Westman, 2002) (Hanson & Zongwu, 2004) (Penagos, Gabriel; Rubio, Gonzalo, 2013) y (Tang, 2018) muestran como la incorporación de saltos, permite obtener una Función de Densidad de Probabilidad (PDF) más acorde con distribuciones asimétricas y con curtosis elevadas que caracterizan a los datos de log-retornos financieros. Los resultados presentados tendrán como punto de referencia el modelo de Black and Scholes (B&S), el cual es un modelo de difusión puro, cuya base es la Distribución Gaussiana. El articulo se compone de cinco partes, en la primera se encuentra la revisión bibliográfica acerca de la aplicación de los modelos estocásticos de salto-difusión, en la segunda y tercera se describen el índice COLCAP, su composición e historia, se describen los datos y se define el modelo MJD, en la cuarta parte se muestran los resultados y finalmente se concluye.
G17|New Testing Approaches for Mean-Variance Predictability|We propose tests for smooth but persistent serial correlation in risk premia and volatilities that exploit the non-normality of financial returns. Our parametric tests are robust to distributional misspecification, while our semiparametric tests are as powerful as if we knew the true return distribution. Local power analyses confirm their gains over existing methods, while Monte Carlo exercises assess their finite sample reliability. We apply our tests to quarterly returns on the five Fama-French factors for international stocks, whose distributions are mostly symmetric and fat-tailed. Our results highlight noticeable differences across regions and factors and confirm the fragility of Gaussian tests.
G17|Global Price of Risk and Stabilization Policies|Abstract We estimate a highly significant price of risk that forecasts global stock and bond returns as a nonlinear function of the VIX. We show that countries’ exposure to the global price of risk is related to macroeconomic risks as measured by output, credit, and inflation volatility, the magnitude of financial crises, and stock and bond market downside risk. Higher exposure to the global price of risk corresponds to both higher output volatility and higher output growth. We document that the transmission of the global price of risk to macroeconomic outcomes is mitigated by the magnitude of stabilization in the Taylor rule, the degree of countercyclicality of fiscal policy, and countries’ tendencies to employ prudential regulations. The estimated magnitudes are quantitatively important and significant, with large cross-sectional explanatory power. Our findings suggest that macroeconomic and financial stability policies should be considered jointly.
G17|Correlation Risk, Strings and Asset Prices|Standard asset pricing theories treat return volatility and correlations as two intimately related quantities, which hinders achieving a neat definition of a correlation premium. We introduce a model with a continuum of securities that have returns driven by a string. This model leads to new arbitrage pricing restrictions, according to which, holding any asset requires compensation for the granular exposure of this asset returns to changes in all other asset returns: an average correlation premium. We find that this correlation premium is both statistically and economically significant, and considerably fluctuates, driven by time-varying correlations and global market developments. The model explains the cross-section of expected returns and their counter-cyclicality without making reference to common factors affecting asset returns. It also explains the time-series behavior of the premium for the risk of changes in asset correlations (the correlation-risk premium), including its inverse relation with realized correlations.
G17|Anticipating the bust: a new cyclical systemic risk indicator to assess the likelihood and severity of financial crises|This paper presents a tractable, transparent and broad-based domestic cyclical systemic risk indicator (d-SRI) that captures risks stemming from domestic credit, real estate markets, asset prices, and external imbalances. The d-SRI increases on average several years before the onset of systemic financial crises, and its early warning properties for euro area countries are superior to those of the total credit-to-GDP gap. In addition, the level of the d-SRI around the start of financial crises is highly correlated with measures of subsequent crisis severity, such as GDP declines. Model estimates suggest that the d-SRI has significant predictive power for large declines in real GDP growth three to four years down the line, as it precedes shifts in the entire distribution of future real GDP growth and especially of its left tail. The d-SRI therefore provides useful information about both the probability and the likely cost of systemic financial crises many years in advance. Given its timely signals, the d-SRI is a useful analytical tool for macroprudential policymakers. JEL Classification: G01, G17, C22, C54
G17|CoMap: Mapping Contagion in the Euro Area Banking Sector|This paper presents a novel approach to investigate and model the network of euro area banks’ large exposures within the global banking system. Drawing on a unique dataset, the paper documents the degree of interconnectedness and systemic risk of the euro area banking system based on bilateral linkages. We develop a Contagion Mapping model fully calibrated with bank-level data to study the contagion potential of an exogenous shock via credit and funding risks. We find that tipping points shifting the euro area banking system from a less vulnerable state to a highly vulnerable state are a non-linear function of the combination of network structures and bank-specific characteristics.
G17|Pockets of risk in European Housing Markets: then and now|Using household survey data, we document evidence of a loosening of credit standards in Euro area countries that experienced a property price boom-and-bust cycle. Borrowers in these countries exhibited significantly higher loan-to-value (LTV) and loan-to-income (LTI) ratios in the run up to the financial crisis, and an increasing tendency towards longer-term loans compared to borrowers in other countries. In recent years, despite the long period of historically low interest rates and substantial house price increases in some countries, we do not find similar credit easing as before the crisis. Instead, we find evidence of a considerable change in borrower characteristics since 2010: new borrowers are older and have higher incomes than before the crisis.
G17|Housing Cycle and Exchange Rates|This paper documents that U.S. housing capital investment is a strong negative predictor of U.S. dollar changes and excess returns over the next six months to five years. Other advanced economies exhibit similar patterns. Moreover, positive housing supply shocks predict lower prices of housing services and nontradables relative to that of tradables, as well as higher output growth and macroeconomic volatility. An analytical model shows that these channels generate the exchange rate predictability under incomplete and complete markets, respectively. Cross-sectionally, currencies with higher loadings on the U.S. housing cycle carry higher average currency premia, compensating the U.S. investor for bearing the U.S. long-run consumption risk.
G17|Resolutions to flip-over credit risk and beyond|Abstract Given a risk outcome y over a rating system {R_i }_(i=1)^k for a portfolio, we show in this paper that the maximum likelihood estimates with monotonic constraints, when y is binary (the Bernoulli likelihood) or takes values in the interval 0≤y≤1 (the quasi-Bernoulli likelihood), are each given by the average of the observed outcomes for some consecutive rating indexes. These estimates are in average equal to the sample average risk over the portfolio and coincide with the estimates by least squares with the same monotonic constraints. These results are the exact solution of the corresponding constrained optimization. A non-parametric algorithm for the exact solution is proposed. For the least squares estimates, this algorithm is compared with “pool adjacent violators” algorithm for isotonic regression. The proposed approaches provide a resolution to flip-over credit risk and a tool to determine the fair risk scales over a rating system.
G17|Forecasting Realized Volatility of Russian stocks using Google Trends and Implied Volatility|This work proposes to forecast the Realized Volatility (RV) and the Value-at-Risk (VaR) of the most liquid Russian stocks using GARCH, ARFIMA and HAR models, including both the implied volatility computed from options prices and Google Trends data. The in-sample analysis showed that only the implied volatility had a significant effect on the realized volatility across most stocks and estimated models, whereas Google Trends did not have any significant effect. The outof-sample analysis highlighted that models including the implied volatility improved their forecasting performances, whereas models including internet search activity worsened their performances in several cases. Moreover, simple HAR and ARFIMA models without additional regressors often reported the best forecasts for the daily realized volatility and for the daily Value-at-Risk at the 1 % probability level, thus showing that efficiency gains more than compensate any possible model misspecifications and parameters biases. Our empirical evidence shows that, in the case of Russian stocks, Google Trends does not capture any additional information already included in the implied volatility.
G17|Predicting the U.S. Stock Market Return: Evidence from the Improved Augmented Regression Method|We examine whether the stock market return is predictable from a range of financial indicators and macroeconomic variables, using monthly U.S. data from 1926 to 2012. We adopt the improved augmented regression method for parameter estimation, statistical inference, and out-of-sample forecasting. By employing moving sub-sample windows, we evaluate the time-variation of predictability free from data snooping bias and report changes in predictability dynamics over time. Although we may find statistically significant in-sample predictability from time to time, the associated effect size estimates are fairly small in most cases. We also find weak predictability of the stock market return from multistep ahead (out-of-sample) forecasts. In addition, we find that mean-variance investors realize sporadic economic gains in utility based on predictive regression forecasts relative to naive model historic average forecasts
G17|A New Adaptive Moving Average (Vama) Technical Indicator For Financial Data Smoothing|The separation of the trend from random fluctuations (noise) is a major objective in technical analysis and for a long time two commons filters, the simple moving average and the exponential moving average have been used to achieve this goal, those two filters use one parameter to control this degree of separation, higher degree of separation involve smoother results but also more lag. Lag is defined as the effect of a moving average to show past trends instead of new ones, this effect his unavoidable with causal filters and is a major drawback in decision timing . In this article I will introduce a new adaptive moving average technical indicator (VAMA) who aim to provide smooth results as well as providing fast decision timing. This new method will be used for the construction of a simple MA crossover strategy in EURUSD, the results of this strategy will then be compared to the results of the same strategy using other adaptive moving averages to provide a comparison of the profitability of this indicator.
G17|Oil price volatility forecasts: What do investors need to know?|Contrary to the current practice that mainly considers stand-alone statistical loss functions, the aim of the paper is to assess oil price volatility forecasts based on objective-based evaluation criteria, given that different forecasting models may exhibit superior performance at different applications. To do so, we forecast implied and several intraday volatilities and we evaluate them based on financial decisions for which these forecasts are used. In this study we confine our interest on the use of such forecasts from financial investors. More specifically, we consider four well established trading strategies, which are based on volatility forecasts, namely (i) trading the implied volatility based on the implied volatility forecasts, (ii) trading implied volatility based on intraday volatility forecasts, (iii) trading straddles in the United States Oil Fund ETF and finally (iv) trading the United States Oil Fund ETF based on implied and intraday volatility forecasts. We evaluate the after-cost profitability of each forecasting model for 1-day up to 66-days ahead. Our results convincingly show that our forecasting framework is economically useful, since different models provide superior after-cost profits depending on the economic use of the volatility forecasts. Should investors evaluate the forecasting models based on statistical loss functions, then their financial decisions would be sub-optimal. Thus, we maintain that volatility forecasts should be evaluated based on their economic use, rather than statistical loss functions. Several robustness tests confirm these findings.
G17|Superkurtosis|Very little is known on how traditional risk metrics behave in ultra high frequency trading (UHFT). We fi�ll this void �firstly by examining the existence of the intraday returns moments, and secondly by assessing the impact of their (non)existence in a risk management framework. We show that in the case of UHFT, the returns' third and fourth moments do not exist, which entails that traditional risk metrics are unable to judge capital adequacy adequately. Hence, the use of risk management techniques, such as VaR, by market participants who engage with UHFT impose serious threats to the stability of fi�nancial markets, given that capital ratios may be severely underestimated.
G17|Incremental Risk Charge Methodology|The incremental risk charge (IRC) is a new regulatory requirement from the Basel Committee in response to the recent financial crisis. Notably few models for IRC have been developed in the literature. This paper proposes a methodology consisting of two Monte Carlo simulations. The first Monte Carlo simulation simulates default, migration, and concentration in an integrated way. Combining with full re-valuation, the loss distribution at the first liquidity horizon for a subportfolio can be generated. The second Monte Carlo simulation is the random draws based on the constant level of risk assumption. It convolutes the copies of the single loss distribution to produce one year loss distribution. The aggregation of different subportfolios with different liquidity horizons is addressed. Moreover, the methodology for equity is also included, even though it is optional in IRC.
G17|Pricing Credit Default Swap Subject to Counterparty Risk and Collateralization|This article presents a new model for valuing a credit default swap (CDS) contract that is affected by multiple credit risks of the buyer, seller and reference entity. We show that default dependency has a significant impact on asset pricing. In fact, correlated default risk is one of the most pervasive threats in financial markets. We also show that a fully collateralized CDS is not equivalent to a risk-free one. In other words, full collateralization cannot eliminate counterparty risk completely in the CDS market.
G17|The Valuation of Financial Derivatives Subject to Counterparty Risk and Credit Value Adjustment|This article presents a generic model for pricing financial derivatives subject to counterparty credit risk. Both unilateral and bilateral types of credit risks are considered. Our study shows that credit risk should be modeled as American style options in most cases, which require a backward induction valuation. To correct a common mistake in the literature, we emphasize that the market value of a defaultable derivative is actually a risky value rather than a risk-free value. Credit value adjustment (CVA) is also elaborated. A practical framework is developed for pricing defaultable derivatives and calculating their CVAs at a portfolio level.
G17|New Essentials of Economic Theory|This paper develops economic theory tools and framework free from general equilibrium assumptions. We describe macroeconomics as system of economic agents under action risks. Economic and financial variables of agents, their expectations and transactions between agents define macroeconomic variables. Agents variables depend on transactions between agents and transactions are performed under agents expectations. Agents expectations are formed by economic variables, transactions, expectations of other agents, other factors that impact macroeconomic evolution. We use risk ratings of agents as their coordinates on economic space and approximate description of economic and financial variables, transactions and expectations of numerous separate agents by description of variables, transactions and expectations of aggregated agents as density functions on economic space. Motion of separate agents on economic space due to change of agents risk rating induce economic flows of variables, transactions and expectations and we describe their impact on economic evolution. We apply our model equations to description of business cycles, model wave propagation for disturbances of economic variables and transactions, model asset price fluctuations and argue hidden complexities of classical Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing.
G17|Cholesky-ANN models for predicting multivariate realized volatility|Accurately forecasting multivariate volatility plays a crucial role for the financial industry. The Cholesky-Artificial Neural Networks specification here presented provides a twofold advantage for this topic. On the one hand, the use of the Cholesky decomposition ensures positive definite forecasts. On the other hand, the implementation of artificial neural networks allows to specify nonlinear relations without any particular distributional assumption. Out-of-sample comparisons reveal that Artificial neural networks are not able to strongly outperform the competing models. However, long-memory detecting networks, like Nonlinear Autoregressive model process with eXogenous input and long shortterm memory, show improved forecast accuracy respect to existing econometric models.
G17|Realized Volatility Forecasting with Neural Networks|In the last few decades, a broad strand of literature in finance has implemented artificial neural networks as forecasting method. The major advantage of this approach is the possibility to approximate any linear and nonlinear behaviors without knowing the structure of the data generating process. This makes it suitable for forecasting time series which exhibit long memory and nonlinear dependencies, like conditional volatility. In this paper, I compare the predictive performance of feed-forward and recurrent neural networks (RNN), particularly focusing on the recently developed Long short-term memory (LSTM) network and NARX network, with traditional econometric approaches. The results show that recurrent neural networks are able to outperform all the traditional econometric methods. Additionally, capturing long-range dependence through Long short-term memory and NARX models seems to improve the forecasting accuracy also in a highly volatile framework.
G17|Recursive Bands - A New Indicator For Technical Analysis|In this paper i present a new technical indicator that aim to display bands in the price chart. The bands are calculated recursively in order to make them computationally efficient. Then various calculations involving the bands will be described in order to provide alternatives of the proposed indicator.
G17|Determination of Copper Price Expectations in the International Market: Some Important Variables|The purpose of this work is to identify variables that are relevant to the copper price setting in the international market. Thus statistical hypothesis tests and statistical tools that help to identify historical relevance and to measure the intensity of the impact of each variable on the copper price on several time horizons were applied. At the end, a regression model that aims to assess the combined effect of the considered time series was estimated. The global industrial production and the aluminum price showed the greatest evidences of being relevant to the copper price. The results suggest that copper stocks, foreign exchange rates and crude oil price should also be considered.
G17|A multivariate approach for the simultaneous modelling of market risk and credit risk for cryptocurrencies|This paper proposes a set of models which can be used to estimate the market risk for a portfolio of crypto-currencies, and simultaneously to estimate also their credit risk using the Zero Price Probability (ZPP) model by Fantazzini et al (2008), which is a methodology to compute the probabilities of default using only market prices. For this purpose, both univariate and multivariate models with different specifications are employed. Two special cases of the ZPP with closed-form formulas in case of normally distributed errors are also developed using recent results from barrier option theory. A backtesting exercise using two datasets of 5 and 15 coins for market risk forecasting and a dataset of 42 coins for credit risk forecasting was performed. The Value-at-Risk and the Expected Shortfall for single coins and for an equally weighted portfolio were calculated and evaluated with several tests. The ZPP approach was used for the estimation of the probability of default/death of the single coins and compared to classical credit scoring models (logit and probit) and to a machine learning algorithm (Random Forest). Our results reveal the superiority of the t-copula/skewed-t GARCH model for market risk, and the ZPP-based models for credit risk.
G17|The importance of being informed: forecasting market risk measures for the Russian RTS index future using online data and implied volatility over two decades|This paper focuses on the forecasting of market risk measures for the Russian RTS index future, and examines whether augmenting a large class of volatility models with implied volatility and Google Trends data improves the quality of the estimated risk measures. We considered a time sample of daily data from 2006 till 2019, which includes several episodes of large-scale turbulence in the Russian future market. We found that the predictive power of several models did not increase if these two variables were added, but actually decreased. The worst results were obtained when these two variables were added jointly and during periods of high volatility, when parameters estimates became very unstable. Moreover, several models augmented with these variables did not reach numerical convergence. Our empirical evidence shows that, in the case of Russian future markets, T-GARCH models with implied volatility and student’s t errors are better choices if robust market risk measures are of concern.
G17|Forecasting Realized Oil-Price Volatility: The Role of Financial Stress and Asymmetric Loss|We analyze the role of global and regional measures of financial stress in forecasting realized volatility of the oil market based on 5-minute intraday data covering the period of 4th January, 2000 until 26th May, 2017. In this regard, we use various variants of the Heterogenous Autoregressive (HAR) model of realized volatility (HAR-RV). Our main finding is that indexes of financial stress help to improve forecasting performance, with it being important to differentiate between regional sources of financial stress (United States, other advanced economies, emerging markets). Another key finding is that the shape of the forecaster loss function that one uses to evaluate forecasting performance plays an important role. More specifically, forecasters who attach a higher cost to an overprediction of realized volatility as compared to an underprediction of the same absolute size should pay particular attention to financial stress originating in the U.S. But, in case an underprediction is more costly than a comparable overprediction, then forecasters should closely monitor financial stress caused by developments in emerging-market economies. In sum, financial stress does have predictive value for realized oil-price volatility, with alternative types of investors benefitting from monitoring different regional sources of financial stress.
G17|Time-Varying Risk Aversion and the Predictability of Bond Premia|We show that time-varying risk aversion captures significant predictive information over excess returns on U.S. government bonds even after controlling for a large number of financial and macro factors. Including risk aversion improves the predictive accuracy at all horizons (one- to twelve-months ahead) for shorter maturity bonds and at shorter forecast horizons (one- to three-months ahead) for longer maturity bonds. Given the role of Treasury securities in economic forecasting models and portfolio allocation decisions, our findings have significant implications for investors, policy makers and researchers interested in accurately forecasting return dynamics for these assets.
G17|Forecasting the Term Structure of Interest Rates of the BRICS: Evidence from a Nonparametric Functional Data Analysis|In this paper, we develop a non-parametric functional data analysis (NP-FDA) model to forecast the term-structure of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa (BRICS). We use daily data over the period of January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2016. We find that, while it is in general difficult to beat the random-walk model in the shorter-horizons, at longer-runs our proposed NP-FDA approach outperforms not only the random-walk model, but also other popular competitors used in term-structure forecasting literature. Our results have important implications for both policymakers aiming to stabilize the economy, and for optimal portfolio allocation decisions of financial market agents.
G17|Variants of Consumption-Wealth Ratios and Predictability of U.S. Government Bond Risk Premia: Old is still Gold|This paper compares the ability of alternative consumption-wealth ratios, based on constant parameter (cay), Markov-switching (cayMS ) and time-varying parameter (cayTVP) cointegration estimation of the consumption function, for predicting in- and out-of-sample movements of quarterly excess returns of U.S. government bonds over 1953:Q2 to 2015:Q3. Our findings show that after controlling for standard financial and macroeconomic factors, cay outperforms the cayMS and cayTVP in predicting the path of excess returns on bonds. Implications of our results for academics, investors and policymakers are discussed.
G17|Gold, Platinum and the Predictability of Bond Risk Premia|We show that the ratio of gold to platinum prices (GP) contains significant predictive information for excess U.S. government bond returns, even after controlling for a large number of financial and macro factors. Including GP in the model improves the predictive accuracy, over and above the standard macroeconomic and financial predictors, at all forecasting horizons for the shortest maturity bonds and at longer forecasting horizons for bonds with longer maturities beyond 2 years. The findings highlight the predictive information captured by commodity prices on bond market excess returns with significant investment and policy making implications.
G17|Risk Aversion and the Predictability of Crude Oil Market Volatility: A Forecasting Experiment with Random Forests|We analyze the predictive power of time-varying risk aversion for the realized volatility of crude oil returns based on high-frequency data. While the popular linear heterogeneous autoregressive realized volatility (HAR-RV) model fails to recognize the predictive power of risk aversion over crude oil volatility, we find that risk aversion indeed improves forecast accuracy at all forecast horizons when we compute forecasts by means of random forests. The predictive power of risk aversion is robust to various covariates including realized skewness and realized kurtosis, various measures of jump intensity and leverage. The findings highlight the importance of accounting for nonlinearity in the data-generating process for forecast accuracy as well as the predictive power of non-cashflow factors over commodity-market uncertainty with significant implications for the pricing and forecasting in these markets.
G17|The Role of an Aligned Investor Sentiment Index in Predicting Bond Risk Premia of the United States|In this paper, we develop a new investor sentiment index that is aligned with the purpose of predicting the excess returns on government bonds of the United States (US) of maturities of 2-, 3-, 4-, 5-year. By eliminating a common noise component in underlying sentiment proxies using the partial least squares (PLS) approach, the new index is shown to have much greater predictive power than the original principal component analysis (PCA)-based sentiment index both in- and out-of-sample, with the predictability being statistically significant, especially for bond premia with shorter maturities, even after controlling for a large number of financial and macro factors, as well as investor attention and manager sentiment indexes. Given the role of Treasury securities in forecasting of output and inflation, and portfolio allocation decisions, our findings have significant implications for investors, policymakers and researchers interested in accurately forecasting return dynamics for these assets.
G17|Commodity Price Uncertainty as a Leading Indicator of Economic Activity|In this paper we examine the impact of commodity price uncertainty on US economic activity. Our empirical analysis indicates that uncertainty in agricultural, metals and energy markets depresses US economic activity and acts as an early warning signal for US recessions with a forecasting horizon ranging from one to twelve months. The results reveal that uncertainty shocks in agricultural and metals markets are more significant for the US macroeconomy when compared to oil price uncertainty shocks. Finally, we show that when accounting for the effects of macroeconomic and monetary factors, the negative dynamic response of economic activity to agricultural and metals price uncertainty shocks remains unaltered, while the response to energy uncertainty shocks is significantly reduced due to either systematic policy reactions or random shocks in monetary policy.
G17|Forecasting Equity Index Volatility by Measuring the Linkage among Component Stocks|The linkage among the realized volatilities across component stocks are important when modeling and forecasting the relevant index volatility. In this paper, the linkage is measured via an extended Common Correlated Effects (CCE) approach under a panel heterogeneous autoregression model where unobserved common factors in errors are assumed. Consistency of the CCE estimator is obtained. The common factors are extracted using the principal component analysis. Empirical studies show that realized volatility models exploiting the linkage effects lead to significantly better out-of-sample forecast performance, for example, an up to 32% increase in the pseudo R2. We also conduct various forecasting exercises on the the linkage variables that compare conventional regression methods with popular machine learning techniques.
G17|Pairs Trading with Crypto: Evidence from Bitcoin|One of the important tasks of every multi-asset portfolio managers is to assess how different asset classes interact with each other. Historical findings indicate that tradition risk asset classes exhibited various degrees of correlation, be they positive or negative, among each other. With the raise of crypto assets, such as bitcoin, it appears that crypto assets have gradually been considering as new investment class, at least from institutional aspect. This study reveals that the correlation of the digital currency with the longest price history, bitcoin, with other traditional assets is close to zero. Thus, from diversification point of view, this makes cryptocurrencies or bitcoin a perfectly uncorrelated asset which would benefit almost any portfolio. Further study is performed to investigate the cointegration relations among bitcoin and other asset classes. It is found that the spreads between bitcoin and some major tradition risk asset classes exist a mean reversion phenomenon. This enables asset managers to develop quantitative approaches for active management strategies.Models of cointegrated time series are common place in the literature and application in financial series. Correlation and cointegration are time series modelling techniques that have applied to financial markets. They are related but with different concepts. Correlation indicates co-movements in returns which is a short run measure requires frequent rebalancing to minimize losses, while cointegration measures long run tandem movements in prices to ensure long term performance for achieving returns. Two pairs of asset prices are found to have a common stochastic trend with stationary cointegrating vector, they are in theory considered for cointegration. This stochastic process displays a mean reversion in long run. If there exists a divergence in spread due to temporary shocks, one can expects to profit from performing pairs trading strategy by creating a short position on the outperforming one, at the same time with a long position on the underperforming one.In this study, trading signal would be generated for our pairs trading with bitcoin. Largely, our results empirically support over various asset classes during the period of estimation.
G17|US Risk Premia under Emerging Markets Constraints|USA market is the benchmark for empirical finance and considered the closest example of how an efficient market should behave. On the other hand, divergent results from the observed in the USA are often associated with unreliable and due deviations from efficient hypothesis. However, how would the US market results behave had the data the same constraints as an emerging market economy? To answer that question, we analyze the risk premia market estimation under the typical constraints from emerging equity markets: the small number of assets and the short time-series sample available for estimation. We use parameters of time-series length, number of assets and accounting variables distribution from the Brazilian equity market. Surprisingly, we conclude that the US market risk premia convey the same data features as the Brazilian risk premia if under the same time constraints. Then, we evaluate two potential causes of problems in risk premia estimations with small T: i) small sample bias on betas, and ii) divergence between ex-post and ex-ante risk premia. Through Monte Carlo simulations, we conclude that for the T around 5 years the beta estimates are no longer a problem. However, it is necessary to analyze a time-series sample exceeding 40 years to obtain robust ex-ante risk premia.
G17|Effectiveness of policy and regulation in European sovereign credit risk markets: A network analysis|We study the impact of changes in regulations and policy interventions on systemic risk among European sovereigns measured as volatility spillovers in respective credit risk markets. Our unique intraday CDS dataset allows for precise measurement of the effectiveness of these events in a network setting. In particular, it allows discerning interventions which entail significant changes in network cross-effects with appropriate bootstrap confidence intervals. We show that it was mainly regulatory changes with the ban of trading naked sovereign CDS in 2012 as well as the new ISDA regulations in 2014 which were most effective in reducing systemic risk. In comparison, we find that the effect of policy interventions was minor and generally not sustainable. In particular, they only had a significant impact when implemented for the first time and when targeting more than one country. For the volatility spillover channels, we generally find balanced networks with no fragmentation over time.
G17|Estimation of FX Option Implied Density Functions: Nonparametric-Malz Approach|This paper estimates risk-neutral density (RND) for USD-TRY exchange rate through the nonparametric-Malz approach using European FX options for various tenors and a wide range of tails. FX option implied risk-neutral density is a valuable tool in terms of extraction of market assessment about future exchange rates, valuation of financial derivatives, portfolio risk management and monitoring financial stability. However, RND estimation for FX options requires non-trivial data adjustment due to the fact that these options are traded/quoted as structured products in over-the-counter (OTC) markets and the conventions are in terms of deltas rather than strike prices. In this regard, one of the main contributions of the study is that premium-adjusted delta convention used in the quotation of options on USD-TRY exchange rate is taken into account in the construction of implied volatility-delta space, which has been overlooked in the previous studies. Absence of this adjustment leads to a biased estimation of the implied volatility curve and RND, especially at longer-maturity horizons. Empirical findings provide evidence for the existence of volatility smile for the options on USD-TRY exchange rate. Furthermore, the examination of RND surface in recent periods displays the variation in the dispersion of option implied distributions of USD-TRY exchange rate due to volatility in financial markets.
G17|Backtesting Value-at-Risk and Expected Shortfall in the Presence of Estimation Error|We investigate the effect of estimation error on backtests of (multi-period) expected shortfall (ES) forecasts. These backtests are based on first order conditions of a recently introduced family of jointly consistent loss functions for Value-at-Risk (VaR) and ES. We provide explicit expressions for the additional terms in the asymptotic covariance matrix that result from estimation error, and propose robust tests that account for it. Monte Carlo experiments show that the tests that ignore these terms suffer from size distortions, which are more pronounced for higher ratios of out-of-sample to in-sample observations. Robust versions of the backtests perform well, although this also depends on the choice of conditioning variables. In an application to VaR and ES forecasts for daily FTSE 100 index returns as generated by AR-GARCH, AR-GJR-GARCH, and AR-HEAVY models, we find that estimation error substantially impacts the outcome of the backtests.
G17|A dominance approach for comparing the performance of VaR forecasting models|We introduce three dominance criteria to compare the performance of alternative VaR forecasting models. The three criteria use the information provided by a battery of VaR validation tests based on the frequency and size of exceedances, offering the possibility of efficiently summarizing a large amount of statistical information. They do not require the use of any loss function defined on the difference between VaR forecasts and observed returns, and two of the criteria are not conditioned on any significance level for the VaR tests. We use them to explore the potential for 1-day ahead VaR forecasting of some recently proposed asymmetric probability distributions for return innovations, as well as to compare the APARCH and FGARCH volatility specifications with more standard alternatives. Using 19 assets of different nature, the three criteria lead to similar conclusions, suggesting that the unbounded Johnson SU, the skewed Student-t and the skewed Generalized-t distributions seem to produce the best VaR forecasts. The added flexibility of a free power parameter in the conditional volatility in the APARCH and FGARCH models leads to a better fit to return data, but it does not improve upon the VaR forecasts provided by GARCH and GJR-GARCH volatilities.
G17|Testing Nonlinearity through a Logistic Smooth Transition AR Model with Logistic Smooth Transition GARCH Errors|This paper analyzes the cyclical behavior of CAC 40 by testing the existence of nonlinearity through a logistic smooth transition AR model with logistic smooth transition GARCH errors. We study the daily returns of CAC 40 from 1990 to 2018. We estimate several models using nonparametric maximum likelihood, where the innovation distribution is replaced by a nonparametric estimate for the density function. We find that the rate of transition and the threshold value in both the conditional mean and conditional variance are highly significant. The forecasting results show that the informational shocks have transitory effects on returns and volatility and confirm nonlinearity.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
G17|Memory that Drives! New Insights into Forecasting Performance of Stock Prices from SEMIFARMA-AEGAS Model|Stock price forecasting, a popular growth-enhancing exercise for investors, is inherently complex – thanks to the interplay of financial economic drivers which determine both the magnitude of memory and the extent of non-linearity within a system. In this paper, we accommodate both features within a single estimation framework to forecast stock prices and identify the nature of market efficiency commensurate with the proposed model. We combine a class of semiparametric autoregressive fractionally integrated moving average (SEMIFARMA) model with asymmetric exponential generalized autoregressive score (AEGAS) errors to design a SEMIRFARMA-AEGAS framework based on which predictive performance of this model is tested against competing methods. Our conditional variance includes leverage effects, jumps and fat tail-skewness distribution, each of which affects magnitude of memory in a stock price system. A true forecast function is built and new insights into stock price forecasting are presented. We estimate several models using the Skewed Student-t maximum likelihood and find that the informational shocks have permanent effects on returns and the SEMIFARMA-AEGAS is appropriate for capturing volatility clustering for both negative (long Value-at-Risk) and positive returns (short Value-at-Risk). We show that this model has better predictive performance over competing models for both long and/or some short time horizons. The predictions from SEMIRFARMA-AEGAS model beats comfortably the random walk model. Our results have implications for market-efficiency: the weak efficiency assumption of financial markets stands violated for all stock price returns studied over a long period.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
G17|Cross-Border Financial Effects of Global Warming In a Two-Area Ecological SFC Model|We develop an ecological open-economy SFC model that enables testing cross-area interactions among productive sectors, financial markets and the ecosystem. We show that the unequal technical progress across areas, coupled with rising ecological awareness, can force governments of less ecologically efficient areas to move further away from low-carbon assets. We argue that ‘green’ monetary and fiscal policies can be used to tackle climate change and financial instability. However, their effectiveness depends crucially on the impact of cross-border financial flows and growth rate differentials on exchange rates. Without a cross-area policy coordination plan, currency fluctuations can bring about unintended consequences, undermining green policies’ effects.
G17|Robustness of Support Vector Machines in Algorithmic Trading on Cryptocurrency Market|This study investigates the profitability of a algorithmic trading strategy based on training SVM model to identify cryptocurrencies with high or low predicted returns. A tail set is defined to be a group of coins whose volatility-adjusted returns are in the highest or lowest quantile. Each cryptocurrency is represented by a set of six technical features. SVM is trained on historical tail sets and tested on the current data. The classifier is chosen to be a nonlinear support vector machine. Portfolio is formed by ranking coins using SVM output. The highest ranked coins are used for long positions to be included in the portfolio for one reallocation period. The following metrics were used to estimate the portfolio profitability: %ARC (the annualized rate of change), %ASD (the annualized standard deviation of daily returns), MDD (the maximum drawdown coefficient), IR1, IR2 (the information ratio coefficients). The performance of the SVM portfolio is compared to the performance of the four benchmark strategies based on the values of the information ratio coefficient IR1 which quantifies the risk-weighted gain. The question on how sensitive the portfolio performance is to the parameters set in the SVM model is also addressed in this study.
G17|Does the inclusion of exposure to volatility into diversified portfolio improve the investment results? Portfolio construction from the perspective of a Polish investor|The main goal of this research is to analyse the investment benefits from an incorporation of the volatility exposure to the diversified portfolio from the perspective of a Polish investor. Volatility, treated as a new asset class, may improve the performance of the portfolio due to its negative correlation with most types of assets. This topic has been widely investigated for the United States and Europe whereas Polish market appears to be not heavily researched and this study may fill this gap. The research covers the period from October 2010 to July 2018 and is performed on the daily close prices. To construct the portfolios, the analysis uses the mean-variance framework and the naïve diversification approach. The comparison of risk-adjusted returns between investments with and without volatility exposure enables to answer the research question about an improvement of the results by the addition of a non-standard asset to the diversified portfolios. The VXX is considered as the proxy for volatility as it is the most popular ETN which follows the volatility index derivatives with the given maturity. To test the robustness of the results, the portfolios are constructed with a broad range of different parameters and assumptions imposed on the optimization procedure.
G17|Hybrid Investment Strategy Based on Momentum and Macroeconomic Approach|The purpose of this research is to test the potential returns and robustness of an automated investment strategy. The strategy is based on momentum and macroeconomic approach, that consists of the technical core – momentum, and the additional macro screening, which is used to determine whether investment signals generate relevant investment opportunities or just technical noise. In order to check whether the macroeconomic factor is the value added to the momentum strategy, the hybrid approach is tested and compared with the simple momentum and the macroeconomic strategy alone and then assessed on a risk-adjusted return basis. The main aim of this paper is to answer the question, whether an investor can gain surplus risk-adjusted returns from merging short-term momentum strategy with the long-term macroeconomic approach. Strategies are based on the data for the selected companies from the S&P500 index in the period ranging from 02/01/1990 to 31/12/2018.
G17|Heterogeneous panel data models with cross-sectional dependence|This paper considers a semiparametric panel data model with heterogeneous coefficients and individual-specific trending functions, where the random errors are assumed to be serially correlated and cross-sectionally dependent. We propose mean group estimators for the coefficients and trending functions involved in the model. It can be shown that the proposed estimators can achieve an asymptotic consistency with rates of root-NT and root-NTh, respectively as (N, T) -> (∞, ∞), where N is allowed to increase faster than T. Furthermore, a statistic for testing homogeneous coefficients is constructed based on the difference between the mean group estimator and a pooled estimator. Its asymptotic distributions are established under both the null and a sequence of local alternatives, even if the difference between these estimators vanishes considerably fast (can achieve root-NT2 rate at most under the null) and consistent estimator available for the covariance matrix is not required explicitly. The finite sample performance of the proposed estimators together with the size and local power properties of the test are demonstrated by simulated data examples, and an empirical application with the OECD health care expenditure dataset is also provided.
G17|Stress testing the German mortgage market|This paper presents a framework for estimating losses in the residential real estate mortgage portfolios of German banks. We develop an EL model where LGD estimates are based on current collateral values and PD dynamics are estimated using a structural PVAR approach. We confirm empirically that foreclosure rates are rising with the unemployment rate and are inversely related to house price inflation. Being consistent with our expectation that strategic defaults do not play a central role given the full personal liability of German households, the results give broad support for the double-trigger hypothesis of mortgage defaults. In order to analyse the possible credit losses stemming from residential mortgage lending we then use the model to run a top-down stress test and simulate losses on the individual bank level for the years from 2018 to 2020 for the whole German banking sector. Our results show that loss rates in the residential mortgage portfolios of German banks do increase significantly in an adverse economic environment. The estimated expected losses are widely distributed in the banking system leading, on average, to a 0.4 percentage points reduction in the CET1 ratio over the simulation period.
G17|Metcalfe's law and herding behaviour in the cryptocurrencies market|In this paper, the authors investigate the statistical properties of some cryptocurrencies by using three layers of analysis: alpha-stable distributions, Metcalfe's law and the bubble behaviour through the LPPL modelling. The results show, in the medium to long-run, the validity of Metcalfe's law (the value of a network is proportional to the square of the number of connected users of the system) for the evaluation of cryptocurrencies; however, in the short-run, the validity of Metcalfe's law for Bitcoin is questionable. As the results showed a potential for herding behaviour, the authors then used LPPL models to capture the behaviour of cryptocurrencies exchange rates during an endogenous bubble and to predict the most probable time of the regime switching. The main conclusion is that Metcalfe's law may be valid in the long-run, however in the short-run, on various data regimes, its validity is highly debatable.
G17|IW Financial Expert Survey: Second Quarter 2019|Pessimism determines the experts' predictions for the second and third quarter of 2019 which can be inferred from the downward revisions of the experts' forecasts. All in all, more downward revisions than upward revisions can be found in the forecasts indicating that the experts have interpreted the incoming information between end of December 2018 and end of March 2019 as bad news. Part or the forecast revision for the interest rates is due to their subdued inflation and growth outlook. All experts have revised their growth outlooks for Germany and the Euro Area downwards. So were Inflation forecasts for Germany revised downwards by 12 experts and inflation outlooks for the Euro Area were revised downwards by 8 experts. The other part of the interest rate forecast revisions were due to revisions about the future part of monetary policy interest rates, which also reflect a subdued inflation and growth outlook. While no experts expect the ECB to change its monetary policy, 12 experts have revised their forecasts for the federal funds rate downwards.
G17|IW Financial Expert Survey: First Quarter 2019|Pessimism determines the experts' predictions for the first and second quarter of 2019 which can be inferred from the downward revisions of the experts' forecasts. Although the experts still expect the yield curve to become steeper, they expect long-term interest rates to increase less compared to the last survey. The lower interest rate forecasts are consistent with the experts' lower inflation and growth expectations. The experts expect 1.7 percent inflation in the Eurozone and a growth rate of real gross domestic product of 1.6 percent for 2019, which indicates a slowdown of economic growth and a failure of the European Central Bank (ECB) in meeting its inflation target. Given that, the experts expect the long-term interest rate to be 0.51 percent at the end of the first quarter of 2019, which is 0.24 percentage points lower than their prediction in the last survey. For the short rate the experts expect no change, since they expect the ECB's main refinancing rate to stay at 0.0 percent in the first half of 2019. But the experts expect the yield of US Treasury bonds to increase from 2.86 percent to 3.31 percent by the end of the first half of 2019 and thereby a growing interest rate differential between the US and Europe. Given the less accommodative monetary policy by the ECB in 2019 the experts forecast of a mild appreciation of the Euro from 1.138 US-Dollar to 1.143 US-Dollar in the first quarter and to 1.162 US-Dollar in the second quarter of 2019. Although the experts revised their stock market forecasts downwards, they expect the DAX and the Stoxx index to recover in the first half of 2019. On average, the experts predict the Stoxx index to increase from 2.807 points at the end of the fourth quarter of 2018 to 2.951 points at the end of the first quarter of 2019 and to 3.072 points at the end of the second quarter of 2019. This would correspond to increases of 5.1 percent and 9.4 percent since December 2018. Moreover, the experts expect the DAX to increase from 10.788 to 11.396 in the first quarter of 2019 and to 11.919 in the second quarter of 2019, which corresponds to increases by 5.6 and 10.5 percent since end of December 2018. Interesting is that the experts expect the Stoxx and the DAX to grow faster than the S&P 500, which we surveyed for the first time. For the S&P 500 the experts only expect increases by 0.7 and 5.3 percent. In the long-term ranking, which covers the last 16 quarters, National-Bank could defend rank one, while Commerzbank and Nord/LB could defend rank two and rank three.
G17|Forecasting the Realized Variance in the Presence of Intraday Periodicity|This paper examines the impact of intraday periodicity on forecasting realized volatility using a heterogeneous autoregressive model (HAR) framework. We show that periodicity inflates the variance of the realized volatility and biases jump estimators. This combined effect adversely affects forecasting. To account for this, we propose a periodicity-adjusted model, HARP, where predictors are built from the periodicity-filtered data. We demonstrate empirically (using 30 stocks from various business sectors and the SPY for the period 2000--2016) and via Monte Carlo simulations that the HARP models produce significantly better forecasts, especially at the 1-day and 5-days ahead horizons.
G17|Effectiveness of policy and regulation in European sovereign credit risk markets: a network analysis|We study the impact of changes in regulations and policy interventions on systemic risk among European sovereigns measured as volatility spillovers in respective credit risk markets. Our unique intraday CDS dataset allows for precise measurement of the effectiveness of these events in a network setting. In particular, it allows discerning interventions which entail significant changes in network cross-effects with appropriate bootstrap confidence intervals. We show that it was mainly regulatory changes with the ban of trading naked sovereign CDS in 2012 as well as the new ISDA regulations in 2014 which were most effective in reducing systemic risk. In comparison, we find that the effect of policy interventions was minor and generally not sustainable. In particular, they only had a significant impact when implemented for the first time and when targeting more than one country. For the volatility spillover channels, we generally find balanced networks with no fragmentation over time. JEL Classification: G20, G01, G17, C32, C55, G28
G17|Variable Annuities: Underlying Risks and Sensitivities|This paper presents a quantitative model designed to understand the sensitivity of variable annuity (VA) contracts to market and actuarial assumptions and how these sensitivities make them a potentially important source of risk to insurance companies during times of stress. VA contracts often include long dated guarantees of market performance that expose the insurer to multiple nondiversifiable risks. Our modeling framework employs a Monte Carlo simulation of asset returns and policyholder behavior to derive fair prices for variable annuities in a risk neutral framework and to estimate sensitivities of reserve requirements under a real‐world probability measure. Simulated economic scenarios are applied to four hypothetical insurance company VA portfolios to assess the sensitivity of portfolio pricing and reserve levels to portfolio characteristics, modelling choices, and underlying economic assumptions. Additionally, a deterministic stress scenario, modeled on Japan beginning in the mid‐90s, is used to estimate the potential impact of a severe, but plausible, economic environment on the four hypothetical portfolios. The main findings of this exercise are: (1) interactions between market risk modeling assumptions and policyholder behavior modeling assumptions can significantly impact the estimated costs of providing guarantees, (2) estimated VA prices and reserve requirements are sensitive to market price discontinuities and multiple shocks to asset prices, (3) VA prices are very sensitive to assumptions related to interest rates, asset returns, and policyholder behavior, and (4) a drawn‐out period of low interest rates and asset underperformance, even if not accompanied by dramatic equity losses, is likely to result in significant losses in VA portfolios.
G17|Assessing Abenomics: Evidence from Inflation-Indexed Japanese Government Bonds|We assess the impact of news concerning the reforms associated with “Abenomics” using an arbitrage-free term structure model of nominal and real yields. Our model explicitly accounts for the deflation protection enhancement embedded in Japanese inflation-indexed bonds issued since 2013, which pay their original nominal principal when deflation has occurred from issue to maturity. The value of this enhancement is sizable and time-varying, with substantive impacts on estimates of expected inflation compensation. After properly accounting for deflation protection, our results suggest that Japanese inflation risk premia were mostly negative during this period. Moreover, long-term inflation expectations remained positive throughout, despite extensive spells of realized deflation. Finally, initial market responses to policy changes associated with Abenomics and afterwards were not as inflationary as they appear under standard modeling procedures, implying that the program was less “disappointing” than many perceive.
G17|Realized variance modeling: decoupling forecasting from estimation|In this paper we evaluate the in-sample fit and out-of-sample forecasts of various combinations of realized variance models and estimation criteria . Our empirical findings highlight that: independently of the econometricianâ€™s forecasting loss function, certain estimation criteria perform significantly better than others; the simple ARMA modeling of the log realized variance generates superior forecasts than the HAR family, for any of the forecasting loss functions considered; the (2,1) parameterizations with negative lag-2 coefficient emerge as the benchmark specifications generating the best forecasts and approximating long-run dependence as well as the HAR family.
G17|Machine Learning for Forecasting Excess Stock Returns – The Five-Year-View| In this paper, we apply machine learning to forecast stock returns in excess of different benchmarks, including the short-term interest rate, long-term interest rate, earnings-by-price ratio, and the inflation. In particular, we adopt and implement a fully nonparametric smoother with the covariates and the smoothing parameter chosen by cross-validation. We find that for both one-year and five-year returns, the term spread is, overall, the most powerful predictive variable for excess stock returns. Differently combined covariates can then achieve higher predictability for different forecast horizons. Nevertheless, the set of earnings-by-price and term spread predictors under the inflation benchmark strikes the right balance between the one-year and five-year horizon.
G17|Conditional variance forecasts for long-term stock returns| In this paper, we apply machine learning to forecast the conditional variance of long-term stock returns measured in excess of different benchmarks, including the short-term interest rate, long-term interest rate, earnings-by-price ratio, and inflation. In particular, we apply and implement in a two-step procedure a fully nonparametric smoother with the covariates and the smoothing parameters chosen via cross-validation. We find that volatility forecastability is much less important at longer horizons regardless of the chosen model and that the homoscedastic historical average of the squared return prediction errors gives an adequate approximation of the unobserved realized conditional variance for both the one-year and five-year horizon.
G17|The Relation between the Corporate Bond-Yield Spread and the Real Economy: Stable or TimeVarying?|In this paper we assess whether the relation between the corporate bond-yield spread and the real economy has been stable over time. Using quarterly US data from 1953Q1 to 2018Q2, we estimate Bayesian VAR models which allow for drifting parameters and/or stochastic volatility and conduct formal model selection in a Bayesian setting. Our results indicate that the relation between the variables has been stable; we do, however, find strong support for stochastic volatility. We conclude that the corporate bond-yield spread’s usefulness for predicting real economic activity has not changed to a relevant extent after the Great Reces-sion.
G17|Do Portfolio Investors Need To Consider The Asymmetry Of Returns On The Russian Stock Market?|This paper uses the parsimonious method of embedding skewness in asset allocation based on the Taylor expansion of the investor utility function up to the third term and maximizing it by portfolio weights. This approach also enables us to consider investor risk aversion. Time-dependent multivariate asset moments are obtained via the GOGARCH volatility model with a normal-inverse Gaussian distribution for the error term. We explore the performance of the usual 2 moment utility and its 3 moment counterpart for a portfolio consisted of twenty assets traded on the Russian stock market. The results demonstrate that the 3 moment utility significantly outperforms the 2 moment utility by SD, MAD and CVaR for low levels of absolute risk aversion and by portfolio returns and investor utility level during the whole forecast period.
G17|Asset Pricing vs Asset Expected Returning in Factor Models|This paper proposes a new approach to factor modeling based on the long-run equilibrium relation between prices and related drivers of risk (integrated factors). We show that such relationship reveals an omitted variable in standard factor models for returns that we label as Equilibrium Correction Term (ECT). Omission of this term implies misspecification of every factor model for which the equilibrium (cointegrating) relation holds. The existence of this term implies short-run mispricing that disappears in the long-run. Such evidence of persistent but stationary idiosyncratic risk in prices is consistent with deviations from rational expectations. Its inclusion in a traditional factor model improves remarkably the performance of the model along several dimensions. Furthermore, the ECT -being predictive- has strong implications for risk measurement and portfolio allocation. A zero-cost investment strategy that consistently exploits temporary idiosyncratic mispricing earns an average annual excess return of 6.21%, mostly unspanned by existing factors. Keywords: Asset Pricing, Asset Returns, Equilibrium Correction Term, Dynamic Factor Structure JEL Codes: G11, G17
G17|CoMap: mapping contagion in the euro area banking sector|This paper presents a novel approach to investigate and model the network of euro area banks’ large exposures within the global banking system. Drawing on a unique dataset, the paper documents the degree of interconnectedness and systemic risk of the euro area banking system based on bilateral linkages. We then develop a Contagion Mapping (CoMap) methodology to study contagion potential of an exogenous default shock via counterparty credit and funding risks. We construct contagion and vulnerability indices measuring respectively the systemic importance of banks and their degree of fragility. Decomposing the results into the respective contributions of credit and funding shocks provides insights to the nature of contagion which can be used to calibrate bank-specific capital and liquidity requirements and large exposures limits. We find that tipping points shifting the euro area banking system from a less vulnerable state to a highly vulnerable state are a non-linear function of the combination of network structures and bank-specific characteristics. JEL Classification: D85, G17, G33, L14
G17|Market Timing with Option-Implied Distributions in an Exponentially Tempered Stable Lévy Market|This paper explores the empirical implementation of a dynamic asset allocation strategy using option-implied distributions when the underlying risky asset price is modeled by an exponential Lévy process. One month risk-neutral densities are extracted from option prices and are subsequently transformed to the risk-adjusted, or real-world densities. Optimal portfolios consisting of a risky and risk-free asset rebalanced on a monthly basis are then constructed and their performance analyzed. It is found that the portfolios formed using option-implied expectations under the Lévy market assumption, which are flexible enough to capture the higher moments of the implied distribution, are far more robust to left-tail market risks and offer statistically significant improvements to risk-adjusted performance when investor risk aversion is low, however this diminishes as risk aversion increases.
G17|Investors’ Perspective on Portfolio InsuranceExpected Utility vs Prospect Theories|This study supports the use of behavioural finance to explain the popularity of portfolio insurance. Portfolio insurance strategies are important financial solutions sold to institutional and individual investors, that protect against downside risk while maintaining some upside valuation potential. The way some of these strategies are engineered has been criticised, and portfolio insurance itself blamed for increasing market volatility in depressed markets. Despite this, investors keep on buying portfolio insurance that has a solid market share. This study contributes to understand the phenomenon. We compare investors' decision using two distinct frameworks: expected utility theory and behavioural theories. Based upon Monte Carlo simulation techniques we compare portfolio insurance strategies against uninsured basic benchmark strategies. We conclude that cumulative prospect theory may be a viable framework to explain the popularity of portfolio insurance. However, among portfolio insurance strategies, naive strategies seem to be preferable to most commonly traded strategies.
G17|Investor Sentiment as a Predictor of Market Returns|Investor sentiment's effect on asset prices has been studied extensively to date, without delivering consistent results across samples and datasets. We investigate the asset-pricing impacts of eight widely cited investor-sentiment indicators (one direct, six indirect, one composite), within a unified long-horizon regression framework, predicting real NYSE-index returns over horizon lengths of 1, 3, 12, 24, 36, and 48 months. Results reveal that three of the non-composite indicators have consistent predictive power: the Michigan Index of Consumer Sentiment (MICS), IPO volume (NIPO), and the dividend premium (PDND). This finding has implications for the widely cited Baker-Wurgler first principal component (SFPC) composite indicator, which extracts information from the full set of six indirect indicators. As the diffusion-index literature shows, this type of wide-net approach is likely to impound idiosyncratic noise into the composite summary indicator, exacerbating forecasting errors. Therefore we create a new `targeted' composite indicator from the first principal component of the three indicators that perform well in long-horizon regressions, i.e. MICS, NIPO, and PDND. The resulting targeted composite indicator outperforms SFPC in a market-returns prediction horse race. Whereas SFPC primarily predicts Equally Weighted Returns (EWR) rather than Value Weighted Returns (VWR), our new sentiment indicator performs better than SFPC in predicting both VWR and EWR. This improved performance is due in part to a reduction in overfitting, and in part to incorporation of the direct sentiment indicator MICS.
G17|Nonparametric Predictive Regressions for Stock Return Prediction|We propose two new nonparametric predictive models: the multi-step nonparametric predictive regression model and the multi-step additive predictive regression model, in which the predictive variables are locally stationary time series. We define estimation methods and establish the large sample properties of these methods in the short horizon and the long horizon case. We apply our methods to stock return prediction using a number of standard predictors such as dividend yield. The empirical results show that all of these models can substantially outperform the traditional linear predictive regression model in terms of both in-sample and out-of-sample performance. In addition, we find that these models can always beat the historical mean model in terms of in-sample fitting, and also for some cases in terms of the out-of-sample forecasting. We also propose a trading strategy based on our methodology and show that it beats the buy and hold stategy provided the tuning parameters are well chosen.
G17|Market Expectations About Climate Change|An emerging literature examines how agents update their beliefs about climate change. Most studies have relied on indirect belief measures or opinion polls. We analyze a direct measure: prices of financial products whose payouts are tied to future weather outcomes. We compare these market expectations to climate model output for the years 2002 to 2018 as well as observed weather station data across eight cities in the US. All datasets show statistically significant and comparable warming trends. Nonparametric estimates suggest that trends in weather markets follow climate model predictions and are not based on shorter-term variation in observed weather station data. When money is at stake, agents are accurately anticipating warming trends in line with the scientific consensus of climate models.
G17|Demand for Crash Insurance, Intermediary Constraints, and Risk Premia in Financial Markets|We propose a new measure of financial intermediary constraints based on how the intermediaries manage their tail risk exposures. Using data for the trading activities in the market of deep out-of-the-money S&P 500 put options, we identify periods when the variations in the net amount of trading between financial intermediaries and public investors are likely to be mainly driven by shocks to intermediary constraints. We then infer tightness of intermediary constraints from the quantities of option trading during such periods. A tightening of intermediary constraint according to our measure is associated with increasing option expensiveness, higher risk premia for a wide range of financial assets, deterioration in funding liquidity, and broker-dealer deleveraging.
G17|How the Wealth Was Won: Factors Shares as Market Fundamentals|We provide novel evidence on the driving forces behind the sharp increase in equity values over the post-war era. From the beginning of 1989 to the end of 2017, 23 trillion dollars of real equity wealth was created by the nonfinancial corporate sector. We estimate that 54% of this increase was attributable to a reallocation of rents to shareholders in a decelerating economy. Economic growth accounts for just 24%, followed by lower interest rates (11%) and a lower risk premium (11%). From 1952 to 1988 less than half as much wealth was created, but economic growth accounted for 92% of it.
G17|Predicting Returns With Text Data|We introduce a new text-mining methodology that extracts sentiment information from news articles to predict asset returns. Unlike more common sentiment scores used for stock return prediction (e.g., those sold by commercial vendors or built with dictionary-based methods), our supervised learning framework constructs a sentiment score that is specifically adapted to the problem of return prediction. Our method proceeds in three steps: 1) isolating a list of sentiment terms via predictive screening, 2) assigning sentiment weights to these words via topic modeling, and 3) aggregating terms into an article-level sentiment score via penalized likelihood. We derive theoretical guarantees on the accuracy of estimates from our model with minimal assumptions. In our empirical analysis, we text-mine one of the most actively monitored streams of news articles in the financial system—the Dow Jones Newswires—and show that our supervised sentiment model excels at extracting return-predictive signals in this context.
G17|Measuring Dynamic Connectedness with Large Bayesian VAR Models|We estimate a large Bayesian time-varying parameter vector autoregressive (TVP-VAR) model of daily stock return volatilities for 35 U.S. and European financial institutions. Based on that model we extract a connectedness index in the spirit of Diebold and Yilmaz (2014) (DYCI). We show that the connectedness index from the TVP-VAR model captures abrupt turning points better than the one obtained from rolling-windows VAR estimates. As the TVP-VAR based DYCI shows more pronounced jumps during important crisis moments, it captures the intensification of tensions in financial markets more accurately and timely than the rolling-windows based DYCI. Finally, we show that the TVP-VAR based index performs better in forecasting systemic events in the American and European financial sectors as well.
G17|On the robustness of the principal volatility components|In this paper, we analyse the recent principal volatility components analysis procedure. The procedure overcomes several difficulties in modelling and forecasting the conditional covariance matrix in large dimensions arising from the curse of dimensionality. We show that outliers have a devastating effect on the construction of the principal volatility components and on the forecast of the conditional covariance matrix and consequently in economic and financial applications based on this forecast. We propose a robust procedure and analyse its finite sample properties by means of Monte Carlo experiments and also illustrate it using empirical data. The robust procedure outperforms the classical method in simulated and empirical data.
G17|Bayesian inference and prediction of a multiple-change-point panel model with nonparametric priors|Change point models using hierarchical priors have been very successful estimating the parameter values of short-lived regimes. However, hierarchical priors have been parametric which leads to shrinkage in the estimates of extraordinary regime parameters. We overcome this by modeling the hierarchical priors nonparametrically. We also extend the change point to a panel of change point processes where the prior shares in the probabilities of changing regimes. When applied to the returns from a panel of actively managed, US equity, mutual funds our multiple-change-point panel model finds mutual fund skill is not persistent but changes over time.
G17|"Nothing is Certain Except Death and Taxes : The Lack of Policy Uncertainty from Expiring ""Temporary"" Taxes"|What is the policy uncertainty surrounding expiring taxes? How uncertain are the approvals of routine extensions of temporary tax policies? To answer these questions, I use event studies to measure cumulative abnormal returns (CARs) for firms that claimed the U.S. research and development (R&D) tax credit from 1996-2015. In 1996, the U.S. R&D tax credit was statutorily temporary but was routinely extended ten times until 2015, when it was made permanent. I take the event dates as both when these ten extensions of the R&D tax credit were introduced into committee and when the extensions were signed by the U.S. president into law. On average, I find no statistically significant CARs on these dates, which suggests that the market anticipated these extensions to become law. My results support the fact that a routine extension of a temporary tax policy is not a generator of policy uncertainty and, therefore, that a routine extension of temporary tax policy is not a fiscal shock.
G17|Changing risk-return profiles|We show that realized volatility, especially the realized volatility of financial sector stock returns, has strong predictive content for the future distribution of market returns. This is a robust feature of the last century of U.S. data and, most importantly, can be exploited in real time. Current realized volatility has the most information content on the uncertainty of future returns, whereas it has only limited content about the location of the future return distribution. When volatility is low, the predicted distribution of returns is less dispersed and probabilistic forecasts are sharper. Given this finding on the importance of financial sector volatility not just to financial equity return uncertainty but to the broader market, we test for changes in the realized volatility of banks over a $50 billion threshold associated with more stringent Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) requirements. We find that the equity volatility of these large banks is differentially lower by 9 percentage points after Dodd-Frank compared to pre-crisis levels, controlling for changes over the same period for all banks and all large firms.
G17|Flighty liquidity|We study how the risks to future liquidity flow across corporate bond, Treasury, and stock markets. We document distribution “flight-to-safety” effects: a deterioration in the liquidity of high-yield corporate bonds forecasts an increase in the average liquidity of Treasury securities and a decrease in uncertainty about the liquidity of investment-grade corporate bonds. While the liquidity of Treasury securities both affects and is affected by the liquidity in the other two markets, corporate bond and equity market liquidity appear to be largely divorced from each other. Finally, we show that measures of market-wide volatility and market-maker constraints do not contain information useful for predicting the distribution of future liquidity over and above that contained in the recent history of bid-ask spreads.
G17|Predictability of stock returns and dividend growth using dividend yields: An international approach|This paper examines stock returns and dividend growth predictability using dividend yields in seven large developed markets: US, UK, Japan, France, Germany, Italy and Spain. Altogether, these countries account for around 85% of the MSCI World Index. We use annual data, and for the US, UK, Japan, and France the time series are long enough to conduct a separate analysis of the pre- and post-IIWW periods. We also study the relationship between the predictability in dividend growth and the degree of dividend smoothness. For the post-IIWW period, returns are predictable in the US and the UK but dividends are unpredictable, while the opposite pattern is observed in Spain and Italy. In Germany, there is some evidence of short-term predictability for both returns and dividends, while in France only returns are predictable. In Japan, neither variable can be forecasted. Generally, there is no clear connection between dividend smoothness and predictability.
G17|Testing for leverage effects in the returns of US equities|This article questions the empirical usefulness of leverage effects to forecast the dynamics of equity returns. In sample, we consistently find a significant but limited contribution of leverage effects over the past 25 years of S&P 500 returns. From an out-of-sample forecasting perspective and using a variety of different models, we find no statistical or economical value in using leverage effects, provided that an asymmetric and fat-tailed conditional distribution is used. This conclusion holds both at the index level and for 70% of the individual stocks constituents of the equity index.
G17|A systemic risk analysis of Islamic equity markets using vine copula and delta CoVaR modeling|We model the downside and upside spillover effects, systemic and tail dependence risks of the DJ World Islamic (DJWI) and DJ World Islamic Financial (DJWIF) indices, and of Islamic equity indices from Japan, USA and the UK. We draw our empirical results and conclusions by implementing a robust modeling framework consisting of Value-at-Risk (VaR), conditional VaR (CoVaR), Delta conditional VaR (ΔCoVaR), canonical vine conditional VaR (c-vine CoVaR), and time-varying and static bivariate and vine copula models. Full sample estimations indicate larger downside spillover effects and systemic risk for the DJ Islamic Financials World and USA Islamic indices, while Islamic indices from Japan and the DJ World financials have greater exposure to upside spillover risk effects. During the financial crisis the USA and UK Islamic indices display higher downside systemic risk; and the strongest negative tail asymmetric dependence occurs between the DJ Islamic Financials World, and the Islamic indices from Japan and the DJ World financials. Implications of the results are discussed.
G17|Forecasting sovereign CDS volatility: A comparison of univariate GARCH-class models|Initially overlooked by investors, the sovereign credit risk has been reassessed upwards since the 2000's which has contributed to awaken the interest of speculators in sovereign CDS. The growing need of accurate forecasting models has led us to fill the gap in the literature by studying the predictability of sovereign CDS volatility, using both linear and non-linear GARCH-class models. This paper uses data from 38 worldwide countries, ranging from January 2006 to March 2017. Results show that the CDS markets are subject to periods of volatility clustering, nonlinearity, asym-metric leverage effects and long-memory behavior. Using 7 heteroskedastic and no heteroskedastic-robust statistic criteria, results show that the fractionally-integrated models outperform the basic GARCH-class models in terms of forecasting ability and that allowing flexibility regarding the persistence degree of variance shocks significantly improves the model's suitability to data. Despite the divergence in the economic status and geographical positions of the countries composing our sample, the FIGARCH and FIEGARCH models are mainly found to be the most accurate models in predicting credit market volatility. JEL Classification: G15, G17, C58.
G17|Directional Predictability of Daily Stock Returns|The level of daily stock returns is generally regarded as unpredictable. Instead of the level, we focus on the signs of these returns and generate forecasts using various statistical classification techniques, such as logistic regression, generalized additive models, or neural networks. The analysis is carried out using a data set consisting of all stocks that were part of the Dow Jones Industrial Average in 1996. After selecting the relevant explanatory variables in the subsample from 1996 to 2003, forecast evaluations are conducted in an out-of-sample environment for the period from 2004 to 2017. Since the model selection and the forecasting period are strictly separated, the procedure mimics the situation a forecaster would face in real time. It is found that the sign of daily returns is predictable to an extent that is statistically significant. Moreover, trading strategies based on these forecasts generate positive alpha, even after accounting for transaction costs. This underlines the economic significance of the predictability and implies that there are periods during which markets are not fully efficient.
G17|Estimating the Volatility of Asset Pricing Factors|Models based on factors such as size, value, or momentum are ubiquitous in asset pricing. Therefore, portfolio allocation and risk management require estimates of the volatility of these factors. While realized volatility has become a standard tool for liquid individual assets, this measure is not available for factor models, due to their construction from the CRSP data base that does not provide high frequency data and contains a large number of less liquid stocks. Here, we provide a statistical approach to estimate the volatility of these factors. The efficacy of this approach relative to the use of models based on squared returns is demonstrated for forecasts of the market volatility and a portfolio allocation strategy that is based on volatility timing.
G17|The Bias of Realized Volatility|Realized volatility underestimates the variance of daily stock index returns by an average of 14 percent. This is documented for a wide range of international stock indices, using the fact that the average of realized volatility and that of squared returns should be the same over longer time horizons. It is shown that the magnitude of this bias cannot be explained by market microstructure noise. Instead, it can be attributed to correlation between the continuous components of intraday returns and correlation between jumps and previous/subsequent continuous price movements.
G17|Analysts' Disagreement and Investor Decisions|"Earning forecasts disclosed by financial analysts are known to be overly optimistic. Since an investor relies on their expertise, the question arises whether he would take analyst recommendations at face value or instead structure consultation with differently upward-biased analysts in a way that would permit him to make more accurate investment decisions. We characterize disagreement in a strategic disclosure game where two analysts disclose to an investor who has commitment power. This setup delivers an explanation of why “de-biasing"" occurs naturally when disagreement carries through the disclosure process itself. Our results suggest that consulting more than one analyst permits the investor to make more accurate decisions, even if both analysts overstate their recommendations. We generalize our findings to the case of noisy observation."
G17|Volatility Spillovers With Spatial Effects On The Oil And Gas Market|The article is devoted to the estimation of volatility spillovers occurred on the oil and gas market taking into account cross-sectional dependence. The latter is implemented via spatial specifications of the BEKK multivariate volatility model. We also use DCC, GO-GARCH and ADCC models as a benchmark.
G17|Sectoral Labor Reallocation and Return Predictability|Sectoral labor reallocation shocks change the optimal allocation of workers across industries. We find that a proxy for this type of labor market shocks has very strong and robust predictive power for future stock market returns. In predictive regressions, the one-year out-of-sample R2 is as high as 14.88%. We propose a production-based asset pricing model that links the return predictability to time-varying labor adjustment costs. When human capital is tied to the industry, hiring workers from other industries involves more search and training costs. Hence, sectoral reallocation shocks lead to lower returns to hiring and therefore lower future stock returns.
G17|Multi-step non- and semi-parametric predictive regressions for short and long horizon stock return prediction|In this paper, we propose three new predictive models: the multi-step nonparametric predictive regression model and the multi-step additive predictive regression model, in which the predictive variables are locally stationary time series; and the multi-step time-varying coefficient predictive regression model, in which the predictive variables are stochastically nonstationary. We also establish the estimation theory and asymptotic properties for these models in the short horizon and long horizon case. To evaluate the effectiveness of these models, we investigate their capability of stock return prediction. The empirical results show that all of these models can substantially outperform the traditional linear predictive regression model in terms of both in-sample and out-of-sample performance. In addition, we find that these models can always beat the historical mean model in terms of in-sample fitting, and also for some cases in terms of the out-of-sample forecasting.
G17|A static approach to the Nelson-Siegel-Svensson model: an application for several negative yield cases|The appearance of negative bond yields presents significant challenges for the fixed income markets, which mainly concern related forecasting models. The Nelson-Siegel-Svensson model (NSS) is one of the models that is most frequently used by central banks to estimate the term structure of interest rates. The objective of this study is to evaluate the application of the NSS model to fit the yield curve of a set of 20 countries, the majority from the Eurozone, which registered negative sovereign bond yields. We conclude that the model adjusted well for all countries’ yield curves, although no changes or constraints were introduced. In addition, a comparison was carried out between market instantaneous interest rate and the interest rate for the very distant future, which the model can predict, with good results for the instantaneous interest rate. An evaluation of the possible behaviour of shared debt securities (i.e. Eurobonds) was also analysed. In conclusion, the NSS model seems to remain a valuable, easy to use, and adaptable tool, to fit negative yield curves, for monetary policy institutions and market players alike.
G17|Constraints of Spanish Insolvency Law. A predictive bankruptcy model for Spanish industrial SMEs (2007-2015)|Why almost 90% of Spanish SMEs that declare insolvency end up in liquidation? Academic works on insolvency focus either on legal terms – normative bias, impact on business’ death rate, and contrast to internal restructuring processes, to name a few – or on financial aspects – especially bankruptcy predictive models – . This work argues that a combined approach could be elucidating. For this purpose, it configures a predictive model – inspired on Atlman’s z-score – for Spanish SMEs of industrial sectors for the period 2007-2015. This investigation argues that operative difficulties can be detected well in advance to official declaration of insolvency; and provides specific evidence of Spanish Law constraints.
G17|Sparse Approximate Factor Estimation for High-Dimensional Covariance Matrices|We propose a novel estimation approach for the covariance matrix based on the l1-regularized approximate factor model. Our sparse approximate factor (SAF) covariance estimator allows for the existence of weak factors and hence relaxes the pervasiveness assumption generally adopted for the standard approximate factor model. We prove consistency of the covariance matrix estimator under the Frobenius norm as well as the consistency of the factor loadings and the factors. Our Monte Carlo simulations reveal that the SAF covariance estimator has superior properties in finite samples for low and high dimensions and different designs of the covariance matrix. Moreover, in an out-of-sample portfolio forecasting application the estimator uniformly outperforms alternative portfolio strategies based on alternative covariance estimation approaches and modeling strategies including the 1/N-strategy.
G17|Measuring Dynamic Connectedness with Large Bayesian VAR Models|We estimate a large Bayesian time-varying parameter vector autoregressive (TVP-VAR) model of daily stock return volatilities for 35 U.S. and European financial institutions. Based on that model we extract a connectedness index in the spirit of Diebold and Yilmaz(2014)(DYCI).We show that the connectedness index from the TVP-VAR model captures abrupt turning points better than the one obtained from rolling-windows VAR estimates. As the TVP-VAR based DYCI shows more pronounced jumps during important crisis moments, it captures the intensification of tensions in financial markets more accurately and timely than the rolling-windows based DYCI. Finally, we show that the TVP-VAR based index performs better in forecasting systemic events in the American and European financial sectors as well.
G17|Portfolio Management Using Prospect Theory: Comparing Genetic Algorithms and Particle Swarm Optimization|In this work, we compare the performance of two metaheuristic optimization algorithms, namely the Genetic Algorithms (GA) and the Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO), in finding an optimized investing portfolio. This comparison is based on two performance criteria: the consistency and quality of the solution and the speed of convergence of these two algorithms. These metaheuristic algorithms will be developed further to specify the weights of assets in an optimal portfolio, which is a portfolio with a maximum level of return (or a minimum level of risk) using a portfolio optimization model. We chose the prospect theory portfolio optimization as our background model. The prospect theory model is the main behavioral alternative to the expected utility theory and is still a relatively new subject in the financial literature. A mean‐variance portfolio optimization is also considered as a benchmark to our behavioral model. The performance of these two models has been evaluated in practice using several criteria such as the CPU time and the ratio between the portfolio mean returns
G17|On the financial connectedness of the commodity market: a replication of the Diebold and Yilmaz (2012) study|In this paper we replicate the Diebold and Yilmaz (2012) study on the connectedness of the Commodity market and three other financial markets: the stock market, the bond market, and the FX market. We show that both the row and the column normalization schemes of the Generalized Forecast Error Variance Decomposition, suggested by the authors, lead to inaccurate measures of net contribution to risk transmission, in terms of ranking and sign. We show that, considering data generating processes characterized by different degrees of comovement and persistence, a scalar based normalization of the Generalized Forecast Error Variance Decomposition yields consistent (free of sign and ranking errors) net spillovers.
G17|The properties of a skewness index and its relation with volatility and returns|The objectives of this study are threefold. First, we investigate the properties of a skewness index in order to determine whether it captures fear (fear of losing money), or greed in the market (fear of losing opportunities). Second, we uncover the contemporaneous linear relationship among skewness, volatility and returns. Third, we provide evidence on the information content of skewness on future returns, which is highly debated in the literature. Fourth, we investigate the Italian market, where a skewness index is not traded yet. The methodology we propose for the construction of the Italian skewness index is applicable also to other European and non-European countries characterized by a limited number of option traded. Several results are obtained. First, in the Italian market the skewness index acts as measures of market greed, as opposed to market fear, namely that it measures more investors’ excitement than investors’ fear. Second, for almost 70% of the daily observations, the implied volatility and the skewness index move together but in opposite directions. Increases (decreases) in volatility and decreases (increases) in the skewness index are associated with negative (positive) returns. Last, we find strong evidence that positive returns are reflected both in a decrease in the implied volatility index and in an increase in the skewness index the following day. Implications for investors and policy makers are drawn.
G17|The determinants of bank loan recovery rates in good times and bad -- new evidence|We find that factors explaining bank loan recovery rates vary depending on the state of the economic cycle. Our modeling approach incorporates a two-state Markov switching mechanism as a proxy for the latent credit cycle, helping to explain differences in observed recovery rates over time. Using US bank default loan data from Moody's Ultimate Recovery Database and covering the pre- and post-GFC period, this paper develops a dynamic predictive model for bank loan recovery rates, accommodating the distinctive empirical features of the recovery rate data while incorporating a large number of possible determinants. We find that the probability of default and certain loan-specific and other variables hold different explanatory power with respect to recovery rates over `good' and `bad' times in the credit cycle, meaning that the relationship between recovery rates and certain loan characteristics, firm characteristics and the probability of default differs depending on underlying credit market conditions. Our findings demonstrate the importance of accounting for countercyclical expected recovery rates when determining capital retention levels.
G17|Characteristics Are Covariances: A Unified Model of Risk and Return|"We propose a new modeling approach for the cross section of returns. Our method, Instrumented Principal Components Analysis (IPCA), allows for latent factors and time-varying loadings by introducing observable characteristics that instrument for the unobservable dynamic loadings. If the characteristics/expected return relationship is driven by compensation for exposure to latent risk factors, IPCA will identify the corresponding latent factors. If no such factors exist, IPCA infers that the characteristic effect is compensation without risk and allocates it to an ""anomaly"" intercept. Studying returns and characteristics at the stock-level, we find that four IPCA factors explain the cross section of average returns significantly more accurately than existing factor models and produce characteristic-associated anomaly intercepts that are small and statistically insignificant. Furthermore, among a large collection of characteristics explored in the literature, only eight are statistically significant in the IPCA specification and are responsible for nearly 100% of the model's accuracy."
G17|Financial security of Kazakhstan: gross domestic product, public debt, budget deficit|Ensuring the financial security of the state is an important task for the country. This task becomes a priority before the danger of the financial crisis. This is especially true when the state is in the zone of financial crisis, because this situation a priori means a loss of financial security.
G17|Forecasting Base Metal Prices with Commodity Currencies|In this paper we show that the Chilean exchange rate has the ability to predict the returns of the London Metal Exchange Index and of the six primary non-ferrous metals that are part of the index: aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc. The economic relationship hinges on the present-value theory for exchange rates, a floating exchange rate regime and the fact that copper represents about a half of Chilean exports and nearly 45% of Foreign Direct Investment. Consequently, the Chilean peso is heavily affected by fluctuations in the copper price. As all six base metal prices show an important comovement, we test whether the relationship between copper prices and Chilean exchange rates also holds true when it comes to the six primary non-ferrous metals. We find interesting evidence of predictability both in-sample and out-of-sample. Our paper is part of a growing literature that in the recent years has evaluated and called into question the ability of commodity currencies to forecast commodity prices.
G17|Un análisis comparativo entre GARCH-M, EGARCH y PJ-RS-EV para modelar la volatilidad de Índice de precios y cotizaciones de la Bolsa Mexicana de Valores<BR>[A Comparative Analysis among GARCH-M, EGARCH and PJ-RS-SV (Poisson Jumps - Regime Switching - Stochastic Volatility) Approach to Model the Mexican Stock Index]|Resumen El presente trabajo compara la capacidad de varios modelos de volatilidad dependiente del tiempo para explicar la dinámica estocástica del Índice de Precios y Cotizaciones (IPC) de la Bolsa Mexicana de Valores (BMV). En particular se analizan procesos los ARCH, M-GARCH, EGARCH y difusiones con saltos estocásticos y con cambio de régimen para la volatilidad (PJ-RS-SV por las siglas en inglés de Poisson Jumps - Regime Switching -Stochastic Volatility). En todos los casos, se realiza una parametrización econométrica que sirve como base para la simulación Monte Carlo de posibles trayectorias del IPC. Por último se muestran y se analizan las diferencias obtenidas por las distintas metodologías ante cambios en el precio inicial y la volatilidad inicial. Abstract This paper is aimed at comparing the capability of several models of time-dependent volatility to explain the stochastic dynamics of the Mexican Stock Index (IPC its acronym in Spanish) of the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV its acronym in Spanish). In particular, the processes ARCH, M-GARCH, EGARCH, and diffusion with stochastic jumps and regime switching for volatility PJ-RS-SV (Poisson Jumps - Regime Switching – Stochastic Volatility) are analyzed. In all cases, an econometric parameterization is made that serves as a basis for the Monte Carlo simulation of possible IPC paths. Finally, the differences obtained by the distinct methodologies in the face of changes in the initial price and initial volatility are shown and analyzed.
G17|Pricing Financial Derivatives Subject to Counterparty Risk and Credit Value Adjustment|This article presents a generic model for pricing financial derivatives subject to counterparty credit risk. Both unilateral and bilateral types of credit risks are considered. Our study shows that credit risk should be modeled as American style options in most cases, which require a backward induction valuation. To correct a common mistake in the literature, we emphasize that the market value of a defaultable derivative is actually a risky value rather than a risk-free value. Credit value adjustment (CVA) is also elaborated. A practical framework is developed for pricing defaultable derivatives and calculating their CVAs at a portfolio level.
G17|The Risk-Adjusted Performance of Alternative Investment Funds and UCITS: A Comparative Analysis|This study evaluates the performance of a selection of Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs), and Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities Funds (UCITS) which followed a global geographic focus strategy during the period 2010-2016. These two fund structures are governed by different regulatory frameworks, which have evolved and re-shaped over the years. Various yardsticks are employed to evaluate the risk-adjusted performance of the sampled funds, and Monte-Carlo simulations are used to gauge the possible out-of-sample returns. Most of the sampled funds underperformed the benchmark index in terms of their Sharpe and Treynor ratios. Whilst UCITS registered a better overall performance, AIFs outperformed UCITS towards the end of the sample period. This suggests that investors should not assume that one fund structure is inherently superior to the other, since the relative performance may vary over time.
G17|Die Theorie der fairen geometrischen Rendite<BR>[The Theory of Fair Geometric Returns]|"The theory of fair geometric returns, F theory for short, rejects the generally accepted notion that volatility is the risk of risky assets. Instead, it claims that capital market volatility, in turn, constitutes the maximum achievable geometric return. In order to get to the point, F theory, in addition to its own ideas, resorts to information theoretical considerations (centrally Shannon, 1948). The starting point of the analysis is a specific initial observation concerning the geometric mean return (G): Consecutive geometric returns of fairly (properly) exchange-traded assets ex post almost always turn out to be unequal. The author proposes two consequences to be drawn from this observation, which can be made daily at the financial market: (1) E[G]≠G dominates E[G]=G. Then what is E[G]? When does E[G]=G hold? (2) Since (it seems) there is volatility in G, is this volatility usable as part of a contrarian ""buy low, sell high"" strategy? If yes, how? In answer to these and other questions, the master's degree candidate presents a formulae system along with qualitative context, which essentially comprises: a formula for the expected geometric mean return; a measure of the abnormal return on an asset; movement probabilities in relation to the return process; an equivalent to Claude Shannon's famous information flow formula; the (here so-called) concept of the fugue – a novel countercyclical investment strategy borrowed from music theory; as well as an F-theory consistent option price and self-insurance model."
G17|Transition drivers and crisis signaling in stock markets|The present paper introduces an up-to-date methodology to detect Early Warning Signals of critical transitions, that manifest when distress stages in financial markets are about to take place. As a first step, we demonstrate that a high-dimensional dynamical system can be formulated in a simpler form but in an abstract phase space. Then we detect its approaching towards a critical transition by means of a set of observable variables that exhibit some particular statistical features. We name these variables the Leading Temporal Module. The impactful change in the properties of this group reflects the transition of the system from a normal to a distress state. Starting from these observations we develop an early warning indicator for determining the proximity of a financial crisis. The proposed measure is model free and the application to three different stock markets, together with the comparison with alternative systemic risk measures, highlights the usefulness in signaling upcoming distress phases. Computational results establish that the methodology we propose is effective and it may constitute a relevant decision support mechanism for macro prudential policies.
G17|La finance entre l’éthique islamique, la réalité conventionnelle et croissance économique dans la région MENA<BR>[Finance Between Islamic Ethics, Conventional Reality and Economic Growth in the MENA Region]|The aim of this work is to study, in the first place, the theoretical framework the relationship between Islamic finance, conventional finance and economic growth while supporting an interesting literature review dealing with this type of research area especially the use of the new financial and economic terms. Second, we reviewed the review of existing literature that highlights the nature of the relationship between financial development and economic growth while considering the role played by Islamic finance as a catalyst for economic growth in investments and public spending and makes human work more efficient (education). Finally, we empirically try to discover the impacts of Islamic finance and conventional finance on economic growth and therefore the relationship between classical financial development (M3 /GDP) and Islamic financial development (FI) on the economic growth. Our empirical validation is very diverse considering the nature of the estimation methods used namely the fixed effects method, the random effects method, the GMM method in first differences and the GMM method in system for our study area MENA for twenty successive years (1990-2009).
G17|Foreign aid shocks and macroeconomic adjustment mechanisms in WAEMU countries : an approach based on a computable general equilibrium model|This paper assesses consequences of foreign aid reduction on WAEMU economies and the various adjustment mechanisms that must be implemented internally to support this situation. Indeed, using a computable dynamic recursive general equilibrium model of Décaluwé et al., (2013) calibrated on each countries SAMs, results indicate that 30% decrease in foreign aid will affect government's saving, income and expenditures, and consequently public and private investment as well as the GDP growth rate. Offsetting this foreign aid drop through an adjustment of direct and indirect taxation leads to a slight decline in income, consumption and a deterioration of household welfare. Thus, overall, the results show that a drastic reduction of foreign aid in WAEMU countries will have more perverse repercussions in countries which are the most dependent on foreign aid. However, some economies such as Ivory Coast, Senegal and Burkina Faso would adjust more rapidly than those of other countries. One of the main contributions of this study is to provide economic policy makers in WAEMU countries with evidence of the possibility of budgetary arbitrage and fiscal adjustments for the financing of WAEMU countries economies facing a situation of partial or complete abolishment of foreign aid.
G17|Expectations, Price Fluctuations and Lorenz Attractor|This paper describes expectations and Buy-Sell transactions of selected Stokes between economic agents and Exchange on economic space as ground for modeling trading volume and price fluctuations. We study simple model of mutual relations between transactions and expectations and derive economic equations that describe disturbances of price, trading volume and expectations. We obtain simple harmonic oscillations for price fluctuations. We show that our model economic equations can take form of Lorenz attractor. Our approximation of transactions and expectations and economic equations on disturbances of price, trading volume and expectations allows apply dynamical systems methods for modeling chaotic behavior of economic and financial systems.
G17|Determinants of banks’ profitability and performance: an overview|The present paper aims to provide an overview of the theoretical and empirical studies and research on banks profitability and performance. Thus, we present the principles of evaluation and modeling of banking performance, we review theories and models related to banking profitability and performance and we present empirical studies of banks profitability.
G17|Technical Analysis Strategies: Development of Heiken Ashi Stochastic|The profitability of technical analysis is supported by empirical studies and anecdotal evidence from traders. A host of empirical studies have shown that technical analysis generates excess returns, eschewing the academic distrust of it (Pinches, 1970, Menkoff & Taylor, 2007, Surajaras and Sweeney 1992; Menkhoff and Schlumberger 1995; Neely 1997; LeBaron 1999; Saacke, 2002). This paper develops a new technical analysis strategy using the Heiken Ashi (HA) Candlesticks. Heiken Ashi is variant of the Japanese candlestick and tries to understand the trend generation in the market. If we change a regular candlestick chart to HA, we find a series of red or blue candles emerging which clearly demonstrates the trend. Using the trend reversal signals given by HA, I develop an indicator, the HASTOC, or HA stochastic which can be used to give buy and sell signals to the trader. The indicator is then back tested with an entry-exit strategy using the HASTOC on intraday hourly USD/INR data from May, 2018 to September, 2018 to confirm its profitability
G17|Forecasting Financial Vulnerability in the US: A Factor Model Approach|This paper presents a factor-based forecasting model for the financial market vulnerability, measured by changes in the Cleveland Financial Stress Index (CFSI). We estimate latent common factors via the method of the principal components from 170 monthly frequency macroeconomic data in order to out-of-sample forecast the CFSI. Our factor models outperform both the random walk and the autoregressive benchmark models in out-of-sample predictability at least for the short-term forecast horizons, which is a desirable feature since financial crises often come to a surprise realization. Interestingly, the first common factor, which plays a key role in predicting the financial vulnerability index, seems to be more closely related with real activity variables rather than nominal variables. We also present a binary choice version factor model that estimates the probability of the high stress regime successfully.
G17|Forecast ranked tailored equity portfolios|We use a dynamic model averaging (DMA) approach to construct forecasts of individual equity returns for a large cross-section of stocks contained in the SP500, FTSE100, DAX30, CAC40 and SPX30 headline indices, taking value, momentum, and quality factors as predictor variables. Fixing the set of ‘forgetting factors’ in the DMA prediction framework, we show that highly significant return forecasts relative to the historic average benchmark are obtained for 173 (281) individual equities at the 1% (5%) level, from a total of 895 stocks. These statistical forecast improvements also translate into considerable economic gains, producing out-of-sample R 2 values above 5% (10%) for 283 (166) of the 895 individual stocks. Equally weighted long only portfolios constructed from a ranking of the best 25% forecasts in each headline index can generate sizable returns in excess of a passive investment strategy in that index itself, even when transaction costs and risk taking are accounted for.
G17|Can we beat the Random Walk? The case of survey-based exchange rate forecasts in Chile|We examine the accuracy of survey-based expectations of the Chilean exchange rate relative to the US dollar. Our out-of-sample analysis reveals that survey-based forecasts outperform the Driftless Random Walk (DRW) in terms of Mean Squared Prediction Error at several forecasting horizons. This result holds true even when comparing the survey to a more competitive benchmark based on a refined information set. A similar result is found when precision is measured in terms of Directional Accuracy: survey-based forecasts outperform a “pure luck” benchmark at several forecasting horizons. Differing from the traditional “no predictability” result reported in the literature for many exchange rates, our findings suggest that the Chilean peso is indeed predictable.
G17|The predictive value of inequality measures for stock returns: An analysis of long-span UK data using quantile random forests|We contribute to research on the predictability of stock returns in two ways. First, we use quantile random forests to study the predictive value of various consumption-based and income-based inequality measures across the quantiles of the conditional distribution of stock returns. Second, we examine whether the inequality measures, measured at a quarterly frequency, have out-of-sample predictive value for stock returns at three different forecast horizons. Our results suggest that the inequality measures have predictive value for stock returns in sample, but do not systematically predict stock returns out of sample.
G17|Predicting International Equity Returns: Evidence from Time-Varying Parameter Vector Autoregressive Models|In this paper, we forecast monthly stock returns of eight advanced economies using a time varying parameter vector autoregressive model (TVP-VAR). Compared to standard TVP-VARs, our proposed model automatically detects whether time-variation in the parameters is needed through the introduction of a latent threshold process that is driven by the absolute size of parameter changes. The advantage of this framework is that it can dynamically detect whether a given regression coefficient is constant or time-varying during distinct time periods. We moreover compare the performance of this model with a wide range of nested alternative time-varying and constant parameter VAR models. Our results indicate that the threshold TVP-VAR outperforms its competitors in terms of point and density forecasts. A portfolio allocation exercise confirms the superiority of our proposed framework. In addition, a copula-based analysis also indicates that it pays off to adopt a multivariate modeling framework, especially during periods of stress, like the recent financial crisis.
G17|Causality between Economic Policy Uncertainty and Real Housing Returns in Emerging Economies: A Cross-Sample Validation Approach|This paper examines whether economic policy uncertainty (EPU) causes real housing returns in 8 emerging economies for which EPU data are available namely: Brazil, Chile, China, India, Ireland, Russia, South Africa and South Korea. Quarterly data were used for the analysis. The study uses cross-sample validation (CSV) Granger causality approach which obviates the need to partition the data into an in-sample and out-of-sample periods when limited data are available as in this study. Results based on the CSV full sample period indicate no evidence of economic policy uncertainty Granger causing real housing returns except for Chile and China. However, based on CSV rolling window results, there is evidence of time varying causality in all the countries except India. The implications of these findings are drawn.
G17|Forecasting Interest Rate Volatility of the United Kingdom: Evidence from over 150 Years of Data|This study examines the very short, short, medium and long-term forecasting ability of different univariate GARCH models of United Kingdom (UK)'s interest rate volatility, using a long span monthly data from May 1836 to June 2018. The main results show the relevance of considering alternative error distributions to the normal distribution when estimating GARCH-type models. Thus, we obtain that the Asymmetric Power ARCH (A-PARCH) models with skew generalized error distribution are the most accurate models when forecasting UK interest rates, while for the short, medium and longterm term forecasting horizons (h=3 and h=6, h=12), GARCH models with generalized error distribution for the error term are the most accurate models in forecasting UK's interest rates.
G17|Socialising the losses and privatising the gains The case of Cyprus five years after the bail-in of bank deposits|Private sector indebtedness in Cyprus remains extremely high. Yet the Government and the banks in Cyprus continue to define the problem as being the non-performing loans (NPLs) and the proposed solution as being any tools and legislation which will improve repayment but also enable the banks to take these off their balance sheets. It is argued that reducing the NPLs in this manner is treating a symptom of the disease. Such sale of loans will not reduce the private debt which is the real problem of the Cyprus economy. On the contrary, it is likely to make private indebtedness a lot worse as the allowed provisions that the banks have been making will be used as discounts to entice the funds and other “investors” to buy them. This is likely to throw the country into a balance sheet recession. This means that because of the excessive and quite unprecedented levels of private debt (3 to 4 times the size of the country’s GDP) weighing on households and corporations alike, it is practically impossible for the country to overcome the recessionary effects of the austerity and forced repayment conditions that would be imposed through the adoption of such myopic and one sided Government policy. The article concludes that the government should not create a bad bank for the NPLs of the banks but rather should establish a reconstruction and development financing institution that will be able to provide solutions and spin back into the economy economically viable projects.
G17|A New Predictor of US. Real Economic Activity: The S&P 500 Option Implied Risk Aversion| We propose a new predictor of U.S. real economic activity (REA), namely the representative investor’s implied relative risk aversion (IRRA) extracted from S&P 500 option prices. IRRA is forward-looking and hence, it is expected to be related to future economic conditions. We document that U.S. IRRA predicts U.S. REA both in- and out-of-sample once we control for well-known REA predictors and take into account their persistence. An increase (decrease) in IRRA predicts a decrease (increase) in REA. We extend the empirical analysis by extracting IRRA from the South Korea, UK, Japanese and German index option markets. We find that South Korea IRRA predicts the South Korea REA both in- and out-of-sample, as expected given the high liquidity of its index option market. We show that a parsimonious yet flexible production economy model calibrated to the U.S. economy can explain the documented negative relation between risk aversion and future economic growth.
G17|How Safe are Central Counterparties in Derivatives Markets?| Abstract We propose a general framework for estimating the likelihood of default by central counterparties (CCP) in derivatives markets. Unlike conventional stress testing approaches, which estimate the ability of a CCP to withstand nonpayment by its two largest counterparties, we study the direct and indirect effects of nonpayment by members and/or their clients through the full network of exposures. We illustrate the approach for the credit default swaps (CDS) market under shocks that are similar in magnitude to the Federal Reserve's 2015 CCAR trading book shock. The analysis indicates that the main U.S. CCP for this market (ICE Clear Credit) could be more vulnerable than conventional stress testing approaches suggest.
G17|Bayesian Parametric and Semiparametric Factor Models for Large Realized Covariance Matrices|This paper introduces a new factor structure suitable for modeling large realized covariance matrices with full likelihood based estimation. Parametric and nonparametric versions are introduced. Due to the computational advantages of our approach we can model the factor nonparametrically as a Dirichlet process mixture or as an infinite hidden Markov mixture which leads to an infinite mixture of inverse-Wishart distributions. Applications to 10 assets and 60 assets show the models perform well. By exploiting parallel computing the models can be estimated in a matter of a few minutes.
G17|Forecasting Expected Shortfall: Should we use a Multivariate Model for Stock Market Factors?|When forecasting the market risk of stock portfolios, is a univariate or a multivariate modeling approach more effective? This question is examined in the context of forecasting the one-week-ahead Expected Shortfall for a portfolio equally invested in the Fama-French and momentum factors. Applying extensive tests and comparisons, we find that in most cases there are no statistically significant differences between the forecasting accuracy of the two approaches. This suggests that univariate models, which are more parsimonious and simpler to implement than multivariate models, can be used to forecast the downsize risk of equity portfolios without losses in precision.
G17|Interdependence between Macroeconomic and Financial Stability Indicators: Macro-Feedback Effect|Standard stress tests consider only first round effect from macroeconomic variables to financial stability indicators. However, the occurred shocks in banking sector reflect on macroeconomic indicators throughout different transmission mechanisms, such as expectations of economic agents, expected responses of banking sector to increased credit risk and etc. This creates the necessity of expansion and improvement of existing types of models, which will also include second round (macro-feedback) effects. The study explores the dynamic relationship between macroeconomic variables and indicators of financial stability, proving the relevance of considering second-round effects for better policy analysis. This paper develops a macro stress testing model incorporating feedback effects between financial system and the real economy. The study uses VAR approach to analyze various interactions between indicators through Impulse Response Functions (IRFs) and conducts different stress scenarios on exogenous variables. According to empirical results for the case of Georgia, there is significant relationship between real and financial variables, proving the countercyclical nature of NPLs with respect to different estimates of GDP gap. The signs of the impacts are robust with respect to different estimates of GDP gap. However, the magnitude of the effect of change in NPLs on GDP gap and vice versa varies with different estimate of GDP gap. In addition, using historical decomposition of GDP gap, the study shows that the effects of financial variables on variables of real economy differ from each other depending on the observed time interval (pre-crisis or post-crisis). The transmission of the impact goes though ?credit crunch?. The model proves the fact that change in NPL ratio strongly impacts credit growth represented as change in Credit to GDP ratio. At the same time, change in Credit to GDP ratio explain significant part of output gap forecast error and has significant contribution to business cycle fluctuations, strengthening the impact of NPLs and financial stability as a whole on the real economy. The estimated model can be used for generating different scenarios and shocks for improving systemic risk analysis (effect of banking sector?s solvency on real economy) and for providing better policy recommendations.
G17|The Sensitivity of Thailand Corporate Bond Values to Interest Rate Changes|The purpose of this study is to examine the volatility of the domestic corporate bond market value to changes in interest rates using duration and convexity techniques. The samples have been divided into two groups both of which have a coupon bond that pays interest semiannually. First, there is a seven-year corporate bond group. Second, there is a ten-year corporate bond group. The findings suggest that all seven-year bonds have the same level of price volatility when interest rates changes. The evidence also suggests that interest rate change effect ten-year corporate bond's price at the same level. This study concludes that, as a measure of a bond?s interest rate risk, seven-year bonds tend to be less volatile when interest rates change in comparison with ten-year bonds. The duration is less than bond?s maturity. The study finds evidence consistent with the typical results reported by previous studies. The price of corporate bonds move in the opposite direction of a change in interest rates, but the percentage change is not the same for all bonds.
G17|Credit Risk Determinants in the Vulnerable Economies of Europe: Evidence from the Italian Banking System|This study uses the Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) approach to cointegration to identify the factors affecting credit risk in the Italian banking system over the period 1997Q4â€“2017Q1. The ratio of new bad loans to the outstanding amount of performing loans in the previous period is the selected proxy of credit risk whereas a wide range of explanatory variables are included in the study, taking stock from the related literature and the specific features of Italy. Compared to the previous studies, a wider timeframe is investigated, which captures the booming period, the global financial crisis and the ongoing Eurozone sovereign debt crisis. The findings suggest that macroeconomic cyclical, bank-specific, and financial market variables affect the flow of new bad loans in the Italian banking system. The high significance of the sovereign debt crisis risk proxy signals the important link between banking and sovereign debt crisis both in the short and in the long term and therefore rings a bell to fiscal and monetary authorities in Italy and the Euro area.
G17|Optimizing the Hungarian Government Debt Portfolio|We construct an optimal debt portfolio model with the purpose of optimizing the Hungarian government debt portfolio. To analyze the characteristics of the costs and corresponding risk factors of the Hungarian debt portfolio we simulate issuances of chosen instruments on a specified time horizon. We apply a multiobjective optimization scheme to construct compositions of financing that minimize the costs and risks of the debt portfolio. Our purpose is to find the set of Pareto-optimal solutions that minimize expected costs, volatility of costs and refinancing risks while maximizing average time to re-fixing. The results of the multiobjective optimization can be used to help in constructing a medium term debt management strategy.
G17|International evidence on professional interest rates forecasts: The impact of forecasting ability|This paper develops a model of honest rational professional forecasters with different abilities and submits it to empirical verification using data on three and twelve months ahead forecasts of short term interest rates and of long term bond yields for up to 33 countries using data collected by Consensus Economics. The main finding is that, in many countries, less precise forecasters weigh public information more heavily than more precise forecasters who weigh their own private information relatively more heavily. One implication of this result is that less precise forecasters herd after more precise forecasters even in the absence of strategic considerations. The second part of the paper discusses and examines the cross-country relationships between measures of forecast uncertainty, dispersion of forecasts across individual forecasters and the variabilities of short term interest rates and of long term bonds. The main findings are: (i) Forecast uncertainty and dispersion are positively and significantly related across countries for both short rates and yields. (ii) A similar positive, albeit somewhat weaker, association is found between uncertainty and variability. (iii) Dispersion of short term interest rate forecasts and the variability of those rates are also positively associated. The paper also documents differences between the average forecasting errors of more and less able forecasters as well as substantial correlations between the forecast errors of different forecasters.
G17|Machine learning applied to accounting variables yields the risk-return metrics of private company portfolios|Constructing optimal Markowitz Mean-Variance portfolios of publicly-traded stock is a straighforward and well-known task. Doing the same for portfolios of privately-owned firms, given the lack of historical price data, is a challenge. We apply machine learning models to historical accounting variable data to estimate risk-return metrics â€“ specifically, expected excess returns, price volatility and (pairwise) price correlation â€“ of private companies, which should allow the construction of Mean-Variance optimized portfolios consisting of private companies. We attain out-of-sample ð ‘…2 s around 45%, while linear regressions yield ð ‘…2 s of only about 10%. This short paper is the result of a real-world consulting project on behalf of Votorantim S.A (â€œVSAâ€ ), a multinational holding company. To the authorsâ€™ best knowledge this is a novel application of machine learning in the finance literature.
G17|How effective are sovereign bond-backed securities as a spillover prevention device?|Brunnermeier et al. (2017) propose the introduction of sovereign bond-backed securities (SBBS) in the euro area. It and other papers address how the securitisation would insulate senior security holders from actual default-related losses. This article generalises the assessment by using the VAR-based Diebold & Yilmaz (2012) spillover index methodology to assess potential attenuation of the spillover of shocks in holding-period returns across asset markets from the introduction of SBBS. This is made possible by employing SBBS yields estimated from historical euro area member state sovereign bond yields using Monte Carlo methods, as described in Schönbucher (2003). The econometric results show that (i) SBBS tranching protects senior SBBS holders by reducing the spillover of shocks from the higher-risk peripheral member states to it; (ii) spillovers from high risk sovereigns to a weighted portfolio are much higher than those to the senior SBBS; (iii) a smaller junior SBBS tranche reduces spillover from it to the senior SBBS; and (iv) rolling window analysis indicates that the spillover of shocks from the junior tranche to the senior tranche declines during a period of financial stress.
G17|A Multi-Criteria Financial and Energy Portfolio Analysis of Hedge Fund Strategies|The paper is concerned with a multi-criteria portfolio analysis of hedge fund strategies that are concerned with financial commodities, including the possibility of energy spot, futures and exchange traded funds (ETF). It features a tri-criteria analysis of the Eurekahedge fund data strategy index data. We use nine Eurekahedge equally weighted main strategy indices for the portfolio analysis. The tri-criteria analysis features three objectives: return, risk and dispersion of risk objectives in a Multi-Criteria Optimisation (MCO) portfolio analysis. We vary the MCO return and risk targets, and contrast the results with four more standard portfolio optimisation criteria, namely tangency portfolio (MSR), most diversified portfolio (MDP), global minimum variance portfolio (GMW), and portfolios based on minimising expected shortfall (ERC). Backtests of the chosen portfolios for this hedge fund data set indicate that the use of MCO is accompanied by uncertainty about the a priori choice of optimal parameter settings for the decision criteria. The empirical results do not appear to outperform more standard bi-criteria portfolio analyses in the backtests undertaken on the hedge fund index data.
G17|Spurious Cross-Sectional Dependence in Credit Spread Changes|In order to understand the lingering credit risk puzzle and the apparent segmentation of the stock market from credit markets, we need to be able to assess the strength of the cross-sectional dependence in credit spreads. This turns out to be a non-trivial task due to the extreme data sparsity that is typical for any panel of credit spreads that is extracted from corporate bond transactions. The problem of data sparsity has led to some erroneous conclusions in the literature, including inferences that have been drawn from spurious cross-sectional dependence in credit spread changes. Understanding the pitfalls leads to a new and improved estimator of the latent factor in credit spread changes and its characteristics.
G17|Modeling and forecasting commodity market volatility with long-term economic and financial variables|This paper investigates the time-varying volatility patterns of some major commodities as well as the potential factors that drive their long-term volatility component. For this purpose, we make use of a recently proposed GARCH-MIDAS approach which typically allows us to examine the role of economic and financial variables of different frequencies. Using commodity futures for crude oil (WTI and Brent), gold, silver and platinum, our results show the necessity of disentangling the short- and long-term components in modeling and forecasting commodity volatility. They also indicate that the long-term volatility of most commodity futures is significantly driven by the level of the general real economic activity as well as the changes in consumer sentiment, industrial production, and economic policy uncertainty. However, the forecasting results are not alike across commodity futures as no single model fits all commodities.
G17|Machine learning in algorithmic trading strategy optimization - implementation and efficiency|The main aim of this paper was to formulate and analyze the machine learning methods, fitted to the strategy parameters optimization specificity. The most important problems are the sensitivity of a strategy performance to little parameter changes and numerous local extrema distributed over the solution space in an irregular way. The methods were designed for the purpose of significant shortening of the computation time, without a substantial loss of a strategy quality. The efficiency of methods was compared for three different pairs of assets in case of moving averages crossover system. The methods operated on the in sample data, containing 20 years of daily prices between 1998 and 2017. The problem was presented for three sets of two assets portfolios. In the first case, a strategy was trading on the SPX and DAX index futures, in the second on the AAPL and MSFT stocks and finally, in the third case on the HGF and CBF commodities futures. The major hypothesis verified in this thesis is that machine learning methods select strategies with evaluation criterion near to the highest one, but in significantly lower execution time than the Exhaustive Search.
G17|Forecasting Net Charge-Off Rates of Banks: A PLS Approach|This chapter relies on a factor-based forecasting model for net charge-off rates of banks in a data-rich environment. More specifically, we employ a partial least squares (PLS) method to extract target-specific factors and find that it outperforms the principal component approach in-sample by construction. Further, we apply PLS to out-of-sample forecasting exercises for aggregate bank net charge-off rates on various loans as well as for similar individual bank rates using over 250 quarterly macroeconomic data from 1987Q1 to 2016Q4. Our empirical results demonstrate superior performance of PLS over benchmark models, including both a stationary autoregressive type model and a nonstationary random walk model. Our approach can help banks identify important variables that contribute to bank losses so that they are better able to contain losses to manageable levels.
G17|A New Model for Pricing Collateralized Financial Derivatives|This paper presents a new model for pricing financial derivatives subject to collateralization. It allows for collateral arrangements adhering to bankruptcy laws. As such, the model can back out the market price of a collateralized contract. This framework is very useful for valuing outstanding derivatives. Using a unique dataset, we find empirical evidence that credit risk alone is not overly important in determining credit-related spreads. Only accounting for both collateral posting and credit risk can sufficiently explain unsecured credit costs. This finding suggests that failure to properly account for collateralization may result in significant mispricing of derivatives. We also empirically gauge the impact of collateral agreements on risk measurements. Our findings indicate that there are important interactions between market and credit risk.
G17|Can Investors Benefit from Hedge Fund Strategies? Utility-Based, Out-of-Sample Evidence|We report systematic, out-of-sample evidence on the benefits to an already welldiversified investor that may derive from further diversification into various hedge fund strategies. We investigate dynamic strategic asset allocation decisions that take into account investors’ preferences as well as return predictability. Our results suggest that not all hedge fund strategies benefit a long-term investor who is already well diversified across stocks, government and corporate bonds, and REITs. Only strategies whose payoffs are highly nonlinear (e.g., fixed income relative value and convertible arbitrage), and therefore not easily replicable, constitute viable options. Most of the realized economic value fails to result from a mean-variance type of improvement but comes instead from an improvement in realized higher-moment properties of optimal portfolios. Medium to highly risk-averse investors benefit the most from this alternative asset class.
G17|Arbitrage Risk and Investor Sentiment as Causes of Persistent Mispricing: the European Evidence|We investigate the relationship between risk-adjusted returns, arbitrage risk and arbitrage asymmetry, and investor sentiment in the European stock market. Under the assumption that idiosyncratic volatility ??IVOL?? causes arbitrage risk, we analyze the effects of IVOL on the-abnormal returns of the Euro Stoxx 50 large cap constituents. After classifying the stocks in two mispricing categories, we uncover evidence of arbitrage risk especially in the overpriced group: the highest IVOL overpriced portfolio is the most overpriced, which implies persistent subsequent risk-adjusted returns that slowly revert to zero. When the estimation is performed afresh separating the high- from the low-sentiment periods and controlling for macroeconomic conditions, we find evidence of a negative relation between investor sentiment and IVOL effects, which is yet more pronounced for the highest arbitrage-risk stocks, which is consistent with pure, psychological biases strongly affecting the impact of arbitrage risk on the speed of correction of mispricing.
G17|Arbitrage Risk and Investor Sentiment as Causes of Persistent Mispricing: the European Evidence|We investigate the relationship between risk-adjusted returns, arbitrage risk and arbitrage asymmetry, and investor sentiment in the European stock market. Under the assumption that idiosyncratic volatility (IVOL) causes arbitrage risk, we analyze the effects of IVOL on the-abnormal returns of the Euro Stoxx 50 large cap constituents. After classifying the stocks in two mispricing categories, we uncover evidence of arbitrage risk especially in the overpriced group: the highest IVOL overpriced portfolio is the most overpriced, which implies persistent subsequent risk-adjusted returns that slowly revert to zero. When the estimation is performed afresh separating the high- from the low-sentiment periods and controlling for macroeconomic conditions, we find evidence of a negative relation between investor sentiment and IVOL effects, which is yet more pronounced for the highest arbitrage-risk stocks, which is consistent with pure, psychological biases strongly affecting the impact of arbitrage risk on the speed of correction of mispricing.
G17|Can Investors Benefit from Hedge Fund Strategies? Utility-Based, Out-of-Sample Evidence|We report systematic, out-of-sample evidence on the benefits to an already well diversified investor that may derive from further diversification into various hedge fund strategies. We investigate dynamic strategic asset allocation decisions that take into account investors’ preferences as well as return predictability. Our results suggest that not all hedge fund strategies benefit a long-term investor who is already well diversified across stocks, government and corporate bonds, and REITs. Only strategies whose payoffs are highly nonlinear (e.g., fixed income relative value and convertible arbitrage), and therefore not easily replicable, constitute viable options. Most of the realized economic value fails to result from a mean-variance type of improvement but comes instead from an improvement in realized higher-moment properties of optimal portfolios. Medium to highly risk-averse investors benefit the most from this alternative asset class.
G17|Predicting default more accurately: to proxy or not to proxy for default?|No abstract is available for this item.
G17|Stochastic volatility, jumps and leverage in energy and stock markets: evidence from high frequency data|In this paper, we propose a model for futures returns that has the potential to provide both individual investors and firms who have positions in financial and energy commodity futures a valid tail risk management tool. In doing so, we also aim to explore the commonalities between these markets and the degree of financialization of energy commodities. Unlike most of the existing studies in energy derivative markets based on daily data, our empirical analysis makes use of high-frequency (tick-by-tick) data from the futures markets, aggregated to 10-minute intervals during the trading day. The intraday variation is then utilized to generate daily time series of prices, returns and realized variance. We estimate stochastic volatility models using a GMM approach based on the moment conditions of the Integrated Volatility derived from high frequency data. While existing empirical studies in energy markets embed either leverage or jumps in the futures return dynamics, we show that the introduction of both features improves the ability to forecast volatility as an indicator for risk for both the S&P500 and natural gas futures markets using both the RMSE and MAE criteria. Our analysis also shows that overall, the introduction of both leverage and jumps in the SVJL model provides the best forecast for risk in both a VaR and a CVaR sense for investors who have any position in natural gas futures regardless of their degree of risk aversion. In the S&P500 market, the SVJL model provides the most precise forecast of risk in a CVaR sense for risk-averse investors with any position in futures, regardless of their degree of risk aversion. Focusing on a firm's internal risk management, the introduction of both jumps and leverage in the SVJL model would benefit speculative firms who are short natural gas futures aiming at minimizing tail risk in a VaR sense, as well as speculative firms who are long S&P500 futures and use either VaR or CVaR as financial risk management criteria while wanting to minimize the opportunity cost of capital.
G17|Leverage effects and stochastic volatility in spot oil returns: A Bayesian approach with VaR and CVaR applications|Crude oil markets have been quite volatile and risky in the past few decades due to the large fluctuations of oil prices. We contribute to the current debate by testing for the existence of the leverage effect when considering daily spot returns in the WTI and Brent crude oil markets and by studying the direct impact of the leverage effect on measures of risk such as VaR and CVaR. More specifically, we model spot crude oil returns using Stochastic Volatility (SV) models with various distributions of the errors. We find that the introduction of the leverage effect in the traditional SV model with Normally distributed errors is capable of adequately estimating risk for speculative oil suppliers in both the WTI and Brent markets. Our results also show that financial regulators' model choice, both on the supply and on the demand side, would not be affected by the introduction of leverage. Focusing instead on firm's internal risk management, our results show that the introduction of leverage would be useful for firms who are on the demand side for oil, who use VaR for risk management and who are particularly worried about the magnitude of the losses exceeding VaR while wanting to minimize the opportunity cost of capital. Using the same logic, firms who are on the supply side would be better off not considering the leverage effect.
G17|News and narratives in financial systems: exploiting big data for systemic risk assessment|This paper applies algorithmic analysis to large amounts of financial market text-based data to assess how narratives and sentiment play a role in driving developments in the financial system. We find that changes in the emotional content in market narratives are highly correlated across data sources. They show clearly the formation (and subsequent collapse) of very high levels of sentiment — high excitement relative to anxiety — prior to the global financial crisis. Our metrics also have predictive power for other commonly used measures of sentiment and volatility and appear to influence economic and financial variables. And we develop a new methodology that attempts to capture the emergence of narrative topic consensus which gives an intuitive representation of increasing homogeneity of beliefs prior to the crisis. With increasing consensus around narratives high in excitement and lacking anxiety likely to be an important warning sign of impending financial system distress, the quantitative metrics we develop may complement other indicators and analysis in helping to gauge systemic risk.
G17|Mortgages: estimating default correlation and forecasting default risk|Default correlation is a key driver of credit risk. In the Basel regulatory framework it is measured by the asset value correlation parameter. Though past studies suggest that the parameter is over-calibrated for mortgages — generally the largest asset class on banks’ balance sheets — they do not take into account bias arising from small samples or non-Gaussian risk factors. Adjusting for these biases using a non-Gaussian, non-linear state space model I find that the Basel calibration is appropriate for UK and US mortgages. This model also forecasts mortgage default rates accurately and parsimoniously. The model generates value-at-risk estimates for future mortgage default rates, which can be used to inform stress-testing and macroprudential policy.
G17|Multiplex network analysis of the UK OTC derivatives market|In this paper, we analyse the network of exposures constructed by using the UK trade repository data for three different categories of contracts: interest rate, credit, and foreign exchange derivatives. We study how liquidity shocks related to variation margins propagate across the network and translate into payment deficiencies across different derivative markets. A key finding of the paper is that, in extreme theoretical scenarios where liquidity buffers are small, a handful of institutions may experience significant spillover effects due to the directionality of their portfolios. Additionally, we show that two novel multiplex centrality measures, the Functional Multiplex Eigenvector Centrality and the Functional Multiplex PageRank, can be used as a proxy for the vulnerability of financial institutions, with the Functional Multiplex PageRank improving on the results that can be obtained using the Functional Multiplex Eigenvector Centrality.
G17|The deeds of speed: an agent-based model of market liquidity and flash episodes|This paper examines the role of high-frequency traders in flash episodes in electronic financial markets. To do so, we construct an agent-based model of a market for a financial asset in which trading occurs through a central limit order book. The model consists of heterogeneous agents with different trading strategies and frequencies, and is calibrated to high-frequency time series data on the sterling-US dollar exchange rate. Flash episodes occur in the model due to the procyclical behaviour of high-frequency market participants. This is aligned with some empirical evidence as to the drivers of real-world flash crashes. We find that the prevalence of flash episodes increases with the frequency with which high-frequency market participants trade compared to their low-frequency counterparts. This provides tentative theoretical evidence that the recent growth in high-frequency trading across some markets has led to flash episodes. Furthermore, we adapt the model so that large movements in price trigger temporary halts in trading (ie circuit breakers). This is found to reduce the magnitude and frequency of flash episodes.
G17|The equity risk premium and the low frequency of the term spread|We extract cycles in the term spread (TMS) and study their role for predicting the equity risk premium (ERP) using linear models. The low frequency component of the TMS is a strong and robust out-of-sample ERP predictor. It obtains out-of-sample R-squares (versus the historical mean benchmark) of 1.98% and 22.1% for monthly and annual data, respectively. It forecasts well also during expansions and outperforms several variables that have been proposed as good ERP predictors. Its predictability power comes exclusively from the discount rate channel. Contrarily, the high and business-cycle frequency components of the TMS are poor out-of-sample ERP predictors.
G17|Non-Tariff Barriers and Goods Trade: a Brexit Impact Analysis|This paper estimates the potential loss in trade between Ireland and the United Kingdom arising from increases in non-tariff barriers following the UK’s exit from the European Union. Using a difference gravity specification, we estimate a 9.6 per cent decline in trade flows between the UK and Ireland from an increase in border waiting times. This equates to a 1.4 per cent decline in total Irish exports and a 3.1 per cent decline in total Irish imports. We also present evidence of heterogeneity in the exposure (measured by time-sensitivity) across different types of goods, with beverages,fresh foods and raw materials being most exposed. For trade in fuels, chemicals and imperishable foods we do not find evidence of an effect from an increase in time.
G17|Price Overreactions in the Cryptocurrency Market|This paper examines price overreactions in the case of the following cryptocurrencies: BitCoin, LiteCoin, Ripple and Dash. A number of parametric (t-test, ANOVA, regression analysis with dummy variables) and non-parametric (Mann–Whitney U test) tests confirm the presence of price patterns after overreactions: the next-day price changes in both directions are bigger than after “normal” days. A trading robot approach is then used to establish whether these statistical anomalies can be exploited to generate profits. The results suggest that a strategy based on counter-movements after overreactions is not profitable, whilst one based on inertia appears to be profitable but produces outcomes not statistically different from the random ones. Therefore the overreactions detected in the cryptocurrency market do not give rise to exploitable profit opportunities (possibly because of transaction costs) and cannot be seen as evidence against the Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH).
G17|On the Frequency of Price Overreactions|This paper explores the frequency of price overreactions in the US stock market by focusing on the Dow Jones Industrial Index over the period 1990-2017. It uses two different methods (static and dynamic) to detect overreactions and then carries out various statistical tests (both parametric and non-parametric) including correlation analysis, augmented Dickey–Fuller tests (ADF), Granger causality tests, and regression analysis with dummy variables. The following hypotheses are tested: whether or not the frequency of overreactions varies over time (H1), is informative about crises (H2) and/or price movements (H3), and exhibits seasonality (H4). The null cannot be rejected except for H4, i.e. no seasonality is found. On the whole it appears that the frequency of overreactions can provide useful information about market developments and for designing trading strategies.
G17|Bitcoin fluctuations and the frequency of price overreactions|Abstract This paper investigates the role of the frequency of price overreactions in the cryptocurrency market in the case of BitCoin over the period 2013–2018. Specifically, it uses a static approach to detect overreactions and then carries out hypothesis testing by means of a variety of statistical methods (both parametric and non-parametric) including ADF tests, Granger causality tests, correlation analysis, regression analysis with dummy variables, ARIMA and ARMAX models, neural net models, and VAR models. Specifically, the hypotheses tested are whether or not the frequency of overreactions (i) is informative about Bitcoin price movements (H1) and (ii) exhibits no seasonality (H2). On the whole, the results suggest that it can provide useful information to predict price dynamics in the cryptocurrency market and for designing trading strategies (H1 cannot be rejected), whilst there is no evidence of seasonality (H2 cannot be rejected).
G17|Are Bitcoin Bubbles Predictable? Combining a Generalized Metcalfe's Law and the LPPLS Model|We develop a strong diagnostic for bubbles and crashes in bitcoin, by analyzing the coincidence (and its absence) of fundamental and technical indicators. Using a generalized Metcalfe’s law based on network properties, a fundamental value is quantified and shown to be heavily exceeded, on at least four occasions, by bubbles that grow and burst. In these bubbles, we detect a universal super-exponential unsustainable growth. We model this universal pattern with the Log-Periodic Power Law Singularity (LPPLS) model, which parsimoniously captures diverse positive feedback phenomena, such as herding and imitation. The LPPLS model is shown to provide an ex-ante warning of market instabilities, quantifying a high crash hazard and probabilistic bracket of the crash time consistent with the actual corrections; although, as always, the precise time and trigger (which straw breaks the camel’s back) being exogenous and unpredictable. Looking forward, our analysis identifies a substantial but not unprecedented overvaluation in the price of bitcoin, suggesting many months of volatile sideways bitcoin prices ahead (from the time of writing, March 2018).
G17|Bitcoin Bubble Trouble|We present a dynamic Rational Expectations (RE) bubble model of prices with the intention to evaluate it on optimal investment strategies applied to Bitcoin. Our bubble model is defined as a geometric Brownian motion combined with separate crash (and rally) discrete jump distributions associated with positive (and negative) bubbles. The RE condition implies that the excess risk premium of the risky asset exposed to crashes is an increasing function of the amplitude of the expected crash, which itself grows with the bubble mispricing: hence, the larger the bubble price, the larger its subsequent growth rate. We use the RE condition to estimate the real-time crash probability dynamically through an accelerating probability function depending on the increasing expected return. We examine the optimal investment problem in the context of the bubble model by obtaining an analytic expression for maximizing the expected log of wealth (Kelly criterion) for the risky asset and a risk-free asset. Using our bubble model on Bitcoin from 8-Jul-2013 until 19-Dec-2017 would have generated a CAGR of 140% with a maximum drawdown of 69% giving a Calmar Ratio of 2.03. It would have moved out of Bitcoin gradually since 25-Apr-2017 to be completely out on 19-Dec-2017, three days before the crash. The outperformance of the Efficient Portfolio over just investing in Bitcoin was 265%, accomplished over 117 rebalances from 08-Jul- 2013 to 20-Dec-2017. This strategy could thus afford a cost of 2.27% at each rebalancing period and still outperform investing only in Bitcoin.
G17|Cascading Logistic Regression Onto Gradient Boosted Decision Trees to Predict Stock Market Changes Using Technical Analysis|In the data mining and machine learning fields, forecasting the direction of price change can be generally formulated as a supervised classfii cation. This paper attempts to predict the direction of daily changes of the Nasdaq Composite Index (NCI) and of the Standard & Poor's 500 Composite Stock Price Index (S&P 500) covering the period from January 3, 2012 to December 23, 2016, and of the Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index (SSEC) from January 4, 2010 to December 31, 2014. Due to the complexity of stock index data, we carefully combine raw price data and eleven technical indicators with a cascaded learning technique to improve the performance of the classifi cation. The proposed learning architecture LR2GBDT is obtained by cascading the logistic regression (LR) model onto the gradient boosted decision trees (GBDT) model. Given the same test conditions, the experimental results show that the LR2GBDT model performs better than the baseline LR and GBDT models for these stock indices, according to the performance metrics Hit ratio, Precision, Recall and F-measure. Furthermore, we use these models to develop simple trading strategies and assess their performance in terms of their Average Annual Return, Maximum Drawdown, Sharpe Ratio and Average Annualized Return/Maximum Drawdown. When transaction costs and buy-sell thresholds are taken into account, the best trading strategy derived from LR2GBDT model still reaches the highest Sharpe Ratio and clearly beats the buy-and-hold strategy. The performances are found to be both statistically and economically signi ficant.
G17|Predicción del mercado de TES en el corto plazo|En el presente trabajo se estudia la hipótesis de caminata aleatoria para el mercado colombiano de bonos gubernamentales (TES). En el estudio se encuentra que es posible predecir el precio en el corto plazo, por lo que se rechaza la hipótesis de caminata aleatoria para dicho mercado. Lo anterior se concluye por medio de un algoritmo de trading intradía, basado en modelos de aprendizaje de máquinas, al cual se le realiza un Backtest y se concluye que los retornos esperados son superiores a los costos de transacción. A su vez, se realiza un Backtest del algoritmo sobre el mercado norteamericano y se observa que en dicho mercado los retornos esperados son significativamente menores. Es de resaltar que adicional a las implicaciones académicas, el algoritmo tiene aplicaciones empíricas ya que puede ser utilizado como una estrategia de inversión.
G17|Distribuciones no normales para la selección de activos en el mercado Colombiano|Modelos tradicionales para la construcción de portafolios son desarrollados sobre distribuciones normales. Un ejemplo de esto es la frontera eficiente propuesta por Markowitz, la cual solo incorpora los dos primeros momentos de la distribución (media-varianza) para la construcción de portafolios eficientes. Lo anterior requiere, al menos, que los portafolios posean una distribución elíptica. Adicionalmente, modelos de serie de tiempo se construyen frecuentemente sobre errores normales. Sin embargo, abundantes estudios rechazan la presencia de normalidad en mercados financieros e incluso literatura reciente ha encontrado que los retornos de índices accionarios colombianos exhiben distribuciones no normales. Considerando la evidencia literaria de distribuciones de los activos del mercado colombiano, modelos que no se restrinjan a distribuciones normales deberían generar mejores asignaciones de portafolio. El presente artículo demuestra que los retornos del mercado colombiano no siguen distribuciones normales y que, a través de la construcción de cópulas t y marginales logísticas e hiperbólicas generalizada, se supera ampliamente los métodos de estimación bajo normalidad. Adicionalmente, el estudio encuentra que la mayoría de activos mantienen una clase de distribución en el tiempo. Finalmente, se concluye que bajo distribuciones no-normales las fronteras eficientes no son necesariamente maximizadoras de utilidad y que el uso distribuciones no-normales generan retornos anuales entre 1% y 3% por encima de los retornos bajo distribuciones normales en el mercado accionario colombiano durante el periodo 2009-2016. Aunque el retorno per se no es el objetivo, el principal hallazgo consiste en que los portafolios construidos mediante supuestos normales, resultan ineficientes en un universo de distribuciones no-normales. Adicionalmente, se observa que los portafolios bajo distribuciones normales no se adecúan correctamente a los niveles de tolerancia por riesgo de los inversionistas, al no calibrar correctamente la distribución de resultados posibles.
G17|Generalized Recovery|We characterize when physical probabilities, marginal utilities, and the dis- count rate can be recovered from observed state prices for several future time periods. Our characterization makes no assumptions of the probability distribu- tion, thus generalizing the time-homogeneous stationary model of Ross (2015). Our characterization is simple and intuitive, linking recovery to the relation between the number of time periods and the number of states. When recovery is feasible, our model is easy to implement, allowing a closed-form linearized solution. We implement our model empirically, testing the predictive power of the recovered expected return and other recovered statistics.
G17|Monetary Policy and Asset Valuation|"We find evidence of infrequent shifts, or ""regimes"" in the mean of the asset valuation variable cayt that are strongly associated with low-frequency fluctuations in the real federal funds rate, with low policy rates associated with high asset valuations, and vice versa. There is no evidence that infrequent shifts to high asset valuations are associated with higher expected economic growth or lower economic uncertainty; indeed, the opposite is true. Additional evidence shows that regimes of low interest rates and high asset valuations are characterized by lower equity market risk premia and monetary policy that is less responsive to inflation."
G17|Expected Correlation and Future Market Returns|We document that information about the comovement of individual stocks, jointly extracted from index options and individual stock options, can be used to predict future market excess returns for horizons of up to 1 year, both in-sample and out-of-sample. The predictive power is incremental to that of risk measures exclusively based on the marginal distribution of the market, including (semi)variances and their risk premiums.~We attribute this predictability to the ability of expected correlation to capture expected variations in idiosyncratic risk and in the cross-sectional dispersion in systematic risk. A novel extension of the contemporaneous-beta approach significantly improves out-of-sample predictability.
G17|Credit Risk Determinants In The Vulnerable Economies Of Europe: Evidence From The Italian Banking System|This study uses the ARDL approach to cointegration to identify the factors affecting credit risk in the Italian banking system over the period 1997Q4?2017Q1. The ratio of new bad loans to the outstanding amount of performing loans in the previous period is the selected proxy of credit risk whereas a wide range of explanatory variables are included in the study. Compared to the previous studies, a wider timeframe is investigated, which captures the booming period, the global financial crisis and the ongoing Eurozone sovereign debt crisis. The findings suggest that macroeconomic cyclical, bank-specific, and financial market variables affect the flow of new bad loans in the Italian banking system. The high significance of the sovereign debt crisis risk proxy signals the important link between banking and sovereign debt crisis.
G17|Predicting the stock prices of G7 countries with Bitcoin prices|This paper attempts to establish that some inherent features of the Bitcoin price can be exploited to produce better forecast results for stock prices. It does so by constructing predictive models for stock prices of G7 countries with symmetric and asymmetric prices of Bitcoin. The underlying statistical properties of Bitcoin prices such as persistence and conditional heteroscedasticity are captured in the estimation process using the Westerlund and Narayan (2015) estimator that allows for such effects in forecasting. There are two striking findings from the analysis. First, the results suggest that accounting for asymmetries is more likely to enhance the predictive power of Bitcoin in forecasting stock prices regardless of the data sample and forecast horizon. Secondly, the Bitcoin-based predictive model for stock prices, particularly the asymmetric variant, outperforms the Fractionally Integrated Autoregressive Moving Average (ARFIMA) model. While there are concerns as to whether the cryptocurrencies are veritable substitutes to the conventional financial assets, their close link with the developed stock exchanges such as those in the G7 countries suggests that they share some common characteristics such as news effects [asymmetries] which can be exploited when forecasting the behaviour of stock prices.
G17|The Hidden Predictive Power of Cryptocurrencies: Evidence from US Stock Market|This paper is motivated by the news that the surge in cryptocurrencies is an important candidate to in explaining the plummeting stock markets. To validate this believe, we construct a predictive model in which cryptocurrencies are identified as the predictors of US stock returns. The inherent statistical properties of cryptocurrencies such as persistence, endogeneity, and conditional heteroscedasticity are being accounted for in the Westerlund and Narayan (2015) estimator. Three salient results emanated from our estimations. First, we validated the importance of cryptocurrencies in predicting US stock prices; second, the cryptocurrencies predictive model outperforms the conventional time-series models such as Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) model and the Autoregressive Fractionally Integrated Moving Average (ARFIMA); third, our results are robust to different method of forecast performance evaluation measures and different sub-sample periods. These results have important policy implications for the investors and policymakers.
G17|A new procedure for pre-testing the distribution properties of Stock returns|The study offers a new procedure that helps determine the best distribution prior to modeling stock returns with GARCH-type models. Specifically, it demonstrates that pre-testing the residuals of stock returns for the best distribution can help to identify the appropriate GARCH error distribution regardless of the choice of GARCH-type model. This approach is robust to alternative data frequencies and different stock markets such as those of G7 countries
G17|Testing for time-varying stochastic volatility in Bitcoin returns|The study will be the first to offer empirical justification for time-varying stochastic volatility in Bitcoin returns. Specifically, it tests for time variation in both the trend and transitory components of the stochastic volatility using the unobserved components model that accounts for same. Thereafter, it calculates the Bayes factor using the approach of Chan (2018) which involves the Savage-Dickey density ratio in order to avoid the computation of the marginal likelihood. The results overwhelmingly support at least one time-varying stochastic volatility component in Bitcoin returns and the transitory component is favoured in this regard. These results are robust to different data frequencies.
G17|Does time-variation matter in the stochastic volatility components for G7 stock returns|This study empirically tests for time variation in the stochastic volatility (SV) components for the G7 stock returns. The time variation in both trend and transitory components of the SV is tested separately and jointly using the unobserved component model and following the approach developed by Chan (2018). Consequently, the computed Bayes factor obtained from the SavageDickey density ratio, which circumvents the computation of marginal likelihood, is used to adjudge the performance of each restricted time varying stochastic volatility model without the trend and transitory components against the unrestricted model that allows for same. The empirical evidence supports time variation in the transitory component of SV while the trend component is found to be relatively constant over time. These empirical estimates are not sensitive to data frequency.
G17|Price Overreactions in the Cryptocurrency Market|This paper examines price overreactions in the case of the following cryptocurrencies: BitCoin, LiteCoin, Ripple and Dash. A number of parametric (t-test, ANOVA, regression analysis with dummy variables) and non-parametric (Mann–Whitney U test) tests confirm the presence of price patterns after overreactions: the next-day price changes in both directions are bigger than after “normal” days. A trading robot approach is then used to establish whether these statistical anomalies can be exploited to generate profits. The results suggest that a strategy based on counter-movements after overreactions is not profitable, whilst one based on inertia appears to be profitable but produces outcomes not statistically different from the random ones. Therefore the overreactions detected in the cryptocurrency market do not give rise to exploitable profit opportunities (possibly because of transaction costs) and cannot be seen as evidence against the Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH).
G17|Value-at-Risk prediction using option-implied risk measures|This paper investigates the prediction of Value-at-Risk (VaR) using option-implied information obtained by the maximum entropy method. The maximum entropy method provides an estimate of the risk-neutral distribution based on option prices. Besides commonly used implied volatility, we obtain implied skewness, kurtosis and quantile from the estimated risk-neutral distribution. We find that using the implied volatility and implied quantile as explanatory variables significantly outperforms considered benchmarks in predicting the VaR, including the commonly used GARCH(1,1)-model. This holds for all considered VaR prediction models and VaR probability levels. Overall, a simple quantile regression model performs best for all considered VaR probability levels and forecast horizons.
G17|Multivariate Periodic Stochastic Volatility Models: Applications to Algerian dinar exchange rates and oil prices modeling|The contribution of this paper is twofold. In a first step, we propose the so called Periodic Multivariate Autoregressive Stochastic Volatility (PV ARSV) model, that allows the Granger causality in volatility in order to capture periodicity in stochastic conditional variance. After a thorough discussion, we provide some probabilistic properties of this class of models. We thus propose two methods for the estimation problem, one based on the periodic Kalman filter and the other on the particle filter and smoother with Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm. In a second step, we propose an empirical application by modeling oil price and three exchange rates time series. It turns out that our modeling gives very accurate results and has a well volatility forecasting performance.
G17|Cross-country linkages and spill-overs in early warning models for financial crises|This paper uses data on bilateral foreign exposures of domestic banking systems in order to construct early warning models for financial crises that take into account cross-country spill-overs of vulnerabilities. The empirical results show that incorporating cross-country financial linkages can improve the signalling performance of early warning models. The relative usefulness increases from 65% to 87% and the AUROC from 0.89 to 0.97 when weighted foreign variables are added to domestic variables in a multivariate logit early warning model. The findings of the paper also suggest that global variables still play a role in predicting financial crises, even when foreign variables are controlled for, which could suggest that both cross-country spill-overs and contagion are important factors for driving financial crises. A parsimonious model with nine variables that combines domestic, foreign and global variables yields an out-of-sample relative usefulness of 0.82 with Type I and Type II errors of 0.11 and 0.07. JEL Classification: G01, G17, F37, F65
G17|A framework for early-warning modeling with an application to banks|This paper proposes a framework for deriving early-warning models with optimal out-of-sample forecasting properties and applies it to predicting distress in European banks. The main contributions of the paper are threefold. First, the paper introduces a conceptual framework to guide the process of building early-warning models, which highlights and structures the numerous complex choices that the modeler needs to make. Second, the paper proposes a flexible modeling solution to the conceptual framework that supports model selection in real-time. Specifically, our proposed solution is to combine the loss function approach to evaluate early-warning models with regularized logistic regression and cross-validation to find a model specification with optimal real-time out-of-sample forecasting properties. Third, the paper illustrates how the modeling framework can be used in analysis supporting both microand macro-prudential policy by applying it to a large dataset of EU banks and showing some examples of early-warning model visualizations. JEL Classification: G01, G17, G21, G33, C52, C54
G17|The Dollar Ahead of FOMC Target Rate Changes|I find that the U.S. dollar appreciates over the two-day period before contractionary monetary policy decisions at scheduled Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meetings and depreciates over the two-day period before expansionary monetary policy decisions. The federal funds futures rate forecasts these dollar movements with a 22% R^{2}. A high federal funds futures spread three days in advance of an FOMC meeting not only predicts the target rate rise, but also predicts a rise in the dollar over the subsequent two-day period. A simple trading strategy, which exploits this predictability, exhibits a 0.93 Sharpe ratio. My findings imply that information about monetary policy changes is reflected first in the fixed income markets, and only later becomes reflected in currency markets.
G17|Spurious Cross-Sectional Dependence in Credit Spread Changes|In order to understand the lingering credit risk puzzle and the apparent segmentation of the stock market from credit markets, we need to be able to assess the strength of the cross-sectional dependence in credit spreads. This turns out to be a non-trivial task due to the extreme data sparsity that is typical for any panel of credit spreads that is extracted from corporate bond transactions. The problem of data sparsity has led to some erroneous conclusions in the literature, including inferences that have been drawn from spurious cross-sectional dependence in credit spread changes. Understanding the pitfalls leads to a new and improved estimator of the latent factor in credit spread changes and its characteristics.
G17|Exchange rate predictability and dynamic Bayesian learning|This paper considers how an investor in foreign exchange markets might exploit predictive information in macroeconomic fundamentals by allowing for switching between multivariate time series regression models. These models are chosen to reflect a wide array of established empirical and theoretical stylized facts. In an application involving monthly exchange rates for seven countries, we find that an investor using our methods to dynamically allocate assets achieves significant gains relative to benchmark strategies. In particular, we find strong evidence for fast model switching, with most of the time only a small set of macroeconomic fundamentals being relevant for forecasting.
G17|IW Financial Expert Survey: Second Quarter 2018|In the IW Financial Expert Survey for the second quarter of 2018 the surveyed experts predict, on average, a steeper yield curve, i.e. a larger increase in the long-term than in the short-term interest rate. Moreover, the average forecasts indicate higher stock market indices, a depreciation of the Euro vis-à-vis the US Dollar, and lower oil prices by the end of the third quarter of 2018. However, despite the expectation of higher interest rates, the short-term interest rate is predicted to remain in negative territory. The 3-month Euribor is, on average, expected to reach -0.31 percent at the end of the third quarter of 2018, while the yield on German government bonds with 10-year maturity is expected to reach 0.81 percent by then. However, the experts do not expect the European Central Bank (ECB) to change the forward guidance of its monetary policy significantly. Stock markets are, on average, expected to increase by 9.2 percent (Stoxx 50) and 8.4 percent (DAX 30) until the end of the third quarter of 2018. During that same period, the experts predict the Euro to depreciate by 2.5 percent vis-à-vis the US Dollar, while oil prices are expected to fall by 7.8 percent. The expectation of an increase in the long rate and a slight increase in the short rate, together with the expected delayed monetary tightening of the ECB, hints at a financial market outlook characterised by a cautious approach to monetary policy normalisation. In this cautious approach, the ECB lets the market determine the first increases in long-term interest rates before it stops intervening at the long end of the yield curve, while keeping the short end of the yield curve lower. This cautious approach to monetary policy normalization is reflected in the projections of the yield curve. Moreover, the experts expect that the development of the Euro and the development of oil prices as well as the development of the stock market will support the ECB's cautious approach to monetary normalization instead of forcing a faster exit from low interest rates. The experts do not expect the ECB to change its forwards guidance in the forthcoming Governing Council meeting. The evaluation of the forecasting performance of the latest forecasts yields the result that Commerzbank and DZ Bank performed best in predicting trends within the long-term ranking, which covers all forecasts from March 2015 to March 2018. DekaBank and Deutsche Bank performed best in the short-term ranking, which covers the surveys for the third and the fourth quarter of 2017 for the 3-months ahead prediction and the survey for the third quarter of 2017 for the 6-month forecasts. When it comes to point prediction, in the long-term evaluation of the period running from March 2015 to March 2018, the experts of National-Bank performed best in predicting all indicators, while the Postbank experts produced the most precise point forecasts for all indicators for the short-term evaluation period.
G17|IW Financial Expert Survey: First Quarter 2018|The IW Financial Expert Survey for the first quarter of 2018 revealed that the surveyed experts predict, on average, higher interest rates and stock market indices, a depreciation of the Euro vis-à-vis the US Dollar, and lower oil prices by the end of the first half of 2018. However, despite the expectation of higher interest rates, the short-term interest rate is predicted to remain in negative territory. Moreover, the experts expect the long-term interest rate to increase more compared to the short-term interest rate, which indicates a steeper yield curve. The 3-month Euribor is, on average, expected to reach -0.30 percent at the end of the second quarter of 2018, while the yield on German government bonds with 10-year maturity is expected to reach 0.60 percent by then. However, the experts do not expect the European Central Bank (ECB) to end net purchases of government bonds in the first half of 2018. The majority of the experts believe that the ECB will end net purchases at the end of 2018. No experts expect the ECB to increase its policy interest rates in 2018 or the first half of 2019. Instead, the majority of experts predict the first interest rate hike for the end of the second quarter of 2019. Some experts even predict a later date. Stock markets are, on average, expected to increase by 5.2 percent (Stoxx 50) and 4.8 percent (DAX 30) during the first half of 2018. During that same period, the experts predict the Euro will depreciate by 2.7 percent vis-à-vis the US Dollar, while oil prices are expected to fall 10.5 percent. The expectation of an increase in the long rate and a slight increase in the short rate, together with the expected delayed monetary tightening of the ECB, hint at a financial market outlook characterised by a cautious approach to monetary normalisation. In this cautious approach, the ECB lets the market determine the first increases in long-term interest rates before it stops in-tervening at the long end of the yield curve, while keeping the short end of the yield curve lower. This approach will prevent an inverted yield curve that would endanger financial stability. The experts' prediction that the ECB will first stop net purchases of government bonds and then lift its key policy interest rates would be consistent with the outlook of a cautious approach to mon-etary normalisation by the ECB. The evaluation of the forecasting performance of the latest forecasts indicates that Com-merzbank and Postbank performed best in predicting trends, while the experts from DZ Bank produced the most precise point forecasts. In the long-term evaluation of the period running from Dec 29 2014 to Dec 29 2017, the DZ Bank experts performed best in predicting trends, while the National Bank experts produced the most precise point forecasts.
G17|Information Rigidities and Exchange Rate Expectations|Sluggish adjustment of expectations to new information is rational in an environment characterized by information costs and signal-to-noise problems. This paper investigates the role of such information rigidities for exchange rate expectations using data from Consensus Economics for eight emerging and industrial economies from 1999 until 2015. Our results provide strong support for this view showing that the inclusion of forecast updates largely accounts for otherwise detected biases in expectation errors. Moreover, we detect little evidence for a systematic effect of fundamentals or uncertainty measures on exchange rate disagreement. Structural shocks do not appear to lead to any systematic increase in disagreement which illustrates the importance of noisy information models.
G17|IW Financial Expert Survey: Fourth Quarter 2018|The experts of the IW Financial Expert Survey predict a steeper yield curve with a larger increase in long-term than in short-term interest rates by the end of the first quarter of 2019. Moreover, the average forecasts indicate higher stock market indices, a mild depreciation of the Euro vis-à-vis the US-Dollar with a larger appreciation in the first quarter of 2019. Moreover, the experts predict a larger drop in oil prices by the end of the first quarter of 2019. However, despite the expectation of higher interest rates, the short-term interest rate is predicted to remain in negative territory. The 3-month Euribor is, on average, expected to reach -0.27 percent at the end of the first quarter of 2019, while the yield on German government bonds with 10-year maturity is expected to reach 0.75 percent by then. Stock markets are, on average, expected to increase by 5.5 percent (Stoxx) and 7.6 percent (DAX) by the end of the first quarter of 2019. During that same period, the experts predict a mild depreciation of the Euro by 0.4 percent vis-à-vis the US Dollar by the end of the year followed by an appreciation of 1.6 percent by the end of the first quarter of 2019. In addition to that, the experts predict oil prices to drop by 7.3 percent in the forthcoming six months. The expectation of an increase in the long rate and a slight increase in the short rate hints at a financial market outlook characterised by a cautious approach to monetary normalisation. In this cautious approach, the ECB lets the market determine the first increases in long-term interest rates before it stops intervening at the long end of the yield curve, while keeping the short end of the yield curve lower. This cautious approach to monetary policy normalization is reflected in the projection of the yield curve. Moreover, the experts expect that the development of the Euro and the development of oil prices as well as the development of the stock market will support the ECB's cautious approach to monetary normalization instead of forcing a faster exit from low interest rates. These expectations are in line with the experts' view on the ECB's forward guidance. Most experts expect the ECB to state at its December 2018 press conference that it expects inflation to converge towards the policy objective of an inflation rate of lower, but close to 2 percent. Moreover, they expect the ECB to state that monetary policy stimulus is still necessary for reaching its policy target. The experts agree that the key policy interest rates will remain at their current levels at least until the summer of 2019 as highlighted by the ECB and most of the surveyed experts expect the ECB to end net asset purchases by the end of the year, but also to reinvest the principle payments from maturing securities. The evaluation of the forecasting performance of the latest forecasts yielded the result that Commerbank and Hamburger Sparkasse performed best in predicting trends in the long-term ranking, which covers all forecasts from June 2014 to June 2018. When it comes to point prediction, in the long-term evaluation of the period running from June 2014 to June 2018, the experts of National-Bank performed best in predicting all indicators.
G17|How to intervene in foreign exchange market without buying/selling dollars?|The Emerging Market Economies are vulnerable to adverse external shocks. Such shocks cause excessive volatility in foreign exchange markets. Faced with high volatility, the central banks in EMEs often end up, in futility, depleting their foreign exchange reserves by selling dollars to restore stability. Few central banks use currency-options based intervention to contain volatility and anchor market expectations. In the Indian context, this paper demonstrates that such options-based intervention policies can be considered to contain excessive volatility and anchoring market expectations. Using the risk-neutral densities extracted from currency options data, it is demonstrated that certain options-trading strategy can be effective in stabilizing markets. Therefore, options-based intervention may be a viable policy alternative, which is more cost-effective than the conventional spot-market intervention.
G17|IW Financial Expert Survey: Third Quarter 2018|The experts of the IW Financial Expert Survey predict a steeper yield curve with a larger increase in long-term than in short-term interest rates by the end of 2018. Moreover, the average forecasts indicate higher stock market indices, a mild depreciation of the Euro vis-à-vis the US-Dollar, but a larger drop in oil prices by the end of the fourth quarter of 2018. However, despite the expectation of higher interest rates, the short-term interest rate is predicted to remain in negative territory. The 3-month Euribor is, on average, expected to reach -0.31 percent at the end of the fourth quarter of 2018, while the yield on German government bonds with 10-year maturity is expected to reach 0.75 percent by then. Stock markets are, on average, expected to increase by 6.8 percent (Stoxx 50) and 9.4 percent (DAX 30) until the end of the year 2018. During that same period, the experts predict a mild depreciation of the Euro by 0.89 percent vis-à-vis the US Dollar, while oil prices are expected to drop by 9.0 percent. The expectation of an increase in the long rate and a slight increase in the short rate, together with the expected delayed monetary tightening of the ECB, hint at a financial market outlook characterised by a cautious approach to monetary normalisation. In this cautious approach, the ECB lets the market determine the first increases in long-term interest rates before it stops intervening at the long end of the yield curve, while keeping the short end of the yield curve lower. This cautious approach to monetary policy normalization is reflected in the projection of the yield curve. Moreover, the experts expect that the development of the Euro and the development of oil prices as well as the development of the stock market will support the ECB's cautious approach to monetary normalization instead of forcing a faster exit from low interest rates. Each quarter we ask the participants alternating questions on current topics. At this time, we were interested in their opinion on the proposed Euro area reforms. The majority of the surveyed experts is of the opinion that a European monetary fund is needed in the Euro area. Moreover, a majority of the same size thinks that macroprudential policies are worthwhile for stabilizing the Euro area. In addition to that, the same majority sees the need for insolvency proce-dures for states. A small number of experts only sees a European finance minister and the introduction of sovereign-bond-backed securities as worthwhile. These proposals have the highest number of experts who think of them as counter-productive. The evaluation of the forecasting performance of the latest forecasts yielded the result that Deutsche Bank performed best in predicting trends in the long-term ranking, which covers all forecasts from March 2015 to March 2018. The experts of Deutsche Bank also performed best in the short-term ranking, which covers the surveys from December 2017 and March 2018 for the 3-months ahead prediction and the survey for December 2017 for the 6-month forecasts. When it comes to point prediction, in the long-term evaluation of the period running from March 2015 to March 2018, the experts of National-Bank performed best in predicting all indicators, while the Commerzbank experts produced the most precise point forecasts for all indicators for the short-term evaluation period.
G17|Momentumeffekt: Eine empirische Analyse der DAXsector Indizes des deutschen Prime Standards|[Zielsetzung und Abgrenzung] Ziel dieser Arbeit ist es herauszufinden, ob der Momentumeffekt weiterhin auch auf dem deutschen Kapitalmarkt existiert. Die Analyse wird für die Untersuchungsperiode 2004 bis 2015 anhand der 18 Sektorindizes des Prime Standards der Deutschen Börse AG analog zu den Beobachtungen von Momentumeffekten bei Aktienwerten vorgenommen. Es wird untersucht, ob ein Momentumeffekt auch bei Betrachtung verschiedener Industriesektoren vorzufinden ist. Die primäre Zielstellung der vorliegenden Arbeit ist Beantwortung der folgenden zentralen Forschungsfrage: „Lässt sich ein Momentumeffekt bei den deutschen Sektorindizes (DAXsector Indizes) beobachten?“ Ausgehend von dieser Fragestellung wird die folgende Arbeitshypothese abgeleitet: „Wenn ein sektorenbezogener Momentumeffekt für den betrachteten Untersuchungszeitraum nachgewiesen wird, dann lassen sich aufgrund von historischen Informationen abnormale Renditen generieren.“ Darüber hinaus ergeben sich aufgrund des Untersuchungsdesigns weitere Möglichkeiten der Detailierung. Folgende Teilfragen ergeben sich aus der zentralen Forschungsfrage: * Teilfrage 1: „Existieren Größenunterschiede zwischen den gebildeten Portfolios?“ * Teilfrage 2: „Existieren beim Vorliegen eines Momentumeffekts unterschiedliche Ausprägungen zwischen den einzelnen Sektoren des Prime Standards?“ Des Weiteren soll diese Untersuchung dazu dienen, den vorhandenen Forschungsstand zu reflektieren und den Momentumeffekt gezielt für den deutschen Kapitalmarkt anhand der ausgewählten Sektorindizes zu untersuchen.
G17|Systemic risk for financial institutions of major petroleum-based economies: The role of oil|This paper examines the relationship between oil price movements and systemic risk of many financial institutions in major petroleum-based economies. We estimate ΔCoVaR for those institutions and thereby observe the presence of elevated increases in the levels corresponding to the subprime and global financial crises. The results provide evidence in favour of a better risk measurement by accounting for oil returns in the risk functions. The estimated spread between the standard CoVaR and the CoVaR that includes oil is absorbed in a time range that is longer than the duration of the oil shocks. This indicates that the drop in oil prices has a longer effect on risk and requires more time to be discounted by the financial institutions. To support the analysis, we consider other major market-based systemic risk measures.
G17|Microfinance – Once and Today|The paper sketches the history of the German savings and cooperative banks of the 19th century and that of modern microfinance in developing and transition countries of today and explores the parallels that exist between these two histories. One result is that the German savings and cooperative banks of the 19th century can rightly be regarded as precursors of modern microfinance. Another result, that also contains important practical and policy-relevant implications, is that the success of both the German popular banks of the 19th century and of a number of today’s microfinance institutions is due to a strategic shift undertaken quite early in their respective development: They have both abandoned their initial two-way specialization of offering only one type of financial services – either only loans or only deposit facilities – and of only addressing really poor people and very small businesses and instead adopted the role of genuine financial intermediaries, that offer loans and take clients’ deposits, and broadened the spectrum of clients they aspire to reach, such that they have become truly inclusive financial institutions.
G17|IW Financial Expert Survey: 2. Quartal 2017|Das IW Köln hat im 2. Quartal 2017 den Prognosetest des Zentrums für Europäische Wirtschaftsforschung (ZEW) übernommen. Dieses führte seit Anfang 2001 quartalsweise diese Umfrage unter Finanzmarktexperten mit dem Ziel durch, der Öffentlichkeit einen Überblick über die Prognosen der Banken und deren Prognosegüte zu geben. Der Prognosetest heißt nun IW Financial Expert Survey. Um eine Kontinuität der Ergebnisse zu gewährleisten, hat das IW die Methodik des ZEW übernommen. Die zu prognostizierenden Größen sind weiterhin der Kurzfristzins, der Langfristzins, der Dow Jones Stoxx 50 Index, der DAX, der EUR/USD-Wechselkurs (US-Dollar pro 1 Euro) sowie der Ölpreis in US-Dollar. Die Auswertung der Befragungsergebnisse zeigt, dass die befragten Experten bis zum Ende des dritten Quartals 2017 im Durchschnitt einen Anstieg des kurzfristigen Zinses auf -0,29 Prozent und einen Anstieg des langfristigen Zinses auf 0,56 Prozent erwarten. Die Experten erwarten, dass der Zinsanstieg von einer Stagnation der Aktienkurse, einer Abwertung des Euro gemessen in US-Dollar um -2,3 Prozent sowie eines Anstiegs des Ölpreises um 3,1 Prozent begleitet wird. Bei der Auswertung der Prognosegüte aller 3- und 6-Monatsprognosen der befragten Experten für den Zeitraum vom dritten Quartal 2014 bis zum ersten Quartal 2017 erzielten die Prognostiker der Commerzbank mit 62,7 Prozent richtigen Vorhersagen den ersten Platz, gefolgt von den Experten der Hamburger Sparkasse (61,1 Prozent) und der UniCredit (58,7 Prozent). Bester Punktprognostiker ist die National-Bank, gefolgt von der Commerzbank und der Nord/LB.
G17|Does investor attention matter? The attention-return relation in gold futures market|The authors investigate multiplicate relationships between investor attention and gold futures return. The Vector Auto Regression (VAR) estimates demonstrate that investor attention exhibits significant impact on gold futures returns and the effect can be positive or negative depending on how much time has elapsed since this effect. Reversely, VAR results demonstrate past gold return typically has a sizable impact on investor attention with a positive coefficient. Following the findings, they investigate the influences of four types of interaction terms and the results suggest that the attention-return relationship is significantly altered by past return, past trader positions, the severity of past attention, and the presence of extreme economic conditions. The authors also find that investor attention is closely associated with futures basis, indicating that investor attention incorporates meaningful information about expected futures prices, thus providing an alternative explanation of economic rationale for the attention-return relationship. The asset allocation exercise demonstrates substantial economic value by implementing information from investor attention.
G17|Fundamentals unknown: Momentum, mean-reversion and price-to-earnings trading in an artificial stock market|The use of fundamentalist traders in the stock market models is problematic since fundamental values in the real world are unknown. Yet, in the literature to date, fundamentalists are often required to replicate key stylized facts. The authors present an agent-based model of the stock market in which the fundamental value of the asset is unknown. They start with a zero intelligence stock market model with a limit-order-book. Then, the authors add technical traders which switch between a simple momentum and mean reversion strategy depending on its relative profitability. Technical traders use the price to earnings ratio as a proxy for fundamentals. If price to earnings are either too high or too low, they sell or buy, respectively.
G17|Scenario-based capital requirements for the interest rate risk of insurance companies|The Solvency II standard formula measures interest rate risk based on two stress scenarios which are supposed to reflect the 1-in-200 year event over a 12-month time horizon. The calibration of these scenarios appears much too optimistic when comparing them against historical yield curve movements. This article demonstrates that interest rate risk is measured more accurately when using a (vector) autoregressive process together with a GARCH process for the residuals. In line with the concept of a pragmatic standard formula, the calculation of the Value-at-Risk can be boiled down to 4 scenarios, which are elicited with a Principal Component Analysis (PCA), at the cost of a relatively small measurement error.
