G22|La rentabilité technique des organismes d’assurance-vie et mixtes établis en France|Le secteur de l’assurance-vie a collecté 137 milliards d’euros de primes en 2017 et a dégagé 6 milliards d’euros de résultat technique. Les contrats d’épargne en euros continuent à représenter la plus grande partie du chiffre d’affaires (54% du total) et du résultat technique (55%). Pour autant, compte tenu de la conjoncture actuelle de taux d’intérêt, les assureurs favorisent la souscription d’unités de compte car elles génèrent une exigence réglementaire en fonds propres significativement inférieure à celle des engagements en euros. En effet, le risque de perte en capital sur les unités de compte est supporté par les assurés. L’assurance décès (contrats d’assurance prévoyance, notamment emprunteur) ne représente qu’une petite partie du chiffre d’affaires des assureurs vie (9%), mais génère 30% du résultat technique du secteur. L’assurance décès affiche ainsi un solde de souscription (net de charges d’acquisition et de gestion) nettement supérieur à celui des autres lignes d’activité. De plus, les bénéfices techniques et financiers générés par l’assurance décès sont essentiellement redistribués à d’autres catégories d’engagements via le mécanisme de participation aux résultats. Les frais d’acquisition et d’administration engagés en 2017 sont les plus faibles sur les contrats d’assurance-vie collective (principalement d’assurance retraite) pour lesquelles ils représentent 0,3% des provisions d’assurance-vie. A l’exception de l’assurance en cas de décès, les frais s’élèvent en 2017 de 0,5% à 0,9% des encours environ pour les autres catégories.
G22|La rentabilité technique des organismes d’assurance non-vie en 2017|Les organismes d’assurance non-vie en France dégagent en 2017 un résultat technique global de 4,2 milliards d’euros pour 66,9 milliards d’euros de primes acquises. La bonne tenue du marché de l’assurance non-vie passe non seulement par un chiffre d’affaires en augmentation en 2017 de 2,3% mais également par des charges d’acquisition et de gestion nettes qui se maintiennent à 23% des primes. Ainsi, le ratio combiné1 de l’ensemble du secteur, toutes branches d’activité confondues, s’élève en 2017 à 97%. Les principales branches d’assurance - dommages corporels, assurance automobile, assurance de biens et responsabilité civile - affichent un résultat technique positif qui s’élève à 3,3 milliards d’euros. Il existe cependant un déséquilibre structurel en assurances de dommages corporels entre les contrats individuels affichant un résultat de 1,1 milliard d’euros et les contrats collectifs sur lesquels aucun excédent technique n’est dégagé. Bien que l’assurance automobile - dommages et responsabilité civile - centralise presque un tiers de l’ensemble des primes, le résultat technique ne s’élève qu’à 534 M€ sur ce segment très concurrentiel. Enfin, les assurances de dommages aux biens et de responsabilité civile réalisent respectivement un résultat technique de l’ordre de 1,3 milliard d’euros et 0,4 milliard d’euros. Certaines branches d’activités font figure d’exception. En particulier, le résultat des garanties catastrophes naturelles reste affecté par les événements climatiques d’une année 2017 marquée par une sécheresse exceptionnelle et des cyclones particulièrement violents dans les Antilles. Ainsi, le montant des prestations augmente fortement (+136%) en 2017. Le volume des primes progresse de 3,5%. Le ratio combiné de cette branche d’activité passe ainsi de 98% en 2016 à 200% en 2017. Les mécanismes de transfert de risques ont cependant fonctionné puisque le solde de réassurance de cette branche devient positif en 2017 (en hausse de 186%).
G22|Central counterparty capitalization and misaligned incentives|Financial stability depends on the effective regulation of central counterparties (CCPs), which must take account of the incentives that drive CCP behavior. This paper studies the incentives of a for-profit CCP with limited liability. It faces a trade-off between fee income and counterparty credit risk. A better-capitalized CCP sets a higher collateral requirement to reduce potential default losses, even though it forgoes fee income by deterring potential traders. I show empirically that a 1% increase in CCP capital is associated with a 0.6% increase in required collateral. Limited liability, however, creates a wedge between its capital and collateral policy and the socially optimal solution to this trade-off. The optimal capital requirements should account for clearing fees.
G22|Over-the-Counter Market Liquidity and Securities Lending|This paper studies how over-the-counter market liquidity is affected by securities lending. We combine micro-data on corporate bond market trades with securities lending transactions and individual corporate bond holdings by U.S. insurance companies. Applying a difference-in-differences empirical strategy, we show that the shutdown of AIG's securities lending program in 2008 caused a statistically and economically significant reduction in the market liquidity of corporate bonds predominantly held by AIG. We also show that an important mechanism behind the decrease in corporate bond liquidity was a shift towards relatively small trades among a greater number of dealers in the interdealer market. (Copyright: Elsevier)
G22|A disaster under-(re)insurance puzzle: Home bias in disaster risk-bearing|The losses from the 2011 earthquakes in Japan remained in Japan, while reinsurance spread the losses from that year’s New Zealand earthquake to the rest of the world.This paper finds that the Japanese case is more typical: losses from natural disasters are shared internationally to a generally very limited extent. This finding of home bias in disaster risk-bearing poses a puzzle of international risk-sharing. We decompose international risk-sharing into the portion of losses insured and the portion ofinsurance that is internationally re-insured. We find that the failure of international risk-sharing begins at home with low participation in insurance. Regression analysis points to economic development and institutional/legal quality as important determinants of insurance participation. We propose a new method to measure international reinsurance payments with balance of payments data. This method identifies for the first time the cross-border flow of reinsurance payments to 88 economies that experienced insured disasters in the 1985–2017 period. Regression analysis of these data points to small size and de facto financial integration as positively related to the reinsurance share, as one might expect. However, we also find that more internationally wealthy economies reinsure less, suggesting that net foreign assets substitute for international sharing of disaster risk. For advanced economies, a lack of international risk-sharing is correlated with a lack of fiscal space. Thus, the governments under more pressure to provide ex post government insurance through the budget have less room to manoeuvre to do so. At high levels of public debt, a lack of ex ante insurance can turn disaster risk into financial risk.
G22|Have FSRs got news for you? Evidence from the impact of Financial Stability Reports on market activity|We investigate the impact that the publication of the Bank of England’s Financial Stability Report (FSR) has on the stock returns and credit default swap spreads of UK financial institutions. Examining a sample of 73 UK-listed banks and other financial institutions, we find that publication of the FSR is, on average, associated with no abnormal returns. We extend our analysis to examine the extent to which policies and the sentiment in the FSR are predictable, which would explain the observed lack of abnormal returns. We find that both sentiment and announced policies are predictable. We also examine the extent to which the release of the FSR reduces information asymmetry in financial markets, but do not find strong evidence.
G22|System-wide stress simulation|We present a model for assessing how the UK’s system of market-based finance — an increasingly important source of credit to the real economy since the financial crisis — might behave under stress. The core of this model is a set of representative agents, which correspond to key sectors of the UK’s financial system. These agents interact in asset, funding (repo), and derivatives markets and face a range of solvency and liquidity constraints on their behaviour. Our model generates ‘tipping points’ such that, if shocks are large, or if headroom relative to constraints is small, lower asset prices can cause solvency/liquidity constraints to bind, resulting in forced deleveraging and large endogenous illiquidity premia. We illustrate such an outcome via a stress scenario in which a deteriorating corporate sector outlook coincides with tighter leverage limits at key intermediaries. Our findings highlight the key role played by broker-dealers, commercial banks, investment funds and life insurers in shaping these dynamics.
G22|Has banks' monitoring of other banks strengthened post-crisis? Evidence from the European overnight market|Using the Eurosystem’s proprietary interbank loan data from more than one thousand banks, practically all major banks in Europe for 2008-2016, we show that larger European banks have had a lower cost of overnight borrowing than smaller banks. The size premium remains significant after controlling for time, relationship lending, competitive environment of lenders, and bank risk characteristics but has decreased over time in countries that were stricken by the Sovereign Debt Crisis. Further, the ultra-short maturity of the overnight loans and the daily frequency at which we measure them provide for an ideal setting to use difference-in-differences analysis to study the potential effect of the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD) on the size premium in overnight rates and to avoid possible simultaneity problems. However, we find that changes in the size premium cannot be related to the implementation dates of the BRRD in different member countries.
G22|Affordability, Financial Innovation and the Start of the Housing Boom|At their peak in 2005, roughly 60 percent of all purchase mortgage loans originated in the United States contained at least one non-traditional feature. These features, which allowed borrowers easier access to credit through teaser interest rates, interest-only or negative amortization periods, and extended payment terms, have been the subject of much regulatory and popular criticism. In this paper, we construct a novel county-level dataset to analyze the relationship between rising house prices and non-traditional features of mortgage contracts. We apply a break-point methodology and find that in housing markets with breaks in the mid-2000s, a strong rise in the use of non-traditional mortgages preceded the start of the housing boom. Furthermore, their rise was coupled with declining denial rates and a shift from FHA to subprime mortgages. Our findings support the view that a change in mortgage contract availability and a shift toward subprime borrowers helped to fuel the rise of house prices during the last decade.
G22|The introduction of formal insurance and its effect on redistribution|Transfers motivated by altruism, norms of giving, and guilt play an important role in supporting individuals who suffer losses due to risk. We present empirical evidence from an artefactual field experiment in Ethiopia in which we introduce formal insurance in a setting where donors make redistributive transfers to anonymously paired recipients. We find that donors reduce their transfers to recipients who don’t take-up insurance, and that this effect is larger for donors who hold the ex ante belief that the recipient is more likely to take-up insurance. The findings are consistent with a model of a norm of giving where donors feel guilty for deviating from the norm. The feelings of guilt decline with the expected social distance, that is revealed by the recipients’ observable insurance uptake decisions. The model highlights how the introduction of formal insurance may erode norms of giving and lead vulnerable groups to face more volatile consumption.
G22|Insurance with a deductible. A way out of the long term care insurance|Long-term care (LTC) is one of the largest uninsured risks facing the elderly. In this paper, we first survey the standard causes of what has been dubbed the LTC insurance puzzle and then suggest that a possible way out of this puzzle is to make the reimbursement formula less threatening for those who fear a too long period of dependence. We adopt a reimbursement formula resting on Arrow’s theorem of the deductible, i.e. that it is optimal to focus insurance coverage on the states with largest expenditures. It implies full self-insurance coverage on the states with largest expenditures. It implies full self-insurance for the first years of dependency followed by full insurance thereafter. We show that this result remains at work with ex post moral hazard.
G22|The Roots of Health Inequality and The Value of Intra-Family Expertise|Mounting evidence documents a stark correlation between income and health, yet the causal mechanisms behind this gradient are poorly understood. This paper examines the impact of access to expertise on health, and whether unequal access to expertise contributes to the health-income gradient. Our empirical setting, Sweden, allows us to shut down inequality in formal access to health care; we first document that strong socioeconomic gradients nonetheless persist. Second, we study the effect of access to health-related expertise – captured by the presence of a health professional in the extended family – on health. Exploiting “admissions lotteries” into medical schools and variation in the timing of degrees, we show that access to intra-family medical expertise has far-reaching health consequences, at all ages: It raises longevity, improves drug adherence and reduces the occurrence of lifestyle-related disease in adulthood, raises vaccination rates in adolescence, and reduces tobacco exposure in utero. Third, we show that the effects of expertise are larger at the lower end of the income distribution – precisely where access to expertise is scarcer. Unequal access to health-related expertise can account for as much as 18% of the health-SES gradient, and may thus play a significant role in sustaining health inequality.
G22|Can Risk Be Shared Across Investor Cohorts? Evidence from a Popular Savings Product|This paper shows how one of the most popular savings products in Europe -- life insurance financial products -- shares market risk across investor cohorts. Insurers smooth returns by varying reserves that offset fluctuations in asset returns. Reserves are passed on between successive investor cohorts, causing redistribution across cohorts. Using regulatory and survey data on the 1.4 trillion euro French market, we estimate this redistribution to be quantitatively large: 1.4% of savings value per year on average, or 0.8% of GDP. These findings challenge a large theoretical literature that assumes inter-cohort risk sharing is impossible. We develop and provide evidence for a model in which the elasticity of investor demand to predictable returns determines the amount of risk sharing that is possible. The evidence is consistent with low elasticity, sustaining inter-cohort risk sharing despite predictable returns. Demand elasticity is higher for investors with a larger investment amount, suggesting that low investor sophistication enables inter-cohort risk sharing.
G22|The Gains of Ignoring Risk: Insurance with Better Informed Principals|We study a competitive insurance market in which insurers have an imperfect informative advantage over policyholders. We show that the presence of insurers privately and heterogeneously informed about risk can explain the concentration levels, the persistent profitability and the pooling of risk observed in some insurance markets. Furthermore, we find that a lower market concentration may entail an increase in insurance premia
G22|Insurers’ investment strategies: pro- or countercyclical?|Traditionally, insurers are seen as stabilisers of financial markets that act countercyclically by buying assets whose price falls. Recent studies challenge this view by providing empirical evidence of procyclicality. This paper sheds new light on the underlying reasons for these opposing views. Our model predicts procyclicality when prices fall due to increasing risk premia, and countercyclicality in response to rises in the risk-free rate. Using granular data on insurers’ government bond holdings, we validate these predictions empirically. Our findings contribute to the current policy discussion on macroprudential measures beyond banking. JEL Classification: G01, G11, G12, G22, G23
G22|Can Risk Be Shared Across Investor Cohorts? Evidence from a Popular Savings Product|This paper shows how one of the most popular savings products in Europe--life insurance financial products--shares market risk across investor cohorts. Insurers smooth returns by varying reserves that offset fluctuations in asset returns. Reserves are passed on between successive investor cohorts, causing redistribution across cohorts. Using regulatory and survey data on the 1.4 trillion euro French market, we estimate this redistribution to be quantitatively large: 1.4% of savings value per year on average, or 0.8% of GDP. These findings challenge a large theoretical literature that assumes inter-cohort risk sharing is impossible. We develop and provide evidence for a model in which the elasticity of investor demand to predictable returns determines the amount of risk sharing that is possible. The evidence is consistent with low elasticity, sustaining inter-cohort risk sharing despite predictable returns. Demand elasticity is higher for investors with a larger investment amount, suggesting that low investor sophistication enables inter-cohort risk sharing.
G22|How Financial Management Affects Institutional Investorsâ€™ Portfolio Choices: Evidence from Insurers|Many institutional investors depend on the returns they generate to fund their operations and liabilities. How does these investorsâ€™ demand for capital affect the management of their portfolios? We address this issue using the insurance industry because insurers are large investors for which detailed portfolio data are available, and can face financial shocks from exogenous weather-related events. We find that insurers with more financial flexibility have larger portfolio weights on riskier and more illiquid assets, and have higher realized returns. Among corporate bonds, for which we can control for regulatory treatment, we find that more financially flexible insurers have larger portfolio weights on riskier and more illiquid corporate bonds. Following losses, P&C insurers decrease allocations to riskier corporate bonds. The effect of losses on allocations is likely to be causal since it holds when instrumenting for P&C losses with weather shocks. The change in allocations following losses is larger for more financially constrained insurers and during the financial crisis, suggesting that the shift toward less risky securities is driven by concerns about financial flexibility. The results highlight the importance of financial flexibility to fund operations in institutional investorsâ€™ portfolio decisions.
G22|Is There a Demand for Reverse Mortgages in China? Evidence from Two Online Surveys|Reverse mortgages provide an alternative source of retirement funding by allowing older homeowners to borrow against their home. However, a recent pilot program of reserve mortgage products in several large Chinese cities saw almost no take up. To ascertain the demand for reverse mortgages in China, a survey was conducted and analysed two online surveys that focus respectively on homeowners aged 45-65 as potential purchasers, and on adult children in the 20-49 age group representing children of potential purchasers. It addressed the reported shortcomings of the pilot reverse mortgage product by testing an improved product design presented in a clear and comprehensive format. In stark contrast, It was found that 89% of older Chinese homeowners would be interested in this new reverse mortgage product, and 84% of adult children would recommend such a product to their parents. Participants in both surveys reported that they would use the reverse mortgage payments to fund a more comfortable retirement and to pay for better medical treatments and aged care services. Respondents' interest in reverse mortgages was associated with their familiarity and understanding of the product, and its perceived potential to address liquidity constraints in retirement. Health status, aged care preferences and proxies for intergenerational links were also important. The results are contrary to the common perception of intergenerational expectations of wealth transfer in China, and provide new evidence in support of the potential development of China's reverse mortgage market.
G22|Market Inefficiency and Household Labor Supply: Evidence from Social Security’s Survivors Benefits|We study the effects of the Social Security survivors benefits program on household labor supply and the efficiency implications for insurance and credit markets. We use U.S. population tax records and exploit a sharp age discontinuity in benefit eligibility for identification. We find that eligibility induces considerable reductions in labor supply both among newly-widowed households in the immediate post-shock periods and among already-widowed households whose benefit receipt is entirely predictable. The evidence points to liquidity constraints, rather than myopia, as a leading operative mechanism underlying household responses to anticipated benefits. Our findings identify important inefficiencies in the life insurance market and in the allocation of credit. Our results further highlight the protective insurance role of the social program and the importance of liquidity provided by the government, and they suggest potential gains from expanding and smoothing the program’s benefit schedule.
G22|Decentralized Mining in Centralized Pools|The rise of centralized mining pools for risk sharing does not necessarily undermine the decentralization required for public blockchains. However, mining pools as a financial innovation significantly escalates the arms race among competing miners and thus increases the energy consumption of proof-of-work-based blockchains. Each individual miner's cross-pool diversification and endogenous fees charged by pools generally sustain decentralization --- larger pools better internalize their externality on global hash rates, charge higher fees, attract disproportionately fewer miners, and thus grow slower. Empirical evidence from Bitcoin mining supports our model predictions, and the economic insights apply to many other blockchain protocols, as well as mainstream industries with similar characteristics.
G22|The Roots of Health Inequality and the Value of Intra-Family Expertise|"Mounting evidence documents a stark correlation between income and health, yet the causal mechanisms behind this gradient are poorly understood. This paper examines the impact of access to expertise on health, and whether unequal access to expertise contributes to the health-income gradient. Our empirical setting, Sweden, allows us to shut down inequality in formal access to health care; we first document that strong socioeconomic gradients nonetheless persist. Second, we study the effect of access to health-related expertise -- captured by the presence of a health professional in the extended family -- on health. Exploiting ""admissions lotteries"" into medical schools and variation in the timing of degrees, we show that access to intra-family medical expertise has far-reaching health consequences, at all ages: It raises longevity, improves drug adherence and reduces the occurrence of lifestyle-related disease in adulthood, raises vaccination rates in adolescence, and reduces tobacco exposure in utero. Third, we show that the effects of expertise are larger at the lower end of the income distribution -- precisely where access to expertise is scarcer. Unequal access to health-related expertise can account for as much as 18% of the health-SES gradient, and may thus play a significant role in sustaining health inequality."
G22|The Role of Financial Conditions in Portfolio Choices: The Case of Insurers|Many institutional investors depend on the returns they generate to fund their operations and liabilities. How do these investors’ financial conditions affect the management of their portfolios? We address this issue using the insurance industry because insurers are large investors for which detailed portfolio data are available, and can face financial shocks from exogenous weather-related events. Results suggest that more constrained insurers have smaller portfolio weights on riskier and illiquid assets, and have lower realized returns. Among corporate bonds, for which we can control for regulatory treatment, results suggest that more constrained insurers have smaller portfolio weights on riskier corporate bonds. Following operating losses, P&C insurers decrease allocations to riskier corporate bonds. The effect of losses on allocations is likely to be causal since it holds when instrumenting for P&C losses with weather shocks. The change in allocations following losses is larger for more constrained insurers and during the financial crisis, suggesting that the shift toward safer securities is driven by concerns about financial flexibility. The results highlight the importance of financial flexibility to fund operations in institutional investors’ portfolio decisions.
G22|Job Displacement Insurance and (the Lack of) Consumption-Smoothing|The most common forms of government-mandated job displacement insurance are Severance Pay (SP; lump-sum payments at layoff) and Unemployment Insurance (UI; periodic payments contingent on nonemployment). While there is a vast literature on UI, SP programs have received much less attention, even though they are prevalent across countries and predominant in developing countries. In particular, little is known about their insurance value, which critically relies on workers’ ability to dissave the lump-sum progressively to smooth consumption after layoff. Using de-identified high-frequency expenditure data and matched employee-employer data from Brazil, we find that displaced workers eligible for both UI and SP increase consumption at layoff by 35% despite experiencing a 17% consumption loss after they stop receiving any benefits. Moreover, this sensitivity of consumer spending to cash-on-hand is present across spending categories and sources of variation in UI benefits and SP amounts. We show that a simple structural model with present-biased workers can rationalize our findings, and we use it to illustrate their implications for the incentive-insurance trade-off between SP and UI. Specifically, the insurance value of SP programs – or of other policies that provide liquidity to workers at layoff – can be severely reduced when consumption is over-sensitive to the timing of benefit disbursement, undermining their advantage in terms of job-search incentives. Our findings highlight the importance of the difference between SP and UI in their disbursement policy, and shed new light on the need for job displacement insurance in a developing country context.
G22|How do Humans Interact with Algorithms? Experimental Evidence from Health Insurance|Algorithms increasingly assist consumers in making their purchase decisions across a variety of markets; yet little is known about how humans interact with algorithmic advice. We examine how algorithmic, personalized information affects consumer choice among complex financial products using data from a randomized, controlled trial of decision support software for choosing health insurance plans. The intervention significantly increased plan switching, cost savings, time spent choosing a plan, and choice process satisfaction, particularly when individuals were exposed to an algorithmic expert recommendation. We document systematic selection - individuals who would have responded to treatment the most were the least likely to participate. A model of consumer decision-making suggests that our intervention affected consumers’ signals about both product features (learning) and utility weights (interpretation).
G22|Retirement Policy and Annuity Market Equilibria: Evidence from Chile|Retirement policy has indirect effects on its beneficiaries, through the “crowd-out” or “crowd-in” of insurance markets. We study how retirement policy in Chile, which limits the drawdown of retirement assets but otherwise does not provide or require fixed income in retirement, results in more than 60% of eligible retirees purchasing private annuities at low prices. We estimate a demand model to show that replacing this voluntary policy with partial mandatory annuitization and removing limits on drawdowns causes the private annuity market to partially unravel. Under our model, this reform leads to a welfare increase equivalent to US$4,000 of additional pension savings on average, but welfare effects are heterogenous and many retirees would be harmed due to the higher prices of private annuities. Our results highlight the importance of considering the impact of policy reforms on the equilibria of related markets.
G22|The Two Margin Problem in Insurance Markets|Insurance markets often feature consumer sorting along both an extensive margin (whether to buy) and an intensive margin (which plan to buy). We present a new graphical theoretical framework that extends the workhorse model to incorporate both selection margins simultaneously. A key insight from our framework is that policies aimed at addressing one margin of selection often involve an economically meaningful trade-off on the other margin in terms of prices, enrollment, and welfare. For example, while a larger penalty for opting to remain uninsured reduces the uninsurance rate, it also tends to lead to unraveling of generous coverage because the newly insured are healthier and sort into less generous plans, driving down the relative prices of those plans. While risk adjustment transfers shift enrollment from lower- to higher-generosity plans, they also sometimes increase the uninsurance rate by raising the prices of less generous plans, which are the entry points into the market. We illustrate these trade-offs in an empirical sufficient statistics approach that is tightly linked to the graphical framework. Using data from Massachusetts, we show that in many policy environments these trade-offs can be empirically meaningful and can cause these policies to have unexpected consequences for overall social welfare.
G22|How Does Bancassurance Work in Financial Practice Within the Financial Group Société Générale Group in Selected Countries?| This paper shall evaluate the level of internal integration among bancassurance products and financial institutions belonging to the financial group Société Générale Group in selected countries of Europe. There shall be selected eight countries which are located in Central and Eastern Europe: the Czech Republic, Slovak Republic, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia, Slovenia and Serbia. The research was conducted as of December 2017. This paper aims at determining whether similarities in how the financial group Société Générale Group is organized determine similarities in how bancassurance in the selected countries functions. In order to reach this aim, a critical analysis of bancassurance-related literature shall be performed and a hypothetical basis for the practical evaluation shall be formulated. Characteristics for evaluation of the level of integration inside the financial group, and also within the bancassurance product, shall also be set. In order to evaluate how bancassurance functions in practice, a qualitative research based on data available on web sites and also financial and annual reports shall be used. The qualitative research shall contain a detailed analysis, sorting and a comparison of the set characteristics. Finally, it will be determined which attributes are identical and which are different in the integration of financial groups and bancassurance products.
G22|Shape Factor Asymptotic Analysis I|"The shape factor defined as kurtosis divided by skewness squared K/S^2 is characterized as the only choice among all factors K/〖|S|〗^α ,α>0 which is greater than or equal to 1 for all probability distributions. For a specific distribution family, there may exists α>2 such that min⁡〖K/〖|S|〗^α 〗≥1. The least upper bound of all such α is defined as the distribution’s characteristic number. The useful extreme values of the shape factor for various distributions which are found numerically before, the Beta, Kumaraswamy, Weibull, and GB2 Distribution, are derived using asymptotic analysis. The match of the numerical and the analytical results can be considered prove of each other. The characteristic numbers of these distributions are also calculated. The study of the boundary value of the shape factor, or the shape factor asymptotic analysis, help reveal properties of the original shape factor, and reveal relationship between distributions, such as between the Kumaraswamy distribution and the Weibull distribution."
G22|How Much Do We Save If We Move From Commercial to Social Insurance?|Commercial insurance system acts like a memoryless system in a way that the premiums paid by the policyholders in one accounting period will be of no avail to them during subsequent periods. Here, we argue that if the insurance scheme is implemented as a not-for-profit trust fund (social insurance) instead of a for-profit limited liability company (commercial insurance) then it will effectively and less expensively hedge against unforeseen losses. If the profit of the insurance company is retained instead of being distributed to the stockholders and there is no agency commission then after a certain number of years, all upcoming claims can be addressed from the interest income of the accumulated profit and the policyholders do not need to pay any premium afterwards. Here, we algebraically calculate the time period required to achieve such a perpetual insurance system as the policyholders after a certain period of time, do no longer need to pay any premium in order to get coverage from losses. In the next step, we empirically calculate the required time period to attain a perpetual zero premium insurance scheme for some 20 (twenty) general insurance companies incorporated in Bangladesh.
G22|Prospects And Development Challenges Sharia Insurance In Indonesia|This paper wants to explore more about the prospects and challenges of the development of Islamic insurance in Indonesia. Islamic insurance industry in Indonesia has very good prospects for growth, the demand for insurance products based on shariah will continue to increase. This is supported by a large population of Indonesia and also as the largest Muslim country in the world. However, this industry will also experience a very strong obstacle because of the global economic downturn, as it also conditions the people are not educated about insurance, the free market has begun to be applied, resources are less about Islamic insurance, lack of capital and other on.Therefore it needs the government's role to help to continue to grow, with regulations that support this industry.
G22|A simulation of the insurance industry: The problem of risk model homogeneity|We develop an agent-based simulation of the catastrophe insurance and reinsurance industry and use it to study the problem of risk model homogeneity. The model simulates the balance sheets of insurance firms, who collect premiums from clients in return for ensuring them against intermittent, heavy-tailed risks. Firms manage their capital and pay dividends to their investors, and use either reinsurance contracts or cat bonds to hedge their tail risk. The model generates plausible time series of profits and losses and recovers stylized facts, such as the insurance cycle and the emergence of asymmetric, long tailed firm size distributions. We use the model to investigate the problem of risk model homogeneity. Under Solvency II, insurance companies are required to use only certified risk models. This has led to a situation in which only a few firms provide risk models, creating a systemic fragility to the errors in these models. We demonstrate that using too few models increases the risk of nonpayment and default while lowering profits for the industry as a whole. The presence of the reinsurance industry ameliorates the problem but does not remove it. Our results suggest that it would be valuable for regulators to incentivize model diversity. The framework we develop here provides a first step toward a simulation model of the insurance industry for testing policies and strategies for better capital management.
G22|Development barriers of the private health insurance in Poland|Over past few years, a steady and dynamic development of the private healthcare sector has been observed in Poland. The main underlying factor of this phenomenon is connected with the insufficiency of the public healthcare system. Another factor, which is a desire to satisfy healthcare needs on the high, exclusive level by the richest group of clients, appears to be less significant. The results of regularly carried social research in Poland, under the ?Social Diagnosis? project clearly show that one of the highly appreciated values is health, regardless the social group, the rich and the poor, the elderly and the younger generation. However, the use of private sector services generates high costs, especially in case of chronic diseases or frequent family members? diseases. In such situations private sector services, based on priciples out of pocket, entail high costs which exceed financial capability of many households. In order to meet the expectations, like in developed western economies, private health insurance appeared in Poland about 15 years ago ? being a market response for the social healthcare needs.Despite a countless legal, political and economic obstacles, the area of commercial healthcare insurance is evolving dynamically as a subject of transformation connected with the gradually changing attitude of Poles towards this issue. Insurance companies, in their operating strategies, are devoting more and more space to creating new product offer in terms of cost treatment insurance.Thus, the aim of this research is the analysis of changes, in both the quantity and quality range, which have been noticed recently in the field of commercial healthcare insurances in Poland with the process of all commercial insurances in the background. Particular attention will be paid to the issues of the evolution of risk management in health insurance, and thus change of approach to the offered insurance products.
G22|Underwriting factors in motor insurance|Underwriting is an important element of the assessment and valuation process of insurance risk. The aim of this process is the proper construction of the insurance portfolio by defining criteria indicating the risk appetite by the insurer, at the same time having a real impact on the technical result. Each insurance company specifies its own guidelines on risk tolerance, both regarding the entity and the subject of insurance. What variables are taken into account when determining the risk parity depends on the strategy adopted by the management of the company, guidelines defined within the capital group or simply by the risk appetite. Less restrictive or even other set of parameters is determined if the purpose of the insurance company is to achieve the highest possible gross written premium, understood as collecting the highest value of premium and volume of customers. Other parameters will be considered when the insurance company focuses on achieving a certain profitability index. Still others, when the purpose of the company is to diversify the vehicle portfolio and, for example, to open up to more expensive vehicles.The aim of the study is to show how important for motor insurance is underwriting process conducted by the insurer, what are its elements for MTPL as for casco, and how underwriting process affects the quality of the insurance company's portfolio.
G22|Pay What Your Dad Paid: Commitment and Price Rigidity in the Market for Life Insurance|Life insurance premiums display signiﬁcant rigidity in the data, on average adjusting once every 3 years by more than 10%. This contrasts with the underlying marginal cost which exhibits considerable volatility due to the movements in interest and mortality rates. We build and calibrate a model where policyholders are held-up by long-term insurance contracts, resulting in a time inconsistency problem for the ﬁrms. The optimal contract takes the form of a simple cutoﬀ rule: premiums are rigid for cost realizations smaller than the threshold, while adjustments must be large and are only possible when cost realizations exceed it.
G22|An improved approach for estimating large losses in insurance analytics and operational risk using the g-and-h distribution|In this paper, we study the estimation of parameters for g-and-h distributions. These distributions find applications in modeling highly skewed and fat-tailed data, like extreme losses in the banking and insurance sector. We first introduce two estimation methods: a numerical maximum likelihood technique, and an indirect inference approach with a bootstrap weighting scheme. In a realistic simulation study, we show that indirect inference is computationally more efficient and provides better estimates in case of extreme features of the data. Empirical illustrations on insurance and operational losses illustrate these findings.
G22|Does the pension system’s income statement really matter? A proposal for an NDC scheme with disability and minimum pension benefits|This paper develops a full accounting model for monitoring the solvency of a notional defined contribution (NDC) pension scheme with disability and minimum pension benefits. Using the annual report of the Swedish pension system as a benchmark (TSPS, 2018), we extend the “Swedish” actuarial balance developed by Pérez-Salamero et al. (2017) by adding an income statement which fully explains the reasons behind the changes in the system’s solvency by type of benefit. In line with the reference model, assets and liabilities are measured at present value at each reporting date, and changes in present value are reported in each period as income or expenses and are included on the income statement. Our proposed model is a step forward because it, also, incorporates the changes for disability pensions, the value of change in the discount rate and the explicit recognition of non-contributory rights (NCRs) into the Income statement. This accounting framework integrates both contributory and social aspects of public pensions and discloses the real cost of the disability contingency and the redistribution through minimum pensions. The paper contains a numerical example consisting of an income statement for a (fictional) already-functioning system to illustrate the main differences between the Swedish NDC scheme and our model. Mathematical details are presented in a comprehensive technical appendix.
G22|Risk pooling and ruin probability, or why high risks are not bad risks|The aim of this paper is to show that high risks being bad risks is a misinterpretation. We discuss the role of the risk-bearing capital in the insurance process. In particular, we explicit the link between insurer’s risk, capital, size and composition of an insurance pool. Those parameters have a tangible impact on the insurer’s ruin probability when his size is limited. An additional policyholder may increase the ruin probability, while a specific combination of risk types may produce a significant decrease. Those implications should be considered given the legal requirements relative to the insurer’s insolvency. A strategy that consists in attracting only low-risk agents is not necessarily expedient for an insurer.
G22|Benchmarked Risk Minimizing Hedging Strategies for Life Insurance Policies|Traditional life insurance policies offer no equity investment opportunities for the premium paid, and suffer from low returns over the long insurance terms. Modern equity-linked insurance policies offer equity investment opportunities exposed to equity market risk. To combine the low-risk of traditional policies with the high returns offered by equity-linked policies, we consider insurance policies under the benchmark approach (BA), where the policyholders’ funds are invested in the growth-optimal portfolio and the locally risk-free savings account. Under the BA, life insurance policies can be delivered at their minimal costs, lower than the classical actuarial theory predicts. Due to unhedgeable mortality risk, life insurance policies cannot be fully hedged. In this case benchmarked risk-minimization can be applied to obtain hedging strategies with minimally fluctuating profit and loss processes, where the fluctuations can further be reduced through diversification.
G22|Insurance premium calculation under continuous cumulative prospect theory|We define a premium principle under the continuous cumulative prospect theory which extends the equivalent utility principle. In prospect theory risk attitude and loss aversion are shaped via a value function, whereas a transformation of objective probabilities, which is commonly referred as probability weighting, models probabilistic risk perception. In cumulative prospect theory, probabilities of individual outcomes are replaced by decision weights, which are differences in transformed, through the weighting function, counter-cumulative probabilities of gains and cumulative probabilities of losses, with outcomes ordered from worst to best. Empirical evidence suggests a typical inverse-S shaped function: decision makers tend to overweight small probabilities, and underweight medium and high probabilities; moreover, the probability weighting function is initially concave and then convex. We study some properties of the behavioral premium principle. We also assume an alternative framing of the outcomes; then we discuss several applications to the pricing of insurance contracts.
G22|Absolute momentum, sustainable withdrawal rates and glidepath investing in US retirement portfolios from 1925|A significant part of the development in pension provision in many countries is the emergence of ‘Target Date Funds’ or TDFs. In this paper we examine the proposition of de-risking through life and the guidance offered by TDFs in the decumulation phase following retirement. We investigate the withdrawal experience associated with Glidepath Investing in the US since 1925 for conventional bond-equity portfolios. We find one very powerful conclusion: that smoothing the returns on individual assets by simple absolute momentum or trend following techniques is a potent tool to enhance withdrawal rates, often by as much as 50% per annum! And, perhaps of even greater social relevance is that it removes the ‘left-tail’ of unfortunate withdrawal rate experiences, i.e. the bad luck of a poor sequence of returns early in decumulation. We show that diversifying assets over time by switching between an asset and cash in a systematic way is potentially more important for the retirement income experience than diversifying one’s portfolio across asset classes. We also show that Glidepath investing is only sensible within a few years of the target date. This finding provides succour to enthusiasts for target date investing in the face of the growing hostility in the literature.
G22|Affordability, financial innovation and the start of the housing boom|At their peak in 2005, roughly 60 percent of all purchase mortgage loans originated in the United States contained at least one non-traditional feature. These features, which allowed borrowers easier access to credit through teaser interest rates, interest-only or negative amortization periods, and extended payment terms, have been the subject of much regulatory and popular criticism. In this paper, we construct a novel county-level dataset to analyze the relationship between rising house prices and non-traditional features of mortgage contracts. We apply a break-point methodology and find that in housing markets with breaks in the mid-2000s, a strong rise in the use of non-traditional mortgages preceded the start of the housing boom. Furthermore, their rise was coupled with declining denial rates and a shift from FHA to subprime mortgages. Our findings support the view that a change in mortgage contract availability and a shift toward subprime borrowers helped to fuel the rise of house prices during the last decade.
G22|Impact of Green Bond Policies on Insurers: Evidence from the European Equity Market|This article empirically investigates whether the introduction of green bond policies by insurance companies have a positive impact on their equity prices. To this aim, the sample of listed (re)insurers in Europe using monthly data for years 2012 – 2019 is employed. Announcements, press releases and semi-annual or annual reports are used to determine when the insurance companies committed to a green investment, issuance of green bonds or launching a green fund. Our results suggest that market investors positively price introducing such a policies for the issuance of green bonds or launching a green fund. However, the same results were not confirmed for initial investments in green bonds.
G22|Is There a Demand for Reverse Mortgages in China? Evidence from Two Online Surveys|Reverse mortgages provide an alternative source of retirement funding by allowing older homeowners to borrow against their home. However, a recent pilot program of reserve mortgage products in several large Chinese cities saw almost no take up. To ascertain the demand for reverse mortgages in China, we conduct and analyze two online surveys that focus respectively on homeowners aged 45-65 as potential purchasers, and on adult children in the 20-49 age group representing children of potential purchasers. We address the reported shortcomings of the pilot reverse mortgage product by testing an improved product design presented in a clear and comprehensive format. In stark contrast, we find that 89% of older Chinese homeowners would be interested in this new reverse mortgage product, and 84% of adult children would recommend such a product to their parents. Participants in both surveys reported that they would use the reverse mortgage payments to fund a more comfortable retirement and to pay for better medical treatments and aged care services. Respondents' interest in reverse mortgages was associated with their familiarity and understanding of the product, and its perceived potential to address liquidity constraints in retirement. Health status, aged care preferences and proxies for intergenerational links were also important. Our results are contrary to the common perception of intergenerational expectations of wealth transfer in China, and provide new evidence in support of the potential development of China's reverse mortgage market.
G22|Variable Annuities: Underlying Risks and Sensitivities|This paper presents a quantitative model designed to understand the sensitivity of variable annuity (VA) contracts to market and actuarial assumptions and how these sensitivities make them a potentially important source of risk to insurance companies during times of stress. VA contracts often include long dated guarantees of market performance that expose the insurer to multiple nondiversifiable risks. Our modeling framework employs a Monte Carlo simulation of asset returns and policyholder behavior to derive fair prices for variable annuities in a risk neutral framework and to estimate sensitivities of reserve requirements under a real‐world probability measure. Simulated economic scenarios are applied to four hypothetical insurance company VA portfolios to assess the sensitivity of portfolio pricing and reserve levels to portfolio characteristics, modelling choices, and underlying economic assumptions. Additionally, a deterministic stress scenario, modeled on Japan beginning in the mid‐90s, is used to estimate the potential impact of a severe, but plausible, economic environment on the four hypothetical portfolios. The main findings of this exercise are: (1) interactions between market risk modeling assumptions and policyholder behavior modeling assumptions can significantly impact the estimated costs of providing guarantees, (2) estimated VA prices and reserve requirements are sensitive to market price discontinuities and multiple shocks to asset prices, (3) VA prices are very sensitive to assumptions related to interest rates, asset returns, and policyholder behavior, and (4) a drawn‐out period of low interest rates and asset underperformance, even if not accompanied by dramatic equity losses, is likely to result in significant losses in VA portfolios.
G22|Affordability, Financial Innovation, and the Start of the Housing Boom|At their peak in 2005, roughly 60 percent of all purchase mortgage loans originated in the United States contained at least one non-traditional feature. These features, which allowed borrowers easier access to credit through teaser interest rates, interest-only or negative amortization periods, and extended payment terms, have been the subject of much regulatory and popular criticism. In this paper, we construct a novel county-level dataset to analyze the relationship between rising house prices and non-traditional features of mortgage contracts. We apply a break-point methodology and find that in housing markets with breaks in the mid-2000s, a strong rise in the use of non-traditional mortgages preceded the start of the housing boom. Furthermore, their rise was coupled with declining denial rates and a shift from FHA to subprime mortgages. Our findings support the view that a change in mortgage contract availability and a shift toward subprime borrowers helped to fuel the rise of house prices during the last decade.
G22|Corporate Credit Provision|Productive firms can access credit markets directly by issuing corporate bonds or by borrowing through financial intermediaries. In this paper, we study the cyclical properties of corporate credit provision through these two types of debt instruments in major advanced economies. We argue that the cyclicality of corporate credit is closely related to the cyclicality of the types of financial intermediaries active in the provision of credit. When a debt instrument is held by institutions that manage their balance sheets through debt issuance, credit provision through that instrument is procyclical. But when a debt instrument is held by institutions that manage their balance sheets through equity issuance, credit provision through that instrument is countercyclical. We show that cross-country differences in the cyclicality of corporate credit can be ascribed to differences in the composition of the aggregate financial sector, and not to differences in the balance sheet management practices of each type of financial intermediary.
G22|Cyber-risk insurance — a big challenge facing contemporary economies|Cyber-security beyond the concept must be a product to be offered to modern society. We live in a complex world based on the digitization of products and services. Digitization also involves a complex system of associated risks. The road to the world of tomorrow goes through today's world and an analysis of the current situation in the contemporary economies about cyber risk insurance is only a first step that this article aims to achieve.The study aims to substantiate the need to formulate and assume policies and to support the regulation of cyber risk coverage by ensuring the need to support sectoral strategies to increase the level of maturity of companies from the perspective of protection against cyber threats. There is also a need to set up a cyber-risk reporting system, at least for critical and important infrastructures, the development and use by insurers of advisory and evaluation models based on standards and certifications recognized at the level of including the development of necessary skills for insurers to engineer these risks.
G22|International solutions for management of natural catastrophes risks|Over the past 20 years, there has been a significant increase in the frequency and impact of catastrophe events, which has generated concerns at the global insurance industry. Major losses (both material and human) were in the public eye, triggering government action to cover them, especially if the damage was not insured /insurable. Earthquakes, fires, landslides, or floods -all have a financial, social, economic and political impact on the affected regions. This article analyzes the experience of the latest catastrophic events (both insured and uninsured) to illustrate the lack of operational mechanisms or innovative solutions responding to such a type of exposure.
G22|Machine Learning for Forecasting Excess Stock Returns – The Five-Year-View| In this paper, we apply machine learning to forecast stock returns in excess of different benchmarks, including the short-term interest rate, long-term interest rate, earnings-by-price ratio, and the inflation. In particular, we adopt and implement a fully nonparametric smoother with the covariates and the smoothing parameter chosen by cross-validation. We find that for both one-year and five-year returns, the term spread is, overall, the most powerful predictive variable for excess stock returns. Differently combined covariates can then achieve higher predictability for different forecast horizons. Nevertheless, the set of earnings-by-price and term spread predictors under the inflation benchmark strikes the right balance between the one-year and five-year horizon.
G22|Conditional variance forecasts for long-term stock returns| In this paper, we apply machine learning to forecast the conditional variance of long-term stock returns measured in excess of different benchmarks, including the short-term interest rate, long-term interest rate, earnings-by-price ratio, and inflation. In particular, we apply and implement in a two-step procedure a fully nonparametric smoother with the covariates and the smoothing parameters chosen via cross-validation. We find that volatility forecastability is much less important at longer horizons regardless of the chosen model and that the homoscedastic historical average of the squared return prediction errors gives an adequate approximation of the unobserved realized conditional variance for both the one-year and five-year horizon.
G22|An Experimental Test of the Under-Annuitization Puzzle with Smooth Ambiguity and Charitable Giving|In a life-cycle model with a bequest motive, we study the impact of smooth ambiguity aversion to uncertain survival probabilities on the optimal demand for annuities. We implement a theory-driven laboratory experiment. First, a subject's ambiguity attitude is elicited in a simple experimental setting able to make the smooth ambiguity model operational. Then, in a two-period annuity-bequest decision problem, the subject's bequest in the second period is presented as a donation to a previously chosen charity, contingent to the subject being active after the first period. In line with the theoretical predictions, we find that ambiguity-averse (resp., loving) subjects invest less (resp., more) in annuities than ambiguity-neutral ones. Furthermore, subjects'contingent donation to the chosen charity increases in their investment in annuities only for sufficiently high levels of warm-glow altruism.
G22|Banking, Capital Regulation, Risk and Dynamics|Effects from risk, bankruptcies, and capital regulation of banks is explored in a dynamic stochastic equilibrium model where banks have two controls, dividends and level of risktaking. Unregulated value-maximizing banks, balance current profit against cost of risk. Banks with capitalization below desired level chose a lower level of risk than well-capitalized banks, but their capital adequacy ratios are yet lower. Binding regulation reduces risk-taking and instantaneous risk of bankruptcy but in the process also reduce endogenous growth of bank capital. This leads to an increased risk of bankruptcy that stems from the longer time banks spend poorly capitalized after large negative shocks due to the capital regulation.
G22|NDC : The Generic Old-Age Pension Scheme|This paper defines a universal public pension scheme (UPPS) as a government mandated lifecycle longevity insurance scheme that transfers individual consumption from the working years to retirement. It discusses the differences in four UPPS designs designated as either defined contribution (DC) or defined benefit (DB), and financial or nonfinancial. With individual DC accounts, the ball is in the individual?s court. The transparent link between contributions and retirement income is the enabler of efficiency that through marginal decisions to choose formal work over informal work or leisure and to postpone retirement marginally toward the end of the working life, supports affordability and sustainability for a chosen level of adequacy. Hence, UPPS-DC designs are found superior to UPPS-DB designs.
G22|NDC: The Generic Old-Age Pension Scheme|"This chapter defines a universal public pension scheme (UPPS) as a government-mandated lifecycle longevity insurance scheme that transfers individual consumption from the working years to the retirement phase of the lifecycle. It discusses the differences in four UPPS designs defined with regard to whether they are defined contribution (DC) or defined benefit (DB), and financial (F) or nonfinancial (N). Generally speaking, DC schemes are distinguished from DB schemes by their basic building block of individual accounts. This ensures the important design feature of transparency, the ""enabler"" of economic efficiency - through the effects on marginal decisions to choose formal work over informal work or leisure and to postpone retirement marginally toward the end of the working life. The chapter examines additional criteria (fairness, financial sustainability, affordability, and adequacy), plus some other design characteristics of interest in a comparative assessment. The conclusion is that the two UPPS-DC designs are superior to the two UPPS-DB designs. The difference in the relative rates of return of NDC versus FDC designs, together with uncertain demographic effects on future investment needs, speak in favor of a UPPS portfolio with both. UPPS-FDC involves additional risks and costs, but also provides positive effects through returns for individuals and the economy."
G22|Climate Risk and Beliefs: Evidence from New York Floodplains|Applying a difference-in-differences framework to a census of residential property transactions in New York City 2003-2017, we estimate the price effects of three flood risk signals: 1) the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act, which increased premiums; 2) Hurricane Sandy; and 3) new floodplain maps reflecting three decades of climate change. Estimates are negative for all three signals and some are large: properties included in the new floodplain after escaping flooding by Sandy experienced 18 percent price reductions. We investigate possible mechanisms, including selection of properties into the market and residential sorting. Finding no evidence for these, we develop a parsimonious theoretical model to study changes in flood beliefs. The model allows decomposition of our reduced-form estimates into the effects of insurance premium changes and belief updating. Results suggest that the new maps induced substantially larger belief changes than insurance reform.
G22|Making the square-root formula compatible with capital allocation|"Modern regulatory capital standards, such as the Solvency II standard formula, employ a correlation based approach for risk aggregation. The so-called ""square-root formula"" uses correlation parameters between, for example, market risk, non-life insurance risk and default risk to determine the company's aggregate capital requirement. To support decision-making, companies will allocate the required capital back to business segments and risk drivers. We demonstrate that capital allocations based on the square-root formula can substantially differ from those based on the true risk distribution if correlations are viewed as Pearson or tail correlations. An EVA-maximizing insurer receives misleading steering signals which can induce mispricing of risk and a default probability substantially above the desired level. To make the square-root formula feasible for business steering, we propose partial-derivative-implied correlations which reflect how marginal exposure changes impact the aggregate capital requirement. We show that the square-root formula in combination with partial-derivative-implied correlations provides capital allocations in line with the true risk distribution."
G22|Financial literacy and precautionary insurance|This paper studies insurance demand for individuals with limited financial literacy. We propose uncertainty about insurance payouts, resulting from contract complexity, as a novel channel that affects decision-making of financially illiterate individuals. Then, a trade-off between second-order (risk aversion) and third-order (prudence) risk preferences drives insurance demand. Sufficiently prudent individuals raise insurance demand upon an increase in contract complexity, while the effect is reversed for less prudent individuals. We characterize competitive market equilibria that feature complex contracts since firms face costs to reduce complexity. Based on the equilibrium analysis, we propose a monetary measure for the welfare cost of financial illiteracy and show that it is mainly driven by individuals' risk aversion. Finally, we discuss implications for regulation and consumer protection.
G22|Putting the pension back in 401(k) retirement plans: Optimal versus default longevity income annuities|A recent US Treasury regulation allowed deferred longevity income annuities to be included in pension plan menus as a default payout solution, yet little research has investigated whether more people should convert some of the $15 trillion they hold in employer-based defined contribution plans into lifelong income streams. We investigate this innovation using a calibrated lifecycle consumption and portfolio choice model embodying realistic institutional considerations. Our welfare analysis shows that defaulting a small portion of retirees' 401(k) assets (over a threshold) is an attractive way to enhance retirement security, enhancing welfare by up to 20% of retiree plan accruals.
G22|The existence of the Miyazaki-Wilson-Spence equilibrium with continuous type distributions|We prove the existence of an equilibrium in competitive markets with adverse selection in the sense of Miyazaki (1977), Wilson (1977), and Spence (1978) when the distribution of unobservable risk types is continuous. Our proof leverages the finite-type proof in Spence (1978) and a limiting argument akin to Hellwig (2007)'s study of optimal taxation.
G22|The Impact of the Monetary Policy Interventions on the Insurance Industry|This paper investigates the effect of the conventional and unconventional (e.g. Quantitative Easing) monetary policy intervention on the insurance industry. We first analyse the impact on the stock performances of 166 (re)insurers of the last Quantitative Easing programme launched by the ECB by constructing an event study around the announcement date. Then we enlarge the scope by looking at the monetary policy surprise effects on the same sample of (re)insurers over a timeframe of 8 years. Our evidences suggest that a single intervention extrapolated from the comprehensive strategy cannot be utilized to estimate the effect of the monetary policy intervention on the market. On the impact of monetary policies we show how the effect of interventions changes over time. The expansionary monetary policy interventions, when generating an instantaneous reduction of interest rates, had an immediate positive effect on the stock market and on the insurance industry from 2008 till 2013. However, the effect fades away in 2014-2015. This period includes the last ECB QE intervention and it is characterized by already extreme low interest rates shows statistically non-significant effects on the (re)insurers stock returns.
G22|On the Relationship between Cognitive Ability and Risk Preference|This paper will focus on the relationship between cognitive ability and decision-making under risk and uncertainty. Taken as a whole, this research indicates that cognitive ability is associated with risk-taking behavior in various contexts and life domains, including incentivized choices between lotteries in controlled environments, behavior in nonexperimental settings, and self-reported tendency to take risks. One pattern that emerges frequently in these studies is that cognitive ability tends to be positively correlated with avoidance of harmful risky situations, but it tends to be negatively correlated with risk aversion in advantageous situations. We conclude by discussing perspectives for future research, in particular the scope for the development of richer sets of elicitation instruments and measurement across a wider range of concepts.
G22|O Mercado Segurador em Portugal: O Papel dos Gestores na Constituição de Provisões|As empresas seguradoras têm que constituir provisões técnicas com vista a assegurar que responsabilidades futuras perante os seus clientes e terceiros são cobertas. Estas provisões baseiam-se em estimativas não só incorporando dados passados, mas incluindo igualmente as expectativas de evolução da economia e da própria empresa. É assim expectável que o grau de otimismo dos diretores financeiros das empresas (Chief Financial Officers, CFOs) e as expectativas que criam estejam associadas às provisões que calculam e registam. Analisando as consequências da racionalidade limitada dos agentes económicos, das suas preferências sociais e na ausência de autocontrolo, Richard Thaler mostrou como estes traços humanos afetam sistematicamente as decisões individuais e os resultados, o que lhe conferiu a atribuição do prémio Nobel da Economia de 2017. O presente artigo encontra uma relação negativa entre o otimismo dos CFOs, e a constituição de provisões no mercado segurador em Portugal, no período compreendido entre 2007 e 2016. Estes resultados que têm impacto no ambiente concorrencial deverão interessar os reguladores, os acionistas e os profissionais do sector.
G22|Public insurance and climate change (part one): Past trends in weather-related insurance in New Zealand|Climate change appears to be increasing the frequency and magnitude of extreme weather events, negatively affecting communities as well as posing long-term sustainability challenges to insurance (risk transfer) mechanisms. New Zealand’s public natural hazard insurer, the Earthquake Commission (EQC), covers homeowners for damage to land (and in some cases to dwellings and contents) caused by landslip, storm or flood. We comprehensively explore the EQC claims data to investigate these weather-related claims from 2000-2017. We find no clear upward trend yet emerging in the number of claims or their value. We find that the northern regions of both islands are the source of most claims, that only a handful of weather events caused a large proportion of EQC’s weather-related pay-outs, that the average property lodging a weather-related claim is located twice as close to the coast as the national average, and that properties with claims usually are cited on much steeper land than the typical property in New Zealand. We also explore their relation between claims and socio-economic characteristics, finding that higher income neighbourhoods appear to be those most benefiting from the EQC coverage for weather events.
G22|The Fragility of Market Risk Insurance|Insurers sell retail financial products called variable annuities that package mu- tual funds with minimum return guarantees over long horizons. Variable annuities accounted for $1.5 trillion or 34 percent of U.S. life insurer liabilities in 2015. Sales fell and fees increased after the 2008 financial crisis as the higher valuation of existing liabilities stressed risk-based capital. Insurers also made guarantees less generous or stopped offering guarantees entirely to reduce risk exposure. We develop an equilib- rium model of insurance markets in which financial frictions and market power are important determinants of pricing, contract characteristics, and the degree of market incompleteness.
G22|Corporate Credit Risk Premia|We measure credit risk premia, meaning the price for bearing corporate default risk in excess of expected default losses, using Markit CDS and Moody's Analytics EDF data. We find dramatic variation over time in credit risk premia, with peaks in 2002, during the global financial crisis of 2008-09, and in the second half of 2011. These risk premia comove with economic indicators, even after controlling for variation in expected default losses, with higher premia per unit of expected loss during times of market-wide distress. Countercyclical variation of premia-to-expected-loss ratios is more pronounced for investment-grade issuers than for high-yield issuers.
G22|How persistent low expected returns alter optimal life cycle saving, investment, and retirement behavior|"This Chapter explores how an environment of persistent low returns influences saving, investing, and retirement behaviors, as compared to what in the past had been thought of as more ""normal"" financial conditions. Our calibrated lifecycle dynamic model with realistic tax, minimum distribution, and Social Security benefit rules produces results that agree with observed saving, work, and claiming age behavior of U.S. households. In particular, our model generates a large peak at the earliest claiming age at 62, as in the data. Also in line with the evidence, our baseline results show a smaller second peak at the (system-defined) Full Retirement Age of 66. In the context of a zero-return environment, we show that workers will optimally devote more of their savings to non-retirement accounts and less to 401(k) accounts, since the relative appeal of investing in taxable versus tax-qualified retirement accounts is lower in a low return setting. Finally, we show that people claim Social Security benefits later in a low interest rate environment."
G22|Dominated Options in Health-Insurance Plans|Recent studies have found that many people select into health plans with higher coverage (e.g., lower deductibles) even when those plans are financially dominated by other options. We explore whether having dominated options is common by analyzing data on plan designs from the Kaiser Family Foundation Employer Health Benefits Survey for firms that offered employees both a high-deductible (HD) health plan and a lower-deductible (LD) option. In 65% of firms the high-deductible option would result in lower maximum possible health spending for the employee for the year. We estimate that the HD plan financially dominates the LD plan at roughly half of firms across a wide range of possible health spending needs employees might anticipate. The expected savings from selecting the HD plan are typically over $500 per year, often with no increase in financial risk. We present evidence that these patterns may arise naturally from employers passing through large average-cost differences between HD and LD plans to their employees. We discuss the implications of those dynamics for the nature of transfers between employees and the efficiency of health spending.
G22|Financing the War on Cancer|We propose a new solutions to finance life-extending treatments and apply it to immunother- apy. These treatments promise to dramatically raise durable survival rates for a growing number of cancer patients but are often prohibitively expensive for patients and governments alike. Our main insight is that life insurance companies have a direct benefit from such treatments as they lower the insurer's liabilities by pushing the death benefit further into the future and raise future premium income. Using detailed survival data from clinical studies, we quantify the insurers' benefit from immunotherapy for melanoma patients. Extrapolating to 17 other cancer sites, we estimate that $6.8 billion a year could be freed up to pay for existing immunotherapies. We discuss various financing mechanisms that exploit this value creation, which differ depending on the relative bargaining power of insurers and consumers. Moreover, the large benefits that accrue to the life insurers, paid for by consumers and health insurers, call for new boundaries between insurance markets by combining life insurance and (catastrophic) health insurance. We discuss the broader implications of our insight for medical innovation and long-term care insurance markets.
G22|Eyes Wide Shut? The Moral Hazard of Mortgage Insurers during the Housing Boom|"In the U.S. mortgage market, private mortgage insurance (PMI) is mandated for high-leverage mortgages purchased by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to serve as a private market check on GSE risk-taking. However, we document that PMI firms dramatically expanded insurance on high-risk mortgages at the tail-end of the housing boom, contradicting the industry's own research regarding house price risk. Using three detailed sources of mortgage and insurance data, we examine PMI application denial rates, default rates on PMI-backed loans, and growth rates of high-leverage lending around the GSE conforming loan limit, along with information extracted from company, industry and regulatory filings and reports. We conclude that PMI behavior during the housing boom in part reflects a ""moral hazard"" incentive inherent to insurance companies in general to underprice risk and be undercapitalized. Our results suggest that rather than providing discipline, private mortgage insurers facilitated GSE risk-taking."
G22|Asset Insulators|We propose that financial institutions can act as asset insulators, holding assets for the long run to protect their valuations from consequences of exposure to financial markets. We illustrate the empirical relevance of this theory for the balance sheet behavior of a large class of intermediaries, life insurance companies. The pass-through from assets to equity is an especially informative metric for distinguishing the asset insulator theory from Modigliani-Miller or other standard models. We estimate the pass-through using security-level data on insurers' holdings matched to corporate bond returns. Uniquely consistent with the insulator view, outside of the 2008-2009 crisis insurers lose as little as 10 cents in response to a dollar drop in asset values, while during the crisis the pass-through rises to roughly 1. The rise in pass-through highlights the fragility of insulation exactly when it is most valuable.
G22|Liquidity Constraints and the Value of Insurance|Insurance affects the variability of consumption over time, which is not captured in standard expected utility of wealth models. We develop a consumption-utility model that shows how liquidity constraints and borrowing costs impact the value of insurance. Liquidity constraints generate high insurance demand when premiums are due smoothly, sometimes leading to seemingly dominated choices. Conversely, a risk-averse person may value insurance below its expected value and appear risk loving when premiums are due in a single payment. Moreover, optimal insurance contracts take different forms with liquidity constraints. We show empirical insurance analysis using the standard model can generate misleading counterfactuals and welfare estimates. Finally, we demonstrate the model’s feasibility and importance with an application to evaluating cost-sharing reductions on the health insurance exchanges.
G22|The Pivotal Role of Fairness: Which Consumers Like Annuities?|Life annuities can be a valuable component of the decumulation stage of wealth during retirement. While economists argue that most retirees should annuitize, actual demand in the marketplace is low. We analyze data from two studies to determine how measurable individual differences among consumers affect their interest in annuities. We find that a relatively high percentage of respondents dislike all annuities. Demographic factors are not predictive of which individuals dislike annuities, and individual factors predicted by economic models to be important (such as beneficiaries) have small or even opposite effects. The strongest individual differences we measured that predicts liking of annuities is the respondent’s perception of product fairness. We discuss implications of our findings for financial planners hoping to help their customers with these decumulation challenges.
G22|How will persistent low expected returns shape household economic behavior?|Many believe that global capital markets will generate lower returns in the future versus the past. We examine how persistently lower real returns will reshape work, retirement, saving, and investment behavior of older persons using a calibrated dynamic life cycle model. In a low return regime, workers build up less wealth in their tax-qualified 401(k) accounts versus the past, claim social security benefits later, and work more. Moreover, the better-educated are more sensitive to real interest rate changes, and the least-educated alter their behavior less. Interestingly, wealth inequality is lower in periods of persistent low expected returns.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
G22|How Will Persistent Low Expected Returns Shape Household Economic Behavior?|Many believe that global capital markets will generate lower returns in the future versus the past. We examine how persistently lower real returns will reshape work, retirement, saving, and investment behavior of older persons using a calibrated dynamic life cycle model. In a low return regime, workers build up less wealth in their tax-qualified 401(k) accounts versus the past, claim social security benefits later, and work more. Moreover, the better-educated are more sensitive to real interest rate changes, and the least-educated alter their behavior less. Interestingly, wealth inequality is lower in periods of persistent low expected returns.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
G22|Equilibrium Labor Market Search and Health Insurance Reform, Third Version|We present and empirically implement an equilibrium labor market search model where risk averse workers facing medical expenditure shocks are matched with ï¬ rms making health insurance coverage decisions. Our model delivers a rich set of predictions that can account for a wide variety of phenomenon observed in the data including the correlations among ï¬ rm sizes, wages, employer-sponsored health insurance oï¬€ering rates, turnover rates and workersâ€™ health compositions. We estimate our model by Generalized Method of Moments using a combination of micro datasets including the Survey of Income and Program Participation, the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey and the Kaiser Family Employer Health Insurance Beneï¬ ts Survey. We use our estimated model to evaluate the equilibrium impact of the 2010 Aï¬€ordable Care Act (ACA) and compare it with other health care reform proposals. We also use the estimates of the early impact of the ACA as a model validation. We ï¬ nd that the full implementation of the ACA would reduce the uninsured rate among the workers in our estimation sample from about 21.3% in the pre-ACA benchmark economy to 6.6%. We also ï¬ nd that income-based premium subsidies for health insurance purchases from the exchange play an important role for the sustainability of the ACA; without the premium subsidies, the uninsured rate would be around 15.8%. In contrast, as long as premium subsidies and health insurance exchanges with community ratings stay intact, ACA without the individual mandate, or without the employer mandate, or without both mandates, could still succeed in reducing the uninsured rates to 11.4%, 7.5% and 12.9% respectively.
G22|The investments of the Spanish insurance Companies, 1984-2015|The goal of this research is to analyse how the Spanish insurance companies have managed their investments from the moment the liberalization of the sector begins in view of the future integration in the EEC until the implementation of the Solvency II regime (1984 -2015). The structure of the investment portfolio has been characterized by instruments of conservative risk profile. The main conclusions are summarized as follows: The main asset in the period under review is Spanish public debt, accounting for 27% of the sector's investments. The performance of the portfolio has performed very similar to the average interest rate on Treasury debt. Contrary to what might be expected, the recent sovereign debt crisis in the Eurozone has had no impact on credit risk management, as the deterioration in the credit rating of the Kingdom of Spain has not led to a decline in investment in Spanish public bonds. The sector has redoubled its commitment to this asset, leaving out the dire economic consequences of a degradation of the rating of Spanish public debt to the category of junk bonds.
G22|Revalorisation 2017 des contrats d’assurance-vie et de capitalisation – engagements à dominante épargne et retraite individuelle|Dans le contexte de taux d’intérêt bas persistants, le niveau des revalorisations attribuées par les organismes d’assurance aux polices d’assurance-vie et aux bons de capitalisation appelle une vigilance particulière de l’autorité de supervision, tant au regard du contrôle prudentiel que de la bonne exécution des termes contractuels et des dispositions afférant à la participation aux résultats.
G22|Revalorisation 2017 des contrats d’assurance-vie et de capitalisation – engagements à dominante retraite collectifs|Cette analyse se concentre sur les engagements liés aux retraites dans le cadre de l’assurance-vie, en regroupant plusieurs catégories de contrats1, représentant 125 milliards d’euros de provisions mathématiques moyennes en 2017. La plus importante de ces catégories, les contrats collectifs en cas de vie, représente 79% des encours moyens des contrats d’assurance-vie à dominante retraite. Le taux de revalorisation moyen des contrats collectifs à dominante retraite (hors retraite à points) s’élève à 2,47% au titre de 2017 (net de frais de chargement et de prélèvements sociaux), contre 2,54%, en 2016 sur le même périmètre et après fiabilisation des données. Cette baisse de 7 points de base est comparable à celle observée sur les taux de revalorisation des contrats individuels (de -10 points de base, le taux moyen étant de 1,83% en 2017) et nettement inférieure à l’année précédente (-30 points de base entre 2015 et 2016). La baisse de la rémunération servie est homogène, quel que soit le type de produits. Les taux de revalorisation moyens des contrats PERP sont les plus faibles du marché à 1,49% (-8 points de base entre 2016 et 2017), alors que ceux des contrats collectifs en cas de vie, baissent de 5 points de base pour s’établir à 2,63%. Les taux techniques rattachés aux contrats collectifs à dominante retraite sont élevés (1,48%). Il existe de plus des contraintes de taux techniques très différentes entre les catégories, les PERP ayant un taux technique nul. Les contrats de Retraite Professionnelle Supplémentaire (RPS) offerts par les Institutions de Retraite Professionnelle (IRP) agréées sont au contraire très contraints par leurs taux techniques plus élevés. Ainsi, l’environnement de taux bas pourrait à terme peser sur ce segment du marché de l’assurance-vie collective. Malgré cela, les contrats collectifs sont majoritairement revalorisés à un niveau supérieur au taux technique sous l’effet de contraintes contractuelles engageant l’organisme au-delà de la réglementation ou de la pression des souscripteurs.
G22|An explanation of negative swap spreads: demand for duration from underfunded pension plans|The 30-year U.S. swap spreads have been negative since September 2008. We offer a novel explanation for this persistent anomaly. Through an illustrative model, we show that underfunded pension plans optimally use swaps for duration hedging. Combined with dealer banks' balance sheet constraints, this demand can drive swap spreads to become negative. Empirically, we construct a measure of the aggregate funding status of Defined Benefit pension plans and show that this measure is a significant explanatory variable of 30-year swap spreads. We find a similar link between pension funds' underfunding and swap spreads for two other regions.
G22|Systemic risk and insurance regulation|Without systemic risk exposure, the formal model in this paper predicts that optimal regulation may be implemented by capital regulation (alike that observed in practice) and actuarially fair technical reserve. However, these instruments are not enough when insurance companies are exposed to systemic risk. In this case, prudential regulation should also add a systemic component to capital requirements which is non-decreasing in the firm's exposure to systemic risk. Implementing the optimal policy implies to separate insurance firms in two categories according to their exposure to systemic risk: those with relatively low exposure should be eligible for bailouts, while those with high exposure should not benefit from public support if a systemic event occurs.
G22|An elusive panacea? The impact of the regulatory valuation regime on insurers' investment behaviour|This paper examines how the interactions between the valuation regime and solvency requirements influence investment behaviour of long-term investors with stable liabilities, such as life insurers. Under limited liability, solvency requirements based on historical cost valuation encourage risk-shifting to the detriment of policyholders, while those based on fair value regime can induce procyclical asset sales. A hybrid valuation regime, intended to address these unfavourable outcomes, does not strictly dominate the other two regimes. But both fair value and hybrid regimes outperform the historical cost regime if the regulators can set the penalty imposed on insurers based on supervisory information about their asset quality, even if this information is imperfect.
G22|Capital regulation and product market outcomes|This paper examines the impact of the introduction of a risk-based capital regulation regime in 2002 on product market outcomes for the insurance industry in the United Kingdom. Using proprietary data on stress-test submissions from the Bank of England, we develop a measure of firm-level shocks to regulatory constraints that is plausibly exogenous to shifts in insurance demand. We find that constrained firms reduced underwriting relative to unconstrained firms, particularly for traditional insurance products which became more capital intensive in the new regulatory regime. The reduction in underwriting was not as pronounced for linked products, products that are mainly investment vehicles like mutual funds, implying a shift in the equilibrium product mix from traditional to linked. We also show that a higher proportion of constrained firms restructured their balance sheets by transferring assets and liabilities and went through reorganizations ie a change in legal owner of the firm.
G22|TThe Discount Rate Debate and Its Implications for Defined Benefit Pensions|While the Universities Superannuation Scheme recently reported the biggest deficit of any British pension fund, the union's actuary finds no funding crisis for the scheme. The huge contrast can be explained by the current debate on whether low gilt yields imply low future returns on other asset classes. This article argues that falling interest rates since 1980s are essentially the result of successful monetary policies to control inflation, thereby the economy benefited and firms made good profits, giving rise to healthy funding level for the scheme. Since index-linked gilt yields are found to explain up to 99% variation of its past liabilities, the scheme is likely to be in surplus if a correct discount rate is used in the valuation. The implications are that many past closures of defined benefit schemes were unwarranted, expensive disputes could have been avoided and firms' spending on such schemes are unnecessarily high.
G22|Measuring the Impact of Insurance on Urban Recovery with Light: The 2010-2011 New Zealand Earthquakes|We measure the longer-term effect of a major earthquake on the local economy, using night-time light intensity measured from space, and investigate whether insurance claim payments for damaged residential property affected the local recovery process. We focus on the destructive Canterbury Earthquake Sequence (CES) 2010 -2011 as our case study. Uniquely for this event, more than 95% of residential housing units were covered by insurance, but insurance payments were staggered over 5 years, enabling us to identify their local impact. We find that night-time luminosity can capture the process of recovery and describe the recovery’s determinants. We also find that insurance payments contributed significantly to the process of economic recovery after the earthquake, but delayed payments were less affective and cash settlement of claims were more effective than insurance-managed repairs in contributing to local recovery.
G22|Guaranteed Renewable Life Insurance Under Demand Uncertainty|Guaranteed renewability is a prominent feature in many health and life insurance markets. It is well established in the literature that, when there is (only) risk type uncertainty, the optimal GR contract with renewal price set at the actuarially fair price for low risk types provides full insurance against reclassification risk. We develop a model that includes unpredictable (and unobservable) fluctuations in demand for life insurance as well as changes in risk type (observable) over individuals' lifetimes. The presence of demand type heterogeneity leads to the possibility that optimal GR contracts may have a renewal price that is either above or below the actuarially fair price of the lowest risk type in the population. Individuals whose type turns out to be high risk but low demand renew more of their GR insurance than is efficient due to the attractive renewal price. This results in incomplete insurance against re-classification risk. Although a first best efficient contract is not possible in the presence of demand type heterogeneity, the presence of GR contracts nonetheless improves welfare relative to an environment with only spot markets. Our results also apply to a comparison of environments with short versus long term (front loaded) insurance contracts.
G22|Getting Life Expectancy Estimates Right for Pension Policy: Period versus Cohort Approach|In many policy areas it is essential to use the best estimates of life expectancy, but such estimates are vital to most areas of pension policy – from indexed access age and the calculation of initial benefits to the financial sustainability of pension schemes and the operation of their balancing mechanism. This paper presents the conceptual differences between static period and dynamic cohort mortality tables, estimates the differences in life expectancy between both tables using data from Portugal and Spain, and compares official estimates of both life expectancy estimates for Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States for 1981, 2010 and 2060. This comparison reveals major differences between period and cohort life expectancy in and between countries and across years. Using measures of period instead of cohort life expectancy creates an implicit subsidy for individuals of 30 percent or more, with potentially stark consequences on the financial sustainability of pension schemes. These and other implications for pension policy are explored and next steps suggested.
G22|Dividends: From Refracting to Ratcheting|In this paper we consider an alternative dividend payment strategy in risk theory, where the dividend rate can never decrease. This addresses a concern that has often been raised in connection with the practical relevance of optimal classical dividend payment strategies of barrier and threshold type. We study the case where once during the lifetime of the risk process the dividend rate can be increased and derive corresponding formulae for the resulting expected discounted dividend payments until ruin. We first consider a general spectrally-negative Lévy risk model, and then re fine the analysis for a diffusion approximation and a compound Poisson risk model. It is shown that for the diffusion approximation the optimal barrier for the ratcheting strategy is characterized by an unexpected relation to the case of refracted dividend payments. Finally, numerical illustrations for the diffusion case indicate that with such a simple ratcheting dividend strategy the expected value of discounted dividends can already get quite close to the respective value of the refracted dividend strategy, the latter being known to be optimal among all admissible dividend strategies.
G22|On Randomized Reinsurance Contracts|In this paper we discuss the potential of randomizing reinsurance treaties for efficient risk management. While it may be considered counter-intuitive to introduce additional external randomness in the determination of the retention function for a given occurred loss, we indicate why and to what extent randomizing a treaty can be interesting for the insurer. We illustrate the approach with a detailed analysis of the effects of randomizing a stop-loss treaty on the expected profit after reinsurance in the framework of a one-year reinsurance model under regulatory solvency constraints and cost of capital considerations.
G22|La gestion et le dépistage des risques liés au vieillissement, et le rôle des régimes de retraite dans le marché de l’assurance de soins de longue durée|Nous examinons l’interaction entre les véhicules d’épargne-retraite, publics et privés, et l’achat d’assurance de soins de longue durée dans un monde où les agents découvrent au fil du temps leur risque de vieillir. Dans la mesure où chaque agent en sait plus sur son risque réel de vieillir que tous les autres participants du marché, alors certains agents préfèreront attendre de connaître leur état de santé (c.-à-d. leur catégorie de risque) avant d’acheter un produit d’épargne-retraite (situation semblable à avoir un régime à contributions déterminées), alors que d’autres préfèreront un produit qui est indépendant de leur état de santé (c.-à-d. d’adhérer à un régime public ou à prestations déterminées). Avant la révélation du risque lié au vieillissement de chacun, la préférence des agents pour l’un ou pour l’autre dépendra, entre autres facteurs, de la différence dans les probabilités de chacun de vieillir, dans la riscophobie des agents, et dans la probabilité d’avoir besoin de soins de longue durée et de leurs coûts potentiels. Lorsque les agents n’ont accès qu’à un régime à cotisations déterminées, alors ils choisiront une assurance complète de soins de longue durée. Ce n’est pas le cas lorsque les agents n’ont accès qu’à un régime public dont les primes sont indépendantes du risque de vieillissement de chacun.
G22|The Fragility of Market Risk Insurance|Insurers sell retail financial products called variable annuities that package mutual funds with minimum return guarantees over long horizons. Variable annuities accounted for $1.5 trillion or 34 percent of U.S. life insurer liabilities in 2015. Sales fell and fees increased after the 2008 financial crisis as the higher valuation of existing liabilities stressed risk-based capital. Insurers also made guarantees less generous or stopped offering guarantees entirely to reduce risk exposure. We develop an equilibrium model of insurance markets in which financial frictions and market power are important determinants of pricing, contract characteristics, and the degree of market incompleteness.
G22|Insurers as asset managers and systemic risk|Financial intermediaries often provide guarantees that resemble out-of-the-money put options, exposing them to tail risk. Using the U.S. life insurance industry as a laboratory, we present a model in which variable annuity (VA) guarantees and associated hedging operate within the regulatory capital framework to create incentives for insurers to overweight illiquid bonds (“reach-for-yield”). We then calibrate the model to insurer-level data, and show that the VA-writing insurers’ collective allocation to illiquid bonds exacerbates system-wide fire sales in the event of negative asset shocks, plausibly erasing up to 20-70% of insurers’ equity capital. JEL Classification: G11, G12, G14, G18, G22
G22|Financing Insurance|Insurance has an intertemporal aspect as insurance premia have to be paid upfront. We argue that the financing aspect of insurance is key to understanding basic insurance patterns. In a model with limited enforcement, we show that insurance is globally monotone increasing in household net worth and income, incomplete, and precautionary. These results hold in economies with income risk, durable goods and collateral constraints, and durable goods price risk that affects asset values, under quite general conditions. In equilibrium, insurers are financial intermediaries with collateralized loans as assets and diversified portfolios of insurance claims as liabilities. Collateral scarcity lowers the interest rate, reduces insurance, and increases inequality.
G22|Financing the War on Cancer|We estimate the potential gains of life-extending treatments to life insurance companies and apply it to immunotherapy. These treatments promise to dramatically raise durable survival rates for a growing number of cancer patients but are often prohibitively expensive for patients and governments alike. Our main insight is that life insurance companies have a direct benefit from such treatments as they lower the insurer’s liabilities by pushing the death benefit further into the future and raise future premium income. Using detailed survival data from clinical studies, we quantify the insurers’ benefit from immunotherapy for melanoma patients. Extrapolating to 17 other cancer sites, we estimate the insurance sector’s benefit to equal $6.8 billion a year. We discuss various financing mechanisms that exploit this value creation, which depend on the relative bargaining power of insurers and consumers. Moreover, the potential gains for life insurers, which could only accrue if health insurers cover the cost of the treatments and households finance the out-of-pocket expenditure, may warrant some exploration of new boundaries between life and health insurance. We discuss the broader implications for medical innovation and long-term care insurance markets.
G22|Asset-liability management in life insurance: Evidence from France|This paper studies the asset-liability management of life insurers. We start with a life insurance investor’s problem of the optimal date to redeem; as a function of taxes and rates of return. The model predicts that life insurers whose investors’ contract age is relatively young should be more exposed to redemption risk. We then build a novel confidential dataset and test whether life insurers’ portfolio choice is responsive to redemption risk. Using different measures of redemption risk and controlling for year fixed effects; we find that a one standard deviation increase in redemption risk is associated with an average decrease in the share of directly-held stocks by 2.3% or slightly more than one-half of its standard deviation (4.5%). This result remains valid when accounting for indirect stock investment through funds. Finally; we check our model’s prediction that redemption risk depends on insurers’ investor contract age and use this to propose and exogenous measure of redemption risk and make a causal attempt.
G22|Endogenous Beliefs and Institutional Structure in Competitive Equilibrium with Adverse Selection|I model financial markets that structure decision-making into discrete points separating contract offers, applications, and acceptance/denial decisions. Endogenous beliefs about applicants’ risk types emerge as the institutional process extracts private information allowing uninformed firms to infer risk qualities by comparing applications of many consumers. Endogenous beliefs and low-risk consumer behavior render truthful disclosure of transactions incentive compatible supporting a unique equilibrium robust to cream-skimming and cross-subsidizing deviations, even under Hellwig’s “secret” policy assumption. In equilibrium each type demands low-risk’s optimal pooling policy and high-risk supplement to full coverage at fair-price. Nonpassive consumers’ belief firms are sequentially rational necessary for equilibrium; lemon equilibrium with only high-risk insured possible.
G22|Free health care for the poor: a good way to achieve universal health coverage? Evidence from Morocco|Policies and programs aimed at giving access to health care free of charge for some segments of the population are increasingly being put in place by low- and middle income countries, going against the Washington-consensus era recommendation to impose user fees on public health care to insure a better quality of service. Yet, such policies may not be suited for middle-income countries, where user fees are not necessarily be the biggest barriers to health care. We study a nationwide example of such a policy with the generalization of the Medical Assistance Regime or RAMED in the Kingdom of Morocco, a policy aiming at giving free access to hospital care to the poorest quarter of the population. Using nationally representative panel data collected before, during and after the extension of the policy, we show that the removal of user fees did have a positive impact on access to health care, but that this impact comes mostly from poorer, rural households. We also study the impact on health expenditures, and find that it has not led to a decrease of the financial burden, except for the subset of urban households that have recurring health expenditures. Overall, our result show that in a middle income country , user fees, even modest, seem to significantly deter healthcare usage for the rural part of the population.
G22|How internal and external supervision impact the dynamics between boards and Top Management Teams and TMT reflexivity|Reflexivity can prevent Top Management Teams (TMTs) from using decision biases that harm sound strategic decision making of TMTs. To ensure reflexivity, TMTs are supervised internally by supervisory boards, and externally by independent supervisory authorities, but there is theoretical debate on their respective impact. We propose that frequent internal supervision is associated with Board-TMT relationship conflict, but this relationship will be less strong when TMTs are supervised by boards with an open board composition (including newer members). When such conflict occurs it can harm TMT reflexivity, but we expect that this relationship will be less strong when external supervision increases. These hypotheses were supported in a multisource team-level data set collected in the field among TMTs (N = 111 TMT members) and their supervisory boards (N = 152 board members) of 56 insurance companies. This study advances empirical and practical knowledge on the distinct and interdependent impact of internal and external supervision on TMT reflexivity.
G22|The economics of sharing macro-longevity risk|Pension funds face macro-longevity risk or uncertainty about future mortality rates. We analyze macro-longevity risk sharing between cohorts in a pension fund as a risk management tool. We show that both the optimal risk-sharing rule and the welfare gains from risk sharing depend on the retirement age policy. Welfare gains from sharing macro-longevity risk measured on a 10-year horizon in case of a fixed retirement age are between 0.2 and 0.3 percent of certainty equivalent consumption after retirement. Cohorts experience a similar impact of macro-longevity risk on post retirement consumption and it is not optimal for young cohorts to absorb risk of older cohorts. However, in case the retirement age is fully linked to changes in life expectancy, the welfare gains are substantially higher. The risk bearing capacity of workers is larger when they use their labor supply as a hedge against macro-longevity risk. As a result, workers absorb risk from retirees in the optimal risk-sharing rule, thereby increasing the welfare gain up to 2.7 percent.
G22|"""Taking Diversity into Account"": Real Effects of Accounting Measurement on Asset Allocation"|Following a request made by the G20, the IASB begins to work in 2009 on a new accounting standard meant to replace IAS 39: IFRS 9. Among other things, IFRS 9 puts forward a new way of classifying financial instruments that rests on a two-step procedure: a business model assessment and a contractual cash flow characteristics test. We develop a theoretical model that assesses the relevance of this procedure, specifically that of the business model assessment. We show that a mixed accounting regime where financial institutions whose time horizon is short resort to fair value accounting while those whose time horizon is longer resort to historical cost accounting provides a better asset allocation than a pure accounting regime where all FIs resort to the same accounting rule. In other words, business models are worth being taken into consideration when deciding whether an asset should be evaluated at its fair value or at its historical cost, which is in line with the framework presented in IFRS 9.
G22|Potential drivers of insurers equity investments|As a consequence of the ongoing low-yield environment, insurers are changing their business models and looking for new investment opportunities to deliver the required return. This paper focuses on investments in equities and main drivers of their changes in insurers’ portfolios. In this respect, an empirical analysis for a period before and after the Solvency II introduction using both panel and pool regression was conducted. The obtained results suggest that macroeconomic as well as company specific indicators could explain changes in shares of equities in insurers’ portfolios.
G22|Early warning system for the European Insurance Sector|This article proposes an Early Warning System model composed of macro-financial and company-specific indicators that could help to anticipate a potential market distress in the European insurance sector. A distress is defined as periods in which insurance companies’ equity prices crash and CDS spreads spike simultaneously. The model is estimated using a sample of 43 insurance companies that are listed. Based on a panel binomial logit specification, empirical evidence shows that economic overheating that could be manifested by high economic growth and inflation as well as high interest rates have negative impact on insurance sector stability. At the company level, increasing operating expenses increase the likelihood of distress occurrence.
G22|Asymmetric Dynamics of Insurance Premium: The Impact of Monetary Policy Uncertainty on Insurance Premiums in Japan|By employing a non-linear autoregressive distributed lag (NARDL) model, this study investigates the effect of monetary policy uncertainty on insurance premium per-capita in Japan. Asides the confirmation of a long-run relationship between monetary policy uncertainty, insurance premium per-capita and real income per-capita, we also find that a positive relationship exists between monetary policy uncertainty and insurance premium per-capita. This shows that when economic policy uncertainty increases (decreases) then insurance premiums increases (decreases) in response. Moreover, we discovered that monetary policy uncertainty impacts insurance premium per-capita in an asymmetric way, such that negative changes have a bigger effect than positive changes on total insurance premium per-capita in Japan. We also found that real income per-capita has a significant and positive effect on insurance premium per-capita, and that the long run elasticity of insurance premium per-capita real income per-capita is smaller than unit. This implies that insurance is a necessity and not a luxury in Japan.
G22|Examining the Causal Relationship between Globalization and Insurance Activities in Large Emerging Market (LEM) Economies: Evidence from Bootstrap Panel Granger Causality|This study applies bootstrap panel Granger causality test of to examine the causal relationship between globalization and insurance market activities in large emerging market economies. Economic, social, political and overall globalization indices are considered separately, and 3 alternative measures of globalization (hybrid, de facto and de jure) are also used in each case for our estimations. The empirical results confirm the following; first, empirical outcomes are sensitive to the choice of globalization measure used. Second, cross-sectional dependence and cross-country heterogeneity exist among large emerging market economies. Third, causality varies across large emerging economies with different conditions, and social globalization has the most widespread effect on insurance market activities.
G22|The Long-run Effect of Geopolitical Risks on Insurance Premiums|This paper deals with the estimation of the risk-insurance nexus. We specifically examined the effect of geopolitical risk on insurance premium in a panel of 18 countries while controlling for the effect of real income. We did this by employing second generation econometric methods. We found strong evidence of a positive impact of geopolitical risks on insurance premiums. We specifically found that the impact of geopolitical risks on non-life insurance premium is higher than the impact on life insurance premium. Real income was also found to have a significantly positive effect on insurance premiums, and the impact on non-life insurance premium similarly larger than the impact on life insurance premium. On the basis of the income elasticity, we found that insurance has the semblance of a luxury good, and on the basis of the panel causality tests, we confirmed the feedback hypothesis. We therefore conclude that exposure to geopolitical risks raises insurance premiums either as a result of increased insurance demand to hedge against geopolitical uncertainty or as a result of uncertainty tax factored into insurance premiums in unstable environments.
G22|Risk Of Money Laundering Within The Insurance Sector|Using financial-banking institutions in money laundering contribute to the undermining of financial institutions, in part and that kind proximal, of the entire financial system. At the same time, the increasing integration of global financial systems and removing the barriers placed in the front of free capitals movement, facilitated ease with which black money can be washed and complicates money tracking circuit (be materialized in their, or as scriptural money). To earn money by fraud has, invariably, a transient nature. They ruin the reputation and it discourages honest investor. Financial institutions involved in money laundering scandal will risk prosecution in court and loss of goodwill on the market. If not controlled, process of money laundering may undermine efforts for existence of a free and competitive market and may affect the development of a healthy economy (Guidelines for suspicious transactions, in www.onpcsb.ro). Thus, the insurance market as a whole plays a special role in the national system of the money laundering preventing and combating and the increase in the volume of transactions grows the risk degree of money laundering and combating terrorism.
G22|Extrapolating Long-Maturity Bond Yields for Financial Risk Measurement|Insurance companies and pension funds have liabilities far into the future and typically well beyond the longest maturity bonds trading in fixed-income markets. Such long-lived liabilities still need to be discounted, and yield curve extrapolations based on the information in observed yields can be used. We use dynamic Nelson-Siegel (DNS) yield curve models for extrapolating risk-free yield curves for Switzerland, Canada, France, and the U.S. We find slight biases in extrapolated long bond yields of a few basis points. In addition, the DNS model allows the generation of useful financial risk metrics, such as ranges of possible yield outcomes over projection horizons commonly used for stress-testing purposes. Therefore, we recommend using DNS models as a simple tool for generating extrapolated yields for long-term interest rate risk management.
G22|The feasibility of Picture-Based insurance (PBI): Smartphone pictures for affordable crop insurance| Smallholder farmers are increasingly exposed to weather extremes but lack access to affordable insurance products to protect their livelihoods from catastrophic crop damage. This paper analyzes the feasibility of Picture-Based Insurance (PBI) as a tool to improve the quality and affordability of crop insurance. Under PBI, insurance claims are verified using a time-lapse of pictures from insured plots, both pre- and post-damage, taken by farmers themselves using regular smartphone cameras. PBI aims at minimizing asymmetric information and costs of claims verification compared to indemnity insurance, while reducing basis risk and improving trust, tangibility, and understanding compared to index-based insurance. A pilot implementation in the rice-wheat belt of India speaks to PBI being a feasible and valuable complement to existing insurance products. Damage is visible from smartphone pictures, farmers can take pictures of sufficient quality for loss assessment, and PBI helps reduce severe downside basis risk at minimal cost.
G22|Impact study of telematics auto insurance|The development of telematic systems, as well as the need to differentiate the motor insurance market, led to the emergence of new clauses in motor insurance contracts. Thus, vehicle insurance contracts with self-check (and telematic) insurance policies are in the recent focus of insurance companies for motor insurance. With the help of a telematics device installed on the vehicle and a mobile application the driving mode of the driver is permanently assessed;the rating is calculated according andthe discount for the insurance priceis setaccordingly. These types of auto insurance contract terms can provide, on average, 25% savings for carefullydrivers.Our paperpresents, the recent developments in telematics insurance in Europe and around the world and the Romanian drivers propension to accept the monitoring of their driving behavior. We then present the economic, financial and socio-ecological advantages versusdisadvantages revealed by specialized literature for both policyholders and insurers. In this context, we will prefigure the future of telematics insurance in Europe.In our empirical study we estimate the financial impact of telematics insurance in Romania on gross written prices and gross paid indemnities. Finally, we estimate the socio-economic impact of these telematics insurance on the decrease in the number of kilometers,fuel consumption, number of accidents and casualties, and implicitly, on the reduction of the cost of the compensation. For this impact study we used the scenario technique (pessimistic, moderate and optimistic) in relation to the baseline scenario, respectively, the estimate of the natural evolution of the insurance market in the absence of telematics.
G22|Optimal Collateralized Contracts|We examine the role of collateral in a dynamic model of optimal credit contracts in which a borrower values both housing and non-housing consumption. The borrower’s private information about his income is the only friction. An optimal contract is collateralized when in some state, some portion of the borrower’s net worth is forfeited to the lender. We show that optimal contracts are always collateralized. The total value of forfeited assets is decreasing in income, highlighting the role collateral as a deterrent to manipulation. Some assets, those that generate consumable services will necessarily be collateralized while others may not be. Endogenous default arises when the borrower’s initial wealth is low, as with subprime borrowers, and/or his future earnings are highly variable.
G22|Firm's Protection against Disasters: Are Investment and Insurance Substitutes or Complements?|We use a controlled laboratory experiment to study firm's and insurer's behavior when the firm can protect itself against potential technological damages. The probability of a catastrophic event is objective, and the firm's costly investment in safety reduces it. The firm can also buy an insurance with full or partial refund against the consequences of the catastrophic event, which ultimately reduces the variance of the firm's investment-in-safety lottery. In the insurer-firm game, first the insurer decides which contract to propose to the firm, then the firm simultaneously decides whether or not to buy this contract and whether or not to invest in the reduction of the probability of the catastrophic events. We parametrize the insurer-firm game such that: (i) a risk-neutral insurer maximizes his expected profit by o↵ering an actuarially fair contract with full insurance; (ii) a risk-neutral firm is indi↵erent between investing in safety and accepting a fair insurance contract. We aim at understanding whether investment in safety and insurance are substitutes or complements in the firm's risk management of catastrophic events. In line with our predictions, the experimental results suggest that they are substitutes rather than complements: the firm's investment in safety measures is a↵ected by the insurer's proposed contract, the latter usually involving only partial insurance.
G22|The emergence of maritime insurance in Bordeaux port-city in the 19th century|The resurgence of the marine insurance specialty in the years 1830-1860 reflected the resumption and the extension of transoceanic trade as well as the technical and quantitative renewals of the fleets. Communities of place crystallized around this tool: the Bordeaux city-port federated ship-owners, traders-ship-owners, traders and insurers to sharpen it, by establishing a capital of experience according to the hazards of the navigation.
G22|Choice of Benchmark When Forecasting Long-term Stock Returns| Recent advances in pension product development seem to favour alternatives to the risk free asset so often used in financial theory. In this paper, we investigate other benchmarks of the financial model than the classical risk free asset; for example, a benchmark following an inflation index is just one important case. Modelling extra returns above the inflation of risky assets is important, for example, for actuarial applications aiming at providing real income forecasts for pensioners. We study market timing when three alternative benchmarks are considered: the risk free rate, inflation and the long bond yield. We conclude that forecasting future stock returns is of similar complexity for all three considered benchmarks. From a pension fund modelling perspective, it therefore seems that one should use the most convenient benchmark for the problem at hand.
G22|On the design of optimal health insurance contracts under ex post moral hazard|Abstract We analyze the design of optimal medical insurance under ex post moral hazard, i.e., when illness severity cannot be observed by insurers and policyholders decide for themselves on their health expenditures. The trade-off between ex ante risk sharing and ex post incentive compatibility is analyzed in an optimal revelation mechanism under hidden information and risk aversion. The optimal contract provides partial insurance at the margin, with a deductible when insurers’ rates are affected by a positive loading, and it may also include an upper limit on coverage. The potential to audit the health state leads to an upper limit on out-of-pocket expenses.
G22|On the design of optimal health insurance contracts under ex post moral hazard|Abstract We analyze the design of optimal medical insurance under ex post moral hazard, i.e., when illness severity cannot be observed by insurers and policyholders decide for themselves on their health expenditures. The trade-off between ex ante risk sharing and ex post incentive compatibility is analyzed in an optimal revelation mechanism under hidden information and risk aversion. The optimal contract provides partial insurance at the margin, with a deductible when insurers’ rates are affected by a positive loading, and it may also include an upper limit on coverage. The potential to audit the health state leads to an upper limit on out-of-pocket expenses.
G22|Main Determinants of Profit-Sharing Policy in the French Life Insurance Industry|Abstract The current low interest rate environment and the coming into force of Solvency II raise questions about the stability of the life insurance industry in Europe and the sustainability of traditional insurance products. We use a data set built from French supervisory reports to investigate the drivers of the participation rates (equivalent to annual yields) served on euro-denominated life insurance contracts over the period from 1999 to 2013. Our analysis confirms practitioners’ intuition on the alignment with the 10-year French government bond; we later analyse the deviation of the participation rates from this reference. Our data indicate that financial margins are more strictly targeted than participation. We find evidence that surrenders are fairly uncorrelated with participation, suggesting that other levers are used to monitor them. While higher asset returns can imply better yield for policyholders, riskier portfolios do not necessarily translate into better participation.
G22|Asset-Liability Management for Long-Term Insurance Business|This is a summary of the main topics and findings from the Swiss Risk and Insurance Forum 2017. That event gathered experts from academia, insurance industry, regulatory bodies, and consulting companies to discuss past and current developments as well as future perspectives in dealing with asset-liability management for long-term insurance business. Topics include valuation, innovations in insurance products, investment, and modelling aspects.
G22|Life Insurance Development and Economic Growth: Evidence from Developing Countries|This article examines the relation between the development of life insurance sector and economic growth, for a sample of 86 developing countries over the period 1996-2011. We also examine the heterogeneous effect of life insurance on growth. The results show on the one hand that the development of life insurance has a positive effect on economic growth per capita and, on the other hand, that this effect varies according to the structural characteristics of countries. Thus, the marginal positive impact of the development of life insurance decreases with the levels of deposit interest rate, bank credit and stock market value traded, while the effect is greater in low and middle-income countries and in countries with high-quality institutions. Finally, life insurance effect on growth is less for SSA countries and British legal system countries. These results provide important policy implications for developing countries. Thus, countries will benefit from strengthening their regulatory framework by creating a sound environment that facilitates insurance markets¡¯ development, which further stimulates economic growth.
G22|Reevaluation of the capital charge in insurance after a large shock: empirical and theoretical views|Motivated by the recent introduction of regulatory stress tests in the Solvency II framework, we study the impact of the re-estimation of the tail risk and of loss absorbing capacities on post-stress solvency ratios. Our contribution is threefold. First, we build the first stylised model for re-estimated solvency ratio in insurance. Second, this leads us to solve a new theoretical problem in statistics: what is the asymptotic impact of a record on the re-estimation of tail quantiles and tail probabilities for classical extreme value estimators? Third, we quantify the impact of the re-estimation of tail quantiles and of loss absorbing capacities on real-world solvency ratios thanks to regulator data from Banque de France – ACPR. Our analysis sheds a first light on the role of the loss absorbing capacity and its paramount importance in the Solvency II capital charge computations. We conclude with a number of policy recommendations for insurance regulators.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
G22|Ambiguous life expectancy and the demand for annuities|Abstract In this paper, ambiguity aversion to uncertain survival probabilities is introduced in a static life-cycle model with a bequest motive to study the optimal demand for annuities. Provided that annuities’ return is sufficiently large, and notably when it is fair, positive annuitization is known to be the optimal strategy of ambiguity neutral individuals. Conversely, we show that the demand for annuities decreases with ambiguity aversion and that there exists a finite degree of aversion above which the demand is non-positive: the optimal strategy is then to either sell annuities short or to hold zero annuities if the former option is not available. To conclude, ambiguity aversion appears to be a relevant candidate for explaining the annuity puzzle.
G22|Insurance Law and Incomplete Contracts|Under moral hazard, most insurance contracts are incomplete, to the extent that they condition the coverage neither on the contingencies under which policyholders choose their behavior, nor on the circumstances of the loss. This incompleteness can be explained by underwriting and auditing costs borne by insurers, by policyholders cognitive costs, and by the limits of market regulation. It opens the door to controversies and disputes between insured and insurer. In this context, we analyze how insurance law can mitigate moral hazard, by allowing insurers to cut indemnities in some circumstances, while preventing them from excessive nitpicking. We also highlight conditions under which the burden of proof should be on the policyholders, provided that insurers are threatened by bad faith penalties.
G22|“Flexible maximum conditional likelihood estimation for single-index models to predict accident severity with telematics data”|Estimation in single-index models for risk assessment is developed. Statistical properties are given and an application to estimate the cost of traffic accidents in an innovative insurance data set that has information on driving style is presented. A new kernel approach for the estimator covariance matrix is provided. Both, the simulation study and the real case show that the method provides the best results when data are highly skewed and when the conditional distribution is of interest. Supplementary materials containing appendices are available online.
G22|Getting Life Expectancy Estimates Right for Pension Policy: Period versus Cohort Approach|In many policy areas it is essential to use the best estimates of life expectancy, but it is vital to most areas of pension policy. This paper presents the conceptual differences between static period and dynamic cohort mortality tables, estimates the differences in life expectancy for Portugal and Spain, and compares official estimates of both life expectancy estimates for Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States for 1981, 2010, and 2060. These comparisons reveal major differences between period and cohort life expectancy in and between countries and across years. The implications of using wrong estimates for pension policy, including financial sustainability, are explored.
G22|Thinking of Incentivizing Care? The Effect of Demand Subsidies on Informal Caregiving and Intergenerational Transfers|We still know little about what motivates the informal care arrangements provided in old age. Evidence from demand-side subsidies such as unconditional caregiving allowances (cash benefits designed either to incentivize the purchase of care, or compensate for the loss of employment of informal caregivers) provide an opportunity to gain a further understanding of the matter. We exploit a quasi-natural experiment to identify the effects of the inception in 2007 (and reduction in 2012) of a universal caregiving allowance on the supply of informal care, and subsequent intergenerational transfer flows. We find evidence of a 30% rise in informal caregiving, which amounts to 27% of long-term care expenditure, and an increase (reduction) in downstream (upstream) intergenerational transfers of 29% (and 15%). The effects were attenuated by a subsequent policy intervention; the reduction of the subsidy amidst austerity cuts in 2012. Individuals in middle and lower income and wealthy quintiles mainly drive these effects.
G22|Insurance, A Guaranteed Risk Or A Risk Assumed?|In the context of various changes in the players' composition on the insurance market, along with the changes that take place in the legislative area of the insurance system, we ask ourselves whether insurance is a guaranteed risk or a risk assumed by secure? At national level, due to the fact that within the insurance companies the internal control is not well implemented, there is no staff to pursue this goal and no mitigating measures are taken so that the risks triggered by the human decision-making factor be decreased. Because of this fact, the insurance can become a lottery for the insuree at one point because either the insuree cannot cover the damage s/he has secured, or s/he can lose as a result of some decisions taken by a representative of the insurance company. Therefore, a well-implemented and managed internal control can save both the activity of an insurance company as well as its image. That will generate a profitability, a good reputation for the insurance company, as well as policy-holders’ satisfaction. In this paper we aim to highlight the importance of internal control within insurance companies, as well as the consequences arising from a lack of internal control or its existence at a declarative level only.
G22|Financial Inclusion: Concepts, Issues and Policies for India|This paper lays out some of the basic concepts surrounding financial inclusion, including access to banking, digital payments and financial literacy, as well as markets for health insurance, crop insurance, agricultural credit, small firm finance, and microcredit/ microfinance. It goes on to discuss various empirical and institutional studies of these dimensions of financial inclusion in the context of developing countries. The paper then outlines several recent studies for India which pertain to these specific aspects of financial inclusion. Finally, the paper draws lessons for policy-making and future research directions. Important considerations that emerge from the overview are the significance of social and economic context, the need to consider behavioral biases connected to situations involving time and risk, the interaction of different dimensions of financial inclusion, the importance of details of policy design, and the limited understanding we still have of many of the factors underlying the functioning of financial markets.
G22|Insurance-Growth Nexus in Africa|Economic growth may be influenced by insurance-market activity through risk pooling, financial intermediations, indemnification against losses, mobilization of savings and provision of investment opportunities. Over the past few decades, there has been increasing interest in the role of the insurance sector in the economic growth of Africa. This study examines whether there is a causal relationship between the continent’s economic growth and insurance-market activity (life, non-life, and total). Applying panel-estimation techniques that are robust to heterogeneity and cross-sectional dependence to a model of panel data for 11 African countries between 1995 and 2016, we find significant evidence in support of such a relationship. Total-insurance penetration has a long-term impact on economic growth, and when disaggregated into its components (life- and non-life-insurance penetration), we find evidence in support of short-term and long-term impacts on economic growth in both cases. Our study also confirms the feedback hypothesis, as we find a positive, bi-directional causality between insurance-market activity and economic growth. We also find that the contribution from non-life-insurance market activity toward economic growth far outweighs that of life-insurance market activity.
G22|The synergistic effect of insurance and banking sector activities on economic growth in Africa|It is widely understood that the insurance and banking sectors of every economy perform some functions in driving economic growth. What is not yet well documented is whether their roles are complimentary or substitutive. With the aid of the dynamic panel generalized method of moments (GMM) estimation technique, this paper evaluates the synergistic effect of both sectors on economic growth in a panel of 10 African countries that are responsible for most of the activities in the continent’s financial sector. The insurance-banking-growth nexus was also examined through bootstrap panel causality tests. The results show that the life insurance market and the banking sector, as well as the non-life insurance market and the banking sector, are complimentary. We find that, overall, the relationship between the insurance and banking sectors in Africa is a complimentary one and that their synergistic impact on economic growth is positive. The feedback hypothesis was also confirmed in the relationship between the insurance sector and economic growth and between the banking sector and economic growth.
G22|Insurance activity and economic performance: Fresh evidence from asymmetric panel causality tests|Insurance plays a fundamental role in any modern economy, but the literature has not accounted for the potential asymmetric causal impacts from the dynamic interaction between the insurance market and economic performance. This paper aims to fill this gap by studying the causal relationship between several measures of insurance per capita and real GDP per capita in the G7 countries over the period 1980–2014 via asymmetric panel causality tests. Our results show that insurance market activity and economic performance exhibit bidirectional causalities, but their direction, intensity and significance are different due to distinct market situations. In general, insurance activity plays a passive role in economic performance, while economic performance has a significant role in insurance activity. These findings offer several useful insights for policy makers and researchers.
G22|Value Investing with Quality in the US Public Insurance Companies|"This study explores the value investing strategy coupling with quality metrics for the U.S. insurance industry. It uses apparent measures of insurance company efficiency such as loss ratio, expense ratio, combined ratio, and investment yield to construct portfolios. There are evidences of value premium as measured by PB and PE ratios. It is not clear that the quality metrics can give superior returns for investors. The anomalies can partially be explained by Fama-French five-factor model (FF5)'s market factor, value factor and profitability factor. The study also proposes using a new five-factor model that changes the profitability (quality) factor slightly from the Fama-French five-factor model. The adjusted FF5 ""local"" using insurance local factors do not improve the ability to explain the portfolios' returns."
G22|Relational capital in lending relationships: evidence from European family firms|Abstract The aim of this paper is to investigate the role of family CEOs’ relational capital and non-family CEOs’ managerial skills in the context of bank relationships for a large sample of small- and medium-sized European firms. The results indicate that family firms appointing family managers are significantly more likely to maintain soft-information-based and longer-lasting lending relationships than family firms managed by professionals, and that these closer bank-firm ties reduce the likelihood of experiencing credit restrictions. Moreover, we find that having professional CEOs does not directly affect the probability of being credit rationed. Hence, family relational capital appears to have a univocal beneficial impact on bank-firm relationships.
G22|Does Bancassurance Affect Performance of Non-life Insurance Sector ? Case of EU Countries|The aim of this paper is to test the influence of bancassurance as a distribution channel on performance of non-life insurance sector in selected European countries. The analysis refers to 2009 ? 2015 period and it is conducted using static panel analysis. Performance measures employed comprise of sales profitability as well as of profitability ratio of technical activity whereas independent variables used in the model include share of bancassurance, market share, gross written premium growth rate, claims growth rate, insurance density, share of premium in GDP, share of reinsurance and number of insurance companies. The results of the analysis in both models reveal that market share prove to be statistically significant determinant of insurance sector performance negatively affecting performance. Furthermore, insurance density has statistically significant and positive influence on performance measured with profitability ratio of technical activity.
G22|Current state of the cyber insurance market|The aim of the paper is to present the current state of the cyber insurance market. Based on recent industry reports, we identify its opportunities and threats, and discuss the most important challenges that have to be overcome by the insurance industry. The role of cyber risk reinsurance in providing capacity for insurance carriers is also shown. Finally, we try to identify current trends in demand for cyber coverage and verify if all needs of cyber insurance buyers are satisfied. In order to attract more cyber insurance customers, insurers should at least: clarify the language and the scope of cyber insurance policy, expand the advantages of cyber policy beyond simple risk transfer, develop personal cyber insurance offer.
G22|From the horse’s mouth: surveying responses to stress by banks and insurers|Existing stress tests do not capture feedback loops between individual institutions and the financial system. To identify feedback loops, the European Systemic Risk Board has developed macroprudential surveys that ask banks and insurers how they would behave in a macroeconomic stress scenario. In a pilot application of these surveys, we find evidence of herding behaviour in the banking sector, notably concerning credit retrenchment. Results show that the consequences can be large, potentially undoing the initial effects of banks’ remedial actions by worsening their solvency position. In contrast, insurers’ responses to the survey provide little evidence of herding in response to macroeconomic stress. These results highlight the usefulness of macroprudential surveys in identifying feedback loops. JEL Classification: E30, E44, G10, G18, G21, G22, G28
G22|When Gambling for Resurrection is Too Risky|Rather than taking on more risk, US insurers hit hard by the crisis pulled back from risk taking, relative to insurers not hit as hard by the crisis. Capital requirements alone do not explain this risk reduction: insurers hit hard reduced risk within assets with identical regulatory treatment. State level US insurance regulation makes it unlikely this risk reduction was driven by moral suasion. Other financial institutions also reduce risk after large shocks: the same approach applied to banks yields similar results. My results suggest that, at least in some circumstances, franchise value can dominate, making gambling for resurrection too risky.
G22|Insurers as Asset Managers and Systemic Risk|"Financial intermediaries often provide guarantees that resemble out-of-the-money put options, exposing them to tail risk. Using the U.S. life insurance industry as a laboratory, we present a model in which variable annuity (VA) guarantees and associated hedging operate within the regulatory capital framework to create incentives for insurers to overweight illiquid bonds (""reach-for-yield""). We then calibrate the model to insurer-level data, and show that the VA-writing insurers' collective allocation to illiquid bonds exacerbates system-wide fire sales in the event of negative asset shocks, plausibly erasing up to 20-70% of insurers' equity capital."
G22|Cyclical investment behavior across financial institutions|This paper contrasts the investment behavior of different financial institutions in debt securities as a response to past returns. For identification, I use unique security-level data from the German Microdatabase Securities Holdings Statistics. Banks and investment funds respond in a procyclical manner to past security-specific holding period returns. In contrast, insurance companies and pension funds act countercyclically; they buy when returns have been negative and sell after high returns. The heterogeneous responses can be explained by differences in their balance sheet structure. I exploit within-sector variation in the financial constraint to show that tighter constraints are associated with relatively more procyclical investment behavior.
G22|Micro-insurance at Scale: Evidence on Impact from Rwanda|Health insurance protects households from costly health shocks, and by encouraging health seeking behaviour, can safeguard earnings and assets. We confirm that micro-insurance serves as a social safety net by increasing health seeking behavior and reducing out of pocket medical expenses. We find evidence for complementarity between health micro-insurance membership and formal savings activity, confirming positive spillovers between formal financial products. We find substitution between health micro-insurance and informal financial services, where microinsurance crowds out both informal savings and informal borrowings. In obtaining these results, we use instrument variable estimation to correct for the issue of self-selection, an issue that undermines many previous studies. The study uses nationally representative cross-sectional data from Rwandan Integrated Living Conditions Survey conducted in 2005-06 and 2010-11.
G22|Estimating Value-at-Risk for the g-and-h distribution: an indirect inference approach|TThe g-and-h distribution is a flexible model with desirable theoretical properties. Especially, it is able to handle well the complex behavior of loss data and it is suitable for VaR estimation when large skewness and kurtosis are at stake. However, parameter estimation is di cult, because the density cannot be written in closed form. In this paper we develop an indirect inference method using the skewed- t distribution as instrumental model. We show that the skewed-t is a well suited auxiliary model and study the numerical issues related to its implementation. A Monte Carlo analysis and an application to operational losses suggest that the indirect inference estimators of the parameters and of the VaR outperform the quantile-based estimators.
G22|Actuarial accounting for a notional defined contribution scheme combining retirement and longterm care benefits|This paper develops a social insurance accounting model for a notional defined contribution (NDC) scheme combining retirement and long-term care (LTC) contingencies. The procedure relies on standard double-entry bookkeeping and enables us to compile a “Swedish” type actuarial balance sheet (ABS) following a framework equivalent to an open group approach. This methodology is suitable for reporting the system’s solvency status and can show periodical changes in the system’s financial position by means of an income statement. The information underpinning the actuarial valuation is based on events and transactions that are verifiable at the valuation date, without considering expected future trends. The paper also contains an illustrative example to make it easier for policymakers to understand the main advantages and difficulties of our proposal. The policy conclusions stress the need to properly report social insurance benefits to enhance transparency and sustainability and to improve decision-making because it is in the public interest to do so.
G22|The effect of weather index insurance on social capital: Experimental evidence from Ethiopia|In this study, using data from lab-in-the-field experiment, we explore whether the introduction of weather index insurance crowds in or crowds out social capital in northern Ethiopia. We use contributions in the public good game as a measure of social capital. We find that weather index insurance crowds out social capital. The free-riding problem created by the positive externality of weather index insurance and development of self-sufficiency behaviour are found to be the causal mechanisms behind the crowding out phenomenon. Our results indicate that formal insurance mechanisms do not occur in a vacuum and may have unintended effects. Hence, this study suggests that novel insurance product design and marketing strategies should be used to ameliorate such unintended effects.
G22|Cost-sharing in health insurance and its impact in a developing country: evidence from a quasi-natural experiment|Though the impact of cost-sharing on health care demand is well documented in developed countries, evidence from developing countries is rare. This paper’s contribution is to analyse the impact of increasing coinsurance in a developing nation, Vietnam, by exploiting a quasi-natural experiment in that country. In 2007, the Vietnam government reintroduced a 20 percent coinsurance for individuals who hold voluntary health insurance policies. As individuals with compulsory health insurance were exempt from this re-imposition of coinsurance, this policy change may be regarded as a quasi-natural experiment. To exploit this change, we use a difference-in difference approach to examine whether the increase in coinsurance effectively reduced the demand for health care services among those affected. We find it has no statistically significant effect on the quantity of health care demanded. We however find that those who were under 18 or in low income households reduced their health care use after the increase in coinsurance. These findings hold – at least in the short-run, with a variety of different outcomes and estimators.
G22|Competitive Premium Pricing and Cost Savings for Insurance Policy Holders: leveraging Big Data|Examining the intersection of research on the effects of (re)insurance risk diversification and availability of big insurance data components for competitive underwriting and premium pricing is the purpose for this paper. We study the combination of physical diversification by geography and insured natural peril with the complexity of aggregate structured insurance products, and furthermore how big historical and modeled data components impact product underwriting decisions. Under such market conditions, the availability of big data components facilitates accurate measurement of inter-dependencies among risks, and the definition of optimal and competitive insurance premium at the level of the firm and the policy holders. We extend the discourse to a notional micro-economy and examine the impact of diversification and insurance big data components on the potential for developing strategies for sustainable and economical insurance policy underwriting. We review concepts of parallel and distributed algorithmic computing for big data clustering, mapping and resource reducing algorithms.
G22|Corporate Governance and Performance of United Malacca Berhad|The study aims to measure corporate governance and its impact firm performance and risk of United Malacca Berhad (UMB). The method of the study is regression analysis of United Malacca Berhad by using SPSS System. The study found that UMB has a positive relationship between return on asset and return on equity. However, the ROA and leverage ratio was negative relationship. Meaning that the company has borrowed too much money even though they earns profit. The regression analysis show that 2 out of 13 factors are significantly influence the profitability of UMB.
G22|Trade Credit Insurance and Asymmetric Information Problem|The presence of different risk factors in international trade gives evidence of the necessity of support in gaps that may affect exporters’ activity. To maximize the trade volumes and in the same time to minimize the exporters’ risks the stakeholders use trade credit insurance. The paper provides analysis of conceptual background of the trade credit insurance in the world. We analyzed briefly the problems, arising in insurance markets due to asymmetric information, such as adverse selection and moral hazard. Also we discuss the main stages of development of trade credit insurance in countries worldwide. Using comparative and graphical analysis we provide a brief evaluation of the dynamics of claims and recoveries for different forms of trade credit insurance. We found that the claims related to the commercial risk for medium and long trade credits in recent years exceed the recoveries, while with the political risk the reverse trend holds. And we originally consider these findings in terms of information asymmetry in the trade credit insurance differentiated by type of risk.
G22|Crop Insurance in the European Union: Lessons and Caution from the United States|Recent changes in the Common Agricultural Policy have focused attention on the possibility of an enlarged crop insurance program in Europe. Several countries in the European Union already have national crop insurance schemes, but the performance of these programs in terms of realized demand has been low. In some cases, participation in the programs remains low in spite of significant subsidies to insurance premiums. This situation can be contrasted with the federal crop insurance program in the United States, which is now the principal instrument of American agricultural policy and insured over 366 million acres in 2015. We focus on two questions: are there any justifications for subsidized crop insurance and how could such a scheme possibly be implemented in the EU? Quantitative and qualitative comparisons of the current state of crop insurance in the EU and US serve to motivate our observations.
G22|UK Infrastructure Investment and Finance from a European and Global Perspective|This study provides an overview of UK infrastructure investment and finance in an international context, yielding interesting facts and insights for both investors and policy makers worldwide. The UK is one of the leading countries in terms of private sector involvement in infrastructure, with several decades’ experience in regulating privatized utilities and in developing public-private partnerships (PPP). It has attracted substantial European and global capital, and London is a major market place for the infrastructure and green business. However, the UK has also seen decades of weak spending by the state (and taxpayers) on infrastructure. The country needs more investment when public budgets are already stretched. The question is whether private capital will be so easily available in future, especially from institutional and foreign investors.
G22|Non-bank Financial Institutions at the Ground Zero of Next Crisis|• Non-bank financial institutions (“shadow banks”) filled the funding gap following banks’ retreat in the wake of the post-crisis regulatory tightening and amid pressure to bolster returns in response to central banks’ low rates policy • “Shadow banks” such as investment managers, insurance companies and pension funds reacted to policy-induced volatility suppression by moving up the risk ladder: longer term bonds, high yield debt, equities, and direct lending • Prolonged volatility dampening induced investors to forgo volatility hedging and fueled the growth of passive funds, and rising concentration of “flighty asset” in passive funds increased probability for a “shadow bank run” • Non-banks are becoming increasingly reliant on monetary authorities to continue volatility suppression, and many “reach for yield” and risk-parity strategies hinge on prolonged policy accommodation to ward against redemption • Looming increase in Fed balance sheet reinvestment cap and ECB QE taper will threaten years of non-bank risk accumulation made viable by low volatility, and a decline in asset prices will likely trigger a systemic VaR shock
G22|Economic Feasibility of the Profitability of Insurances Related to Oil and Gas Wells|Insurance is among the most important tools that have been devised to prepare readiness for dealing with threats. These valuable man-made tools with their capabilities have controlled many undesirable effects of unforeseen events. In each country, growth and development of insurance industry is considered as an indicator for evaluating the level of development. From the perspective of insurers, the risks of energy, especially the oil and gas industry, are known as high risks. Economic feasibility of the profitability of insurance related to oil and gas wells is the aim of this study that was performed through damage coefficient indicators and profit margin with scenario planning using engineering economics method. The results of this research indicate that the damage coefficient of this field of insurance is much lower than the whole insurance industry and have a suitable and very high profit margin. Therefore, due to the low damage coefficient and high profit margin and the stability of these types of insurance, their profitability is confirmed economically and investment and providing insurance coverage is adequately justifiable for these types of risk.
G22|Market insurance and risks in this field|The insurance market can be considered a market where all sorts of anomalies can be encountered or a current acquisition for a situation considered to be certain or relative future, depending on the type of insurance. For the most part, assurance is based on a premise, a hypothesis that is generally based on several factors of influence. Generally, the most important factors in making such a decision are generated by the human-sensitive factor or the economicprotective. Therefore, by joining the insurance market and purchasing any kind of insurance, we must also take into account the risks that arise from these products. Generally, most people perceive these insurance policies in different areas as a future guarantee without considering additional elements that can highlight risk elements that may alter the expected outcome of the acquirer. An important element to mitigate these risks would be the implementation and use of internal control over the supply chain, control that would make a difference between an activity under normal, predictable and legal conditions and a random activity with many elements of risk that can cause major damage to those involved, and to the insurer and the insured. Through this paper, the author aimed to highlight the importance of internal control in insurance companies, as well as the consequences of the lack of internal control within these societies.
G22|Economic Analysis Of Social Security Survivors Insurance|This article develops a heterogeneous agents model to analyze the effects of Social Security survivors insurance. The model features a negative mortality–income gradient, asymmetric information of individual mortality rates, and a warm‐glow bequest motive that varies by age and family structure. The model matches life‐cycle changes in life insurance coverage and generates advantageous selection in the insurance market. For male agents, reducing survivors benefits for dependent children generates welfare losses, whereas reducing survivors benefits for aged spouses produces welfare gains. The opposing welfare results are explained by differences in the timing of benefits and in the funding cost.
G22|Imperfect Information and Participation in Insurance Markets: Evidence from Italy|Participation in crop insurance programs is lowered by imperfect knowledge resulting in adverse selection and moral hazard problems. We aim at investigating how experience in insurance contracts may influence participation in the Italian crop insurance market. From Italian farm-level data we estimate a dynamic discrete choice model of participation to investigate the role of experience. The methodology, coupled with exploratory analysis of the data, allows one to compare the relevance of different sources of experience in the crop insurance decision making process. We found that experience tend to be a catalyst for insurance participation. Policy implications are discussed: in particular we discuss on the importance of bolstering uptake to exploit the advantages of the inertia and spillover effects that emerge from experience. To the best of our knowledge, the role of experience has been underinvestigated. Our analysis has the specific contribution of modeling the potential role of experience (exploited after buying an insurance contract) on uptake in crop insurance programs.
G22|Tables de mortalité d’expérience incorporant une échelle de projection : adaptation aux cas des retraités en Algérie<BR>[Experience life tables incorporating a projection scale : adaptation to the case of retirees in Algeria]|Mortality data for Algerian retirees are not available for long periods allowing a direct application of prospective mortality models. The positioning of the experience mortality on an external reference is one of the technical solutions to circumvent data problem. Nevertheless, this procedure remains a little complicated because it requires finding an adequate external reference and to forecast the reference mortality before to be able to project the experience mortality. In this work, we propose a simpler and more efficient method. Starting from a periodic life table of retirees, for which a projection scale is applied, the projected experience mortality rates can be deduced. The results show that retired men have no significant advantages compared to the rest of the population. By contrast, at age 50, retired women can expect to live three years longer than women of the rest of the population.
G22|Economic Policy Uncertainty and Insurance|Just as the world has witnessed the increased importance of the insurance sector over the past few decades, it has also witnessed a sharp rise in risks and uncertainties. Surprisingly, studies analyzing the relationship between economic policy uncertainty and the insurance sector are almost non-existent. Also, a major limitation of insurance literature is the choice of methodology. Most studies about the insurance sector do not take into consideration issues of heterogeneity and cross-sectional dependence, and are therefore subject to errors. To address the identified gaps, this study investigates the impact of economic policy uncertainty on insurance premium growth, controlling for the effect of real output, in a panel of 19 countries over the period 2003-2016 by employing heterogeneous panel estimation techniques with cross-sectional dependence. CADF and CIPS unit root tests conducted show that each of the variables becomes stationary after first difference. The Westerlund (2007) cointegration test results confirm that a long-run relationship exists between the variables. Findings from the error correction based panel estimations show that the insurance sector is not immune to the effects of economic policy uncertainty and real output. Economic policy uncertainty raises insurance premiums in the short run and lessens it in the long run whereas real output increases insurance premiums both in the short and long run, although its long run impact is greater than the short run impact. Also, economic policy uncertainty exerts a bigger influence on non-life insurance premium than on life insurance premium.
G22|Valuation Standards for Insurance Companies in the Financial Theory|This article aims to evaluate the research of the different published opinions on the insurance company valuation, to analyse them and to judge their use in practice. The process of the valuation of the insurance company is very complicated and there are not many theoretical studies concerning this problem. The valuation of insurance companies should take into account the specifics of insurance activities and should look for the optimal approach. There were different approaches available - the income approach, the market comparison approach, the assets-based approach and the Bond Pricing Model. They can be combined and so there can be created different types of models. The two most important models of Massari, Gianfrate and Zanetti (2014) and Hrdý, Ducháčková (2014) were analysed and compared. Both models are applicable in practice. For the final valuation standards it could be recommended to use minimum of two methods of valuation or one of the two in detailed analysed models.
G22|Farmers and Pixels: Toward Sustainable Agricultural Finance with Space Technology|This paper explores promises of satellite technology in creating high-quality agricultural risk information necessary for unlocking market inefficiencies that have precluded sustainable development of insurance markets and overall risk management in agricultural sector, where uninsured risk remains a leading impediment of economic development. Using pixel-level, high resolution, high frequency and longitudinal satellite data together with a combination of geographical information system (GIS) data, administrative and household-level agricultural data, this paper answers three questions: (1) Can satellite data be used to generate high-quality risk information for Thai rice farmers? (2) How might the satellite-based risk information be used to crowd in sustainable markets for agricultural finance? And (3) What are potential economic impacts of having high quality agricultural data on farmers, agricultural banks and government? After illuminating the potential values of investing in high-quality agricultural data, this paper also discusses key challenges and ways forward in bringing this research into real action to enhance financial stability of farmers, financial system and government.
G22|Pension Schemes, Taxation and Stakeholder Wealth: The USS Rule Changes|Although tax relief on pensions is a controversial area of government expenditure, this is the first study of the tax effects of a real world defined benefit pension scheme - the Universities Superannuation Scheme (USS). First, we estimate the tax and national insurance contribution (NIC) effects of the rule changes in 2011 on the gross and net wealth of the sponsor, government, and 16 age cohorts of members, deferred pensioners and pensioners. Second, we measure the size of the twelve income tax and NIC payments and reliefs for members and the sponsor, both before and after the rule changes. We find the total subsidy split is roughly: 40% income tax subsidy; 30% member' NIC subsidy; and 30% sponsor NIC subsidy. However government proposals for reform have concentrated exclusively on the income tax relief, neglecting the substantially larger NIC relief, possibly because they have overestimated the size of the income tax relief.
G22|Effects of Insurance Incentives on Road Safety: Evidence from a Natural Experiment in China|We investigate the incentive effects of insurance experience rating on road safety by evaluating the claim frequency following a regulatory reform introduced in a pilot city of China. Our contribution to the growing literature on moral hazard is to offer a neat identification of a causal effect of experience rating on road safety by employing the differences-in-differences methodology in the framework of a natural experiment. The pre-treatment placebo test corroborates the assumption that the pilot city and the control city share the same pre-reform time trends in claims. We find that basing insurance pricing on traffic violations reduces claim frequency significantly. These results are robust to the inclusion of vehicle controls, alternative definitions of claim frequency, two placebo experiment tests, and several robustness checks. The effects of basing pricing on past claims are not significant.
G22|Insurance and Insurance Markets|Kenneth Arrow and Karl Borch published several important articles in the early 1960s that can be viewed as the beginning of modern economic analysis of insurance activity. This chapter reviews the main theoretical and empirical contributions in insurance economics since that time. The review begins with the role of utility, risk, and risk aversion in the insurance literature and then summarizes work on the demand for insurance, insurance and resource allocation, moral hazard, and adverse selection. It then turns to financial pricing models of insurance and to analyses of price volatility and underwriting cycles; insurance price regulation; insurance company capital adequacy and capital regulation; the development of insurance securitization and insurance-linked securities; and the efficiency, distribution, organizational form, and governance of insurance organizations.
G22|Reinsurance Demand and Liquidity Creation|This paper analyzes the relation between insurers’ liquidity creation and reinsurance demand. The empirical measure of liquidity creation was developed for banks by Berger and Bouwman (2009), who distinguished two important bank activities: liquidity creation and risk transformation. Insurers also actively transform risk, but the extent of their engagement in liquidity creation is less clear. Because liquidity creation is a risky activity, it may affect the demand for reinsurance. The goal of this study is to analyze how liquidity creation affects demand for reinsurance.
G22|Why Insurance Regulation is Crucial for Long-term Investment and Economic Growth|This paper focuses on the role of insurers as providers of funds for long-term investment in the real economy, with an examination of the European market. The thesis is that financial regulation, and prudential insurance regulation in particular, crucially affects insurers’ investment behavior and therefore their contribution to financial stability and economic growth, which for many reasons will be increasing in the near future. Accordingly, careful assessment of the effects of Solvency II on the insurance industry is required, bearing in mind the regulatory review planned for 2018.
G22|Modelling the number of road accidents of uninsured drivers and their severity|The main aim of the presentation is to discuss methods which can be used for modelling the number of daily road accidents of uninsured drivers and their claim severity i.e. the average claim per accident. Modelling of such events is relevant for institutions such as the insurance companies, national insurers? bureau etc. The proposed model consists of three parts. The first part models deterministic seasonality with special focus given on daily seasonality. Daily seasonality is usually considered as seasonality with long seasonal period, so we will use approaches based on basis expansion. The second part characterizes the impact of other deterministic variables such as long-term trend and other external variables. The last part of the model is an error term part the purpose of which is to capture residual randomness of the model. Because of the character of the time series, GARMA model will be used to capture the error term part.
G22|A voluntary deductible in health insurance: the more years you opt for it, the lower your premium?|Abstract Adverse selection regarding a voluntary deductible (VD) in health insurance implies that insured only opt for a VD if they expect no (or few) healthcare expenses. This paper investigates two potential strategies to reduce adverse selection: (1) differentiating the premium to the duration of the contract for which the VD holds (ex-ante approach) and (2) differentiating the premium to the number of years for which insured have opted for a VD (ex-post approach). It can be hypothesized that premiums will decrease with the duration of the contract or the number of years for which insured have opted for a VD, providing an incentive to insured to opt for a deductible also in (incidental) years they expect relatively high expenses. To test this hypothesis, we examine which premium patterns would occur under these strategies using data on healthcare expenses and risk characteristics of over 750,000 insured from 6 years. Our results show that, under the assumptions made, only without risk equalization the premiums could decrease with the duration of the contract or the number of years for which insured have opted for a VD. With (sophisticated) risk equalization, decreasing premiums seem unfeasible, both under the ex-ante and ex-post approach. Given these findings, we are sceptical about the feasibility of these strategies to counteract adverse selection.
G22|Continuous-time perpetuities and time reversal of diffusions|Abstract We consider the problem of estimating the joint distribution of a continuous-time perpetuity and the underlying factors which govern the cash flow rate, in an ergodic Markovian model. Two approaches are used to obtain the distribution. The first identifies a partial differential equation for the conditional cumulative distribution function of the perpetuity given the initial factor value, which under certain conditions ensures the existence of a density for the perpetuity. The second (and more general) approach, using techniques of time reversal, identifies the joint law as the stationary distribution of an ergodic multidimensional diffusion. This latter approach allows efficient use of Monte Carlo simulation, as the distribution is obtained by sampling a single path of the reversed process.
G22|Characterization and uniqueness of equilibrium in competitive insurance|This paper provides a complete characterization of equilibria in a game-theoretic version of Rothschild and Stiglitz (1976)’s model of competitive insurance. I allow for stochastic contract offers by insurance firms and show that a unique symmetric equilibrium always exists. Exact conditions under which the equilibrium involves mixed strategies are provided. The mixed equilibrium features: (i) cross-subsidization across risk levels, (ii) dependence of offers on the risk distribution and (iii) price dispersion generated by firm randomization over offers.
G22|Catastrophic risk: social influences on insurance decisions|Abstract We study behavioral patterns of insurance demand for low-probability large-loss events (catastrophic losses). Individual patterns of belief formation and risk attitude that were suggested in the behavioral decisions literature emerge robustly in the current set of insurance choices. However, social comparison effects are less robust. We do not find any evidence for peer effects (through social-loss aversion or imitation) on insurance take-up. In contrast, we find support for the prediction that people underweight others’ relevant information in their own decision making.
G22|Optimal margins and equilibrium prices|We study the interaction between contracting and equilibrium pricing when risk- averse hedgers purchase insurance from risk-neutral investors subject to moral hazard. Moral hazard limits risk-sharing. In the individually optimal contract, margins are called (after bad news) to improve risk-sharing. But margin calls depress the price of investors' assets, affecting other investors negatively. Because of this re-sale ex- ternality, there is too much use of margins in the market equilibrium compared to the utilitarian optimum. Moreover, equilibrium multiplicity can arise: In a pessimistic equilibrium, hedgers who fear low prices request high margins to obtain more insurance. Large margin calls trigger large price drops, confirming initial pessimistic expectations. Finally, moral hazard generates endogenous market incompleteness, raises risk premia, and induces contagion between asset classes.
G22|God insures those who pay?Formal insurance and religious offerings in Ghana|This paper presents experimental evidence exploring how insurance might be a motive for religious donations by members of a Pentecostal church in Ghana. We ran- domize enrollment into a commercially available funeral insurance policy and let church members allocate money between themselves and a set of religious goods in a series of dictator games with significant stakes. Members enrolled in insurance give significantly less money to their own churches. At the same time, enrollment in insurance reduces giving towards other spiritual goods. We set up a model exploring different channels of religious based insurance. The implications of the model and the results of the dictator games suggest that adherents perceive the church as a source of insurance and that this insurance is derived from beliefs in an interventionist God. Survey results suggest that community-based material insurance is also important and we hypothesize that these two insurance channels exist in parallel.
G22|How do unisex life care annuities embedded in a pay-as-you-go retirement system affect gender redistribution?|This paper aims to assess gender redistribution when using unisex conversion factors to compute the initial benefit of life care annuities (LCAs) embedded in a pay-as-you-go (PAYG) pension system. We use a method based on actuarial factors to disentangle the hidden redistribution of LCAs with graded benefits. The value of the actuarial factor relies on a multistate framework in which transitions are modeled from the initial health state to the absorbing state. According to our calculations for Australia and the US, the amount of gender redistribution is by no means irrelevant. In spite of the very different biometric data, the results are surprisingly similar for both countries. Risk equalization based on the “equal treatment” of men and women may not be fair, given that age, gender and health state are very significant risk factors in computing the initial benefit in a system covering retirement and long-term care.
G22|Willingness to pay for agricultural risk insurance as a strategy to adapt climate change|Agricultural production is subject to high risk associated with environmental and agro-ecological conditions. Farmers continuously make decisions to mitigate the various adversities. This study evaluates farm households’ willingness to pay for agricultural risk insurance intervention introduced in Ethiopia in 2009. A bidding game approach is used to elicit willingness-to-pay. We use a unique data collected on farmers’ willingness to pay for production risk insurance covering 1500 farm households. The result from the first willingness to pay response model shows that on average, farmers are willing to pay a premium of 55 Ethiopian Birr. By increasing the efficiency of our estimation, a double-bounded dichotomous choice model is estimated in the follow-up willingness to pay response question. It indicates that farmers are willing to pay about 67 Ethiopian Birr to insurance coverage. The use of modern agricultural technologies such as high-yielding variety and inorganic fertilizer, low rainfall, large family size, and high rainfall type are potential indicators that determine farmers’ decision to adopt financial insurance. We also found farmer’s demand for insurance increases due to the changing extreme weather events. Therefore, the study provides information to agricultural policy makers and private companies to promote agricultural insurance and set the premium and enrollment unit.
G22|Contract Nonperformance Risk and Uncertainty in Insurance Markets|Insurance contracts may fail to perform, leading to a default on valid claims. We relax the standard assumption of known probalilities for such defaults by allowing for uncertainty. Within a large behavioral experiment, we show that introducing risk an uncertainty each leads to significant reductions in unsurance demand and that the effects are comparable in magnitude (17.1 and 14.5 percentage points). Furthermore, risk-and ambiguity-averse participants are affected most. These findings are in line with models incorporating ambiguity attitudes or, alternatively, pessimistic beliefs. An analysis of the belief and decision dynamics suggest persistent pessimistic priors and disregard of peer experiences, leading to a stable uncertainty effect.
G22|Insight into the Female Longevity Puzzle: Using Register Data to Analyse Mortality and Cause of Death Behaviour Across Socio-economic Groups|This paper analyses the complexity of female longevity improvements. As socio-economic status influence health and mortality, we partition all individuals, at each age and year, into ten socio-economic groups based on an affluence measure. We identify the particular socio-economic groups that have been driving the standstill for Danish women and within each socio-economic group we further analyse the cause of death pattern. Further, we compare the forecast performance of the Lee-Carter model with the multi-population Li and Lee model. The decline in life expectancy for Danish women is present for all subgroups, however with particular large decreases for the low-middle and middle affluence groups. We find that causes of deaths related to smoking partly contribute to the slowdown in female longevity. However the lack of improvements in deaths relating to ischemic heart diseases is dominant in explaining the slowdown and the following catch up effect in life expectancies.
G22|Does It Pay to Know Prices in Health Care?|Consumers rarely know the price of medical care before they consume it. I use variation in the timing of access to a new source of price information to show how access to and search for price information leads consumers to pay significantly less for care. I provide suggestive evidence that insurance coverage inhibits the use of price information, rationalizing the relatively low rates of search. The results indicate that availability of price information could have large impacts on prices even in the absence of general equilibrium effects.
G22|Heterogeneity, Demand for Insurance, and Adverse Selection|Recent evidence underlines the importance of demand frictions distorting insurance choices. Heterogeneous frictions cause the willingness to pay for insurance to be biased upward (relative to value) for those purchasing insurance, but downward for those who remain uninsured. The paper integrates this finding with standard methods for evaluating welfare in insurance markets and demonstrates how welfare conclusions regarding adversely selected markets are affected. The demand frictions framework also makes qualitatively different predictions about the desirability of policies, such as insurance subsidies and mandates, commonly used to tackle adverse selection.
G22|Technological Change and Risk Adjustment: Benefit Design Incentives in Medicare Part D|Subsidized health insurance markets use diagnosis-based risk adjustment to induce insurers to offer an equitable benefit to individuals of varying expected cost. I demonstrate that technological change after risk adjustment calibration--new drug entry and the onset of generic competition--made certain diagnoses profitable or unprofitable in Medicare Part D. I then exploit variation in diagnoses' profitability driven by technological change to show insurers designed more favorable benefits for drugs that treat profitable diagnoses as compared to unprofitable diagnoses. In the presence of technological change, risk adjustment may not fully neutralize insurers' incentives to select through benefit designs.
G22|Factors influencing Chinese farmer demand for vegetable price insurance in Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region| The study investigates whether vegetable price index insurance could be applied to the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei (BTH) region of China and identifies farmers’ interest in the insurance. Vegetable price index insurance is growing rapidly in China and was recently introduced in the Shanghai region. Although the BTH region is an important region for vegetable production and consumption, no such insurance is currently available in the region. Survey data from 450 farmers in the BTH region were collected during July-August 2016. Factors influencing farmer demand for vegetable price index insurance in the region are identified by estimating a probit model. Four categories of factors are considered: location, demographics (gender, age, education, and experience), farm characteristics (size, organization membership, yield, and net income), and risk cognition (market price sensitivity, other insurance purchased, price risk type and recent loss experience from low price). The results should assist the Chinese government structure and promote a vegetable price insurance that will be an effective method to maintain vegetable prices in the region and promote vegetable production by farmers.
G22|Solvency Effects of Taxation: A Comparison of Hungarian Banks and Insurance Companies|Recently, there has been a growing interest in the solvency of financial intermediaries. Bank and insurer insolvency cases generated numerous adverse economic effects and also promoted academic efforts to design solvency-related taxation methods. The focus of this paper is on corporate taxation and its empirical relation to solvency in the Hungarian financial intermediation sector. Based on the previous literature, a complex empirical model of the interactions between capital formation, asset growth and solvency risk is presented, and panel data results are compared for banks and insurance companies. A comparison with international empirical results is also possible, although it may only be of limited relevance due to some differences in solvency measurement. The paper also aims to highlight the potential differences between banking and insurance. As far as solvency effects are concerned, the empirical results do not reveal significant differences in these two sectors; however, other results point to the heterogeneity of the Hungarian financial intermediation sector.
G22|Public in-Kind Relief and Private Self-Insurance|Abstract This paper provides a new angle on the question of crowding effects of public policies. We examine how non-hypothetical self-insurance behavior by households responds to variations in public investments in relief capabilities based on a large disaster preparedness survey (n = 19,071) conducted in Japan in 2012. In our specific setting which looks at emergency drinking water, (i) government provides in-kind, rather than cash, relief and (ii) the crowding effect observed is more apt to be total, rather than partial. In contrast to much of the literature studying crowding effects of cash relief, we find little evidence for crowding out in emergency drinking water, with an upper bound of 2% at the intensive margin. We also identify important benefits of targeting in-kind relief to households with minors.
G22|On the nature of the collective account in the net premium reserves in life and pension insurance|Net Premuim Reserves are in the center of life and pension insurance. Usually they are associated with the individual accounts of the insured while the collective account, being collective property of the insured and a very important part of the reserves, remains out-of-the-way and somewhat in the background. The focus here is on the nature and functions of the collective account using a pension plan as an example. This might be a basis for some conclusions about general insurance.
G22|An Index of Regulatory Practices for Financial Inclusion in Latin America|The index assesses and compares the quality of regulations that influence financial inclusion in 8 Latin American countries. It defines three categories of regulatory practices: the enablers, which determine the overall quality of the financial environment; the promoters, which deal with specific market frictions; and the preventers which create distortions and barriers.
G22|Un indice de practicas regulatorias para la Inclusion Financiera en America Latina|El indice valora y compara la calidad de las regulaciones que influyen en la inclusion financiera de 8 paises de America Latina. Define tres categorias de practicas regulatorias: los facilitadores, que determinan la calidad del entorno financiero; los promotores, que abordan fallos de mercado especificos; y los obstaculizadores, que crean distorsiones y barreras.
G22|Stress tests EIOPA 2016 : situation domestique et analyses comparatives avec l’échantillon européen|L’exercice de stress tests conduit par EIOPA en 2016 est le troisième mené par l’Autorité Européenne et s’est concentré sur les risques liés aux taux bas pour les assureurs vie, l’environnement de taux bas ayant été identifié par EIOPA et l’ESRB comme la principale menace pour le secteur de l’assurance, suite à l’exercice 2014 et les différents travaux réalisés en 2015. Bien que l’exercice de 2016 mettait l’accent sur un nombre de risques testés plus réduits, son périmètre a été étendu afin de couvrir au moins 75% des provisions techniques vie et de constituer un échantillon représentatif du marché de l’assurance-vie en termes de taille et de nature des organismes. Au total, 236 organismes –dont 17 français– appartenant à 30 pays différents ont participé à l’exercice EIOPA pour un total d’actifs de 6300 Mds€ soit près de 60% de l’ensemble des actifs détenus par les assureurs exerçant dans l’UE/EEA. L’ACPR a complété le périmètre retenu pour l’exercice de l’EIOPA avec 17 organismes afin d’étendre l’analyse à la quasi-totalité du marché de l’assurance-vie (90% des provisions techniques vie FR). Les scénarios suivants étaient chacun composés d’un choc instantané à appliquer sur les comptes au 31 décembre 2015 : le premier scénario (dit Low-for-long yield et noté LY) correspondant à un aplatissement de la courbe des taux, signe de taux bas durable, le second scénario (appelé double hit, et noté DH) consistant en un choc simultané sur les taux d’intérêt et les valeurs d’actifs conduisant à une augmentation des spreads. Les résultats de l’exercice de stress tests EIOPA 2016 montrent une assez bonne résilience du marché tant à l’échelle européenne, qu’en France. En situation initiale, pour tous les organismes de l’échantillon français, les Fonds Propres couvrent le SCR, avec un ratio moyen Fonds Propres Éligibles/SCR de 198% légèrement supérieur à celui de l’échantillon européen (196%), dans lequel deux organismes ne couvrent pas leur SCR. Ces résultats montrent que les organismes français semblent être moins dépendants des mesures du paquet branches longues que la moyenne européenne pour couvrir leur SCR. Les spécifications publiées par EIOPA, qui ne demandaient pas de nouveau calcul du SCR post-choc, rendent impossible la mesure de l’impact des scénarios sous forme de variation du ratio. L’analyse des chocs testés dans les scénarios a en particulier reposé sur le ratio Actifs/Passifs et son évolution. En situation initiale, le ratio moyen observé sur l’échantillon français est inférieur à la moyenne européenne (respectivement : 105,7% contre 109,6%). La faiblesse de ce ratio comparée au taux de couverture moyen du SCR semblerait montrer la capacité des organismes de l’échantillon français à gérer leur capital, dans le cadre de groupes financiers plus vastes et par des taux garantis dans les contrats épargne d’assurance-vie moins élevés que sur le marché européen. La variation absolue du ratio Actifs/Passifs, après les chocs simulés dans les deux scénarios, est plus faible pour le marché français que pour le reste de l’Europe dans son ensemble (1,61 points de pourcentage pour l’ensemble des organismes français contre 2,19 en UE pour le scénario DH et 1,32 points de pourcentage en France contre 2,22 en UE pour le scénario LY), même si la variation relative de l’excédent des actifs sur les passifs lui est légèrement supérieure (respectivement pour les scénarios DH et LY : -32,% et -22% pour l’échantillon français ayant participé à l’exercice européen, et -29% et -8% pour l’ensemble de l’échantillon européen). Par ailleurs, si le ratio de couverture du SCR des organismes de petite taille est en moyenne un peu plus élevé que celui des autres organismes, il ressort que l’impact observé post-choc sur les premiers est plus hétérogène que celui des organismes de grande taille. Suite à cet exercice, et conformément aux recommandations formulées par EIOPA en décembre 2016, l’ACPR reste vigilante sur les conséquences de l’environnement de taux bas pour le marché de l’assurance-vie français, en particulier pour les organismes les plus vulnérables. Une attention particulière est portée à la prise en compte des décisions stratégiques arrêtées fin 2016 en termes de taux garantis et de politique de participation aux bénéfices ou de distribution de dividendes, ainsi qu’aux hypothèses de modélisation des engagements des organismes dans le calcul de Best estimate, et enfin à l’évaluation au niveau groupe de l’impact des vulnérabilités identifiées au sein d’un organisme solo.
G22|Assurance vie en France et environnement de taux bas|Les organismes d’assurance vie tirent l’essentiel de leurs revenus financiers de l’investissement des primes reçues de leurs assurés en obligations à taux fixe. Dans un environnement de taux durablement bas, les conditions d’exercice de leur activité sont sensiblement modifiées. Dans cette perspective, l’ACPR a suivi attentivement les développements du marché et conduit de nombreux travaux qui alimentent la présente analyse de la situation de l’assurance vie en France dans un environnement de taux bas. Le marché de l’assurance vie français est l’un des plus importants d’Europe et représente plus de 1600 milliards d’euros de provisions techniques à fin 2015, dont plus de 82% pour les supports en euros. Globalement, les taux garantis aux épargnants sur la durée du contrat restent peu élevés, notamment pour les supports en euros des contrats individuels qui représentent la majeure partie des passifs. Toutefois, la baisse observée sur les taux obligataires à long terme est plus marquée que la baisse des taux de revalorisation des supports en euros.De même mais dans une moindre mesure, le taux de rendement de l’actif des assureurs vie depuis 2006 a diminué moins vite que les taux obligataires à long terme, en raison de l’inertie du stock de leurs placements. Il est nécessaire de développer une vision prospective et d’anticiper une baisse progressive du rendement des actifs des assureurs dans les années à venir. En prenant pour hypothèse le réinvestissement des nominaux obligataires arrivant à échéance par des obligations à rendement nul, la baisse du taux de rendement de l’actif au cours des 10 prochaines années serait de l’ordre 20 points de base par an. Ainsi, même si la concurrence entre les organismes peut constituer un frein à la baisse des revalorisations servies aux assurés sur les contrats, le niveau durablement bas des taux d’intérêt pèsera sur les revalorisations des produits d’assurance vie.Dans cette perspective, les organismes ont augmenté leurs réserves distribuables aux assurés (i.e. la provision pour participation aux bénéfices) sur les supports en euros afin de pouvoir lisser les rendements des produits offerts par distribution différée des bénéfices dégagés aujourd’hui. La baisse des taux garantis à la souscription observée depuis plusieurs années s’accompagne d’un processus d’adaptation de leur activité : la souscription d‘unités de compte est privilégiée par rapport à des versements sur des supports en euros.Les assureurs déclarent également modifier leur politique d’investissement, notamment en cherchant des titres plus rémunérateurs, plus risqués et moins liquides, pour une part limitée de leurs placements. Les autorités se sont dotées d’outils macroprudentiels permettant de gérer les nouveaux risques posés par l’environnement économique actuel. Ainsi, la Loi dite «Sapin II» accorde notamment au Haut Conseil de Stabilité Financière (HCSF) le pouvoir de moduler les règles de constitution et de reprise des provisions pour participation aux bénéfices. Le niveau de ces provisions a globalement augmenté ces dernières années mais le nécessaire équilibre à long terme entre intérêt des assurés, respect des engagements contractuels donnés et solvabilité durable doit être préservé. Dans un contexte d’incertitude sur l’évolution des taux d’intérêt, compte tenu également de l’hétérogénéité des situations individuelles, ce point continuera de faire l’objet de l’attention de l’ACPR. L’ACPR actualisera ses analyses à la lumière des nouvelles données disponibles à fin 2016 et des derniers développements.
G22|Situation à fin 2016 d’un échantillon de groupes d’assurance actifs en France|En 2016, sur la base de la communication financière d’un échantillon de groupes d’assurance européens, cotés et actifs en France, et d’informations recueillies auprès des filiales d’assurance des grands groupes bancaires français, le chiffre d’affaires de l’assurance n’a pas progressé, toutes activités et toutes zones géographiques confondues. Derrière cette stabilisation, intervenue après une année 2015 relativement dynamique (+3,4%), on observe une diminution de la collecte brute en assurances de personnes (-0,7%) et une progression du chiffre d’affaires en assurances de biens et responsabilité (+1,4%). Le résultat opérationnel et le résultat net s’inscrivent néanmoins en hausse (respectivement +1,7% et +2,4%). La bonne résistance en termes de résultats pour l’assurance de personnes (le résultat opérationnel croît de 4,8%), malgré la faiblesse du chiffre d’affaires, contraste avec la situation des assurances de biens et de responsabilité (résultat opérationnel en baisse de 2,3%). Le marché français reste orienté à la hausse : le chiffre d’affaires est en progression de 1,6% du fait d’une légère augmentation de l’activité en assurances de personnes (+0,6%) et du dynamisme de l’activité en assurances de biens et de responsabilité (+5%). En revanche, le résultat opérationnel des groupes isolant le marché français demeure à un niveau élevé mais diminue de -5,4% sous l’effet d’une contraction du résultat opérationnel en assurances de personnes (-5,1%) et en assurances de biens et responsabilités (-3,7%). Dans un contexte de taux bas, le stock de plus-values latentes, notamment obligataires, s’est accru : sur cet échantillon le stock total en pourcentage des placements en valeur de réalisation passe de 9,9% en 2015 à 10,5%en 2016.
G22|Revalorisation 2016 des contrats d’assurance-vie et de capitalisation – engagements à dominante épargne et retraite individuelle|Dans un contexte de taux bas, le niveau des taux de revalorisation servis aux assurés appelle une vigilance particulière du superviseur, au regard de ses objectifs de contrôle prudentiel et de suivi des pratiques commerciales en assurance-vie. Le taux de revalorisation moyen des fonds euros des contrats individuels, net de frais de chargement (mais avant prélèvements sociaux), pondéré par les provisions mathématiques correspondantes, s’élève à 1,93 % au titre de 2016 après 2,27% au titre de 2015 et 2,54% au titre de 2014..
G22|Intergenerational Risk Sharing in Life Insurance: Evidence from France|We study intergenerational risk sharing in Euro-denominated life insurance contracts. These savings products represent 80% of the life insurance market in Europe. Using regulatory and survey data for the French market, which is €1.3 trillion large, we analyze the patterns of intergenerational redistribution implemented by these products. We show that contract returns are an order of magnitude less volatile than the return of assets underlying these contracts. Contract return smoothing is achieved using reserves that absorb fluctuations in asset returns and that generate intertemporal transfers across generations of investors. We estimate the average annual amount of intergenerational transfer at 1.4% of contract value, i.e., €17 billion or 0.8% of GDP. Finally, we provide evidence that smoothing makes contract returns predictable, but inflows react only weakly to these predictable returns.
G22|The impact of Solvency II regulations on life insurers’ investment behaviour|This paper provides a means of estimating how ‘Solvency II’ regulations — introduced in the European Union in January 2016 — might affect UK life insurers’ incentives to hold different types of financial assets, and how these asset holdings are likely to vary in the face of hypothetical changes to market prices. To do so, it sets out a structural model of firms’ equity to assess their investment behaviour under different regulatory regimes. It finds that, while Solvency II may partly protect insurers’ solvency positions from falls in risky asset prices, the new regulations might encourage certain types of UK life insurers to de-risk — that is, move to holding safe assets in place of risky — following falls in risk-free interest rates. This behaviour is driven by changes in the so-called ‘risk margin’, which, under its current design within the Solvency II framework, reduces insurers’ solvency positions following falls in risk-free interest rates, thereby encouraging them to sell risky assets to reduce their probability of regulatory insolvency. The model also suggests that, once Solvency II is fully implemented by 2032, UK life insurers may have markedly reduced their holdings of long-term, risky assets. In the model, this behaviour is also driven by the risk margin, which, by increasing the volatility of insurers’ solvency, encourages them to de-risk to reduce the variance of their asset portfolios.
G22|Investor behaviour and reaching for yield: evidence from the sterling corporate bond market|We provide evidence on how corporate bond investors react to a change in yields, and how this behaviour differs in times of market-wide stress. We also investigate ‘reaching for yield’ across investor types, as well as providing insights into the structure of the corporate bond market. Using proprietary sterling corporate bond transaction data, we show that insurance companies, hedge funds and asset managers are typically net buyers when corporate bond yields rise. Dealer banks clear the market by being net sellers. However, we find evidence for this behaviour reversing in times of stress for some investors. During the 2013 ‘taper tantrum’, asset managers were net sellers of corporate bonds in response to a sharp rise in yields, potentially amplifying price changes. At the same time, dealer banks were net buyers. Finally, we provide evidence that insurers, hedge funds and asset managers tilt their portfolios towards higher risk bonds, consistent with ‘reaching for yield’ behaviour.
G22|Behavioral Aspects of Household Portfolio Choice: Effects of Loss Aversion on Life Insurance Uptake and Savings|This paper investigates how loss-aversion affects individuals' decisions on savings and insurance purchase. Specifically, this paper empirically tests if prospect theory's loss aversion decreases insurance demand and increases savings demand. Prospect theory predicts that boundedly rational consumers may view pure protection insurance, such as term-life insurance, as a risky investment because the insured may lose premiums if a bad event does not occur within the pre-specified term. Hence, those who are fairly sensitive to the potential loss choose not to buy term-life insurance. Instead, they may choose a more safe option to prepare for uncertain future events by increasing precautionary saving. This paper tests such prediction using individual-level data from the Health and Retirement Study (HRS) and finds empirical evidence consistent with the prediction: loss-averse individuals are less likely to own term-life insurance and more likely to own whole-life insurance, which serves as a partial savings instrument. These individuals also hold a higher level of wealth than others, suggesting that they tend to save more (presumably for precautionary motives), all other things being equal.
G22|Divestitures and the financial conglomerate excess value|We study a sample of the world’s largest financial conglomerates from 15 countries and we track their largest divestitures over the period 2005–2016. We develop a novel market-based metric to analyse the impact of divestitures on financial conglomerate excess value, and our findings point to divestitures having a significant impact on financial conglomerate valuation, contributing to a reduced conglomerate discount. Our results are driven by sales of financial service assets. Selling assets unrelated to the financial sector has no significant effect on conglomerate excess value. These results are robust with the inclusion of multiple control variables and alternative econometric model specifications. Altogether these results cast doubts on the existence of large benefits for financial conglomerates from combining financial service activities. This study has implications both for financial conglomerate boards who might direct their strategies to downsize their firms, and for regulators who address issues related to financial stability.
G22|Contractual Framework for the Devolution of System Balancing Responsibility from the Transmission System Operator to Distribution System Operators|The goal of this research is to trigger the devolution of the system balancing responsibility entirely belonging to the transmission system operator (TSO) to several local distribution system operators by fairly allocating system balancing cost based on a cost-causality principle. Within the devolved system balancing scheme, distribution system operators (DSOs) have appropriate motivation for reducing the variability and uncertainty caused by units in their own area. As the number of renewable electricity sources (RES) being connected to the local distribution system increases, it would be advantageous for the TSO to share the increasing burden of the system balancing responsibility with multiple DSOs. To achieve this, we suggest that, first DSOs be designated as the representatives of their own jurisdictions with primary economic responsibility for balancing payments that are originally charged to each energy market participant. Second, this research proves that a cost-causality based cost allocation scheme(CC-CAS) is superior to an energy-amount based cost allocation scheme (currently widely used) in terms of economic efficiency. Additionally, to avoid the side effect that a DSO with a large amount of RES may face a high and risky balancing payment under the CC-CAS, this research also proposes an optimal balancing payment insurance (BPI) contract which helps the DSO hedge the risks associated with uncertain balancing payments.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
G22|The National Flood Insurance Program: Financial Soundness and Affordability|The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) offers flood insurance and promotes floodplain management. CBOâ€™s analysis of 5 million policies in effect in August 2016 showed that the NFIPâ€™s expected one-year costs exceeded annual premiums (including fees and assessments paid by policyholders) by $1.4 billion. That shortfall stemmed primarily from premiumsâ€™ falling short of expected costs in coastal counties, which account for three-quarters of all NFIP policies nationwide.
G22|Modeling the Costs of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporationâ€™s Multiemployer Program: Working Paper 2017-04|The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), a government-owned corporation, insures the pension benefits of more than 10 million participants in multiemployer defined benefit pension plans. Multiemployer plans are typically offered, as part of collective bargaining agreements, by multiple unrelated employers that are jointly responsible for funding the plan. In recent years, many multiemployer plans have experienced underfunding, and some plans now face insolvency. Many beneficiaries of insolvent plans are likely to receive less than their insured benefits, because
G22|Nitpicky Insurers and the Law of Contracts|The standard economic analysis of the insured-insurer relationship under moral hazard postulates a simplistic setup that hardly explains the many features of an insurance contract. We extend this setup to include the situation that the insured was facing at the time of the accident and the circumstances of the loss. We show that if this information is costlessly observable, then it should be included in the contract to improve the risk sharing-incentive trade-off under moral hazard. However, in practice the insurer observes the circumstances of the loss only in particular cases - most of the time by performing a costly audit - and almost never the situation the insured was facing at the time of the accident. The resulting incompleteness of the contract opens the door to controversies and disputes that may lead to judicial procedures. We show how the law of insurance contracts should allow insurers to incentivize policyholders to exert an adequate level of effort, and, at the same time, to limit their propencity to nitpick.
G22|An Index of Regulatory Practices for Financial Inclusion in Latin America: Enablers, Promoters, and Preventers|This paper constructs an index of regulatory quality for improving financial inclusion for the purpose of assessing and comparing the quality of rules and regulations in a sample of eight Latin American countries. The index comprises 11 regulatory practices classified into three categories: those that determine the overall quality of the financial environment where providers of financial services that meet the needs of the poor operate (the enablers); those that deal with specific types of market frictions and regulate the provision of specific financial products and services (the promoters) to large segments of the population; and those that, albeit unintentionally, create distortions and barriers that adversely affect financial inclusion (the preventers). An important novelty of the index is that the assessment of individual regulatory practices not only takes into account accepted standards, but also recognizes that there are important interactions between regulations for financial inclusion as well as between these regulations and other type of government interventions. Among the countries in the sample, by mid-2017, Peru ranked first in this index, followed closely by Mexico. Chile, Colombia, Paraguay, and Uruguay obtained lukewarm results, although there were wide differences among these countries’ individual results. Argentina and Brazil were the two countries with the lowest overall scores. An additional contribution of the paper is that, throughout the analysis, countries’ specific areas of strengths and weakness in financial regulatory practices for improving financial inclusion are identified.
G22|Financial and insurance literacy in Poland|The aim of this paper is to present critical analysis of different concepts related to financial literacy. Discussion of usefulness of standard questions on financial literacy and presenting data on the first Polish research of standard questions on financial literacy compared with selected countries. And finally presenting questionnaire for insurance literacy and findings from Polish research.
G22|Forecasting compositional risk allocations|We analyse models for panel data that arise in risk allocation problems,when a given set of sources are the cause of an aggregate risk value. We focus on the modeling and forecasting of proportional contributions to risk. Compositional data methods are proposed and the regression is flexible to incorporate external information from other variables. We guarantee that projected proportional contributions add up to 100%, and we introduce a method to generate confidence regions with the same restriction. An illustration using data from the stock exchange is provided.
G22|Decumulation, Sequencing Risk and the Safe Withdrawal Rate: Why the 4% Withdrawal Rule leaves Money on the Table|We examine the consequences of alternative popular investment strategies for the decumulation of funds invested for retirement through a defined contribution pension scheme. We examine in detail the viability of specific ‘safe’ withdrawal rates including the ‘4%-rule’ of Bengen (1994). We find two powerful conclusions; first that smoothing the returns on individual assets by simple trend following techniques is a potent tool to enhance withdrawal rates. Secondly, we show that while diversification across asset classes does lead to higher withdrawal rates than simple equity/bond portfolios, ’smoothing’ returns in itself is far more powerful a tool for raising withdrawal rates. in fact, smoothing the popular equity/bond portfolios (such as the 60/40 portfolio) is in itself an excellent and simple solution to constructing a retirement portfolio. Alternatively, trend following enables portfolios to contain more risky assets, and the greater upside they offer, for the same level of overall risk compared to standard portfolios.
