G24|Composite Likelihood Estimation of an Autoregressive Panel Probit Model with Random Effects|Modeling and estimating persistent discrete data can be challenging. In this paper, we use an autoregressive panel probit model where the autocorrelation in the discrete variable is driven by the autocorrelation in the latent variable. In such a non-linear model, the autocorrelation in an unobserved variable results in an intractable likelihood containing high-dimensional integrals. To tackle this problem, we use composite likelihoods that involve much lower order of integration. However, parameter identification becomes problematic since the information employed in lower dimensional distributions may not be rich enough for identification. Therefore, we characterize types of composite likelihoods that are valid for this model and study conditions under which the parameters can be identified. Moreover, we provide consistency and asymptotic normality results of the pairwise composite likelihood estimator and conduct Monte Carlo simulations to assess its finite-sample performances. Finally, we apply our method to analyze credit ratings. The results indicate a significant improvement in the estimated transition probabilities between rating classes compared with static models.
G24|Is market liquidity less resilient after the financial crisis? Evidence for us treasuries|We analyse the market liquidity level and resilience of US 10-year Treasury bonds. Having checked that five indicators show inconclusive results on the liquidity level, we fit a bivariate CC-GARCH model to evaluate its resilience, that is, how liquidity reacts to financial shocks. According to our results, spillovers from liquidity volatility to returns volatility and viceversa are more intense after the crisis. Further, the volatility persistence of both returns and liquidity becomes lower after the crisis. These results are consistent with the existence of more frequent short-lived episodes of high volatility and more unstable liquidity that is more prone to evaporation.
G24|Higher multilateral development bank lending, unchanged capital resources and triple-A rating. A possible trinity after all?|This paper contributes to the literature on Multilateral Development Banks’ (MDBs) balance sheet optimization in two ways. First, it looks at solutions to alleviate the ‘trilemma’ faced by MDBs – stemming from G20 shareholders’ calls for increasing development lending while, simultaneously, keeping capital resources and triple-A credit ratings unchanged. The employment of rating methodologies that take into account MDBs’ peculiarities more appropriately represents one viable solution, as it would allow them to significantly increase available lending capacity for given rating levels and equity resources. Second, the econometric evidence suggests the existence of a rather narrow difference in the cost of funding between triple-A and AA+ rated institutions. Combining the two results, the paper concludes that applying an alternative rating methodology and opting for an AA+ credit rating (instead of triple-A), the four MDBs considered (IBRD, ADB, IADB and AfDB) could more than triple their spare lending capacity, from USD 415 bn to 1.370 bn, with a relatively limited impact on funding costs, estimated at between 40 and 50 bps.
G24|Have FSRs got news for you? Evidence from the impact of Financial Stability Reports on market activity|We investigate the impact that the publication of the Bank of England’s Financial Stability Report (FSR) has on the stock returns and credit default swap spreads of UK financial institutions. Examining a sample of 73 UK-listed banks and other financial institutions, we find that publication of the FSR is, on average, associated with no abnormal returns. We extend our analysis to examine the extent to which policies and the sentiment in the FSR are predictable, which would explain the observed lack of abnormal returns. We find that both sentiment and announced policies are predictable. We also examine the extent to which the release of the FSR reduces information asymmetry in financial markets, but do not find strong evidence.
G24|Friends for the benefits: The effects of political ties on sovereign borrowing conditions|Do closer political ties with a global superpower improve sovereign borrowing conditions? We use data on voting at the United Nations General Assembly along with foreign aid flows to construct an index of political ties and find evidence that suggests closer political ties leads to both better sovereign credit ratings and lower yields on sovereign bonds. We use heads-of-state official visits and coalition forces troop contributions as exogenous instruments to further strengthen the findings.
G24|Has banks' monitoring of other banks strengthened post-crisis? Evidence from the European overnight market|Using the Eurosystem’s proprietary interbank loan data from more than one thousand banks, practically all major banks in Europe for 2008-2016, we show that larger European banks have had a lower cost of overnight borrowing than smaller banks. The size premium remains significant after controlling for time, relationship lending, competitive environment of lenders, and bank risk characteristics but has decreased over time in countries that were stricken by the Sovereign Debt Crisis. Further, the ultra-short maturity of the overnight loans and the daily frequency at which we measure them provide for an ideal setting to use difference-in-differences analysis to study the potential effect of the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD) on the size premium in overnight rates and to avoid possible simultaneity problems. However, we find that changes in the size premium cannot be related to the implementation dates of the BRRD in different member countries.
G24|On the preferences of CoCo bond buyers and sellers: a logistic regression analysis|This paper estimates the preference scores of CoCo bond buyers and sellers by running logistic regressions taking into account both bond and issuing bank’s characteristics, and also considers the role of country−specific CoCo bond market competitiveness. Buyers are found to be characterised by stronger preference responses to CoCo bond coupons and credit ratings, while sellers are more sensitive to CoCo bond issue size and financial characteristics including return on common equity, price−to−book ratio and total regulatory capital to risk−weighted asset ratio. Further, sizeable responses to CoCo bond and issuing bank’s characteristics are found in most European countries, Brazil, Mexico and China, the strongest responses being estimated in the case of the UK and China.
G24|Synergizing Ventures|Venture capital (VC) and growth are examined both empirically and theoretically. Empirically, VC-backed startups have higher early growth rates and initial patent quality than non-VC-backed ones. VC-backing increases a startup’s likelihood of reaching the right tails of the firm size and innovation distributions. Furthermore, outcomes are better for startups matched with more experienced venture capitalists. An endogenous growth model, where venture capitalists provide both expertise and financing for business startups, is constructed to match these facts. The presence of venture capital, the degree of assortative matching between startups and financiers, and the taxation of VC-backed startups matter significantly for growth.
G24|Lured by the Consensus|We find that investors are fixated on analysts’ consensus outputs (earnings forecasts, recommendations, and forecast dispersion), which can be inferior signals compared to the corresponding outputs provided by high-quality analysts, especially when a large number of high-quality analysts follow the firm. This result, which holds at the firm and market level, implies inefficient use of the information contained in analysts’ outputs. Further, the post-earnings announcement drift (PEAD) phenomenon occurs only when high-quality analysts are more uncertain about the firm’s performance than all analysts following the firm. We conclude that the market’s fixation on consensus measures has significant negative economic implications.
G24|The Impact of Venture Capital Screening|I study the effect of limited attention on resource allocation by venture capitalists. Using engagement in the IPO process as a measure of distraction, I document that investments made by inattentive venture capitalists into new portfolio companies tend to underperform. Such companies are 7% less likely to go public or get acquired, and also exhibit lower exit multiples. The adverse effect of distraction is present only in the vicinity of the distracting IPO and manifests itself both for individual partners and venture capital funds. Overall, the results indicate that the scarcity of attention hypothesis holds in the context of deal sourcing and screening in venture capital, highlighting the presence of skill in the company selection process.
G24|Technological Disruptiveness and the Evolution of IPOs and Sell-Outs|We show that the recent decline in IPOs on U.S. markets is related to changes in the technological disruptiveness of startups, which we measure using textual analysis of patents from 1930 to 2010. We focus on VC-backed startups and show that those with ex-ante disruptive technologies are more likely to exit via IPO and less likely to exit via sell-out. This is consistent with IPOs being favored by firms with the potential to carve out independent market positions with strong defenses against rivals. We document an economy-wide trend of declining technological disruptiveness since World War II that accelerated since the late 1990s. This trend predicts fewer IPOs and more sell-outs, and we find that roughly 20% of the recent dearth of IPOs, and 49% of the surge in sell-outs, can be attributed to changes in firms' technological characteristics.
G24|ICO Investors|We conduct a detailed analysis of investors in successful initial coin offerings (ICOs). The average ICO has 4,700 contributors. The median participant contributes small amounts and many investors sell their tokens before the underlying product is developed. Large presale investors obtain tokens at a discount and flip part of their allocation shortly after the ICO. ICO contributors lack the protections traditionally afforded to investors in early stage financing. Nevertheless, returns nine months after the ICO are positive on average, driven mostly by an increase in the value of the Ethereum cryptocurrency.
G24|The Agency of CoCos: Why Contingent Convertible Bonds Aren't for Everyone|Most regulators grant contingent convertible bonds (CoCos) the status of equity. Theory, however, suggests that CoCos can induce debt overhang, thereby, increasing the cost of issuing equity. First, we theoretically investigate how the extent of this debt overhang varies with bank characteristics. Our model predicts that riskier banks face higher debt overhang from CoCos. Our empirical analysis confirms that riskier banks are less likely to issue CoCos than their safer counterparts. Since under Basel III banks are expected to raise equity prior to CoCo conversion, riskier banks that anticipate future equity issuance are less likely to issue CoCos before.
G24|Information Revelation Through Regulatory Process: Interactions Between the SEC and Companies Ahead of the IPO|The regulator plays an active role in the IPO process via its pre-IPO communications with firms, writing 3.8 comment letters per company. To evaluate the regulator’s input, we analyze these communications between the SEC and firms using LDA-analysis and KL-divergence. Main topics of SEC concerns map closely into the regulator’s stated mandate: companies increase prospectus disclosures within precise topics of SEC concern. Questions related to revenue recognition are most informative about company valuation. These concerns are not independently uncovered by investors. This dynamic process of information disclosure results in increased transparency, but at a cost of delays in going public.
G24|Credit Ratings and Structured Finance|The poor performance of credit ratings of structured finance products in the financial crisis has prompted investigation into the role of credit rating agencies (CRAs) in designing and marketing these products. We analyze a two-period reputation model in which a CRA both designs and rates securities that are sold both to investors who are constrained to purchase highly rated securities and investors who are unconstrained. Assets are pooled and senior and junior tranches are issued with a waterfall structure. When the rating constraint is lax, the CRA will include only risky assets in the securitization pool, serving both types of investors without any rating inflation. Rating inflation is decreasing in the tightness of the rating constraint locally. But rating inflation may be non-monotonic in the rating constraint globally, with no rating inflation when the constraint is lax or tight.
G24|Controlling Sellers Who Provide Advice: Regulation and Competition|A monopoly seller advises buyers about which of two goods best fits their needs but may be tempted to steer buyers towards the higher margin good. For the seller to collect information about a buyer's needs and provide truthful advice, the profits from selling both goods must lie within an implementability cone. In the optimal regulation, pricing distortions and information-collection incentives are controlled separately by price regulation and fixed rewards respectively. This no longer holds when the seller has private information about costs as both problems interact. We study the extent to which competition and the threat by buyers to switch sellers can substitute for regulation.
G24|Externalities and financial crisis - enough to cause collapse?|After the boom in US subprime lending came the bust - with a run on US shadow banks. The magnitude of boom and bust were, it seems, amplified by two significant externalities triggered by aggregate shocks: the endogeneity of bank equity due to mark-to-market accounting and of bank liquidity due to 'fire-sales' of securitised assets. We show how adding a systemic 'bank run' to the canonical model of Adrian and Shin allows for a tractable analytical treatment - including the counterfactual of complete collapse that forces the Treasury and the Fed to intervene.
G24|Clients' Connections: Measuring the Role of Private Information in Decentralised Markets|We propose a new measure of private information in decentralised markets -- connections -- defined as the number of dealers with whom a client trades in a time period. Using proprietary data for the UK government bond market, we show that clients have systematically better performance when having more connections, and this effect is stronger during macroeconomic announcements. Time-variation in market-wide connections also helps explain yield dynamics. Given our novel measure, we present two applications suggesting that (i) dealers pass on information, acquired from their informed clients, to their subsidiaries, and (ii) informed clients better predict the order-flow intermediated by their dealers.
G24|Predicting Consumer Default: A Deep Learning Approach|We develop a model to predict consumer default based on deep learning. We show that the model consistently outperforms standard credit scoring models, even though it uses the same data. Our model is interpretable and is able to provide a score to a larger class of borrowers relative to standard credit scoring models while accurately tracking variations in systemic risk. We argue that these properties can provide valuable insights for the design of policies targeted at reducing consumer default and alleviating its burden on borrowers and lenders, as well as macroprudential regulation.
G24|Synergizing Ventures|Venture capital and growth are examined both empirically and theoretically. Empirically, VC-backed startups have higher early growth rates and patenting levels than non-VC-backed ones. Venture capitalists increase a startup's likelihood of reaching the right tails of firm size and innovation distributions. Furthermore, there is positive assortative matching: better venture capitalists match with better startups, creating a synergistic effect. An endogenous growth model, where venture capitalists provide both expertise and financing to business startups, is constructed to match these facts. The degree of assortative matching and the taxation of VC-backed startups are important for growth.
G24|The Value of Intermediation in the Stock Market|Brokers continue to play a critical role in intermediating institutional stock market transactions. More than half of all institutional investor order flow is still executed by high-touch (non-electronic) brokers. Despite the continued importance of brokers, we have limited information on what drives investors' choices among them. We develop and estimate an empirical model of broker choice that allows us to quantitatively examine each investor's' responsiveness to execution costs and access to research and order flow information. Studying over 300 million institutional trades, we find that investor demand is relatively inelastic with respect to commissions and that investors are willing to pay a premium for access to top research analysts and order-flow information. There is substantial heterogeneity across investors. Relative to other investors, hedge funds tend to be more price insensitive, place less value on sell-side research, and place more value on order-flow information. Furthermore, using trader-level data, we find that investors are more likely to trade with traders who are located physically closer and are less likely to trade with traders that have misbehaved in the past. Lastly, we use our empirical model to investigate the unbundling of equity research and execution services related to the MiFID II regulations. While under-reporting for the average firm is relatively small (4%), we find that the bundling of execution and research allows some institutional investors to under-report management fees by up to 15%.
G24|Security design and credit rating risk in the CLO market|In this paper, we empirically explore the effect of the complexity of a security's design on hypotheses relating to credit rating shopping and rating catering in the collateralized loan obligation (CLO) market in the period before and after the global financial crisis in 2007. We find that complexity of a CLO's design is an important factor in explaining the likelihood that market participants display behaviors consistent with either rating shopping or rating catering. In the period prior to 2007, we observe for more complex CLOs a higher incidence of dual-rated tranches, which are more likely to have been catered by credit rating agencies to match each other. Conversely, in the period after 2007, for CLOs, it is more likely that issuers shopped for ratings, in particular opting for a single credit rating by Moody's, not by S&P. Furthermore, contrary to what market participants might expect, investors do not value dual ratings more than single ratings in the determination of the offering yield at issuance. Looking at the explanatory power of credit ratings for a dual rated CLO, the degree to which investors increase their reliance on credit ratings depends to a large extent on the disclosure of an S&P rating, not Moody's. This suggests that investors recognize credit rating risk by agency in pricing CLOs. In sum, the policy implication is that, to effectively regulate CLOs, the regulatory environment ought to differentiate between complex and non-complex CLOs.
G24|Default, Bailouts and the Vertical Structure of Financial Intermediaries|Should we break up banks and limit bailouts? We study vertical integration of deposit-taking institutions and those investing in risky equity. Integration, by eliminating a credit spread, increases output but entails larger, more frequent bailouts. Bailouts of leveraged institutions boost economic activity but are costly. The optimal structure of intermediaries depends largely on the efficiency of government intervention, the competitiveness of the Önancial sector and shocks hitting the economy. Separated institutions are preferred when profit margins are small, financial shocks systemic and volatile, and bailouts costly. For a baseline calibration, universal banks are typically preferred.
G24|Do reputable issuers provide better-quality securitizations?|We examine the link between issuer reputation and mortgage-backed security (MBS) performance using a sample of 4,247 European MBS issued between 1999 and 2007. We measure performance with credit rating downgrades and delinquencies and track their changes over the long term. We find that, overall, MBS sold by reputable issuers are collateralised by higher quality asset pools which have lower delinquency rates and are less likely to be downgraded. However, as credit standards declined during the boom period of 2005-2007, asset pools securitized by reputable issuers were of worse quality compared to those securitized by less reputable issuers. Therefore, reputation as a self-disciplining mechanism failed to incentivise the production of high quality securities during the credit boom. JEL Classification: G21, G24, G28
G24|Credit rating dynamics: evidence from a natural experiment|This paper investigates the behaviour of credit rating agencies (CRAs) using a natural experiment in monetary policy. Speciﬁcally, we exploit the corporate QE of the Eurosystem and its rating-based speciﬁc design which generates exogenous variation in the probability for a bond of becoming eligible for outright purchases. We show that after the launch of the policy, rating upgrades were mostly noticeable for bonds initially located below, but close to, the eligibility frontier. In line with the theory, rating activity is concentrated precisely on the territory where the incentives of market participants are expected to be more sensitive to the policy design. Complementing the evidence on the effectiveness of non-standard measures, our ﬁndings contribute to better assessing the consequences of the explicit (but not exclusive) reliance on CRAs ratings by central banks when designing monetary policy. JEL Classification: E44, E52, E58, G24, G30
G24|Tick Size, Trading Strategies and Market Quality|We model a public limit order book (PLB) with rational investors choosing to supply or demand liquidity. Following a reduction in the tick size the effects on PLBâ€™s market quality depend on the liquidity of the stocks. Spread improves for tick-constrained stocks and deteriorates for unconstrained stocks; inside depth decreases in particular for constrained stocks, and volume increases for unconstrained stocks. The model also shows how results change when competition from a crossing network generates order flow migration. We find empirical support for these predictions by exploiting the 2014 reduction of tick size at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
G24|Are Analyst Trade Ideas Valuable?|Using a novel database, we show that the stock-price impact of analyst trade ideas is at least as large as the impact of stock recommendation, target price, and earnings forecast changes, and that investors following trade ideas can earn significant abnormal returns. Trade ideas triggered by forthcoming firm catalyst events are more informative than ideas exploiting temporary mispricing. Institutional investors trade in the direction of trade ideas and commission-paying institutional clients do so earlier than non-clients. Analysts generating trade ideas are more established and are more likely to produce ideas for stocks with high dollar trading commissions in their coverage universe.
G24|FinTech, BigTech, and the Future of Banks|Banks are unique in that they combine the production of liquid claims with loans. They can replicate most of what FinTech firms can do, but FinTech firms benefit from an uneven playing field in that they are less regulated than banks. The uneven playing field enables non-bank FinTech firms to challenge banks for specific products whose success is not tied to what makes banks unique, but they cannot replace banks as such. In contrast, BigTech firms have unique advantages that banks cannot easily replicate and therefore present a much stronger challenge to established banks in consumer finance and loans to small firms. Both Fintech and BigTech are contributing to a secular trend of banks losing their comparative advantage as they have less access to unique information about parties seeking credit.
G24|Bank Leverage, Welfare, and Regulation|We take issue with claims that the funding mix of banks, which makes them fragile and crisis-prone, is efficient because it reflects special liquidity benefits of bank debt. Even aside from neglecting the systemic damage to the economy that banksâ€™ distress and default cause, such claims are invalid because banks have multiple small creditors and are unable to commit effectively to their overall funding mix and investment strategy ex ante. The resulting market outcomes under laissez-faire are inefficient and involve excessive borrowing, with default risks that jeopardize the purported liquidity benefits. Contrary to claims in the literature that â€œequity is expensiveâ€ and that regulation requiring more equity in the funding mix entails costs to society, such regulation actually helps create useful commitment for banks to avoid the inefficiently high borrowing that comes under laissez-faire. Effective regulation is beneficial even without considering systemic risk; if such regulation also reduces systemic risk, the benefits are even larger.
G24|Ratings matter: announcements in times of crisis and the dynamics of stock markets|In this paper we propose a novel approach in analysing the impact of changes in sovereign credit ratings on stock markets. We study the evolution of a segmented form of the stock market index for several crisis-hit countries, including both European and Asian markets. Such evolution is modelled by a homogeneous Markov chain, where the transition probabilities from one starting level of the index to a new (lower or higher) level in the next period depend on some explanatory variables, namely the country’s rating, GDP and interest rate, through a generalised ordered probit model. The credit ratings turn out to be determinant in the dynamics of the stock markets for all three European countries considered - Portugal, Spain and Greece, while not all considered Asian countries show evidence of correlation of market indices with the ratings.
G24|Sustainable Finance for Sustainable Development|The paper explores how ethical and sustainable oriented finance is key to reach sustainable development by tackling environmental risk through green finance and showing empirical evidence on the link between finance and inequality. The theory provided puts in the right mind frame to analyze markets, intermediaries and instruments with a sustainable lens to focus on the benefits that have brought to sustainable development. A discussion is presented between different intermediaries and highlights the benefits of cooperative banks especially the close relationship of customers and bank and the resilience it gives to Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in difficult times. Different investments strategies are discussed walking through the evolution of Sustainable and Responsible Investing (SRI) funds and diving into the ESG analysis to use as criteria to allocate investments based on environmental, social and governance principles. Microfinance is introduced as a different market that has reached the people at the bottom of the pyramid and highlights the key role it will play to bring financial inclusion. Islamic finance and Fintech are also discussed. Different instruments are presented to understand the current landscape of how different investors are using innovative products to attack social and environmental problems. Finally, five different ways are presented on how policies can strengthen and support sustainable development arguing that the most important is by promoting sustainable footprint certification.
G24|Do Public Firms Respond to Industry Opportunities More Than Private Firms? The Impact of Initial Firm Quality|We track firms at birth and compare the growth pattern of IPO firms and their birth-matched counterparts. Firms that are larger at birth with faster initial growth are more likely to attain a larger size later in life and go public. Firms in the top percentile of predicted propensity to go public grow 29 times larger fifteen years later than matched firms if they actually become public, and 14 times larger if they stay private, showing a large selection effect. We show that public firms, and especially those public firms backed by venture capital, respond more to demand shocks post-IPO.
G24|Institutional Trading Around M&A Announcements|Takeover targets often experience substantial share price appreciations around public announcements of mergers and acquisitions. We analyze hedge fund and mutual fund holdings around takeover announcements to assess the differences in investment strategies across institutions. Our results indicate that hedge funds in the aggregate increase their holdings of soon-to-be takeover targets by 7.2% during the quarter prior to the public announcement. Conversely, mutual funds reduce their equity holdings in impending targets by 3.0% during the quarter before M&A announcements and therefore potentially forgo profitable investment opportunities.
G24|Intermediation Variety|We explain the emergence of a variety of intermediaries in a model based only on differences in their funding costs. Banks have a low cost of capital due to, say, safety nets or money-like liabilities. We show, however, that this can be a disadvantage, because it exacerbates soft-budget-constraint problems, making it costly to finance innovative projects. Non-banks emerge to finance them. Their high cost of capital is an advantage, because it works as a commitment device to withhold capital, solving soft-budget-constraint problems. Still, non-banks never take over the entire market, but coexist with banks in equilibrium.
G24|Are Analyst Trade Ideas Valuable?|Using a novel database, we show that the stock-price impact of analyst trade ideas is at least as large as the impact of stock recommendation, target price, and earnings forecast changes, and that investors following trade ideas can earn significant abnormal returns. Trade ideas triggered by forthcoming firm catalyst events are more informative than ideas exploiting temporary mispricing. Institutional investors trade in the direction of trade ideas and commission-paying institutional clients do so earlier than non-clients. Analysts generating trade ideas are more established and are more likely to produce ideas for stocks with high dollar trading commissions in their coverage universe.
G24|Venture Capital Contracts|We estimate the impact of venture capital (VC) contract terms on startup outcomes and the split of value between the entrepreneur and investor, accounting for endogenous selection via a novel dynamic search and matching model. The estimation uses a new, large data set of first financing rounds of startup companies. Consistent with efficient contracting theories, there is an optimal equity split between agents that maximizes the probability of success. However, VCs use their bargaining power to receive more investor-friendly terms compared to the contract that maximizes startup values. Better VCs still benefit the startup and the entrepreneur, due to their positive value creation. Counterfactual exercises show that eliminating certain contract terms benefits entrepreneurs and enables low-quality entrepreneurs to finance their startups more quickly, increasing the number of deals in the market. Lowering search frictions shifts the bargaining power to VCs and benefits them at the expense of entrepreneurs. The results show that selection of agents into deals is a first-order factor to take into account in studies of contracting.
G24|The Value of Intermediation in the Stock Market|Brokers continue to play a critical role in intermediating institutional stock market transactions. More than half of all institutional investor order flow is still executed by high-touch (non-electronic) brokers. Despite the continued importance of brokers, we have limited information on what drives investors' choices among them. We develop and estimate an empirical model of broker choice that allows us to quantitatively examine each investor's responsiveness to execution costs and access to research and order flow information. Studying over 300 million institutional trades, we find that investor demand is relatively inelastic with respect to commissions and that investors are willing to pay a premium for access to top research analysts and order-flow information. There is substantial heterogeneity across investors. Relative to other investors, hedge funds tend to be more price insensitive, place less value on sell-side research, and place more value on order-flow information. Furthermore, using trader-level data, we find that investors are more likely to trade with traders who are located physically closer and are less likely to trade with traders that have misbehaved in the past. Lastly, we use our empirical model to investigate the unbundling of equity research and execution services related to the MiFID II regulations. While under-reporting for the average firm is relatively small (4%), we find that the bundling of execution and research allows some institutional investors to under-report management fees by up to 15%.
G24|Getting Tired of Your Friends: The Dynamics of Venture Capital Relationships|Does doing more deals together always strengthen investor relationships? Based on the relationships of the top 50 US venture capital firms, this paper focuses on the strengths of relationships and their dynamic evolution. Empirical estimates indicate that having a deeper relationship leads to fewer, not more future coinvestments. Moreover, deeper relationships lead to lower exit performance, even after controlling for endogeneity. Interestingly, deeper relationships first lead to lower performance, and subsequently lead to a slowdown in the relationship intensity. Relationship effects are more negative for VC firms with less central network positions, and for deals made in “hot” investment markets.
G24|Be Careful What You Ask For: Fundraising Strategies in Equity Crowdfunding|We use equity crowdfunding data to ask how fundraising amounts can be explained by what entrepreneurs ask for, versus what investors want to invest. The analysis exploits unique features of crowdfunding where entrepreneurs not only set investment goals, but also chose when to close their campaigns. More experienced and more educated founder teams ask for more. Their campaigns succeed more often, and they raise more money. Female teams ask for less, are equally successful, yet raise significantly less. They also wait longer before closing campaigns, suggesting they want to raise more than what they originally asked for.
G24|FinTech, BigTech, and the Future of Banks|Banks are unique in that they combine the production of liquid claims with loans. They can replicate most of what FinTech firms can do, but FinTech firms benefit from an uneven playing field in that they are less regulated than banks. The uneven playing field enables non-bank FinTech firms to challenge banks for specific products whose success is not tied to what makes banks unique, but they cannot replace banks as such. In contrast, BigTech firms have unique advantages that banks cannot easily replicate and therefore present a much stronger challenge to established banks in consumer finance and loans to small firms. Both Fintech and BigTech are contributing to a secular trend of banks losing their comparative advantage as they have less access to unique information about parties seeking credit.
G24|The Deregulation of the Private Equity Markets and the Decline in IPOs|The deregulation of securities laws—in particular the National Securities Markets Improvement Act (NSMIA) of 1996—has increased the supply of private capital to late-stage private startups, which are now able to grow to a size that few private firms used to reach. NSMIA is one of a number of factors that have changed the going-public versus staying-private trade-off, helping bring about a new equilibrium where fewer startups go public, and those that do are older. This new equilibrium does not reflect an IPO market failure. Rather, founders are using their increased bargaining power vis-a-vis investors to stay private longer.
G24|Theoretical perspective of dynamic credit risk analysis and lending model; effective to enterprises of fragile economy|There is an empirical evidence, which justify the core functioning of money in economic growth and the development of a State, which equally establishes the reason of the relevant role of Banks to every economy. The underpinning of this research, is to present the necessity for the financial industry of undeveloped and developing economies very fragile in their functioning, to adopt the proposed theoretical perspective of dynamic credit risk analysis and lending, as an upgrade model over the existing static risk analytical approach, found to be inefficient in credit-lending-support to the productiveness of enterprises, emerging from such economies, hence creating frustration to the welfare nature of the State and heightening it unemployment tension.
G24|Problematics in Development and Management of Money Affairs (Cash Affairs) in Indonesia|This article explains the problems in the development and management of cash waqf in Indonesia. Cash waqf by people, groups of people, and institutions or legal entities in the form of cash. Waqf cash is still debated among scholars whether it is legal or not, and managing cash waqf professionally is still a discourse and not many people or institutions can accept such waqf models. This article also discusses understanding, legal basis, problematics, management and solutions. Also discussed about cash waqf as the basis for community economic development by opening up Muslim rigidity to cash waqf, as well as the economic prospects of waqf property. The potential of waqf is one of the instruments of economic empowerment for Muslims even though management in Indonesia is still not good. But seen from the number, waqf property in Indonesia is quite large. Money waqf has played an important role as one of the new Islamic fiscal instruments in the economy. Money waqf has two functions as a means of worship and the achievement of social welfare. This article tries to explore how the problems in developing money waqf management such as the way it is distributed and its circulation and how the waqf is able to have a good impact on the surrounding community.
G24|Effect of Information Communication and Technology (ICT) on the Performance of Financial Institutions (A Case Study of Barclays Bank, Sunyani Branch)|The study sought to examine the contribution of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) on performance of banks in terms of service delivery in financial institutions in Ghana. The high competition in the Ghanaian banking industry has forced rapid changes as a result of technological innovation, increased awareness and demands from customers. The study adopted both exploratory and descriptive research design. Qualitative research method was used in collecting data and data was analyzed qualitatively. The main instrument for collecting data was the structured questionnaire. A sample size of 50 respondents consisting of 8 staff members and 48 customers of Barclays Bank was used for the study. A structured questionnaire was the main data collection instrument. The purposive and systematic sampling techniques were used to obtain the required sample size. The main tool which was used for the data analysis was Statistical Package for Social Sciences. Frequencies and percentages were used to present the data in a tabular form. The limitation affecting the study was time and financial constraints. The study revealed that ICT has an appreciable positive effect on performance due to improved customer service delivery. This affects the growth of Barclays Bank. ATM service ﬂaws such as withdrawal discrepancies, issuance of faulty cards and long time for applied ATM cards to arrive deter most customers from accessing the service. Following from this study, it is recommended, Barclays Bank enhances the performance of their ATMs and their networks to increase customers satisfaction.
G24|Synergizing Ventures|Venture capital (VC) and growth are examined both empirically and theoretically. Empirically, VC-backed startups have higher early growth rates and initial patent quality than non-VC-backed ones. VC-backing increases a startup’s likelihood of reaching the right tails of the firm size and innovation distributions. Furthermore, outcomes are better for startups matched with more experienced venture capitalists. An endogenous growth model, where venture capitalists provide both expertise and financing for business startups, is constructed to match these facts. The presence of venture capital, the degree of assortative matching between startups and financiers, and the taxation of VC-backed startups matter significantly for growth.
G24|Artificial Intelligence Applications & Venture Funding in Healthcare|Abstract Venture Capital (VC) funding raised by companies producing Artificial Intelligence (AI) solutions is on the rise. In healthcare, VC funding is distributed unevenly and certain technologies have attracted significantly more funding than others. The funding decisions made by VC companies also work as a technology driver for the industry. We analyzed a database of 106 Healthcare AI companies collected from open online sources to understand factors affecting VC funding of AI companies operating in different areas of healthcare. Companies acting as R&D catalysts have been most succesful in raising VC funding. The results suggest that there is a significant connection between higher funding and having research organizations and pharmaceutical companies as the customer of the product or service. In addition, focusing on AI solutions that are applied to direct patient care delivery is associated with lower funding. We discuss the implications of our findings on health technology research and development, and on the barriers of platform data markets in healthcare industry.
G24|Non-performing loans and sovereign credit ratings|This paper examines the joint behaviour of sovereign ratings and their macroeconomic/financial determinants (namely uncertainty, GDP growth, government debt-to-GDP ratio, investment-to-GDP ratio and the fiscal balance-to-GDP ratio) in a multivariate Panel Vector Autoregressive (PVAR) framework. We reveal another channel of interconnection between sovereign and banking credit risk by identifying a two-way relationship between non-performing loans (NPLs) and sovereign ratings. Generalized impulse response functions (GIRFs) provide evidence of significant effects from NPLs on sovereign rating decisions over and above the effects of the remaining economic/financial variables. At the same time, sovereign rating decisions impact on NPLs and all other variables.
G24|Gender and financial well-being of South African investors|Financial well-being is characterised by an individual?s attitude towards their financial status. Financial well-being can be influenced by various factors, such as socioeconomic characteristics, financial behaviours and financial stressor events. Limited research has been conducted on gender differences regarding perceptions of financial wellness. An opportunity for research in this area emerged, where the main focus of this paper was to determine the difference in financial well-being levels between male and female South African investors. Secondary data collected by an investment company was used with a total sample size of 600 investors. These investors used a self-report measure for financial well-being. The results of the study indicated that there is a statistically significant difference between male and female investors? level of financial well-being. The results also suggested that male investors have a higher level of financial well-being compared to their female counterparts. These results concur with results from previous research conducted by international researchers.
G24|Private Information and Client Connections in Government Bond Markets|In government bond markets the number of dealers with whom clients trade changes through time. Our paper shows that this time-variation in clients’ connections serves as a proxy for time-variation in private information. Using proprietary data covering close to all dealer-client transactions in the UK government bond market, we show that clients have systematically better performance when trading with more dealers, and this effect is stronger during macroeconomic announcements. Most of the effect comes from clients’ increased ability to predict future yield changes (anticipation component) rather than these clients facing tighter bid-ask spreads (transaction component). To explore the nature of this private information, we find that clients with increased dealer connections can better predict the fraction of the aggregate order flow that is intermediated by dealers they regularly trade with. Positive trading performance is concentrated in those periods when clients have more dealer connections than usual.
G24|Intermediation in Markets for Goods and Markets for Assets|We analyze agents' decisions to act as producers or intermediaries using equilibrium search theory. Extending previous analyses in various ways, we ask when intermediation emerges and study its efficiency. In one version of the framework, meant to resemble retail, middlemen hold goods, which entails (storage) costs; that model always displays uniqueness and simple transition dynamics. In another version, middlemen hold assets, which entails negative costs, that is, positive returns; that model can have multiple equilibria and complicated belief-based dynamics. These results are consistent with the venerable view that intermediation in financial markets is more prone to instability than in goods markets.
G24|Synergizing Ventures|Venture capital (VC) and growth are examined both empirically and theoretically. Empirically, VC-backed startups have higher early growth rates and initial patent quality than non-VC-backed ones. VC backing increases a startup's likelihood of reaching the right tails of the firm size and innovation distributions. Furthermore, outcomes are better for startups matched with more experienced venture capitalists. An endogenous growth model, where venture capitalists provide both expertise and financing for business startups, is constructed to match these facts. The presence of venture capital, the degree of assortative matching between startups and financiers, and the taxation of VC-backed startups matter significantly for growth.
G24|Fundamental characteristics of Russia’s equity market in 2018|In 2018, the Russian stock market held up its reputation as one of the most volatile markets in the world. In 2018, Russian companies’ stocks turned out to be instruments with highest returns, outperforming 36 world’s largest stock exchange markets, in contrast to 2017, when Russian stocks were at the bottom of the list of stocks with lowest returns. In 2018, the MOEX Russia Index (formerly the MICEX Index) picked up 12.3 percent, whereas the RTS Index lost 7.4 percent. In 2018, the MOEX Russia Index found itself in a small group of stock indices of Brazil, India and Argentina that managed to stay within a range of positive returns (see Fig. 1). While being composed of the same companies, the two of Russia’s indices differ in that the dollar-denominated RTS Index offers bigger returns than the ruble-denominated MOEX Russia Index. Therefore, when the Russian ruble depreciates the ruble-denominated returns on investment in the stocks composing the MOEX Russia Index are higher than the dollar-denominated returns on the RTS Index portfolio.
G24|Russia’s banking sector in 2018|As of January 1, 2019, the Russian banking system numbered 484 credit organizations. A year earlier then number stood at 542. During the year the number decreased by 58 organizations. Six years ago at the beginning of 2013, the number of credit organizations exceeded one thousand (1094). The Bank of Russia policy aimed at clearing the banking sector has triggered a reduction of the number of banks in operation. Over this period, the Bank of Russia withdrew more than 400 banking licenses. From late 2014 the policy aimed at withdrawing from the market those credit organizations which do not satisfy the requirements of the regulator coincided with the deterioration of the situation in the Russian economy and the imposition of international sanctions on major Russian banks. Correspondingly, already from 2014 the rate of banking license revocation has increased. When in 2013, around 4–5 banks on average per month lost their licenses then in 2014 the rate of banking license revocation increased to 7 lending organizations per month, and during the time of peak manifestations of crisis in the Russian economy and financial system seen in 2015–2016 on average 8 credit organizations per month lost the right to continue their banking activity. The number of revoked banking licenses peaked in 2016: the number of revoked licenses during that year hit 97. Moreover, 2016 saw the peak on the aggregate amount of the bank assets of the banks which lost their banking licenses: RUB 1.7 trillion or 2.0 percent of the overall volume of the banking sector assets.
G24|Building Persistent Financial Performance|Objective – The purpose of this study is to analyze profit persistence and the factors that influence it using secondary data from 39 banks listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange in the form of pooled data, from 2008 to 2014. Methodology/Technique – This study uses a purposive sampling technique, resulting in a sample of 31 banks. Variable profit persistence of each bank reflects sustainable earnings towards the industry in the future. The model determinant factors of persistence profit were analyzed by normalization models as reference models, average models and growth models as exploration models. Findings – As a result, the persistence profit of banks listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange tends to vary. Some banks have positive profit persistence (lambda) that reflects a competitive advantage in the long run. Other banks have a negative profit persistence, which reflects long-term competitive weakness. Novelty – The ability to access capital and funding has a significant effect on profit persistence, although the direction of its influence is negative. Other variables, namely the capability to access public funds, the ability to innovate and industrial factors, namely credit market share, have a significant effect on persistent profits, while the ability to maintain asset quality and efficiency has no significant effect on profit persistence in banks listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange. Type of Paper: Empirical
G24|An Economic Examination of Collateralization in Different Financial Markets|Tim Xiao: This paper attempts to assess the economic significance and implications of collateralization in different financial markets, which is essentially a matter of theoretical justification and empirical verification. We present a comprehensive theoretical framework that allows for collateralization adhering to bankruptcy laws. As such, the model can back out differences in asset prices due to collateralized counterparty risk. This framework is very useful for pricing outstanding defaultable financial contracts. By using a unique data set, we are able to achieve a clean decomposition of prices into their credit risk factors. We find empirical evidence that counterparty risk is not overly important in credit-related spreads. Only the joint effects of collateralization and credit risk can sufficiently explain unsecured credit costs. This finding suggests that failure to properly account for collateralization may result in significant mispricing of financial contracts. We also analyze the difference between cleared and OTC markets.
G24|Pricing Financial Derivatives Subject to Multilateral Credit Risk and Collateralization|This article presents a new model for valuing financial contracts subject to credit risk and collateralization. Examples include the valuation of a credit default swap (CDS) contract that is affected by the trilateral credit risk of the buyer, seller and reference entity. We show that default dependency has a significant impact on asset pricing. In fact, correlated default risk is one of the most pervasive threats in financial markets. We also show that a fully collateralized CDS is not equivalent to a risk-free one. In other words, full collateralization cannot eliminate counterparty risk completely in the CDS market.
G24|Incremental Risk Charge Methodology|The incremental risk charge (IRC) is a new regulatory requirement from the Basel Committee in response to the recent financial crisis. Notably few models for IRC have been developed in the literature. This paper proposes a methodology consisting of two Monte Carlo simulations. The first Monte Carlo simulation simulates default, migration, and concentration in an integrated way. Combining with full re-valuation, the loss distribution at the first liquidity horizon for a subportfolio can be generated. The second Monte Carlo simulation is the random draws based on the constant level of risk assumption. It convolutes the copies of the single loss distribution to produce one year loss distribution. The aggregation of different subportfolios with different liquidity horizons is addressed. Moreover, the methodology for equity is also included, even though it is optional in IRC.
G24|The Valuation of Interest Rate Swap with Bilateral Counterparty Risk|This paper presents an analytical model for valuing interest rate swaps, subject to bilateral counterparty credit risk. The counterparty defaults are modeled by the reduced-form model as the first jump of a time-inhomogeneous Poisson process. All quantities modeled are market-observable. The closed-form solution gives us a better understanding of the impact of the credit asymmetry on swap value, credit value adjustment, swap rate and swap spread.
G24|A Theory of Gazelle Growth: Competition, Venture Capital Finance and Policy|This paper proposes a theory of gazelle growth in which gazelles can either grow organically or by acquisitions. In the model, there are three types of firms: incumbent, target, and gazelle. We show that the lower cost of organic growth can increase the incentives for acquisition growth. The reason for this is that the incumbent understands that if it acquires the target firm, the gazelle will then invest organically anyway to grow, and therefore, the acquisition will not be sufficient to protect the incumbent's market power. The gazelle could then acquire the target firm at a good price. We also show that financial support for the organic growth of gazelles can increase gazelles' growth by acquisitions since incumbents' preemptive motives are reduced.
G24|Sovereign Credit Ratings under Fiscal Uncertainty|This paper studies the response of credit rating agencies to an increase in uncertainty about a government's fiscal position. To that end, a measure of the uncertainty around official forecasts of the public budget deficit is constructed that is comparable across time and a range of advanced economies. To estimate the effect of fiscal uncertainty on sovereign credit ratings, an empirical framework is developed that accounts for the high stability of ratings over time. Results suggest that fiscal uncertainty increases the predictive power of a model of rating changes and can explain why sovereign ratings are often changed more frequently during crises.
G24|Externalities and financial crisis – enough to cause collapse?|After the boom in US subprime lending came the bust - with a run on US shadow banks. The magnitude of boom and bust were, it seems, amplified by two significant externalities triggered by aggregate shocks: the endogeneity of bank equity due to mark-to-market accounting and of bank liquidity due to ‘fire-sales’ of securitised assets. We show how adding a systemic ‘bank run’ to the canonical model of Adrian and Shin allows for a tractable analytical treatment - including the counterfactual of complete collapse that forces the Treasury and the Fed to intervene.
G24|Externalities and financial crisis – enough to cause collapse?|After the boom in US subprime lending came the bust - with a run on US shadow banks. The magnitude of boom and bust were, it seems, amplified by two significant externalities triggered by aggregate shocks: the endogeneity of bank equity due to mark-to-market accounting and of bank liquidity due to ‘fire-sales’ of securitised assets. We show how adding a systemic ‘bank run’ to the canonical model of Adrian and Shin allows for a tractable analytical treatment - including the counterfactual of complete collapse that forces the Treasury and the Fed to intervene
G24|The landscape of corporate venturing in Germany: Insights on corporate venture capitals and corporate accelerators|This paper adds to the literature of external corporate venturing, especially corporate venture capitals (CVCs) and corporate accelerators (CAs) by providing an overview of the German corporate venturing market and by offering first intriguing findings based on a novel and unique hand-collected dataset. It presents insights regarding the set-up, organization and staffing of corporate venturing units, as well as characteristics of start-ups under management. This study distinguishes between the corporate venturing unit's mission, organization, governance and network as well as vehicle leads. Moreover, differences in the characteristics of start-ups supported by corporate venturing units are detected. This work offers unique insights on the German corporate venturing landscape and thereby serves as starting point for future and more elaborate research.
G24|Bank profitability, leverage constraints, and risk-taking|Traditional theory suggests that higher bank profitability (or franchise value) dissuades bank risk-taking. We highlight an opposite effect: higher profitability loosens bank borrowing constraints. This enables profitable banks to take risk on a larger scale, inducing risk-taking. This effect is more pronounced when bank leverage constraints are looser, or when new investments can be financed with senior funding (such as repos). The model's predictions are consistent with some notable cross-sectional patterns of bank risk-taking in the run-up to the 2008 crisis.
G24|The European venture capital landscape: an EIF perspective. Volume V: The economic impact of VC investments supported by the EIF|This paper examines the impact of venture capital (VC) investments supported by the EIF on the financial growth and performance of young and innovative firms. Using a novel dataset covering European start-ups supported by VC in the years 2007 to 2014, we generate a counterfactual group of non-VCbacked firms through a combination of exact and propensity score matching. To offset the relatively limited set of observables allowed by our data, we estimate treatment propensity using a series of innovative measures based on machine learning, network theory, and satellite imagery analysis. Our results document the positive effects of EIF-supported VC investments on start-up performance, as measured through various financial indicators (e.g. assets, revenue, employment). We find that VC financing enables start-ups to prioritise long-term growth, trading off short- to medium-term profitability if necessary. Overall, our work provides meaningful evidence towards the positive effects of EIF-supported VC investment on the financial growth of young and innovative businesses in Europe.
G24|Micro Enterprises Performances Potential Index (MEPPI): A Study with the Reference to Rural Areas of the Cuddalore District, Tamilnadu|Micro enterprises are recognized as the prime source of livelihood for the poor population in the rural areas around the globe. The impact of micro enterprises on the rural economy is determined by the performance of these micro enterprises, their success rate and the potential for the sustainability in the market which depends upon the various factors like financial capability, profitability, resource availability, demand in the market, skill up gradation of the micro entrepreneurs and the competitiveness. In addition to this the factors such as labour, the performance potential of the micro enterprises, capital availability with low cost technology, raw materials availability, better infrastructure, political stability and the supportive economics policies like subsidies and export import guidance and many others join together to determine the performance and sustainability of the micro enterprises. A successful entrepreneur needs to be known and ready to adopt the necessary changes and differentiations in the product suitable to the market change which warrants the entrepreneurs knowledge about the dynamics of the market conditions regarding the trend in the demand, demand forecasting, performance evaluation of the enterprises at the particular period and its production and market potential for the future. The available literature about the performance of micro enterprises reveals that lake of timely assessment about the concurrent performance of the micro enterprise and their performance potential for the future leads to the failure of the products and the microenterprises (Olawale (2014), Wan Nurulasiah binti Wan Mustapa, Abdullah Al Mamun , Mohamed Dahlan Ibrahim, Mbugua Stephen Kamunge , Agnes Njeru , Ondabu Ibrahim Tirimba, (2018) and Bushu 2019) which calls for an in-depth attempt to discover the resource and market potential for the best performance of the micro enterprises at the gross root level. This paper is attempted to fill this gap in research.
G24|Incremental Risk Charge Methodology|The incremental risk charge (IRC) is a new regulatory requirement from the Basel Committee in response to the recent financial crisis. Notably few models for IRC have been developed in the literature. This paper proposes a methodology consisting of two Monte Carlo simulations. The first Monte Carlo simulation simulates default, migration, and concentration in an integrated way. Combining with full re-valuation, the loss distribution at the first liquidity horizon for a subportfolio can be generated. The second Monte Carlo simulation is the random draws based on the constant level of risk assumption. It convolutes the copies of the single loss distribution to produce one year loss distribution. The aggregation of different subportfolios with different liquidity horizons is addressed. Moreover, the methodology for equity is also included, even though it is optional in IRC.
G24|The Valuation of Financial Derivatives Subject to Counterparty Risk and Credit Value Adjustment|This article presents a generic model for pricing financial derivatives subject to counterparty credit risk. Both unilateral and bilateral types of credit risks are considered. Our study shows that credit risk should be modeled as American style options in most cases, which require a backward induction valuation. To correct a common mistake in the literature, we emphasize that the market value of a defaultable derivative is actually a risky value rather than a risk-free value. Credit value adjustment (CVA) is also elaborated. A practical framework is developed for pricing defaultable derivatives and calculating their CVAs at a portfolio level.
G24|Private Equity Monitor 2018: Die aktuelle Tätigkeit von Finanzinvestoren in Deutschland|"Der von der Hans-Böckler-Stiftung herausgegebene ""Private Equity Monitor"" berichtet jährlich über die Aktivitäten von Private-Equity-Gesellschaften in Deutschland. Im Jahr 2017 wurden 274 Unternehmen übernommen, d.h. rund 30 % mehr als im Jahr zuvor. Dies betraf vermehrt kleinere und mittlere Unternehmen, so dass die Zahl der Beschäftigten auf 93.200 gesunken ist (minus 13 % gegenüber dem Vorjahr). Es wird aufgezeigt, welche Typen von Private Equity-Gesellschaften tätig waren und welche Eigentümer die Unternehmen nach dem Ausstieg des Finanzinvestors erhielten. Ebenso werden die von den Finanzinvestoren gesteuerten Fonds näher untersucht, z.B. ihre jährliche Renditen und ihre überwiegende Anmeldung in „Steueroasen“. Erstmals wird die Vermeidung bzw. Ignorierung der Mitbestimmung in den Unternehmen mit mehr als 2.000 Beschäftigten näher betrachtet und es wird ein Ranking der beschäftigungsstärksten Buyouts in Deutschland eingeführt."
G24|Positive Liquidity Spillovers from Sovereign Bond-Backed Securities|This paper contributes to the debate concerning the benefits and disadvantages of introducing a European Sovereign Bond-Backed Securitisation (SBBS) to address the need for a common safe asset that would break destabilising bank-sovereign linkages. The analysis focuses on assessing the effectiveness of hedges incurred while making markets in individual euro area sovereign bonds by taking offsetting positions in one or more of the SBBS tranches. Tranche yields are estimated using a simulation approach. This involves the generation of sovereign defaults and allocation of the combined credit risk premium of all the sovereigns, at the end of each day, to the SBBS tranches according to the seniority of claims under the proposed securitisation. Optimal hedging with SBBS is found to reduce risk exposures substantially in normal market conditions. In volatile conditions, hedging is not very effective but leaves dealers exposed to mostly idiosyncratic risks. These remaining risks largely disappear if dealers are diversified in providing liquidity across country-specific secondary markets and SBBS tranches. Hedging each of the long positions in a portfolio of individual sovereigns results in a risk exposure as low as that borne by holding the safest individual sovereign bond (the Bund).
G24|Sovereign Ratings: An Analysis of the Degree, Changes and Source of Moodys Judgement|This paper studies the sovereign ratings of 74 countries from 2003 to 2016, disentangling rating drivers into a fundamental and judgement component based on Moodys methodology. We show that the agency applies judgement inconsistently across regions, income, rating levels and factors, time and the direction of rating changes. While downgrades are significantly linked to contemporaneous negative fundamental developments, such as weakening public finances, for upgrades we find evidence of a lagged or ‘catching-up’ effect. Out of the 29 tested explanatory variables, judgement applied by the rating committee is best explained through government bond yields, real GDP growth, the debt trend and interest payments relative to revenues.
G24|Multiple credit ratings and market heterogeneity|We propose a model in which news from multiple credit rating agencies interacts with market heterogeneity. The model illustrates that the first messenger discloses new information while an additional messenger(s) plays an important role of coordinating heterogeneous beliefs. Empirical investigations based on sovereign credit ratings, foreign exchange and equity markets confirm that rating news coordinates investors’ beliefs. Rating news from both types of messenger(s) induces a significant impact on exchange rates and stock indices. Volatility measures increase in response to news from the first messenger while ex-post volatility reduces following news from an additional messenger
G24|Volatility forecasting across tanker freight rates: The role of oil price shocks|This paper examines whether the inclusion of oil price shocks of different origin as exogenous variables in a wide set of GARCH-X models improves the accuracy of their volatility forecasts for spot and 1-year time-charter tanker freight rates. Kilian’s (2009) oil price shocks of different origin enter GARCH-X models which, among other stylized facts of the tanker freight rates examined, take into account the presence of asymmetric and long-memory effects. The results reveal that the inclusion of aggregate oil demand and oil-specific (precautionary) demand shocks improves significantly the accuracy of the volatility forecasts drawn.
G24|Underwriter Competition and Bargaining Power in the Corporate Bond Market|We develop a new measure of underwriter bargaining power and a novel empirical approach, based on underwriters’ comparative ability to place bonds. When an issuer has few “outside options” to take her bond to the market, the underwriter enjoys a stronger bargaining power over her. The key feature of our approach is that bargaining power varies for a given underwriter at a given point in time across different issuers, allowing us to separate the effects of bargaining power from those of reputation and certification with a fixed effects strategy. Using our measure, we document that powerful underwriters are able to extract rents at the expense of bond issuers. For issues with the highest underwriter bargaining power, fees and bond offering yields increase by a combined cost of USD 1.5 million, or about 7% of the average costs for the issuer. We rule out alternative mechanisms based on issuer-underwriter “loyalty”. Our findings suggest that lack of competition increases underwriter bargaining power, resulting in material costs for corporate bond issuers.
G24|A Theory of Social Finance|Myriad different types of institutions are involved in social finance. This paper attempts to make sense of the diverse ways of operationalizing the delivery of funds by social financial institutions (SFIs). It explores the continuum of feasible SFIs, which range from foundations offering pure grants to social banks supplying soft loans. The in-between category includes “quasi-foundations” granting loans that require partial repayment only. In our model, the SFIs face information asymmetries and trade off costly social screening against social contributions, under the budget constraint that depends on the generosity of their funders. We characterize the SFIs’ optimal strategy and suggest that quasi-foundations can be efficient vehicles for social finance, especially when social screening costs are relatively low.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
G24|Herding behavior of Dutch pension funds in asset class investments|This study investigates asset herd behavior for Dutch pension funds from 1999 to 2014 using quarterly data. We find considerable asset class herd behavior, which is more intensive for the more 'exotic' sub-asset classes, such as private equity and emerging market shares. We find higher buy herd behavior in sub-asset class markets, which are affected by the stock market and debt crises. The extent of pension fund's herd behavior is affected by financial market, macroeconomics circumstances and returns. We find destabilizing effects of herd behavior for shares and private equity on the sell side, for fixed-interest investments on the buy side and for real estate on both the buy and sell side. We find stabilizing effects of herd behavior for shares and private equity on the buy side, for fixed interest investments on the sell side and for other investments on both the buy and the sell side. For crises, we find evidence that destabilizing behavior is concentrated on the buy side, whereas sell herd behavior mostly has a stabilizing effect.
G24|Should Investors Care Where Private Equity Managers Went To School?|In this paper, we investigate whether the educational background of private equity managers, which represents an important part of their human capital, impacts fund performance. In particular, we explore three potential channels how the educational background may influence fund performance: (i) institutional quality, (ii) individual performance, and (iii) academic variety. We find that a combination of top-tier education and work experience identifies individual performance in the management team. In addition, academic variety, in particular among graduates of high-ranked universities, rather than uniform institutional quality, is an important return driver.
G24|Risk Aversion: Differential Conditions for the Iso-Utility Curves with Positive Slope in Transformed Two-Parameter Distributions|The condition of Risk Aversion implies that the Utility Function must be concave. We take into account the dependence of the Utility Function on the return that has any type of two-parameter distribution; it is possible to define Risk and Target, the former may be the Standard Deviation of the return, and the latter is usually the Expected value of the return, as a generic function of these two parameters. Considering the 3D space of Risk, Target and Expected Utility, this paper determines the Differential Conditions for these three functions so that the Expected Utility Function depends decreasingly on Risk and increasingly on Target, that means the iso-utility curves have positive slope in the plane of Risk and Target. As a specific case, we discuss these conditions in the case of the CRRA Utility Function and the Truncated Normal distribution. Furthermore, different measures of Risk are chosen, such as Value at Risk (VaR) and Expected Shortfall (ES), to verify if these measures maintain a positive slope of the iso-utility curves in the Risk-Target plane.
G24|Young SMEs: Driving innovation in Europe?|"Using large scale EIB Investment Survey evidence for 2016 covering 8,900 non-financial firms from all size and age classes across all sectors and all EU Member States, we identify different innovation profiles based on a firm's R&D investment and/or innovation activities. We find that ""basic"" firms - i.e. firms that do not engage in any type of R&D or innovation - are more common among young SMEs, while innovators - i.e. firms that do R&D and introduce new products, processes or services- are more often old and large firms. This hold particularly for ""leading innovators"", ie those introducing innovations new to the market. To further explore why young SMEs are not more active in innovation, we explore their access to finance. We confirm that young small leading innovators are the most likely to be credit constrained. Grants seem to at least partly addressing the external financing access problem for leading innovators, but not for young SMEs."
G24|SPAC IPOs|Specified Purpose Acquisition Companies (SPACs) are a special type of public companies currently available to investors in financial markets. As an investment vehicle, modern SPACs are traced back to 18-th century England where blank checks were first mentioned as blind pools during the infamous South Sea Bubble. In the United States, the Security and Exchange Commission classifies SPAC as a blank check company. This chapter reviews the academic and financial literatures about SPACs, describes their institutional characteristics and analyses their market performance since Initial Public Offering (IPO). The sole purpose of SPACs is to use the proceeds to finance future acquisition.
G24|The Corporate Venture Capital Exit Decision|This paper investigates an entrepreneur who decides whether to obtain funds from an independent venture capital firm (IVC) or a corporate venture capital firm (CVC) to develop an innovative product. In case of success, the entrepreneur enters a market and competes with an incumbent. The CVC is a subsidiary of an input producer. This input will be required by both the entrepreneur and the incumbent to produce their products. I analyze three different exit routes: (1) IPO, (2) Trade Sale via incumbent and (3) Trade Sale via input producer. I show that the CVC does not exit via a Trade Sale to its parental company due to a loss of demand for the input good. Moreover, I find that the IVC exits more innovative ventures more likely via an IPO, in comparison with the CVC. The analysis generates a number of empirical implications for the difference between IVCs and CVCs and the link between CVCs and the Trade Sale decision of their parental companies.
G24|Capital gains taxation and funding for start-ups|We examine how capital gains taxes affect investment in start-up (i.e., pre-IPO) firms. Using data on capital raised by start-up firms in individual funding rounds, we estimate the effect of the SBJA of 2010, which implemented a full exemption from federal capital gains tax on the sale of qualified shares. Because of higher expected after-tax returns (lower future capital gains taxes), we hypothesize and find evidence consistent with this capital gains tax reduction increasing the amount of investment in start-up firms per funding round by about 12%. We also provide evidence that this effect is concentrated in start-up firms that are likely to be more financially sophisticated.
G24|Risk Management and Regulation|The evolution of risk management has resulted from the interplay of financial crises, risk management practices, and regulatory actions. In the 1970s, research lay the intellectual foundations for the risk management practices that were systematically implemented in the 1980s as bond trading revolutionized Wall Street. Quants developed dynamic hedging, Value-at-Risk, and credit risk models based on the insights of financial economics. In parallel, the Basel I framework created a level playing field among banks across countries. Following the 1987 stock market crash, the near failure of Salomon Brothers, and the failure of Drexel Burnham Lambert, in 1996 the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published the Market Risk Amendment to the Basel I Capital Accord; the amendment went into effect in 1998. It led to a migration of bank risk management practices toward market risk regulations. The framework was further developed in the Basel II Accord, which, however, from the very beginning, was labeled as being procyclical due to the reliance of capital requirements on contemporaneous volatility estimates. Indeed, the failure to measure and manage risk adequately can be viewed as a key contributor to the 2008 global financial crisis. Subsequent innovations in risk management practices have been dominated by regulatory innovations, including capital and liquidity stress testing, macroprudential surcharges, resolution regimes, and countercyclical capital requirements.
G24|Financing operations of the European Investment Bank (EIB) in the Southern Mediterranean countries|The European Investment Bank (EIB) is the European Union’s development bank, which carries out an ever-growing development lending activity in the regions outside the EU. This activity is closely related to the EU’s external (neighbourhood and development aid) policies. The Southern Mediterranean covered by the EU neighbourhood policy is a priority among these outer regions. Support for the economic development of the region has been on the top agenda of the European Union for more than two decades, the consequences of the Arab Spring and the growing migratory pressure, however, have increased the importance of the development needs of the Mediterranean countries in recent years. This study analyses the data and reports from the EIB and seeks to demonstrate the priorities and the means by which the EIB supports the economic development of the region.
G24|Raising Capital from Heterogeneous Investors|A rm raises capital from multiple investors to fund a project. The project succeeds only if the capital raised exceeds a stochastic threshold, and the rm offers payments contingent on success. We study the rm's optimal unique-implementation scheme, namely the scheme that guarantees the rm the maximum payoff. This scheme pays investors differential net returns (per unit of capital) depending on the size of their investments. We show that if the distribution of the investment threshold is log-concave, larger investors receive higher net returns than smaller investors. Moreover, higher dispersion in investor size increases the rm's payoff. Our analysis highlights strategic risk as an important potential driver of inequality.
G24|Is Equity Crowdfunding a Good Tool for Social Enterprises?|Equity crowdfunding is an emerging financing tool that can help social start-ups and firms to bring people and resources together around a project. This paper focuses on equity crowdfunding. We look at this as a complementary financing channel useful for promoting innovation and social change by paring down the traditional features of financial investment. Our unique dataset regards all the Italian Equity Crowdfunding campaigns launched by different platforms on the Italian equity crowdfunding market from 2013 to 2018. Our aim is twofold: a) to describe some characteristics of the Italian Equity crowdfunding market; b) to describe the characteristics of the social firms which have had recourse to equity crowdfunding, in order to investigate which factors influence the campaign’s success. The results suggest that social firms’ investment offerings are not different from those of non-social ones, but so far, the Italian equity crowdfunding market does not seem suitable for supporting the financial needs of this type of firm, on the side of either investors or firms.
G24|Bank Leverage, Welfare, and Regulation|We take issue with claims that the funding mix of banks, which makes them fragile and crisis-prone, is efficient because it reflects special liquidity benefits of bank debt. Even aside from neglecting the systemic damage to the economy that banks’ distress and default cause, such claims are invalid because banks have multiple small creditors and are unable to commit effectively to their overall funding mix and investment strategy ex ante. The resulting market outcomes under laissez-faire are inefficient and involve excessive borrowing, with default risks that jeopardize the purported liquidity benefits. Contrary to claims in the literature that “equity is expensive” and that regulation requiring more equity in the funding mix entails costs to society, such regulation actually helps create useful commitment for banks to avoid the inefficiently high borrowing that comes under laissez-faire. Effective regulation is beneficial even without considering systemic risk; if such regulation also reduces systemic risk, the benefits are even larger.
G24|Corporate Credit Risk Premia|We measure credit risk premia, meaning the price for bearing corporate default risk in excess of expected default losses, using Markit CDS and Moody's Analytics EDF data. We find dramatic variation over time in credit risk premia, with peaks in 2002, during the global financial crisis of 2008-09, and in the second half of 2011. These risk premia comove with economic indicators, even after controlling for variation in expected default losses, with higher premia per unit of expected loss during times of market-wide distress. Countercyclical variation of premia-to-expected-loss ratios is more pronounced for investment-grade issuers than for high-yield issuers.
G24|Eclipse of the Public Corporation or Eclipse of the Public Markets?|Since reaching a peak in 1997, the number of listed firms in the U.S. has fallen in every year but one. During this same period, public firms have been net purchasers of $3.6 trillion of equity (in 2015 dollars) rather than net issuers. The propensity to be listed is lower across all firm size groups, but more so among firms with less than 5,000 employees. Relative to other countries, the U.S. now has abnormally few listed firms. Because markets have become unattractive to small firms, existing listed firms are larger and older. We argue that the importance of intangible investment has grown but that public markets are not well-suited for young, R&D-intensive companies. Since there is abundant capital available to such firms without going public, they have little incentive to do so until they reach the point in their lifecycle where they focus more on payouts than on raising capital.
G24|Decision fatigue and heuristic analyst forecasts|Psychological evidence indicates that decision quality declines after an extensive session of decision-making, a phenomenon known as decision fatigue. We study whether decision fatigue affects analysts’ judgments. Analysts cover multiple firms and often issue several forecasts in a single day. We find that forecast accuracy declines over the course of a day as the number of forecasts the analyst has already issued increases. Also consistent with decision fatigue, we find that the more forecasts an analyst issues, the higher the likelihood the analyst resorts to more heuristic decisions by herding more closely with the consensus forecast, self-herding (i.e., reissuing their own previous outstanding forecasts), and issuing a rounded forecast. Finally, we find that the stock market understands these effects and discounts for analyst decision fatigue.
G24|Is there a role for patents in the financing of new innovative firms?|It is argued by many that one of the benefits of the patent system is that it creates a property right to invention that enables firms to obtain financing for the development of that invention. In this paper, I review the reasons why ownership of knowledge assets might be useful in attracting finance and then survey the empirical evidence on patent ownership and its impact on the ability of firms to obtain further financing at different stages of their development, both starting up and after becoming established. Studies that attempt to separately identify the role of patent rights and the underlying quality of the associated innovation(s) will be emphasized, although these are rather rare.
G24|Mortgage-Backed Securities and the Financial Crisis of 2008: a Post Mortem|We examine the payoff performance, up to the end of 2013, of non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS), issued up to 2008. We have created a new and detailed data set on the universe of non-agency residential mortgage backed securities, per carefully assembling source data from Bloomberg and other sources. We compare these payoffs to their ex-ante ratings as well as other characteristics. We establish seven facts. First, the bulk of these securities was rated AAA. Second, AAA securities did ok: on average, their total cumulated losses up to 2013 are 2.3 percent. Third, the subprime AAA-rated segment did particularly well. Fourth, later vintages did worse than earlier vintages, except for subprime AAA securities. Fifth, the bulk of the losses were concentrated on a small share of all securities. Sixth, the misrating for AAA securities was modest. Seventh, controlling for a home price bust, a home price boom was good for the repayment on these securities. Together, these facts provide challenge the conventional narrative, that improper ratings of RMBS were a major factor in the financial crisis of 2008.
G24|Coordination Frictions in Venture Capital Syndicates|An extensive literature on venture capital has studied asymmetric information and agency problems between investors and entrepreneurs, examining how separating entrepreneurs from the investor can create frictions that might inhibit the funding of good projects. It has largely abstracted away from the fact that a startup typically does not have just one investor, but several VCs that come together in a syndicate to finance a venture. In this chapter, we therefore argue for an expansion of the standard perspective to also include frictions within VC syndicates. Put differently, what are the frictions that arise from the fact that there is not just one investor for each venture, but several investors with different incentives, objectives and cash flow rights, who nevertheless need to collaborate to help make the venture a success? We outline the ways in which these coordination frictions manifest themselves, describe the underlying drivers and document several contractual solutions used by VCs to mitigate their effects. We believe that this broader perspective provides several promising avenues for future research.
G24|Cost of experimentation and the evolution of venture capital|We study how technological shocks to the cost of starting new businesses have led the venture capital model to adapt in fundamental ways over the prior decade. We both document and provide a framework to understand the changes in the investment strategy of venture capitalists (VCs) in recent years – an increased prevalence of a “spray and pray” investment approach – where investors provide a little funding and limited governance to an increased number of startups that they are more likely to abandon, but where initial experiments significantly inform beliefs about the future potential of the venture. This adaptation and related entry by new financial intermediaries has led to a disproportionate rise in innovations where information on future prospects is revealed quickly and cheaply, and reduced the relative share of innovation in complex technologies where initial experiments cost more and reveal less.
G24|How Redeployable are Patent Assets? Evidence from Failed Startups|Entrepreneurial firms are important sources of patented inventions. Yet little is known about what happens to patents “released” to the market when startups fail. This study provides a first look at the frequency and speed with which patents originating from failed startups are redeployed to new owners, and whether the value of patents is tied to the original venture and team. The evidence is based on 1,766 U.S. patents issued to 285 venture capital-backed startups that disband between 1988 and 2008 in three innovation-intensive sectors: medical devices, semiconductors, and software. At odds with the view that the resale market for patented inventions is illiquid, we find that most patents from these startups are sold, are sold quickly, and remain “alive” through renewal fee payment long after the startups are shuttered. The patents tend to be purchased by other operating companies in the same sector and retain value beyond the original venture and team. We do find, however, that the patents and people sometimes move jointly to a new organization following the dissolution of the original venture, and explore the conditions under which such co-movement is more likely. The study provides new evidence on a phenomenon—of active markets for buying and selling patents—underexplored in the literature and consequential for both entrepreneurial and established firms.
G24|Selection versus Talent Effects on Firm Value|Measuring the value of labor-market hires for stock prices, be it underwriters when firms go public (IPOs) or chief executive officers (CEOs), is difficult due to selection. Opaque firms with higher costs of capital benefit more from prestigious underwriters, while productive firms benefit more from talented CEOs. Using assignment models, we show that the importance of talent (or agent heterogeneity) relative to selection (or firm heterogeneity) is measured by wage increases across agents of different compensation ranks divided by changes in output across their firms. The median of this ratio is 0.5% for underwriters and 2% for CEOs.
G24|Initial Coin Offerings: Financing Growth with Cryptocurrency Token Sales|Initial coin offerings (ICOs) have emerged as a new mechanism for entrepreneurial finance, with parallels to initial public offerings, venture capital, and pre-sale crowdfunding. In a sample of more than 1,500 ICOs that collectively raise $12.9 billion, we examine which issuer and ICO characteristics predict successful real outcomes (increasing issuer employment and avoiding enterprise failure). Success is associated with disclosure, credible commitment to the project, and quality signals. An instrumental variables analysis finds that ICO token exchange listing causes higher future employment, indicating that access to token liquidity has important real consequences for the enterprise.
G24|Online Syndicates and Startup Investment|Early crowdfunding platforms were based on a premise of disintermediation from professional investors, and relied on the ‘wisdom of the crowd’ to screen high quality projects. This becomes problematic when equity is involved, as the degree of asymmetric information between entrepreneurs looking for funding and the crowd is higher than in reward-based crowdfunding. As a result, platforms later experimented with incentives for professional investors to curate deals for crowd. We study how the introduction of such incentives influenced the allocation of capital on the leading US platform, finding that the changes led to a sizable 33% increase in capital flows to new regions. Professional investors use their reputation to vouch for high potential startups that would otherwise be misclassified because of information asymmetry. This allows them to arbitrage opportunities across regions and shift capital flows to startups that are 37% more likely to generate above median returns. At the same time, this ‘democratization effect’ relies on the presence of intermediaries with professional networks that bridge these new regions to California. Using a large-scale field experiment with over 26,000 investors we further unpack the frictions to online investment, and show that social networks constitute a key barrier to additional democratization, since they influence how the crowd evaluates intermediaries in the first place.
G24|Financing Ventures|The relationship between venture capital and growth is examined using an endogenous growth model incorporating dynamic contracts between entrepreneurs and venture capitalists. At each stage of financing, venture capitalists evaluate the viability of startups. If viable, VCs provide funding for the next stage. The success of a project depends on the amount of funding. The model is confronted with stylized facts about venture capital; viz., statistics by funding round concerning the success rate, failure rate, investment rate, equity shares, and the value of an IPO. Raising capital gains taxation reduces growth and welfare.
G24|The Persistent Effect of Initial Success: Evidence from Venture Capital|We use investment-level data to study performance persistence in venture capital (VC). Consistent with prior studies, we find that each additional IPO among a VC firm's first ten investments predicts as much as an 8% higher IPO rate on its subsequent investments, though this effect erodes with time. In exploring its sources, we document several additional facts: successful outcomes stem in large part from investing in the right places at the right times; VC firms do not persist in their ability to choose the right places and times to invest; but early success does lead to investing in later rounds and in larger syndicates. This pattern of results seems most consistent with the idea that initial success improves access to deal flow. That preferential access raises the quality of subsequent investments, perpetuating performance differences in initial investments.
G24|When Investor Incentives and Consumer Interests Diverge: Private Equity in Higher Education|This paper studies how private equity buyouts create value in higher education, a sector with opaque product quality and intense government subsidy. With novel data on 88 private equity deals involving 994 schools, we show that buyouts lead to higher tuition and per-student debt. Exploiting loan limit increases, we find that private equity-owned schools better capture government aid. After buyouts, we observe lower education inputs, graduation rates, loan repayment rates, and earnings among graduates. Neither school selection nor student body changes fully explain the results. The results indicate that in a subsidized industry maximizing value may not improve consumer outcomes.
G24|Arbitration with Uninformed Consumers|We examine whether firms have an informational advantage in selecting arbitrators in consumer arbitration, and the impact of the arbitrator selection process on outcomes. We collect a novel data set containing roughly 9,000 arbitration cases in securities arbitration. Securities disputes present a good laboratory: the selection mechanism is similar to other major arbitration forums; arbitration is mandatory for all disputes, eliminating selection concerns; and the parties choose arbitrators from a randomly generated list. We first document that some arbitrators are systematically industry friendly while others are consumer friendly. Firms appear to utilize this information in the arbitrator selection process. Despite a randomly generated list of potential arbitrators, industry-friendly arbitrators are forty percent more likely to be selected than their consumer friendly counterparts. Better informed firms and consumers choose more favorable arbitrators. We develop and calibrate a model of arbitrator selection in which, like the current process, both the informed firms and uninformed consumers have control over the selection process. Arbitrators compete against each other for the attention of claimants and respondents. The model allows us to interpret our empirical facts in equilibrium and to quantify the effects of changes to the current arbitrator selection process on consumer outcomes. Competition between arbitrators exacerbates the informational advantage of firms in equilibrium resulting in all arbitrators slanting towards being industry friendly. Evidence suggests that limiting the respondentâ€™s and claimantâ€™s inputs over the arbitrator selection process could significantly improve outcomes for consumers.
G24|Moving Beyond the Valley of Death: Regulation and Venture Capital Investments in Early-Stage Biopharmaceutical Firms|Can regulation reduce risks associated with investing in early-stage firms? Using the passage of the European Orphan Drug Act (EU-ODA), we examine this question in the biopharmaceutical industry. We provide causal evidence that venture capitalists (VCs) are more likely to invest in early-stage firms operating in sub-fields disproportionately affected by EU-ODA. The switch to early-stage investments appears strongest among VCs that previously faced greater levels of information asymmetry. We also find that the level of syndication declined for early-stage investments and exit performance improved. We conclude discussing the implications of our findings for public policy, entrepreneurship and innovation.
G24|Private Equity Indices Based on Secondary Market Transactions|Measuring the performance of private equity investments (buyout and venture) has historically only been possible over long horizons because the IRR on a fund is only observable following the fundâ€™s final distribution. We propose a new approach to evaluating performance using actual prices paid for limited partner shares of funds in secondary markets. We construct indices of buyout and venture capital performance using a proprietary database of secondary market prices between 2006 and 2017. These transaction-based indices exhibit significantly higher betas and volatilities, and lower alphas than NAV-based indices built from Preqin and obtained from Burgiss. There are a number of potential uses for these indices. In particular, they provide a way to track the returns of the buyout and venture capital sectors on a quarter-to-quarter basis and to value illiquid stakes in funds.
G24|Partisan Professionals: Evidence from Credit Rating Analysts|Partisan perception affects the actions of professionals in the financial sector. Using a novel dataset linking credit rating analysts to party affiliations from voter records, we show that analysts who are not affiliated with the U.S. president's party downward-adjust corporate credit ratings more frequently. By comparing analysts with different party affiliations covering the same firm in the same quarter, we ensure that differences in firm fundamentals cannot explain the results. We also find a sharp divergence in the rating actions of Democratic and Republican analysts around the 2016 presidential election. Our results suggest partisan perception has implications for firms' cost of capital.
G24|The Creation and Evolution of Entrepreneurial Public Markets|This paper explores the creation and evolution of new stock exchanges around the world geared towards entrepreneurial companies, known as second-tier exchanges. Using hand-collected novel data, we document the proliferation of these new stock exchanges that were created in a large number of countries, attracted a significant volume of global IPOs, were introduced fairly cyclically, and had lower listing requirements when compared to first-tier stock exchanges. We find that increases in demand for entrepreneurial capital—as proxied for by patenting, IPOs, and stock market valuations—led to a higher likelihood of the introduction of second-tier exchanges. We find no evidence that new second-tier exchanges diverted the existing flow of IPOs from established stock exchanges. Shareholder protection strongly predicted exchange success, even in countries with high levels of venture capital activity, patenting, and financial market development. Second-tier exchanges in countries with better shareholder protection allowed younger, less profitable, but faster-growing companies to raise more capital. These results highlight the importance of institutions in enabling the provision of entrepreneurial capital to young companies.
G24|Competition and Specificity in Market Design: Evidence from Geotargeted Advertising| How should market designers tradeoff liquidity and specificity? We study a natural experiment in the release of a new ad targeting feature by an ad exchange. The platform introduced new targeting into select geographic markets using a regression discontinuity. The experiment affects the specificity advertising assets in the markets (ie, the availability of targeting a city or a zip code). We find evidence that additional specificity reduces the total number of ad impressions delivered by the platform, as advertisers concentrate bidding into fewer, targeted markets. Despite this, we find an overall positive effects on revenue growth in the treated areas. This appears to be driven mainly by increases in clickthrough rates and not through increases in average prices (which actually decreased), and by entry of new advertisers.
G24|Relancer l'investissement en Tunisie|Depuis le début des années 2000, le taux d'investissement a fléchi, tiré par la baisse de l'investissement des entreprises. Son niveau est faible par rapport à celui d'autres pays émergents. Les principales causes sont : des réglementations excessives sur le marché des produits, associées à des procédures administratives complexes, une fiscalité peu prévisible, des difficultés croissantes pour le passage des biens en douane et le transport maritime des marchandises ainsi qu’un système financier peu favorable aux jeunes entreprises et à celles en forte croissance. La levée de ces contraintes est essentielle pour relancer l'investissement des entreprises et, avec lui, la productivité, la création d'emplois, la compétitivité et le pouvoir d'achat de tous les tunisiens. La nouvelle loi sur l'investissement, en simplifiant le régime des autorisations, est un pas dans la bonne direction mais devra être pleinement mise en oeuvre et accompagnée par d'autres réformes. Il serait aussi souhaitable de mieux cibler les actions de l'État pour soutenir l'investissement, et notamment d'évaluer systématiquement l'impact et les bénéficiaires des incitations fiscales, y compris celles en faveur du logement. Parallèlement, il faut mieux gérer les infrastructures existantes et prioriser les projets d'infrastructure.
G24|Financing innovative business investment in Poland|Poland’s productivity has grown strongly over the past two decades. However, the public and private capital stock is weak, and investment remains focused on the adoption of existing technologies, which weighs on future productivity gains and innovation. Many micro enterprises have low productivity, and structural bottlenecks reduce start-ups' growth and their chances of survival. The EU and the government are stepping up funding for business research and development, collaboration with the public sector, entrepreneurship and innovation. This is an opportunity to improve the management of public business support, and the large new programmes should be carefully discussed with stakeholders and regularly evaluated to avoid the risks of subsidising low-productivity firms and to strengthen the take up from the most productive small and medium-sized enterprises. The sustainability of this ambitious package of measures will also require significant public revenues and promoting alternative market-based financing instruments will be critical over the medium term. Ongoing improvements in insolvency procedures and efforts to reduce the regulatory burden are set to ease reallocation of resources through the economy. However, the level of state involvement would remain important, and ensuring the independence of the network industry regulators and the Competition Authority and a level playing field between alternative technologies, as well as easing labour mobility would be good moves.
G24|Boosting investment in Greece|Aggregate investment has declined markedly over the crisis and has yet to recover. Reviving domestic and foreign investment is crucial to supporting the economic recovery, deepen Greece’s integration into global value chains and raising living standards. This will hinge primarily on improving the business environment, by lifting barriers to product market competition and enhancing the quality of regulation. Other key policies involve fully implementing the recent insolvency reforms, building an innovation system, overcoming problems in the banking sector and enhancing the quality of public investment through a long-term strategy. This Working Paper relates to the 2018 OECD Economic Survey of Greece. (http://www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-greece.htm).
G24|Optimal Delegation and Limited Awareness, with an Application to Financial Intermediation|We study the delegation problem between an investor and a nancial intermediary, who not only has better information about the performance of the di erent investments but also has superior awareness of the available investment opportunities. The intermediary decides which of the feasible investments to reveal and which ones to hide. We show that the intermediary nds it optimal to make the investor aware of investment opportunities at the extremes, e.g. very risky and very safe projects, but leaves the investor unaware of intermediate options. We further study the role of competition between intermediaries and allow for investors with di erent levels of awareness to coexist in the same market. Self-reported data from customers in the Italian retail investment sector support the key predictions of the model: more knowledgable investors receive richer menus that are nevertheless perceived to have less products at the extremes.
G24|Solicited versus Unsolicited Ratings: The Role of Selection|This paper analyses the extent to which selection explains the observed discrepancy between solicited and unsolicited ratings. I propose a model of selection with truth telling rating agencies and borrowers with the ability to veto the revelation of the rating. The observed difference between the two categories of ratings in different markets is in line with the prediction of the model. In the financial sector, for example, selection of less creditworthy borrowers into unsolicited status makes unsolicited ratings grades lower on average than those solicited. In the government sector, on the other hand, there is a positive selection of borrowers into unsolicited ratings.
G24|Bubbles and Persuasion with Second Order Uncertainty|Recent empirical studies suggest that, during times of unexpected innovation, agents heterogeneously update their beliefs about an asset fundamental value, and they are uncertain about other agents’ beliefs on it. In this paper I show that, when there is uncertainty about the market sentiment, defined as other investors’ beliefs over an asset fundamental value, market manipulation can act through a previously unconsidered channel, by misleading agents’ learning on the market sentiment. This novel type of market manipulation becomes a severe concern with the recent diffusion of big data on agents’ beliefs, as it could strengthen existing financial bubbles, or even give rise to new ones.spect to anonymity; at the same time, the probability of the CBDC introduction increases if a return can be paid on it, and/or its implementation can guarantee at least the counterparty anonymity.
G24|Alternative Futures for Government of Canada Debt Management|This paper presents four blue-sky ideas for lowering the cost of the Government of Canada’s debt without increasing the debt’s risk profile. We argue that each idea would improve the secondary-market liquidity of government debt, thereby increasing the demand for government bonds and thus lowering their cost at issuance. The first two ideas would improve liquidity by enhancing the active management of the government’s debt through market operations used to support the liquidity of outstanding bonds. The second two ideas would simplify the set of securities issued by the government, concentrating issuance in a smaller set of bonds that would each be more highly traded. We discuss the ideas and give an account of the political, legal and operational impediments.
G24|Speed Segmentation on Exchanges: Competition for Slow Flow|In 2015, TSX Alpha, a Canadian stock exchange, implemented a speed bump for marketable orders and an inverted fee structure as part of a redesign. We find no evidence that this redesign impacted market-wide measures of trading costs or contributed appreciably to segmenting retail order flow away from other Canadian venues with a maker-taker fee structure. This suggests that Alpha attracts already-segmented flow from venues with fee structures other than maker-taker. Some heavy users of Alpha trade off improvements in fill rates and execution size against mildly larger effective spreads and price impacts. These heavy users also utilize larger market orders and fewer spray orders.
G24|Italian banks and market-based corporate financing|The recent financial crisis has induced firms to turn increasingly to financing sources other than bank credit, and banks to boost their income from non-lending services. This paper provides some evidence concerning possibility and convenience for Italian banks to expand the supply of financial services to firms by examining the placement market for Italian corporate securities and its relationship with the credit market in the period 2000-2016. The paper shows that when firms entered the stock and bond markets, bank credit was partially crowded-out and interest rates dropped for both first-time issuers and risky firms. However, when banks also played a major role both in placing corporate issues and in financing the issuers, lending relationships did not weaken.
G24|Transferable Deposits as a Screening Mechanism|No abstract is available for this item.
G24|Are credit rating agencies discredited? Measuring market price effects from agency sovereign debt announcements|This paper investigates whether the price response to credit rating agency (CRA) announcements on sovereign bonds has diminished since the Global Financial Crisis (GFC). We characterize credit rating events more precisely than previous work, controlling agency announcements for the prior credit state - outlook, watch/review, or stable status as well as the level of the credit rating. Emphasizing the transition from one state to another allows us to distinguish between different types of announcement (rating changes, watch and outlook events) and their price effects. We employ an event study methodology and gauge market response by standardized cumulative abnormal returns (SCAR) and directional change statistics in daily credit default swap (CDS) spreads. We find that rating announcements provide a rich and varied set of information on how credit rating agencies in fluence market perceptions of sovereign default risk. CRA announcements continued to have significant effects on CDS spreads after the GFC, but the magnitude of the responses generally fell. Moreover, we find that accurate measurement of these effects depends on conditioning for the prior credit state of the sovereign bond.
G24|The Choice Between Corporate And Structured Financing: Evidence From New Corporate Borrowings|We examine the factors that influence non-financial firms’ choice between corporate financing (CF) and structured finance (SF). Using a sample of 4,970 Western European deals closed between 2000 and 2016, we find that floatation costs, information asymmetry, and renegotiation and liquidation risks affect firms’ financing decisions. Findings also suggest that firms choose SF when they are less creditworthy and seek long-term financing, and that firms resorting to project finance are smaller and less profitable and have lower short-term debt, lower asset tangibility, and less growth opportunities than corporate bond issuers have. Firms that prefer asset securitization to corporate bonds tend to be smaller, more levered, and less profitable and have lower proportions of fixed assets. Finally, findings are consistent with the hypothesis that firms choose asset securitization to reduce funding costs.
G24|Stigma or Cushion? IMF Programs and Sovereign Creditworthiness|IMF programs are often considered to carry a “stigma” that triggers adverse market reactions. We show that such a negative IMF effect disappears when accounting for endogenous selection into programs. To proxy for a country’s access to financial markets, we use credit ratings and investor assessments for 100 countries from 1987 to 2013. Our first identification strategy exploits the differential effect of changes in IMF liquidity on loan allocation. We find that the IMF can “cushion” against falling creditworthiness, despite contractionary adjustments resulting from its programs. A second, event-based strategy using country-times-year fixed effects supports this positive signaling effect. A supplementary text analysis of rating statements validates that agencies perceive IMF programs as positive, particularly when they are associated with reform commitments.
G24|Strategic Interaction between Hedge Funds and Prime Brokers|We develop a framework for the strategic interaction between a hedge fund and a prime broker. The hedge fund optimally determines its cash holdings and the fraction of shorted securities. The prime broker optimally determines its cash holdings, the margin rates, and the rehypothecation rate. The hedge fund and the prime broker make optimal decisions to maximize their expected return on equity. We describe how the evolution of market returns affects the equity of the hedge fund and may force it to delever or even default. Because an eventual default of the hedge fund would severely affect the prime broker’s performance, the prime broker determines the lending rate to cover its expected loss in case of a default. We then explore the strategic interaction between hedge fund and prime broker decisions by calibrating and solving our model for realistic parametrizations. We find that this interaction may give rise to some undesirable implications, such as an increase in overall risk and leverage, when the regulator controls only the prime broker’s balance sheet.
G24|Municipal Bond Markets|The effective functioning of the municipal bond market is crucial for the provision of public services, as it is the largest capital market for state and municipal issuers. Prior research has documented tax, credit, liquidity, and segmentation effects in municipal bonds. Recent regulatory initiatives to improve transparency have made granular trade data available to researchers, rendering it a natural laboratory to study financial intermediation, asset pricing in decentralized markets, and local public finance. Trade-by-trade studies have found large trading costs, contemporaneous price dispersion and other deviations from the law-of-one- price. More research is required to understand optimal market design and the impact of post-crisis regulation, sustainability, and financial technology.
G24|Reputations and credit ratings: evidence from commercial mortgage-backed securities|How do changes in a rating agency's reputation affect the ratings market? We study the dynamics of credit ratings after Standard & Poor's (S&P) was shut out of a large segment of the commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) ratings market following a procedural mistake. Exploiting the fact that most CMBS securities have ratings from multiple agencies, we show that S&P subsequently eased its standards compared to other raters. This coincided with a partial recovery in the number of deals S&P was hired to rate. Our findings are consistent with the view that an agency can regain market share after suffering reputational damage by issuing more optimistic ratings.
G24|Efficiently Inefficient Markets for Assets and Asset Management|"We consider a model where investors can invest directly or search for an asset manager, information about assets is costly, and managers charge an endogenous fee. The efficiency of asset prices is linked to the efficiency of the asset management market: if investors can find managers more easily, more money is allocated to active management, fees are lower, and asset prices are more efficient. Informed managers outperform after fees, uninformed managers underperform after fees, and the net performance of the average manager depends on the number of ""noise allocators."" Small investors should be passive, but large and sophisticated investors benefit from searching for informed active managers since their search cost is low relative to capital. Hence, managers with larger and more sophisticated investors are expected to outperform."
G24|Mortgage-Backed Securities and the Financial Crisis of 2008: a Post Mortem|We examine the payoff performance, up to the end of 2013, of non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS), issued up to 2008. We have created a new and detailed data set on the universe of non-agency residential mortgage backed securities, per carefully assembling source data from Bloomberg and other sources. We compare these payoffs to their ex-ante ratings as well as other characteristics. We establish seven facts. First, the bulk of these securities was rated AAA. Second, AAA securities did ok: on average, their total cumulated losses up to 2013 are 2.3 percent. Third, the subprime AAA-rated segment did particularly well. Fourth, later vintages did worse than earlier vintages, except for subprime AAA securities. Fifth, the bulk of the losses were concentrated on a small share of all securities. Sixth, the misrating for AAA securities was modest. Seventh, controlling for a home price bust, a home price boom was good for the repayment on these securities. Together, these facts provide challenge the conventional narrative, that improper ratings of RMBS were a major factor in the financial crisis of 2008.
G24|Verifying High Quality: Entry for Sale|When and how do entrepreneurs sell their inventions? To address this issue, we develop an endogenous entry-sale asymmetric information oligopoly model. We show that lowquality inventions are sold directly or used for own entry. Inventors who sell post-entry use entry to credibly reveal information on quality. Incumbents are then willing to pay high prices for high-quality inventions to preempt rivals from obtaining them. Using Swedish data on patents granted to small firms and individuals, we find evidence that high-quality inventions are sold under preemptive bidding competition, post entry.
G24|Municipal Bond Markets|The effective functioning of the municipal bond market is crucial for the provision of public services, as it is the largest capital market for state and municipal issuers. Prior research has documented tax, credit, liquidity, and segmentation effects in municipal bonds. Recent regulatory initiatives to improve transparency have made granular trade data available to researchers, rendering it a natural laboratory to study financial intermediation, asset pricing in decentralized markets, and local public fi nance. Trade-by-trade studies have found large trading costs, contemporaneous price dispersion and other deviations from the law-of-one-price. More research is required to understand optimal market design and the impact of post-crisis regulation, sustainability, and financial technology.
G24|The Private Use of Credit Ratings: Evidence from Investment Mandates|Investment mandates are fundamental to the delegation of asset management. Mandates of fixed income mutual funds often use credit ratings to demarcate the investable universe. We examine changes in the use of credit ratings in these mandates since the financial crisis. The use of ratings in mandates has increased from an already high level before the crisis. Fixed income markets' extensive and continued reliance on credit ratings points to a lack of practically useful alternatives.
G24|Could crowdsourced financial analysis replace the equity research by investment banks?|Equity research is gaining popularity in crowd-sourced information sharing platforms. This study analyses S&P 100 companies stock recommendations and user-contributed articles published on Seeking Alpha platform over a three-year period; and investigates whether investment banks’ rating consensus or the sentiment of single-ticker articles published by Seeking Alpha contributors can predict future abnormal returns more accurately. We find that both analyst groups underperform the market. Trading strategies based on the sentiment of the opinion articles perform worse than trading strategies designed around the recommendations of security analysts. Analyst recommendations are expected to remain relevant, there is no immediate pressure from crowd-sourced equity research for changing the business model.
G24|Entrepreneurial Discovery Capital|This paper identifies how capital losses are unavoidably incurred in the discovery of viable entrepreneurial ventures. Losses are proportional to the novelty and perceived profit potential of a prospective venture, exemplified by the high risk/high return nature of high technology start-ups. Venture capitalists internalize the costs and benefits of this discovery process, and set up portfolios where the majority of funded ventures unavoidably fail or earn subpar returns. They incur these losses in order to discover the one Winner venture whose outsize returns will compensate for the capital losses in the failed ventures. The investment in failing ventures is unavoidable and necessary to discover the Winner because the winning business model cannot be determined ex ante. I call this investment “Entrepreneurial Discovery Capital.” This paper hypothesizes that many industry and economy-wide cycles may be the result of such a process that occurs at a much larger scale than a single fund. Venture capital in microcosm provides a model of an economy-wide process where the decisions of myriad market participants are coordinated “as if by an invisible hand” by signals from the capital markets.
G24|Basel methodological heterogeneity and banking system stability: The case of the Netherlands|The paper investigates how the mix of credit risk measurement methodologies under Basel capital adequacy rules influenced banking stability in the Netherlands during 2008-2015. It presents a first descriptive analysis that helps to examine the micro-regulation of individual banks and the macro-regulation of the banking system in one unified framework. Its goal is to draw regulators' and researchers' attention to interesting issues based on the comparison of the literature highlighting the weak points of the regulatory framework with what is observed in the dataset. Its purpose is to stimulate discussions on certain methodological and policy options.
G24|Herding behavior of Dutch pension funds in asset class investments|This study investigates asset herd behavior for Dutch pension funds from 1999 to 2014 using quarterly data. We find considerable asset class herd behavior, which is more intensive for the more â€˜exoticâ€™ sub-asset classes, such as private equity and emerging market shares. We find higher buy herd behavior in sub-asset class markets, which are affected by the stock market and debt crises. The extent of pension fundâ€™s herd behavior is affected by financial market, macroeconomics circumstances and returns. We find destabilizing effects of herd behavior for shares and private equity on the sell side, for fixed-interest investments on the buy side and for real estate on both the buy and sell side. We find stabilizing effects of herd behavior for shares and private equity on the buy side, for fixed interest investments on the sell side and for other investments on both the buy and the sell side. For crises, we find evidence that destabilizing behavior is concentrated on the buy side, whereas sell herd behavior mostly has a stabilizing effect.
G24|Financing Ventures|The relationship between venture capital and growth is examined using an endogenous growth model incorporating dynamic contracts between entrepreneurs and venture capitalists. At each stage of financing, venture capitalists evaluate the viability of startups. If viable, venture capitalists provide funding for the next stage. The success of a project depends on the amount of funding. The model is confronted with stylized facts about venture capital; viz., statistics by funding round concerning the success rates, failure rates, investment rates, equity shares, and IPO values. Raising capital gains taxation reduces growth and welfare.
G24|Eclipse of the Public Corporation or Eclipse of the Public Markets?|Since reaching a peak in 1997, the number of listed firms in the U.S. has fallen in every year but one. During this same period, public firms have been net purchasers of $3.6 trillion of equity (in 2015 dollars) rather than net issuers. The propensity to be listed is lower across all firm size groups, but more so among firms with less than 5,000 employees. Relative to other countries, the U.S. now has abnormally few listed firms. Because markets have become unattractive to small firms, existing listed firms are larger and older. We argue that the importance of intangible investment has grown but that public markets are not well-suited for young, R&D-intensive companies. Since there is abundant capital available to such firms without going public, they have little incentive to do so until they reach the point in their lifecycle where they focus more on payouts than on raising capital.
G24|Capital Market Anomalies and Quantitative Research|"Quantitative research analysts (Quants) produce in-depth quantitative and econometric modeling of market anomalies to assist sell-side analysts and institutional clients with stock selection strategies. Quant-backed analysts exhibit more efficient forecasting behavior on anomaly predictors--stock recommendations and target prices issued on anomaly-longs (anomaly-shorts) are more (less) favorable. Investment value of such analysts' research is higher and their research reports are more likely to discuss implications of quantitative modeling and market anomalies. Quant research facilitates ""smart money"" trades of institutional clients on anomaly stocks--Quant research is associated with an increased (decreased) likelihood of purchasing underpriced (overpriced) stocks. Market participants recognize Quants--thematic reports authored by Quants generate abnormal reactions for corresponding stocks. Finally, we provide evidence consistent with quantitative research increasing market efficiency by attenuating cross-sectional predictability of anomaly based long-short strategies."
G24|Private Equity Indices Based on Secondary Market Transactions|Measuring the performance of private equity investments (buyout and venture) has historically only been possible over long horizons because the IRR on a fund is only observable following the fund’s final distribution. We propose a new approach to evaluating performance using actual prices paid for limited partner shares of funds in secondary markets. We construct indices of buyout and venture capital performance using a proprietary database of secondary market prices between 2006 and 2017. These transaction-based indices exhibit significantly higher betas and volatilities, and lower alphas than NAV-based indices built from Preqin and obtained from Burgiss. There are a number of potential uses for these indices. In particular, they provide a way to track the returns of the buyout and venture capital sectors on a quarter-to-quarter basis and to value illiquid stakes in funds.
G24|Funding Value Adjustments|We demonstrate that the funding value adjustments (FVAs) of major dealers are debt-overhang costs to their shareholders. In order to maximize shareholder value, dealer quotations therefore adjust for FVAs. Our case examples include interest-rate swap FVAs and violations of covered interest parity. Contrary to current valuation practice, FVAs are not themselves components of the market values of the positions being financed. Current dealer practice does, however, align incentives between trading desks and shareholders. We also establish a pecking order for preferred asset financing strategies and provide a new interpretation of the standard debit value adjustment (DVA).
G24|Arbitration with Uninformed Consumers|This paper argues that firms have an informational advantage over consumers in selecting arbitrators in consumer arbitration. We document how the selection process impacts arbitration outcomes by studying roughly 9,000 consumer arbitration cases in the securities industry. Securities disputes present a good laboratory: arbitration is mandatory for all disputes, eliminating selection concerns; the parties choose arbitrators from a randomly generated list, and arbitrators are compensated only if chosen; and the selection mechanism is similar to other major arbitration forums. We document three facts. First, some arbitrators are systematically more industry friendly than others. Second, firms appear to exploit this information: despite a randomly generated list of potential arbitrators, industry-friendly arbitrators are forty percent more likely to be selected. Third, more experienced firms and less sophisticated consumers select more industry friendly arbitrators. We develop and calibrate a model of arbitrator selection with uninformed consumers. We find that competition between arbitrators exacerbates the informational advantage of firms resulting in all arbitrators slanting towards being industry friendly and resulting in roughly $16,000 lower awards. Counterfactuals suggest that several proposals aimed at improving customer outcomes in arbitration, such as increasing arbitrator incentives and increasing the number of strikes, lead to quantitatively more industry friendly arbitration due to firms' informational advantage.
G24|Do Entrepreneurship Policies Work? Evidence From 460 Start-Up Program Competitions Across the Globe|Many organizations around the world implement programs designed to encourage entrepreneurship, including grant prize awards, accelerator programs, incubators, etc. The goal of these programs is to supply entrepreneurs with early-stage support and visibility to help develop ideas and attract capital; but, if capital markets are efficient, good business ideas should find funding anyways. In this paper, I present evidence from the first global-scale, quasi-experimental study of whether entrepreneurship programs improve outcomes for start-up firms. I employ a regression discontinuity design to test whether winners of start-up program competitions perform better ex-post than losers, where the threshold rank for winning the competition provides exogenous variation in program participation. With 460 competitions across 113 countries and over 20,000 competing firms, I find that winning a competitions increases the probability of firm survival by 64%, the total amount of follow-on financing by $260,000 USD, and total employment by 47%, as well as other web-based metrics of firm success. Impacts are driven by medium-size prize competitions, and are precisely estimated both in countries where the costs of starting a business are low and where these costs are high. These results suggest that capital market frictions indeed prohibit start-up growth in many parts of the world.
G24|Do Entrepreneurship Policies Work? Evidence From 460 Start-Up Program Competitions Across the Globe|Many organizations around the world implement programs designed to encourage entrepreneurship, including grant prize awards, accelerator programs, incubators, etc. The goal of these programs is to supply entrepreneurs with early-stage support and visibility to help develop ideas and attract capital; but, if capital markets are efficient, good business ideas should find funding anyways. In this paper, I present evidence from the first global-scale, quasi-experimental study of whether entrepreneurship programs improve outcomes for start-up firms. I employ a regression discontinuity design to test whether winners of start-up program competitions perform better ex-post than losers, where the threshold rank for winning the competition provides exogenous variation in program participation. With 460 competitions across 113 countries and over 20,000 competing firms, I find that winning a competitions increases the probability of firm survival by 64%, the total amount of follow-on financing by $260,000 USD, and total employment by 47%, as well as other web-based metrics of firm success. Impacts are driven by medium-size prize competitions, and are precisely estimated both in countries where the costs of starting a business are low and where these costs are high. These results suggest that capital market frictions indeed prohibit start-up growth in many parts of the world.
G24|Emergency Collateral Upgrades|During the 2008-09 financial crisis, the Federal Reserve established two emergency facilities for broker-dealers. One provided collateralized loans. The other lent securities against a pledge of other securities, effectively providing collateral upgrades, an operation similar to activities traditionally undertaken by broker-dealers. We find that these facilities alleviated dealers' funding pressures when access to repos backed by illiquid collateral deteriorated. We also find that dealers used the facilities, especially the ability to upgrade collateral, to continue funding their own illiquid inventories (avoiding potential fire-sales), and to extend funding to their clients. Exogenous variation in collateral policies at one facility allows a causal interpretation of these stabilizing effects.
G24|Liquidity Regulation and Financial Intermediaries|We document several effects of the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) rule on dealers' financing and intermediation of securities. For identification, we exploit the fact that the US implementation is more stringent than that in foreign jurisdictions. In line with LCR incentives, US dealers reduce their reliance on repos as a way to finance inventories of high-quality assets and increase the maturity of lower-quality repos relative to foreign dealers; additionally, US dealers cut back on trades that downgrade their own collateral. Dealers are nevertheless still providing significant maturity transformation. We also show that significant de-risking occurs immediately after the 2007-09 crisis, before post-crisis regulations.
G24|Securities Financing and Asset Markets: New Evidence|This paper presents new evidence on bilateral securities financing based on the Federal Reserve's Senior Credit Officer Opinion Survey, which was launched in the wake of the financial crisis to provide a window into this otherwise opaque market. The survey asks large broker-dealers about terms at which they fund client positions, and the demand for such funding, across several different collateral types. Within asset classes, reported changes in spreads, haircuts, and other financing terms move closely together, and we show that they also covary with the state of the underlying cash securities markets. Funding conditions are particularly highly correlated with measures of cash-market liquidity, and, by exploiting dealers' self-reported reasons for changing terms, we show that most of this correlation results from dealers responding to liquidity, rather than the other way around. Controlling for securities-market conditions, haircuts and spreads are unresponsive to shifts in funding demand; however, they do tend to tighten when measures of dealer condition deteriorate.
G24|Imperfect Information Transmission from Banks to Investors: Macroeconomic Implications|We study the interaction of information production in loan-backed asset markets and credit allocation in a general equilibrium framework. Originating banks can screen their borrowers, but can inform investors of their asset type only through an error-prone rating technology. The premium paid on highly rated assets emerges as the main determinant of screening effort. Because the rating technology is imperfect, this premium is insufficient to induce the efficient level of screening. However, the fact that banks know their asset quality and produce ratings accordingly helps keep the premium high. Mandatory rating, certified review, and mandatory ratings disclosure policies interfere with this decision margin, thereby reducing informativeness of high ratings, lowering the premium paid on them, and exacerbating the credit misallocation problem. We perform optimal policy analysis.
G24|Financial Markets and Financial Institutions in Russia in 2017|In 2017, the Russian stock market once again reaffirmed its reputation of being one of the most volatile in the world. In contrast to the situation in 2016, when Russia's stock market, in terms of its rates of return, set a world record among the other 36 stock markets included in the analysis, in 2017 it joined the group of outsiders. Over that year, the RTS Index gained only 0.1 percent vs. 52.3 percent in 2016, and the MICEX Index (MOEX Russia Index)[1] at year-end demonstrated a negative rate of return of 5.5 percent, while over the previous year it had gained 26.8 percent (Fig. 1). The different movement patterns of the two Russian indexes with the same issuer portfolio can be explained by the higher rate of return of the RTS Index (which is denominated in foreign currencies) relative to the (ruble-denominated) MOEX Russia Index that it displays in response to the weakening USD-to-RUB exchange rate.
G24|Russia’s banking sector in 2017|In 2017, banking sector demonstrated moderate development trends across main indicators. Asset holdings went up by 6 percent during the year somewhat below nominal growth rate of Russia’s GDP. The ratio of banks’ asset holdings and annual GDP remained at 91–92 percent for the second year in a row. The number of lending institutions decreased by 56 from 623 to 567 during the year. The process whereby some of the credit institutions were forced out of the market on the grounds of failing to meet the regulator’s requirements notably slowed down. Around fifty banking licenses were revoked in 2017 – half of what was seen in 2015 and 2016 when ninety banking licenses were revoked annually.
G24|Government Intervention, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship| We study how government intervention affects innovation and entrepreneurship, using a model in which two agents (e.g., one entrepreneur and one venture capitalist) engage in teamwork to launch a new business in which a moral hazard problem may persist for both parties. One feature of our model is that the government's financial support (grant) may have (positive) externalities on the teamwork of both parties, but is also constrained by budget costs. We compare two major forms of government intervention: indirect intervention and hybrid intervention. Contrasted to the case without government intervention, indirect government intervention always raises the efforts of both parties and promotes social surplus (welfare) while hybrid government intervention may not always raise the efforts of both parties or promote social surplus. Hybrid government intervention may, however, deliver even higher social surplus than indirect government intervention when the government's share in the enterprise is dominant and its marginal contribution to the project is sufficiently high.
G24|Venture Capital, Angel Financing, and Crowdfunding of Entrepreneurial Ventures: A Literature Review|Venture capital, angel financing, and crowdfunding have evolved and matured in the entrepreneurial finance market. These market developments have also been accompanied by a growing body of research. In this monograph, we provide an overview of a vast body of literature in the field of entrepreneurial equity finance, presenting the current state of research and succinctly identifying its subcategories. We also provide insight into major research trends and research gaps and examine the growing research field of cognition in entrepreneurial equity finance. Our review is structured using a theoretical framework that aims to link venture capital, angels, and crowdfunding whilst considering the significant differences exhibited between each investment stage.
G24|Financial Institutions Network and the Certification Value of Bank Loans|Social networks play an important role in mitigating informational frictions related to financial intermediation, especially bank lending. We investigate the effect of the network of financial institutions on the certification value of bank loans using data on syndicated loans to European companies. We find that the presence of more central leaders in a syndicate substantially increases the stock market's reaction to loan announcements. This certification value is reinforced when informational frictions are more important but vanishes when there are severe disruptions in the functioning of financial markets, such as during the financial crisis of 2008.
G24|A Theory of Social Finance|Myriad different types of institutions are involved in social finance. This paper attempts to make sense of the diverse ways of operationalizing the delivery of funds by social financial institutions (SFIs). It explores the continuum of feasible SFIs, which range from foundations offering pure grants to social banks supplying soft loans. The in-between category includes “quasi-foundations” granting loans that require partial repayment only. In our model, the SFIs face information asymmetries and trade off costly social screening against social contributions, under the budget constraint that depends on the generosity of their funders. We characterize the SFIs’ optimal strategy and suggest that quasi-foundations can be efficient vehicles for social finance, especially when social screening costs are relatively low.
G24|Are foreign private equity buyouts bad for workers?|The media often cast foreign private equity firms as villains who gamble with local jobs. We use detailed registry data from Sweden to show that foreign buyouts have not affected workers’ labor market outcomes. But domestic buyouts have. They have increased unemployment incidence by a fifth, duration by a third, and lowered labor income by seven percent.
G24|Studying The Replicability Of Aggregate External Credit Assessments Using Public Information|In this paper, we examine whether an aggregate rating can be accurately predicted with publicly available information about a company’s individual characteristics. We propose an algorithm that shows how efficient and replicable an arbitrary aggregate rating is respectively to the widely used credit risk models and to what extent an aggregate rating can be extrapolated to the non-rated companies as a valid indicator of their credit risk. Using this algorithm, we empirically study the aggregate ratings constructed as a consensus of ratings assigned by seven credit rating agencies for Russian banks on a national scale and compare it with several alternatives and proxies based on the publicly available characteristics of those banks. We measure how well the aggregate (consensus) rating and the proxies are agreed in terms of ordering banks by their credit quality and predicting defaults over a one-year horizon. We show that the aggregate (consensus) rating is comparable to a standard logit default model in terms of discriminatory power, but for ordering, the former is in low agreement with the latter. We also found that using models for predicting initial credit ratings allows the building of a proxy that is in high agreement with the original aggregate rating, but the original aggregate rating outperforms the proxy in terms of discriminatory power. It was also found that greater agreement between the original aggregated rating and the proxy can be achieved on a subsample of investment grade ratings
G24|The Role of Ratio Profits as The Improvement of Realization of KPR BTN Credit on PT. BTN (Persero) Tbk|Mortgages are used as credit services provided by banks to customers who want a special loan to meet the needs in the construction of houses or home renovations that must be in accordance with the procedures that have been specified as a condition of completeness of KPR. Data collection methods in the preparation of this research is a qualitative research method with one case study in calculating the profit generated by Bank BTN (Bank Tabungan Negara) can be calculated by using the ratio. One of the ratios used is the profitability ratio. In the ratio of profitability, there are ratios such as: ROA (Return On Asset), ROE (Return On Equity), NIM (Net Interest Margin), and BOPO (Operational Cost). To find out the ROA (Return On Asset) ratio, net income after tax and income is required. As for calculating ROE (Return On Equity) ratio required net income after interest and taxes and capital. And for NIM (Net Interest Margin) ratio required total net profit after tax and income, while BOPO (Operational Cost) required operational and operational income. Analysis of financial statements is very important to do because at this stage the financial statements that have been calculated on the ratio already described, the ratio results obtained by PT. Bank BTN (Bank Tabungan Negara) may be decided to comply with the provisions of the BI standard provisions.
G24|Debt, equity, universal banking and Islamic finance: note|This brief note looks at the suggested use of universal banking as a tool to mitigating risk in financing operations’ arising at both ends of the market – demand and supply. It concludes that the issue of adopting universal banking in the Islamic system is of little significance for risk reduction. It essentially raises the issue of mega banks versus smaller units in the Islamic system where the discretion would opt for the latter.
G24|Is there a safety premium in the design of corporate bond contracts?|This study examines empirically whether there is a safety premium in the design of bond contracts by highlighting a safety attribute of general mortgage bonds in Japan, which can give especially strong protection to bondholders, who would have priority in the event of legal liquidation. The effects of a safety attribute were not prominent at first in difference-in-differences analysis. However, the methods for analyzing selectivity bias allow us to provide a safety premium in the design of bond contracts, such as lower spread, lower commission, and larger issue size. The resulting bias would depend on the reputation of the bookrunner. This study uncovers the underlying link for the connection between a safety attribute and the observed and unobserved issuer and bookrunner characteristics, to indicate that a safety premium is related to various terms of bond contracts, including the bookrunner-issuer match.
G24|The Effect of the Macroeconomic Determinants on Sovereign Credit Rating of Turkey|The effects of the main macroeconomic determinants on the sovereign credit rating of Turkey assigned by Standard & Poor’s are analyzed in this paper. As the main macroeconomic determinants, inflation rate, economic growth rate, foreign direct investment, external debt, current account debt and savings are taken into account in this study. The data related to Turkey in this study covers between 1992-2016. In this study, the Granger causality test and the OLS regression model are used for that correlations of the variables. Outcomes of the analysis show that just two in six macroeconomic determinants are effective on the sovereign credit rating. According to the results of the study, external debt and inflation rate have a statistically significant relationship with the sovereign credit rating of Turkey. The outcomes show that external debt and the inflation rate have negative effects on the sovereign credit rating of the country. The coefficient of the external debt and the inflation is negative which means that if the inflation or external debt increases the rating decreases in appropriate with the theory. On the other hand, the effects of the other four macroeconomic variables are not significant. The results of the study indicate that some factors other than the primary macroeconomic determinants are effective on the sovereign credit ratings of Turkey. The results also unveil the door for the criticism that the decisions of the credit rating agencies are biased.
G24|Türkiye'de Faizsiz Bankacılık Prensiplerine Uygun Teverruk Pazarı: Ürün İhtisas Borsası<BR>[Tawarruq Market in Turkey in accordance with the Principles of Interest-free Banking: Product Specialization Exchange]|Participation banks in Turkey use the “tawarruq” method to restructure their uncollectible receivables and the “commodity murabahah” method, which is a kind of tawarruq, to manage their liquidity. All participation banks to perform these operations use the London Metal Exchange (LME). The realization of tawarruq transactions through a commodity or metal exchange to be established in Turkey has been discussed in recent years. This article is about whether the product specialization stock exchange planned to be established in 2018 can contribute to Turkish participation banking and how it should work with a model if it is used in tawarruq and commodity murabahah transactions.
G24|Financial Analysis of Afghanistan International Bank|Afghanistan International Bank (AIB) is one the Afghanis commercial banks, its head office in Kabul. The bank has seven branch offices in the major cities of the country. AIB has international shareholders, two Afghan business groups, and one Afghan/American business group. It opened in 2004. Vision: We aspire to remain the most reputable financial institution and bank of choice in Afghanistan. Mission: Our mission is to foster economic development in Afghanistan, to be a catalyst for growth, and ultimately contribute to the prosperity of the country and its people. We strive to adhere to international best practices in corporate governance, financial and risk management (including anti-money laundering and ‘know your customer’), customer service, operations, information technology, and internal controls. A major factor in our success is dedication to staff development and training within a culture of integrity and professionalism. Financial statements are made and organized by board of directors in order to report to shareholders in releasing of their stewardship function and also to corporate law directs the responsibility of laying down prior to yearly shareholders general meeting, profit and loss account should be included in the balance sheet and auditor’s report should be attached thereto
G24|The Underpricing of Venture Capital Backed IPOs in China|This paper measures the influence of venture capital (VC) on IPO valuations in China. It is found that the authentication effect is dominated by the grandstanding effect, suggesting that VC firms in China greatly value their reputations. It is also shown that the market-specific characteristics of non-VC-backed firms are more closely related to their initial returns, compared to those of VC-backed firms. In addition, corporate fundamentals play a more important role in the valuation for VC-backed firms than for non-VC-backed firms.
G24|Bank Capital Regulation and Endogenous Shadow Banking Crises|We study the macroeconomic effects of bank capital requirements in an economy with two banking sectors. Banks are connected through a wholesale funding market. Anticipated banking crises occur endogenously in the form of self-fulfilling wholesale funding rollover crises. Retail bank capital requirements can reduce the frequency and severity of banking crises. Tightening retail bank capital requirements increases the size and leverage of the shadow banking sector through a novel channel that works through the anticipation of banking crises. A policy which corrects this spillover is more than twice as effective in reducing the frequency and severity of banking crises.
G24|Behaviour of asset pricing models in pre and post-recession period: an evidence from India|The study endeavours to assess empirically the performance of various models of asset pricing employing risk factors such as market premium, book to market equity, size, investment, momentum and profitability and attempts to unearth the effects of value, size, investment, momentum and profitability. It also compares the behaviour of five different asset pricing models: standard capital asset pricing model, three and five-factor model of Fama French, four-factor model of Carhart and six-factor model during the periods of pre-recession, recession and post-recession in the Indian equity market. The study uses constituents of S&P BSE 500 as a sample, traded over the period 1st July 2005 to 31st September 2017. The results exhibit that three-factor model is an effective model which brings a lot of improvements over CAPM and suggests that market premium and size factors are the most effective and strong factors explaining the variation in returns, throughout the study period. Four-factor model performs a little better for few portfolios created based on size-momentum during 2009-17 and 2005-17. Five and six-factor model do not make any further improvement if compare with the three-factor asset pricing model. Size effect is present in all the above models and across all the time periods, however, factors such as the premium for profitability, investment and momentum are found redundant during the study period in the Indian equity market.
G24|Learning about Competitors: Evidence from SME Lending|This paper provides evidence of strategic complementarities in lenders’ contract terms in SME financing. To isolate this strategic effect from lenders’ joint reaction to unobserved common shocks to fundamentals, we exploit the staggered entry of lenders into an information sharing platform. Upon joining, lenders adjust their terms toward what others are offering. This effect is mediated by market power and seems to be driven by incentives to match rivals in order to preserve market share as opposed to learning about fundamentals. We also find evidence that this strategic behavior increased delinquencies during the recent crisis.
G24|RFAs' Financial Structures and Lending Capacities: a Statutory, Accounting and Credit Rating Perspective|This paper documents the diverse financial structures – including capital structures and funding strategies – of Regional Financing Arrangements (RFAs) and offers an analysis of RFAs’ lending capacity from a statutory, accounting and credit rating perspective. Using credit rating agencies’ methodologies, the paper presents the dynamic relationship between RFAs’ financial structures, the support from their member states and their resulting creditworthiness. A stylized model is developed to demonstrate how the relative size of an institution’s paid-in compared with its callable capital, together with its member states’ support, could have an impact on the overall credit rating and lending capacity of an RFA. This paper contributes to the growing policy discussions on the heterogeneity of RFAs and their rising importance in the Global Financial Safety Net.
G24|Competition in the Venture Capital Market and the Success of Startup Companies: Theory and Evidence|We examine the effect of a competitive supply of venture capital (VC) on the success rates of VC-backed startup companies (e.g. IPOs). We first develop a matching model of the VC market with heterogeneous entrepreneurs and VC firms, and double-sided moral hazard. Our model identifies a non-monotone relationship between VC competition and successful exits: a more competitive VC market increases the likelihood of a successful exit for startups with low quality projects (backed by less experienced VC firms in the matching equilibrium), but it decreases the likelihood for startups with high quality projects (backed by more experienced VC firms). Despite this non-monotone effect on success rates, we find that VC competition leads to higher valuations of all VC-backed startups. We then test these predictions using VC data from Thomson One, and find robust empirical support. The differential effect of VC competition has a profound impact on entrepreneurship policies that promote VC investments.
G24|Alternative finance: theoretical and empirical consideration|Alternative finance presents a stream that has boomed several years ago. These finance tools are often described with attributes such as ?non-traditional?, ?online? or ?innovative?. Since this research area is relatively new, there are scholar and practitioner discussions about what kind of financial tool belongs to the label ?alternative finance? and which one not. Indeed, alternative finance segment is on the rise and has to be understood as a reliable source of financing business ventures (even more not only ventures with business attribute). The aim of this paper is to provide theoretical and empirical remarks to this research stream. Authors continue with this paper with their research interest and present a part of gained information during their research. The paper is articulated as follows: first the alternative finance sphere is discussed including the taxonomy and current state of knowledge about this segment mainly on the European level. Second, follow-up empirical research is provided answering four hypotheses related to alternative finance attributes and general awareness among society. In conclusion final remarks and future perspectives are highlighted.
G24|Development Of Alternative Finance Models And The Position Of Crowdfunding In Alternative Forms Of Finance|Considering recent developments in IT and the wake of the global economic crisis, crowdfunding has become an increasingly significant alternative form of finance. The aim of this paper is to analyse and discuss the current state and development of alternative finance markets focusing on crowdfunding. Firstly, we define the terms ?alternative finance?, ?alternative funding?, and ?crowdfunding?. The paper continues with the theoretical framework of crowdfunding and discusses different models of this type of financing. Development of alternative forms of financing is analysed based on data from previous surveys carried out in the field of alternative finance markets and individual crowdfunding platforms functioning around the world. Crowdfunding is growing worldwide, and the Asia-Pacific region, headed by China, is the world?s largest alternative finance market, followed by the Americas. In Europe, the UK is the market leader in alternative finance. As individual models of financing are concerned, the most common forms of alternative finance activities are peer-to-peer consumer lending, reward-based crowdfunding, and peer-to-peer business lending. At the end of the paper, we provide a conclusion of the presented aspects of crowdfunding and development of alternative finance. Finally, we mention potentially problematic areas of this type of financing that could be elaborated upon in the future.
G24|Private Equity Fund Structures in Czech Republic within the Framework of the New Institutional Economics|Research background: Institutional aspects of a well-functioning private equity and venture capital market are emphasized in the recent academic literature. In particular, a favourable tax and legal environment is essential, since formal institutions enable the industry to attract a larger volume of investors and thus to contribute more efficiently to the growth of GDP. In the Czech Republic, however, legal barriers represent an essential obstacle affecting a rather poor scope of resources available to domestic private equity and venture capital funds. Purpose of the article: This paper examines the current tax and legal environment for private equity and venture capital investments in the Czech/ Republic. Proposals for prospective improvements of legal and tax framework are made in the empirical part of the study. Methodology/methods: As the phenomenon under study is complex and explanatory in nature, qualitative data with content analysis proved to be the best way how to assess institutional framework for PE/VC in the Czech Republic. Data collection methods cover a comparative analysis of scientific literature documents and reports, as well as primary data from interviews with experts in the industry. The results of both secondary and primary data analysis were categorized and core lacks in the institutional framework were identified and discussed. Finally, proposals for prospective improvements of the institutional framework are made. Findings & Value added: The conducted analysis implies that the issue of the legal and organisational structure suitable for PE/VC funds may be deemed resolved in the Czech Republic. A Czech equivalent to a Limited Partnership (SICAR), i.e. a limited partnership with investment certificates, has already with provided with sufficient support in the legislation in terms of the legal form. The legal form is a necessary, yet not sufficient condition. A tax handicap was identified implying that it is necessary to amend the tax law so that the legal regulation extends the tax exemption. Another amendment to the applicable legislation should then be directed towards eliminating or mitigating the barriers imposed on pension funds when investing in PE/VC funds.
G24|Earnings Management in the Private Equity Divestment Process on Warsaw Stock Exchange|Prior studies suggest that companies which go public manage earnings in order to inflate the issue price. However, for PE funds the use of such activity can be costly in terms of the reputation capital as they are repetitive stock market players. The main aim of the study is to empirically investigate the use of pre-IPO earnings management by private equity funds in the process of divestment conducted on a stock exchange. I provide comparisons between PE-backed companies and firms with a similar initial market value and growth potential, using the method of single-linkage clustering to build the study sample. In order to assess the pre-IPO earnings management I apply the discretionary accruals model of Larcker and Richardson [2004]. I do not find evidence that the presence of PE fund among the shareholders of the company in the period preceding first listing of shares on a stock market constrains the use of earnings management prior to the IPO. The difference between the discretionary accruals in PE-backed and matched companies, when controlling for the market value and book-to-market ratio, is statistically insignificant.
G24|The reaction of the stock market on credit rating agencies’decisions|Firms with low credit risk realize higher returns than firms with high credit risk. This credit risk effect in the cross-section of stock returns is a puzzle because investors appear to pay a premium for bearing credit risk. A higher credit risk can reduce a propensity to invest. The basic goal of the paper is to analyse and verify the impact of the changes of financial and nonfinancial institutions’ credit ratings on the rates of return of shares. The following hypotheses have been formed: first, differences in the strength and direction of the reaction of stock prices between financial and nonfinancial institutions have been observed. Secondly, downgrades of credit ratings have got a stronger impact on the rates of return of shares than upgrades thereof. The analysis has been constructed for European companies for the period between 1995 and 2016 using the event study method. The sample has been divided according to: the direction of changes in credit ratings, countries’ economic divisions, the character of the institution. The prepared analysis suggests that nonfinancial stock prices react to changes in credit ratings similarly to stock prices of financial institutions. The moment of reaction is differentiated by taking the level of economic development. Generally, a stronger reaction to credit rating changes in the case of companies from lower and middle economies has been observed the than from high-income countries.
G24|The determinants of crowdfunding development – empirical analysis in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe|Research background: Crowdfunding (CF) is a method of raising money for projects and enterprises by an online platform. Since around 2003 it is getting popular and becoming a natural method of pre-financing for start-ups before reaching out to investors. The estimations gave the scale of raising worldwide 35 bn USD via CF platforms in 2015. In 2016 CF was on track to surpass venture capital investments. Yet, this method doesn’t progress equally worldwide and it is essential to find out what makes the difference of its development between the countries. Purpose of the article: The aim of the article is to examine the potential relation between: (1) the welfare of the countries, (2) structure of population and (3) availability of crowdfunding. The research is dedicated to the chosen countries of Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) in the period of 2005-2015, giving a perspective of changes in different terms of economy. Methodology/methods: This article, theoretical and empirical in character, is based on international desk research findings. The authors used methods of data collection, organizing and processing information. Moreover, they implemented methods of analogy and deduction, while studying papers, as well as the selection, analysis and synthesis methods. Findings: There is no direct correlation between GDP per capita of the country with it online alternative investments per capita. The richness of the country does not influence people willingness to invest money through online tools. In the countries of average level of welfare, alternative financing is used more widely. Moreover, there is a significant impact of the age structure of the population on the crowdfunding development. Estonia has the youngest structure of population and even there are not many inhabitants and the GDP per capita is average, the country has the most willing online crowd investors.
G24|Private Equity Fund Structures in Czech Republic within the Framework of the New Institutional Economics|Institutional aspects of a well-functioning private equity and venture capital market are emphasized in the recent academic literature. In particular, a favourable tax and legal environment is essential, since formal institutions enable the industry to attract a larger volume of investors and thus to contribute more efficiently to the growth of GDP. In the Czech Republic, however, legal barriers represent an essential obstacle affecting a rather poor scope of resources available to domestic private equity and venture capital funds.This paper examines the current tax and legal environment for private equity and venture capital investments in the Czech/ Republic. Proposals for prospective improvements of legal and tax framework are made in the empirical part of the study.As the phenomenon under study is complex and explanatory in nature, qualitative data with content analysis proved to be the best way how to assess institutional framework for PE/VC in the Czech Republic. Data collection methods cover a comparative analysis of scientific literature documents and reports, as well as primary data from interviews with experts in the industry. The results of both secondary and primary data analysis were categorized and core lacks in the institutional framework were identified and discussed. Finally, proposals for prospective improvements of the institutional framework are made. The conducted analysis implies that the issue of the legal and organisational structure suitable for PE/VC funds may be deemed resolved in the Czech Republic. A Czech equivalent to a Limited Partnership (SICAR), i.e. a limited partnership with investment certificates, has already with provided with sufficient support in the legislation in terms of the legal form. The legal form is a necessary, yet not sufficient condition. A tax handicap was identified implying that it is necessary to amend the tax law so that the legal regulation extends the tax exemption. Another amendment to the applicable legislation should then be directed towards eliminating or mitigating the barriers imposed on pension funds when investing in PE/VC funds.
G24|Investment in capital markets|Investment in Capital Markets creates a strategic vision on the financial capital investment in the capital markets with the aim to get an increased return premium in the short and long time periods. The book is written with a main goal to explain the pros and cons of the financial capital investment in the capital markets, discussing the sophisticated investment concepts and techniques in the simple understandable readable general format language. We would like to highlight the three interesting facts about the book: 1. It is centered on the consideration of the modern investment products, the investment vehicles and the investment mediums for the financial capital investment in the capital markets; 2. It is focused on the financial risk calculation and mitigation techniques for the financial capital investment in the financial capital markets. 3. It is aimed to describe the quantum winning virtuous investment strategies creation and execution techniques during the financial capital investment in the capital markets. The investors, financiers, economists, financial analysts, financial traders, financial advisers, lawmakers, policy analysts, subject experts, professors, and students will certainly enjoy a breathtaking splendid learning journey with the explained new ideas, established concepts and outlined future prospects toward the financial capital investment in the capital markets with the aim to get an increased return premium in the short and long time periods.
G24|Measuring the M&A Value of Control and Synergy in Central and Eastern European Transition Economies with the Case of Avast -AVG Acquisition|We examine the valuation of synergies and control in mergers and acquisitions (M&A) in Central and Eastern European (CEE) transition economies. We determine this value based on comprehensive contemporaneous financial findings extracted from the Thomson Reuters database. Worldwide the market of mergers and acquisitions (M&A) is increasing, reaching in 2016 a value of 6.000 billion EUR globally. Among the CEE transition economies, the M&A total value in the same period was 50 billion EUR. It is widely accepted that between 60% and 80% of M&As are unsuccessful in value creation, so we further research evidences about an alternative framework to value the M&A also qualitatively. We develop a valuation model for prediction of the value of control and synergy in M&A deals. We suggest further directions for analysis in the field of M&A value creation, and recommend an alternative to the most used earning per share metric to enhance the predictability and transparency of valuation worldwide.
G24|Risk Based Corporate Governance in Damansara Realty Berhad: A Case Study Approach|The main purpose of this analysis to study the performance of corporate governance in Damansara Realty Berhad related to the risk management in the company. It not only assumed all the financial analysis but had to make sure that the accuracy of the financial with using SSPS application to determine the relationship between one elements with another elements. Here, for the financial trending analysis, ROA are relatively relationship with leverage, total assets, average collection period, current ratio, and ROE. The regression and anova analysis showed that only one variable profitability (ROA) that gives positively relationship with remuneration (BOD), size (total assets), GDP and average collection period. At the end of the analysis, it can be seen that the effect of financial performance accordance to the corporate governance structure in the company
G24|An Optimal ICO Mechanism|Initial Coin Offerings (ICOs) are raising billions in funding using multiple strategies, none justified from the point of view of mechanism design, resulting in severe underpricing and high volatility. In the present paper, an optimal ICO mechanism is proposed for the first time: a truthful multi-unit Vickrey-Dutch auction of callable tokens (i.e., a new hybrid security of tokens packaged with callable warrants). Truthful bidding is an ex-post Nash equilibrium strategy and the auction terminates with an ex-post efficient allocation; additionally, the callability of the warrants eliminates the winner’s curse of the auction and its underpricing. An implementation demonstrates its practical viability.
G24|Do Company Builders Create Jobs? Examining the Rise of Incubation Finance in Germany|Over the past decade, new types of business incubation have been developed. One particularly prominent example is company builders, which use their own resources to build up companies, establishing numerous companies in a series. In doing so, this investor type facilitates internal and external business ideas. It offers a new or-ganizational solution that combines both the innovative capacity of founders and the financial resources of a large company with the desire for long-term employment and corporate affiliation. This article examines the economic impact of company builders in Germany compared with other venture capital (VC) investor types on the basis of employment trends in the portfolio companies from 2011 to 2015. It is shown that company builders promote more dynamic employment growth than do other types of investors. This finding suggests that this type of investor is particular-ly well positioned to take advantage of the institutional deficiency in the German VC market. The results are also discussed in the context of the growth of the Berlin-based VC and start-up ecosystem.
G24|IBSES: International Bank for Space Exploration and Sciences|The cost of landing man on Mars is estimated to be $500 billion. This kind of investment is difficult for a single nation to achieve. Moreover space exploration involves innumerable aspects of high technical expertise and thus demands sustained international collaboration. Space exploration projects span many years. It calls for uniformity in policies and reliable funding over long periods of time. Due to the high cost and technical skills involved, poor and developing countries cannot afford space programs. To address all of these concerns and other related issues we need to establish an entity which can provide solutions to problems involving various aspects (especially economic) of space exploration. This paper proposes the establishment of such an entity, IBSES: International Bank for Space Exploration and Sciences, and evaluates the various factors that can make this possible.
G24|Les banques islamiques sont-elles plus performantes que les banques conventionnelles en Algérie ?<BR>[Are the Islamic banks better perform than conventional banks in Algeria?]|"The analysis of banking performance is very important, allowing Islamic banks to better understand the factors that affect their profitability. The purpose of our studyhere, is to examine the main financial indicators that influence the profitability of an Islamic bank called ""El Baraka"" and to compare them with those of a conventional bank ""BNA"". And for this reason, we used the ordinary least squares method during the period 2005 - 2015."
G24|Private information implications for acquirers and targets in horizontal mergers|The paper presents a robust theory centered in Private information to assuage event study literature and confirm with Acquirer gains in Bank M&A. The ability of larger firms lies in investments in Intellectual capital, harnessing soft information and critically, purloin value in the deal through bargaining based on its own and the Target’s specific Private information. Recent literature has affirmed that private targets within the core industry generate Positive returns for acquirers, realizing the value of Private information through deal making. Recent evidence from large Bank mergers producing large Bidder gains and the robust theory of private information presented herein is likely to renew confidence in the merger and acquisitions strategy and deflect from theoretic literature relying on earlier analysis reflecting on event studies as a tool and on the effectiveness of M&A strategies for these acquirers based in limited gains in the Event study literature. The paper presents theoretic models centered around private information of both acquirer and targets and defend a robust theory supporting the large impact strategy of Mergers evidenced in Horizontal mergers in line with recent literature. As evidence, the paper utilizes the Private information construct to explain intuitive results verified in the literature Banking markets present a unique opportunity in robustly recreating results based on this theory especially in growth memes presented by Asian markets. Foreign portfolio exits are significant opportunity losses for Global players and may not be justified by myopic short term responses to a new policy superstructure.
G24|Long-Run Movement and Predictability of Bond Spread for BRICS and PIIGS: The Role of Economic, Financial and Political Risks|We examine co-movement and predictability of Bond Spread of BRICS and PIIGS with respect to political risk (PR), financial risk (FR), and economic risk (ER). Our linear Granger causality findings imply that PR is the most important risk in predicting bond spread, followed by ER in both BRICS and in PIIGS, while FR is useful in predicting bond spread in BRICS only. Our nonlinear individual causality results infer that ER is the most important risk in predicting bond spread, followed by FR, and PR. We make a conjecture that linear and nonlinear causality are independent and our findings support this.
G24|Certification and Market Transparency|In markets with quality unobservable to buyers, third-party certification is often the only instrument to increase transparency. While both sellers and buyers have a demand for certification, its role differs fundamentally: sellers use it for signalling, buyers use it for inspection. Seller-induced certification leads to more transparency, because it is informative—even if unused. By contrast, buyer-induced certification incentivizes certifiers to limit transparency, as this raises demand for inspection. Whenever transparency is socially beneficial, seller certification is preferable. It also yields certifiers larger profits, so that regulating the mode of certification is redundant.
G24|The Capital Gains Tax: A Curse but also a Blessing for Venture Capital Investment|This article documents a statistical association between the number and success of venture capital investments and the capital gains tax rate. To do this, we analyze investment data and taxes of 32 countries from 2000 to 2010. In our data, higher capital gains tax rates are associated with fewer firms financed and a lower probability for ventures receiving follow-up funding. However, if the first investment is received when taxes are high, the probability of a firm eventually going public or being acquired increases. We conclude that high tax rates are associated with fewer, but on average more successful companies.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
G24|Measuring Spillovers of Venture Capital|In this paper we measure knowledge spillovers arising from venture-capital nanced companies on the patenting activities of other companies and com- pare them to spillovers from established rms. We develop a novel measure to to identify the appropriate spillover pool based on backward citations which re ect channels for learning between rms. Using panel data of U.S. rms we show that venture capital investment in start-ups generates signi cant spillovers on the patent quantity and quality of other rms. Counterfactual estimates suggest that these spillovers are larger than those generated by corporate R&D. We address potential concerns about causality with an in- strumental variable strategy using changes in federal and state tax incentives as instrument for R&D and past fund raising as instrument for venture capital investment.
G24|Solutions for SMEs’ difficulties in accessing finance: Asian experiences|Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are the backbone of the Asian economy. They make up more than 96% of all Asian businesses that provide 2 out of 3 private sector jobs in the continent. Therefore, it is vitally important for the Asian economies’ economic success that they have fully functioning support measures for SMEs. However, SMEs face major challenges in accessing cheap finance, mainly because there is an asymmetric information problem between suppliers and demanders of funds, which hinders their growth. We highlight the difficulties of SMEs in accessing finance, and provide remedies for mitigating them. The remedies proposed in here include the development of credit information infrastructures for SMEs to remedy the asymmetric information problem, utilization of credit rating techniques for SMEs, the development of a sustainable credit guarantee scheme, the development of specialized private banks for SME financing, and the introduction of new ways of providing community-based financing such as hometown investment trust funds. We will provide operational examples from developed Asian economies such as Japan and the Republic of Korea, and developing Asian economies such as Thailand with a view to them being implemented in the rest of Asia.
G24|Банковское финансирование инновационного развития циркумполярных регионов России: особенности и вызовы. Bank financing of innovative development of circumpolar regions in Russia: features and challenges|В современных экономических условиях в целях реализации суверенитета и национальных интересов масштабной страны в Арктике на первый план выдвигается необходимость обеспечения устойчивого развития циркумполярных регионов. Устойчивое социально-экономическое развитие регионов циркумполярной зоны не представляется возможным без активизации инновационных процессов. Осуществление инноваций зависит от целого комплекса факторов, одним из которых выступает доступ к достаточным по объемам и срокам финансовым ресурсам. Основными поставщиками финансовых ресурсов в России исторически выступали банки, которые, как следует из проведенного анализа, неэффективно участвуют в финансировании инновационного развития в российских циркумполярных регионах. Оценка потенциала интенсификации влияния банков на инновационные процессы показала, что он ограничен высокими рисками инноваций, мультиплицирующимися в условиях нестабильной внешней среды функционирования экономических субъектов, и периодическими финансовыми кризисами. Развитие банковского финансирования инноваций и преодоление сложившихся вызовов позволит выступить стимулом инновационного развития циркумполярных регионов России. Ensuring sustainable development of circumpolar regions is prioritized in the current economic conditions in order to realize the sovereignty and national interests of our vast country in the Arctic region. Sustainable socioeconomic development of the regions of the circumpolar zone is impossible without the activation of innovative processes. The possibility of the innovation depends on a variety of factors, one of which is an access to financial resources sufficient in terms of timing and volume. Historically, the main suppliers of financial resources in Russia are banks, which ineffectively participate in the financing of innovative development in the Russian circumpolar regions. Assessment of the potential of the intensification of influence that banks have on innovation processes has shown that it is limited to high-risk innovation, multiplying in a volatile external environment of functioning of economic entities and periodic financial crises. Development of banking financing of innovation and overcoming the existing challenges will allow stimulating innovative development of the circumpolar regions of Russia.
G24|Sovereign Credit Rating Changes and Stock Market Performances: Evidence from the Balkans|This paper examines the impacts of sovereign credit rating changes on the stock markets of the six countries in the Balkans over the period May 20, 1998 to June 19, 2017. It aims to answer 3 questions: (1) Do the announcements provide new information? (2) Do the markets react to a rating change before the event? and (3) Do negative announcements have a quantitatively different impact than positive announcements? The data consist of the rating changes of three rating agencies, namely Standard and Poor?s, Moody?s, and Fitch IBCA, the daily stock price indices of the six countries and a benchmark index, i.e., S&P Europe 350. The impacts of upgrades and downgrades will be examined separately. Event study methodology will be used in analyzing cross-country data.
G24|Comparative analysis of Islamic bonds and conventional bonds in the chosen countries|Islamic bonds can be marked as one of the most succesful instruments of the Islamic financial sector, which is possible to define briefly as the attempt to connect the religious principles and financial entrepreneurship. At the beginning, Islamic bonds had the character of the specific instrument, that appeared occasionally at some local markets. By the time, Islamic bonds gained bigger and bigger market share. Nowadays, the market sukuk, has the raising number of foreign investors from banks and corporations. The organization AAOIFI defines sukuk as the certificates of the similar value, which, after the final underwriting, authorize to accept the nominal value of certificates and its usage for the planned investments to tangible assets, rights and services or to the sufficient capital for projects or other investment activities. Another point that puts the accent on the knowledge of this instrument is the increasing population of muslim citizens in the european countries, what creates the basic assumptions for the growing demand for the instruments of islamic financial products, the need for the knowledge of the basic and also more detailed approaches and the philosophy of this financial market. On the other hand, this segment is obstructed by a number of problematic factors which restrict remarkably the future possible development.The aim of this paper is to specify more closely the features of Islamic bonds (sukuk) and to perform on this theoretical basis the comparative analysis with the conventional bonds. For their comparison, we are going to use the calculations of the value at risk. The data used with the comparison consist of the monthly prices of the public and company sukuk and bonds taken from he database Bloomberg. Although the weekly prices are more exact in substituing the market prices, where the position of the portfolio can be liquid, despite of this fact, we used the monthly prices because of the restriction of availability of the daily time chains in the case of sukuk. We also had the limited number of countries, regarding the fact that the trading with sukuk is on the primary market in the majority of cases restricted. That is why we have chosen United Arab Emirates (Dubai) and Malaysia, as the countries from which we have chosen public and company sukuk and bonds for their analysis and comparison.
G24|Later Stage and Growth Capital in the Czech Republic|The paper analyses later stage venture capital and growth capital investment activity in the Czech Republic. These segments of private equity investments follow up with early stage venture capital segments such as start-up capital. Our earlier research has shown that the development of the Czech venture capital market does not comply with European activity over 2007-2015. This paper further enhances the research for this following private equity segments and provides comparison with early stage venture capital market development. The later stage and growth capital investments follow the overall European trends with only more substantial jumps in investment activity caused by relatively more important occurance of larger transactions due to smaller market size.
G24|Forecasting the Success Rate of Reward Based Crowdfunding Projects|The present paper develops three models that help predict the success rate and attainable investment levels of online crowdfunding ventures. This is done by applying standard economic theory and machine learning techniques from computer science to the novel sector of on-line crowd-based micro- financing. In contrast with previous research in the area, this paper analyzes transaction-level data in addition to information about completed crowdfunding projects. This provides an unique perspective in the ways crowd finance ventures develop. The models reach an average of 83% accuracy in predicting the outcome of a crowdfunding campaign at any point throughout its duration. These ndings prove that a number of product and project specifi c parameters are indicative of the success of the venture. Subsequently, the paper provides guidance to capital seekers and investors on the basis of these criteria, and allows participants in the crowdfunding marketplace to make more rational decisions.
G24|Europe vs. the U.S.: A new look at the syndicated loan pricing puzzle|According to the syndicated loan pricing puzzle (Carey and Nini, 2007) interest rates charged to corporate borrowers are lower in Europe than in the U.S. Our investigation suggests that controlling for region-specific credit ratings makes the Europe–U.S. gap insignificant, and solves the puzzle. We speculate that the puzzle originates from the lack of uniformity of accounting standards.
G24|How to make a deal: The role of rankings and personal ties in creating trust in the mergers and acquisitions market|On the mergers and acquisitions (M&A) market, buyers and sellers resort to experts in order to secure deals. But as these experts might be prone to opportunism, firms need to find a way to build trust. We identify two trust devices: social ties and public rankings. We explore whether these personal and impersonal devices are substitutes, independent or complementary. We study the French M&A market through a mixed-method approach. We show that both previous contacts and league table rankings of firms contribute to trust and to making deals. These trust devices are all the more likely to be used if the deal is risky, especially within the sell side (more at risk). We also find that firms tend to make deals only with other firms at the same level in the rankings. Finally, we find some evidence of substitution between rankings and personal ties, especially for low-value deals.
G24|Smart finance for smart places to foster new venture creation|Abstract This study examines the role of smart finance within smart regions to generate smart growth. The smart growth idea has been established by the development of the 20–20 agenda of the European Commission as a regional and urban policy-prioritization framework. We follow this framework of smart growth and rely on the efficacy of the role played by entrepreneurship in driving innovation as being central to the issue. In particular, we argue that new venture creation is shaped by the interplay or ‘match’ between the smartness of a region and the provision of smart finance. Based on metropolitan areas in Germany, our empirical analysis strongly supports the complementary effect of measures of smart finance and the smartness of places in stimulating new venture creation.
G24|Financial constraints in family firms and the role of venture capital|Abstract Based on the natural reluctance of family-controlled firms (FCFs) to accept external shareholders, in this paper we analyze whether investment sensitivity to internally generated cash flow is a driver of venture capital (VC) participation in those firms. We argue that FCFs are more likely to accept external investors when they are subject to serious financial constraints. We also aim to ascertain to what extent VC involvement contributes to reducing the dependency between investments and internal cash flow. We focus on a representative sample of Spanish privately held FCFs that received the initial VC investment between 1997 and 2006, and compare the investment-cash flow sensitivity of VC-backed FCFs with that of non VC-backed FCFs. We find that FCFs that received VC were more financially constrained than other similar non VC-backed FCFs before receiving VC. This finding is especially true in first generation FCFs, thus providing additional evidence on the reluctance of FCFs to accept external shareholders. We also find that VC-backed FCFs, in particular first generation ones, significantly reduce the sensitivity of investments to cash flow after the initial VC round.
G24|A drop in an empty pond: Canadian public policy towards venture capital|Abstract This paper presents evidence about the shortfall of venture capital in Canada relative to comparable regions in the United States, despite massive government spending on governmental venture capital programs in Canada. The Government of Canada committed $500 million towards venture capital in 2013 through the Venture Capital Action Plan. The Government of Ontario committed $29 million to the Investment Accelerator Fund in 2007, $105 million to the Ontario Venture Capital Fund in 2008, and up to $50 million per year through the Ontario Emerging Technologies Fund in 2009. We present data that shows Ontario’s expenditures would have to be higher by $4.4 billion per year to achieve levels of VC/GDP that are comparable to Massachusetts. Similarly, federal expenditures would have to be higher by $1.6 billion per year higher to achieve levels of VC/GDP that are comparable to the US. We attribute the shortfall in Canadian venture capital to two major policy failures. First, there is a persistent government venture capital support program that crowds out private investment. Second, other government programs favor established businesses. In Ontario in 2012, $4.1 billion in expenditures were allocated towards businesses, and the vast majority of these expenses are targeted towards the largest and oldest companies and the companies with the greatest revenues. We discuss the impact of such policies on the venture capital ecosystem in Canada.
G24|International perspectives on venture capital and bank finance for entrepreneurial firms|Abstract Banks and venture capitalists enable the financing of entrepreneurial firms and thereby promote regional development. The effectiveness of these two very different financing arrangements depends on the manner in which they are delivered, and the institutional conditions of the regions in which they operate. This editorial introduces the issues surrounding these topics, overviews selected papers in the entrepreneurial finance literature, and summarizes the special issue papers and their contributions to the literature. We further provide avenues for relevant and fruitful further research.
G24|Financing Innovation: Evidence from R&D Grants|Governments regularly subsidize new ventures to spur innovation. This paper conducts the first large-sample, quasi-experimental evaluation of R&D subsidies. I use data on ranked applicants to the US Department of Energy's SBIR grant program. An early-stage award approximately doubles the probability that a firm receives subsequent venture capital and has large, positive impacts on patenting and revenue. These effects are stronger for more financially constrained firms. Certification, where the award contains information about firm quality, likely does not explain the grant effect. Instead, the grants are useful because they fund technology prototyping.
G24|Credit Relationships and Business Bankruptcy during the Great Depression|Credit relationships are sticky. Stickiness makes relationships beneficial to borrowers in times of their own distress but makes them potentially problematic when lenders themselves face hardship. To examine the role of credit relationships during a financial crisis, we exploit a natural experiment in Mississippi during the Great Depression that generated plausibly exogenous differences in financial distress for banks. Using new data drawn from the publications of the credit rating agency Dun & Bradstreet and from original bankruptcy filings, we show that financial distress increased business exit but did not increase the bankruptcy rate. Financial distress caused both banks and trade creditors to recalibrate their collections strategies, which is revealed by changes in the geographical distribution of the creditors of bankrupt businesses.
G24|Multilateral Development Bank Credit Rating Methodology: Overcoming the Challenges in Assessing Relative Credit Risk in Highly Rated Institutions Based on Public Data|The investment of foreign exchange reserves or other asset portfolios requires an assessment of the credit quality of counterparties. Traditionally, foreign exchange reserve managers and other investors have relied on credit rating agencies (CRAs) as the main source for credit assessments. The Financial Stability Board issued a set of principles in support of financial stability to reduce reliance on CRA ratings in standards, laws and regulations. To support efforts to end mechanistic reliance on CRA ratings and instead establish stronger internal credit assessment practices, this paper provides a detailed technical description of a methodology developed to assign an internal credit rating to multilateral development banks (MDBs), using only publicly available data. The methodology relies on fundamental credit analysis that produces a forward-looking assessment of the investment entity’s capacity and willingness to pay its financial obligations, resulting in an opinion on the relative credit standing or likelihood of default. This methodology proposes four key innovations: (i) a simple way of estimating the capital adequacy ratio, (ii) new metrics to evaluate the liquidity and funding profile of an MDB, (iii) a straightforward approach to evaluating the exceptional support from shareholders, and (iv) a new criterion related to corporate governance, which provides a high level of objectivity in assessing some of the qualitative indicators. The methodology is a key component of the joint Bank of Canada and Department of Finance Canada initiative to develop internal credit assessment capabilities and is currently used to assess eligibility and inform investment decisions in the management of Canada’s foreign exchange reserves.
G24|Methodology for Assigning Credit Ratings to Sovereigns|The investment of foreign exchange reserves or other asset portfolios requires an assessment of the credit quality of investment counterparties. Traditionally, foreign exchange reserve and asset managers have relied on credit rating agencies (CRAs) as the main source for credit assessments. The Financial Stability Board issued principles to reduce reliance on CRA ratings in standards, laws and regulations, in support of financial stability. Moreover, best practices in the asset management industry suggest that investors should understand the credit risks they are exposed to and, more broadly, that internal credit assessments be relied upon to inform investment decisions. In support of efforts by market participants to establish stronger internal credit assessment practices, as well as to solicit feedback, this paper provides a detailed technical description of the methodology developed to assign internal credit ratings to sovereigns, using publicly available data only. This methodology proposes three key innovations: (i) a quantitative approach to assess political risks, (ii) a framework to assess the government’s potential contingent liabilities related to the banking sector, and (iii) a framework to determine the presence of asset price imbalances in the country. The methodology presented relies on fundamental credit analysis that produces a forward-looking and “through-the-cycle” assessment of the investment entity’s capacity and willingness to pay its financial obligations, resulting in an opinion on the relative credit standing or likelihood of default. The methodology presented is currently used to assess eligibility and inform investment decisions in the management of Canada’s foreign exchange reserves. The methodology is a key component of the joint Bank of Canada and Department of Finance Canada initiative to develop internal credit assessment capabilities.
