G29|The mobile phone,information sharing and financial sector development in Africa: A quantile regressions approach|This study investigates linkages between the mobile phone, information sharing offices (ISO) and financial sector development in 53 African countries for the period 2004-2011. ISO are private credit bureaus and public credit registries. The empirical evidence is based on contemporary and non-contemporary quantile regressions. Two main hypotheses are tested: mobile phones complement ISO to enhance the formal financial sector (Hypothesis 1) and mobile phones complement ISO to reduce the informal financial sector (Hypothesis 2). The hypotheses are largely confirmed. This research adds to the existing body of literature by engaging hitherto unexplored dimensions of financial sector development and investigating the role of mobile phones in information sharing for financial sector development.
G29|Informal Sector and Mobile Financial Services in Developing Countries: Does Financial Innovation Matter?|This paper investigates the impact of mobile financial services - MFS (mobile money, and mobile credit and savings) on the informal sector. Using both parametric and non-parametric methods on panel data from 101 emerging and developing countries over the period 2000-15, we find that MFS negatively affect the size of the informal sector. According to estimates derived from propensity score matching, MFS adoption decreases the informal sector size in a range of 2.4 – 4.3 percentage points of GDP. These formalization effects may stem from different possible transmission channels: improvement in credit access, increase in the productivity/profitability of informal firms attenuating subsistence constraints typical of entrepreneurship in the informal sector, as well as possible induced growth of firms already in the formal sector. The robustness of these results is supported by the use of an alternative estimation approach (instrumental variables). These findings lay the groundwork for the scarce literature on the macroeconomic impact of mobile financial services, a major dimension of the growing drive towards economic digitalization transiting through industry-level MW.
G29|FinTech and the future of financial services: What are the research gaps?|New financial technologies (FinTech) have erupted around the world. Consequently, there has been a considerable increase in academic literature on FinTech over the last five years. Research tends to be scantily connected with no coherent research agenda. Significant research gaps and important questions remain. There is much work to be done before this area becomes an established academic discipline. This paper offers coherent research themes formulated through focus group meetings with policymakers and academics, and also based on a critical assessment of the literature. We outline seven key research gaps with questions that could form the basis of academic study. If these are addressed it would help this area become an established academic discipline.
G29|Marketplace Lending and Consumer Credit Outcomes : Evidence from Prosper|In 2005, Prosper launched the first peer-to-peer lending website in the US, allowing for consumers to apply for and receive loans entirely online. To understand the effect of this new credit source, we match application-level data from Prosper to credit bureau data. Post application, borrowers' credit scores increase and their credit card utilization rates fall relative to non-borrowers in the short run. In the longer run, total debt levels for borrowers are higher that of non-borrowers. Differences in mortgage debt are particularly large and increasing over time. Despite increased debt levels relative to non-borrowers, delinquency rates for borrowers are significantly lower.
G29|Commitment in WAQF Development through Cross-Sector Collaboration between Islamic Financial Institutions and State Islamic Religious Councils: Innovative Strategy of Value-Based Intermediation for Sustainability|Objective – Islamic Financial Institutions (IFIs) are founded upon principles of encouraging economic wellbeing for the betterment of society. Despite this, fresh measures are required to ascertain the sustainability of IFIs due to the deterioration recorded in annual rate growth levels that has slumped to 8.2% in 2016, compared to 24.2% in 2011. Similarly, waqf, which aims to contribute to socio-economic growth, appears to underperform due to inefficient management and lack of resources from State Islamic Religious Councils (SIRCs) in Malaysia. Therefore, growing attention is given to adding value to related operations so as to continuously expand without undermining their obligation towards societal welfare. Methodology/Technique – In responding to this issue, Value-Based Intermediation (VBI) through a cross-sector collaboration strategy has been proposed in this paper to streamline the investments of IFIs in executing their business responsibilities in a strategic manner, especially to generate sustainable socio-economic growth through waqf development projects. Nonetheless, in order to strategically perform in project collaboration for sustainability, strong commitment from IFIs and SIRCs is needed. Findings – A significantly positive relationship was discovered between the independent variables (affective commitment, normative commitment, and continuous commitment) and organisational sustainability. Novelty – The paper concludes with an assumption of the readiness of both organisations in effectively developing waqf projects, along with several recommendations for future studies in further contributing to the success of waqf development which will contribute to organisational sustainability. Type of Paper: Empirical.
G29|Pengelolaan Tabungan Wakaf Indonesia (Management of Indonesian Waqf Savings)|The basic problem of waqf is management, especially cash waqf management. Institutions that play a role in managing cash waqf have specific characteristics and management patterns. This article focuses on managing Indonesian waqf savings.
G29|Companies characteristics and environmental quality disclosure in Indonesia|The size of the company (size) is a factor that affects quality disclosure of environmental impacts. This is related to the number of assets owned by the company where large companies need more funds in managing their operations compared to smaller companies. Companies with large sizes also tend to pay more attention to the quality of disclosure of the company's environmental impact to obtain a good impression from stakeholders. This study aims to obtain empirical evidence about the characteristics of companies that influence the quality of disclosure of the company's environmental impact.
G29|Determinants of capital structure decisions in Indonesia|The aims of this study are to examine the effect of return on equity (ROE), current ratios (CR), tangibility, non-debt tax shields (NDTS) and growth opportunities (GO) on the debt to equity ratio of the Indonesian Stock Exchange Manufacturing Sector. This study uses data analysis techniques with multiple linear regression models using a panel data analysis mechanism. The object of this research is manufacturing companies listed in Indonesia Stock Exchange with a span of observational studies is from 2008 - 2012. The sampling technique used was purposive sampling technique. In testing multiple regression models using panel data analysis used a statistical software tool namely E-views series 4. Panel data testing was carried out in 3 tests, namely Pooled Least Squared (PLS) Test, Fixed Effect Model (FEM) and Random Effect Model (REM) The results of the sample selection are based on 88 companies from the total of 125 companies. Every data from this research is collected from the sources of the Indonesian Capital Market Directory (ICMD). Multiple regression testing begins with testing the estimation of Pooled Least Square (PLS) and Fixed Effect Model (FEM) and the results of the Chow-Test test stated that FEM is better than PLS. Also, Random Effect Model (REM) testing and Hausman showed that REM is a better model in analyzing this research data, so that this study is no longer testing classical assumptions. Based on the results of the tests conducted, the results show that the research model formed from the independent variable return on equity (ROE), current ratio (CR), tangibility, non-debt tax shields (NDTS) and growth opportunities (GO) affected the debt to equity ratio (DER) in the manufacturing sector of companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange in the period 2008 to 2012. Also, partially variable which has a significant effect and in accordance with the theory is only the ROE variable where the variable has a negative effect.
G29|Factors Affecting the Adoption of Alternative Financing Methods for Startups by Africans in China|Alternative financing methods such as Crowdfunding, and Peer-to-Peer lending in the past few decades are becoming more sort after means of business start-up financing. On the other hand, traditional financing methods such as bank loans are now more difficult to acquire especially across African countries. Taking a sample of 410 Africans in China, this study examines the factors that affect the adoption of alternative financing methods for business start-ups. The results show that internet usage in Africa and China, length of residence in China, and the capital intensity of the type of the business to be started are all significant factors to the preference and adoption of alternative financing methods by Africans residing in China. Seeing as research into Africa?s adoption of alternative financing is lacking, this study, this study provides insight where Africans are concerned.
G29|The Mobile Phone, Information Sharing and Financial Sector Development in Africa: A Quantile Regressions Approach|This study investigates linkages between the mobile phone, information sharing offices (ISO) and financial sector development in 53 African countries for the period 2004-2011. ISO are private credit bureaus and public credit registries. The empirical evidence is based on contemporary and non-contemporary quantile regressions. Two main hypotheses are tested: mobile phones complement ISO to enhance the formal financial sector (Hypothesis 1) and mobile phones complement ISO to reduce the informal financial sector (Hypothesis 2). The hypotheses are largely confirmed. This research adds to the existing body of literature by engaging hitherto unexplored dimensions of financial sector development and investigating the role of mobile phones in information sharing for financial sector development.
G29|The influence of demographic factors on South African investors' life satisfaction|Satisfaction with life is not always a set concept and may vary according to the demography of investors. Demographical factors can classify investors into various categories of life satisfaction, which can ultimately impact investment decisions. The level of life satisfaction can influence investment by causing a deviation between expected and actual investment choices. Gender can be grouped between males and females with different investment decisions based on each group?s satisfaction with life. The aim of this study is to determine the satisfaction with life of investors considering their gender, age group, ethnicity, income group and marital status. The results of the study show that male investors are more likely to have a positive life satisfaction and make optimistic investment choices compared to female investors. Investors who are older than 50 years of age, married or earn more than R700 000 annually are more likely to have a positive life satisfaction and make more optimistic investment choices, while investors with a negative life satisfaction are more likely to make pessimistic investment choices.
G29|Assessing the importance of the choice threshold in quantifying market risk under the POT method (EVT)|The conditional extreme value theory has been proven to be one of the most successful in estimating market risk. The implementation of this method in the framework of the Peaks Over Threshold (POT) model requires one to choose a threshold for fitting the generalized Pareto distribution (GPD). In this paper, we investigate whether the selection of the threshold is important for the quantification of market risk. For measuring risk, we use the value at risk (VaR) measure and the expected shortfall (ES) measure. The study has been done for a large set of assets. The results obtained indicate that the quantification of the market risk through the VaR and ES measures does not depend on the threshold selected. This result is also found in a smaller sample.
G29|Testing the Quiet Life Hypothesis in the African Banking Industry|Abstract The Quiet Life Hypothesis (QLH) is the pursuit of less efficiency by firms. In this study, we assess if powerful banks in the African banking industry are increasing financial access. The QLH is therefore consistent with the pursuit of financial intermediation inefficiency by large banks. To investigate the hypothesis, we first estimate the Lerner index. Then, using Two Stage Least Squares, we assess the effect of the Lerner index on financial access proxied by loan price and loan quantity. The empirical evidence is based on a panel of 162 banks from 42 countries for the period 2001–2011. The findings support the QLH, although quiet life is driven by the below-median Lerner index sub-sample. Policy implications are discussed.
G29|Information asymmetry, financialization, and financial access|This study investigates whether information sharing channels that are meant to reduce information asymmetry have led to an increase in financial access. The study employs a Generalized Method of Moments technique using data from 53 African countries during the period from 2004 to 2011 to examine this linkage. Information sharing channels are theoretically designed to promote the formal financial sector and discourage the informal financial sector. The study uses two information sharing channels: private credit bureaus and public credit registries. The study found that both information sharing channels have a positive and significant impact on financial access. The study also found that public credit registries complement the formal financial sector to promote financial access. Policy implications are discussed.
G29|An analysis of non-traditional activities at German savings banks: Does the type of fee and commission income matter?|In this paper, we use a fully anonymized dataset provided by the German Savings Banks Association (DSGV) to analyse which savings banks have expanded into fee-producing activities more quickly. In addition, we investigate whether their profitability and stability is correlated with the share of their fee and commission income. Notably, we examine whether the effect on bank profitability differs depending on the type of fee and commission income. Our results support the view that savings banks with low net interest margins are under greater pressure to expand into fee-producing activities. They further suggest that savings banks with a higher share of fee and commission income, in particular from payment services and securities business, also have a higher profitability. The Z-score also correlates positively with the share of securities business income, possibly because it responds to different shocks than net interest income and, therefore, offers the largest diversification potential.
G29|May the force be with you: Exit barriers, governance shocks, and profitability sclerosis in banking|We test whether limited market discipline imposes exit barriers and poor profitability in banking. We exploit an exogenous shock to the governance of governmen-owned banks: the unification of counties. County mergers lead to enforced governmen-owned bank mergers. We compare forced to voluntary bank exits and show that the former cause better bank profitability and efficiency at the expense of riskier financial profiles. Regarding real effects, firms exposed to forced bank mergers borrow more at lower cost, increase investment, and exhibit higher employment. Thus, reduced exit frictions in banking seem to unleash the economic potential of both banks and firms.
G29|Flooded through the back door: Firm-level effects of banks' lending shifts|I show that natural disasters transmit to firms in non-disaster areas via their banks. This spillover of non-financial shocks through the banking system is stronger for banks with less regulatory capital. Firms connected to a disaster-exposed bank with below median capital reduce their employment by 11% and their fixed assets by 20% compared to firms in the same region without such a bank during the 2013 flooding in Germany. Relationship banking and higher firm capital also mitigate the effects of such negative cross-regional spillovers.
G29|Financial bridges and network communities|We analyze the global financial crisis and the European sovereign debt crisis showing that the European network exhibits a strong community structure with two main blocks acting as shock spreader and receiver, respectively. We provide evidence of the prominent role played by insurances in the spread of systemic risk in both crises and demonstrate that institutions with a large number of inter-community linkages (community bridges) are more relevant in spreading contagion than institutions with large centrality. Network measures based on the community structure can provide a better description of the financial connectedness and effective early warning indicators for financial losses.
G29|The Role of Information Sharing in Modulating the Effect of Financial Access on Inequality| This study examines the role of information sharing in modulating the effect of financial access on income inequality in 48 African countries for the period 2004–2014. Information sharing is proxied with private credit bureaus and public credit registries. All dynamics of financial development are taken into account, namely: depth (money supply and liquid liabilities), efficiency (at banking and financial system levels), activity (from banking and financial system perspective) and size. The empirical exercise is based on interactive Generalised Method of Moments. It can be established from the findings that: first, a threshold of 18.072 percentage coverage of public credit registries is needed to counteract the unconditional positive effect of banking system efficiency. Secondly, on the role of private credit bureaus in financial depth, both the unconditional and the conditional effects are negative, implying a negative synergy. Overall, the findings show that, contingent on the type of financial development dynamic, credit registries broadly play their theoretical role of decreasing financing constraints in order to ultimately reduce inequality.
G29|Ict In Reducing Information Asymmmetry For Financial Sector Competition|In this study, we examine the role of information and communication technology in complementing information sharing bureaus (or private credit bureaus and public credit registries) for financial sector competition. Hitherto unexplored dimensions of financial sector competition are employed, namely: financial sector dynamics of formalization, informalization and non-formalization.
G29|Sensibilidad de la deuda de los hogares uruguayos ante un choque en el ingreso|Este documento de trabajo analiza las vulnerabilidades financieras de los hogares uruguayos a partir de datos microeconómicos. Se realiza un ejercicio de sensibilidad sobre la deuda y el atraso en el pago del crédito no hipotecario por parte de los hogares uruguayos ante un choque en el ingreso similar al observado en el 2002. Como resultado del ejercicio, se estima un aumento de la proporción de créditos no hipotecarios de un 8% a un 15% luego del choque. Si bien, el aumento se produce en todas las instituciones el impacto es mayor para los bancos privados y las cosas financieras, cooperativas de ahorro y crédito y cosas comerciales.
G29|Flooded through the Back Door: Firm-Level Effects of Banks' Lending Shifts|I show that natural disasters transmit to firms in non-disaster areas via their banks. This spillover of non-financial shocks through the banking system is stronger for banks with less regulatory capital. Firms connected to a disaster-exposed bank with below median capital, reduce their employment by 11\% and their fixed assets by 20\% compared to firms in the same region without such a bank during the 2013 flooding in Germany. Low bank capital thus carries a negative externality because it amplifies regional shock spillovers. I show that bank liquidity, and firm capital and liquidity are less relevant to prevent shock transmission.
G29|The Social Value of Information: A Test of a Beauty and Non-Beauty Contest|We develop and apply a procedure to test the welfare implications of a beauty and non-beauty contest based on survey forecasts of interest rates and yields in a large country sample over an extended period of time. In most countries, interest-rate forecasts are unbiased and consistent with both models, but are rarely supported by yield forecasts. In half of the countries, a higher precision of public information regarding interest rates increases welfare. During forward guidance, public information is less precise than private information.
G29|El sector del Leasing. Informe Final|El leasing es un mecanismo de financiación mediante el cual una entidad (comúnmente conocida como arrendador) pone a disposición a un cliente (denominado el arrendatario o locatario), un activo, que está bajo su propiedad, por un periodo de tiempo y a cambio de un pago periódico de una suma de dinero, denominada canon. Este mecanismo es usado para financiar la adquisición de activos productivos (e.g. equipos, vehículos, inmuebles).
G29|Blockchain Economics|When is record-keeping better arranged through a blockchain than through a traditional centralized intermediary? The ideal qualities of any record-keeping system are (i) correctness, (ii) decentralization, and (iii) cost efficiency. We point out a blockchain trilemma: no ledger can satisfy all three properties simultaneously. A centralized record-keeper extracts rents due to its monopoly on the ledger. Its franchise value dynamically incentivizes correct reporting. Blockchains drive down rents by allowing for free entry of record-keepers and portability of information to competing “forks.” Blockchains must, therefore, provide static incentives for correctness through computationally expensive proof-of-work algorithms and permit record-keepers to roll back history in order to undo fraudulent reports. While blockchains can keep track of ownership transfers, enforcement of possession rights is often better complemented by centralized record-keeping.
G29|: Blockchain et pays en développement : vers une technologie maîtrisée ?|"(english) Blockchain technologies are very popular, but the way they actually work is often not really understood. Expectations are sometimes disconnected from reality. This is true in the field of application of these technologies to developing countries. We show it by i) describing the details of the blockchain technologies ii) comparing their potentialities with the deter- minants of development and iii) showing the limitations of the blockchain technologies to boost development. We then present technological devices additional to blockchains better suited to the development process by introducing the notion of \blocks host"". _________________________________ (français) Les technologies liées à la blockchain sont omniprésentes dans les media mais leur fonctionnement est souvent peu compris et les attentes vis-à-vis de ces technologies sont parfois déconnectées de la réalité. Le domaine du développement ne fait pas figure d'exception, nous le montrons en décrivant tout d'abord plus en détails les technologies liées aux blockchains, puis nous comparons leurs possibilités vis-à-vis des besoins dans ce domaine et faisons apparaître les limites d'application. Enfin, sans revenir sur les limites de la vision technocratique en rapport des besoins réels, nous proposons des pistes technologiques complémentaires aux blockchains mais mieux adaptées au processus de développement, en introduisant la notion d'hébergeur de blocs."
G29|Measuring network systemic risk contributions: A leave-one-out approach|The aim of this paper is to propose a new network measure of systemic risk contributions that combines the pair-wise Granger causality approach with the leave-one-out concept. This measure is based on a conditional Granger causality test and consists of measuring how far the proportion of statistically significant connections in the system breaks down when a given financial institution is excluded. We analyse the performance of our measure of systemic risk by considering a sample of the largest banks worldwide over the 2003–2018 period. We obtain three important results. First, we show that our measure is able to identify a large number of banks classified as global systemically important banks (G-SIBs) by the Financial Stability Board (FSB). Second, we find that our measure is a robust and statistically significant early-warning indicator of downside returns during the last financial crisis. Finally, we investigate the potential determinants of our measure of systemic risk and find similar results to the existing literature. In particular, our empirical results suggest that the size and the business model of banks are significant drivers of systemic risk.
G29|O Mercado Segurador em Portugal: O Papel dos Gestores na Constituição de Provisões|As empresas seguradoras têm que constituir provisões técnicas com vista a assegurar que responsabilidades futuras perante os seus clientes e terceiros são cobertas. Estas provisões baseiam-se em estimativas não só incorporando dados passados, mas incluindo igualmente as expectativas de evolução da economia e da própria empresa. É assim expectável que o grau de otimismo dos diretores financeiros das empresas (Chief Financial Officers, CFOs) e as expectativas que criam estejam associadas às provisões que calculam e registam. Analisando as consequências da racionalidade limitada dos agentes económicos, das suas preferências sociais e na ausência de autocontrolo, Richard Thaler mostrou como estes traços humanos afetam sistematicamente as decisões individuais e os resultados, o que lhe conferiu a atribuição do prémio Nobel da Economia de 2017. O presente artigo encontra uma relação negativa entre o otimismo dos CFOs, e a constituição de provisões no mercado segurador em Portugal, no período compreendido entre 2007 e 2016. Estes resultados que têm impacto no ambiente concorrencial deverão interessar os reguladores, os acionistas e os profissionais do sector.
G29|Blockchain Economics|"When is record-keeping better arranged through a blockchain than through a traditional centralized intermediary? The ideal qualities of any record-keeping system are (i) correctness, (ii) decentralization, and (iii) cost efficiency. We point out a \textit{blockchain trilemma}: no ledger can satisfy all three properties simultaneously. A centralized record-keeper extracts rents due to its monopoly on the ledger. Its franchise value dynamically incentivizes correct reporting. Blockchains drive down rents by allowing for free entry of record-keepers and portability of information to competing ""forks.'' Blockchains must therefore provide static incentives for correctness through computationally expensive proof-of-work algorithms and permit record-keepers to roll back history in order to undo fraudulent reports. While blockchains can keep track of ownership transfers, enforcement of possession rights is often better complemented by centralized record-keeping."
G29|Derivatives, financial fragility and systemic risk: lessons from Barings Bank, Long-Term Capital Management, Lehman Brothers and AIG|This paper aims at analysing the relationship among derivatives, financial fragility and systemic risk by discussing the role played by these financial instruments in the collapse or near-collapse of Barings Bank, Long-Term Capital Management (LTCM), Lehman Brothers and AIG. We investigate in which ways derivatives contributed to the build-up of systemic risks in these experiences according to a Post-Keynesian perspective, which is focused on the Minskyian concept of financial fragility and Cardim de Carvalho’s analysis of contagion and systemic risk. Our analysis points out that derivatives’ embedded leverage played a pivotal role in fragilizing the financial positions of Barings, LTCM and AIG, and a supporting role in Lehman’s failure, accelerating its financial debacle. While Barings’ failure did not cause contagion nor systemic consequences via derivative markets, in the case of Lehman derivatives worked as a major mechanism of contagion and contributed to the materialization of a systemic crisis. Yet, concerns on potential contagion effects via derivatives in the cases of LTCM (indirect) and AIG (direct) provided reasons for setting up the bailouts that avoided the collapse of these institutions. Finally, we highlight that, if speculative and Ponzi financing positions are widespread, instead of cushioning financial shocks, derivatives might fragilize even more financial institutions and disseminate difficulties among the financial system, therefore contributing to a systemic crisis to take place.
G29|The Effect of the Macroeconomic Determinants on Sovereign Credit Rating of Turkey|The effects of the main macroeconomic determinants on the sovereign credit rating of Turkey assigned by Standard & Poor’s are analyzed in this paper. As the main macroeconomic determinants, inflation rate, economic growth rate, foreign direct investment, external debt, current account debt and savings are taken into account in this study. The data related to Turkey in this study covers between 1992-2016. In this study, the Granger causality test and the OLS regression model are used for that correlations of the variables. Outcomes of the analysis show that just two in six macroeconomic determinants are effective on the sovereign credit rating. According to the results of the study, external debt and inflation rate have a statistically significant relationship with the sovereign credit rating of Turkey. The outcomes show that external debt and the inflation rate have negative effects on the sovereign credit rating of the country. The coefficient of the external debt and the inflation is negative which means that if the inflation or external debt increases the rating decreases in appropriate with the theory. On the other hand, the effects of the other four macroeconomic variables are not significant. The results of the study indicate that some factors other than the primary macroeconomic determinants are effective on the sovereign credit ratings of Turkey. The results also unveil the door for the criticism that the decisions of the credit rating agencies are biased.
G29|İnsani Finans ve Değerler<BR>[Humanitarian Finance and Values]|Finans sektörü veyahut finansal sistem denildiğinde çoğu insanın aklına bankalar gelmektedir. İnsanların birikimlerini değerlendirmek için kullandıkları bankalar, bu birikimleri ihtiyacı olanlara belirli bir faiz yahut kâr payı ile tahsis edip bir nevi fon akışı sağlamaktadır. Bu sistemde sadece bankalar yoktur. Finansal Kiralama Şirketleri, faktoring ve finansman şirketleri de finansal sistem içerisinde yer alan diğer kurumlardır. Fakat tüm bu kurumların temel işlevleri aynı temel prensip ile çalışmaktadır. Bu temel ilke, fazla birikimleri toplamak, toplanan birikimleri ihtiyacı olanlara kullandırmak, fazla birikimleri olanlara ödenen faiz veya kâr payı ile bu birikimleri kullananlardan alınan faiz veya kâr payı arasındaki farktan kâr elde etmeye dayanmaktadır. Her ne kadar bankacılık finansal sistemin temelini oluşturuyor olsa da bankacılık dışı finansal sektör de tüm dünyada hızlı bir şekilde gelişmektedir. Görevi sadece toplanan fonları değerlendirmek ve ihtiyacı olanlara borç olarak çeşitli yol ve yöntemler ile vermek olan finansal sistem sadece finans boyutu ile sınırlı kalmamaktadır. Dünyada finansal sektörün boyutu ve etkisi yüksek oranlara ulaşmıştır. Özellikle sermaye hareketleri finansal sisteme entegre olmuş gelişmekte olan ülkeleri fazlasıyla etkilemekte ve ekonomik olarak büyümeyi teşvik edici yönleri olduğu gibi dışa açıklık dış finansal operasyonlara da açıklığı beraberinde getirmektedir. Ülke içerisindeki enflasyon seviyesi, faiz oranı ve döviz kuru, küresel finansal sistemdeki değişikliklere, sermaye hareketlerine veyahut ülkeye yapılan finansal operasyonlara bağlıdır. Dolayısı ile dünyada finansal sistemi yani sermayeyi elinde tutanların gücü sadece iktisadi anlamda değil aynı zamanda siyasal anlamda da yüksektir. Özellikle ülke içerisindeki siyasi seçimler iktisadi hayatla yakından ilişkiliyken sermaye sahiplerinin ekonomik hayata rahatlıkla müdahale edecek bir güce ulaşmaları ahlaki sorunlar kadar egemenlik sorunlarını ortaya çıkarmıştır. Niceliksel büyümeler beraberinde niteliksel düzenlemeleri ve kontrolü getirmediği için dünyada yaşanan 2008 Küresel Finans Krizi ve 2001 yılında Türkiye’de yaşadığımız finansal kriz gibi kontrolün tamamen piyasaya bırakılmasının yol açtığı sadece finansal sektörle sınırlı kalmayarak tüm sektörleri içerisine alan iktisadi ve sosyal hayata da olumsuz etkilerini gördüğümüz krizler ile karşılaşmak kaçınılmaz olmuştur.
G29|Effects of Consumer Financial Protection Introduced after the Financial Crisis of 2007-2008|This paper studies the effects of consumer financial protection regulation introduced in the US after the financial crisis of 2007-2008. It starts with a review of bounded rationality in the context of retail financial markets. I analyze the survey of consumer finances using diffs-in-diffs, paying special attention to the singularities of this dataset. The main goal is to assess the effectiveness of regulatory changes. Secondarily, the paper tries to find out if deception was occurring in the marketplace. There is support for the effectiveness of the 2011 FTC advertising rule. Results reject effectiveness of HOEPA rule of 2008 and HEOA provisions about private education loans.
G29|Does the application of smart beta strategies enhance portfolio performance? The case of Islamic equity investments|Traditionally, passive portfolios are structured using an easy to implement market capitalization method albeit highly skewed towards large cap stocks. The introduction of smart beta strategies has allowed passive investors to structure equity portfolios using alternative strategies such as fundamental-weighting, equal-weighting, and low-risk weighting strategies. This paper investigates whether constrained portfolios such as Shariah-compliant equity portfolios (SCEPs) can benefit by adopting smart beta strategies. The sample consists of equities from the USA, Canada, Australia, Europe, Middle East, Indonesia, and Malaysia for the period January 2003 to December 2016. The empirical findings suggest that smart beta SCEPs outperform not only conventional market capitalization weighted portfolios but also SCEPs following a market capitalization-weighted strategy. Higher risk-adjusted returns and lower drawdown as a result of following smart beta strategies highlights the importance of considering smart beta portfolio weighting strategies for passive investors. The supremacy of smart beta strategies indicate the value proposition for investors and fund managers alike. We also found that geographical location affects the performance of smart beta SCEPs; countries with a Muslim majority report higher cardinality and lower drawdowns. The results remained robust with alternative Shariah screening guidelines and empirical estimation methodology.
G29|The Role of Ownership and Governance Mechanism in Sukuk Financing by Malaysian Firms: An Application of A Double Selection Model|After controlling for the double selection bias in a sequential three-equation model of the decisions to issuance, to choose a Sukuk structure, and the volume of Sukuk engagements, we find robust evidence suggesting that ownership structure and governance mechanisms play a significant role in controlling agency costs through issuance of Sukuk. In line with monitoring hypothesis, we find that higher government ownership positively influences the decisions to participate, issue a debt-like Sukuk and volume thereof. Similarly, in line with complementarity hypothesis, the empirical evidence suggests that firms with higher board of directors’ independence are more likely to participate in issuing Sukuk with higher volumes. We also find that ethnicity, in the form of a higher proportion of Malay/Muslim members on the board of directors, does not influence the initial decision on whether or not to issue Sukuk. However, once the decision to issue Sukuk is made, firms with higher institutional ownership or a higher proportion of Malay/Muslim board members are more likely to issue equity-like Sukuk
G29|Bank Lending Behavior and Business Cycle in Dual Banking System: Evidence from Indonesia|This study examines bank-lending channel over the business cycle for Indonesian dual banking system by ascertaining to what extent Islamic banks have a role in the credit smoothing. In this context, we utilize Indonesian dual banking system unbalanced panel data for the period 2001-2015. By employing two-step dynamic GMM estimators, the study shows that the bank lending behaviour are procyclical. However, when we categorize the lending behaviour into conventional and Islamic banks, the cyclicality of bank lending affects only conventional banks. As for the Islamic banks, the business cycle does not affect their financing decision. Specifically, large Islamic banks are more counter-cyclical in their financing behavior than small and medium size Islamic banks. Robustness tests using different measures of loans and model specifications confirm the results that Islamic bank is more stable and less procyclical in the case of Indonesian banking system.
G29|Assessing Islamic Banking System Vulnerabilities in Pakistan: Evidence from ‘Bankometer’ Model|Recent global financial crises affected not only conventional banking, but also Islamic banks to some extent due to the absence of early warning systems. To avoid such vulnerabilities, there must be efficient measures that could identify in advance the emergence of susceptibility of financial crises. This study proposes the ‘Bankometer’ model as an early warning tool to help Islamic banks overcome such challenges by providing them with useful Shari’ah-compliant guidelines and to desist from vulnerabilities of future financial crises. Using published unbalanced quarterly data of all Islamic banks operating in Pakistan, we use regression models to examine the impact of global financial crisis on the banking system. The results suggest that regulatory capital, funding cost, size, return on assets and return on equity are associated with crisis period. The evidences also suggest that ‘Bankometer’ as an early warning tools could be useful for assessing Islamic banking system vulnerabilities in Pakistan.
G29|The synergy of financial sector development and information sharing in financial access: Propositions and empirical evidence|This study assesses the role of information sharing in financialization (or coexistence of financial sub-systems) for financial access. The empirical evidence is based on contemporary and non-contemporary Fixed Effects and Quantile regressions on 53 African countries for the period 2004–2011. The positive complementarity of information sharing offices (ISOs) and financial formalization is an increasing function of financial activity (or access to credit) whereas the negative complementarity of ISOs and financial informalization is a decreasing function of financial activity. In order to leverage on the synergy between ISO and financial formalization for enhanced financial access, some policy measures are proposed.
G29|ICT, Financial Sector Development and Financial Access|Abstract This study assesses the role of ICT (internet and mobile phone penetration) in complementing financial sector development (financial formalization and informalization) for financial access. The empirical evidence is based on generalized method of moments with 53 African countries for the period 2004–2011. The following findings are established from linkages between ICT, financial sector development and financial activity. First, the interaction between ICT and financial formalization (informalization) decreases (increases) financial activity. Second, with regard to net effects, the expected signs are established for the most part. In spite of the negative marginal effects from financial informalization, the overall net effects are positive. Third, the potentially appealing interaction between ICT and informalization produces positive thresholds that are within ranges. Policy implications are discussed in three main strands. They include implications for (i) mobile/internet banking, (ii) a quiet life and (iii) ICT in reducing information asymmetry and surplus liquidity.
G29|Technology-driven information sharing and conditional financial development in Africa|Information technology is increasingly facilitating mechanisms by which information asymmetry between lenders and borrowers in the financial sector can be reduced in order to enhance financial access for human and economic development in developing countries. We examine conditional financial development from ICT-driven information sharing in 53 African countries for the period 2004-2011, using contemporary and non-contemporary quantile regressions. ICT is measured with mobile phone penetration and internet penetration whereas information sharing offices are public credit registries and private credit bureaus. The following findings are established. First, there are positive effects with positive thresholds from ICT-driven information sharing on financial depth (money supply and liquid liabilities) and financial activity (at banking and financial system levels). Second, for financial intermediation efficiency, the positive effects from mobile-driven information sharing are apparent exclusively in certain levels of financial efficiency. Third, with regard to financial size, mobile-driven information sharing is positive with a negative threshold, whereas, internet-driven information sharing is positive exclusively among countries in the bottom half of financial size. Positive thresholds are defined as decreasing negative or increasing positive estimated effects from information sharing offices and vice-versa for negative thresholds. Policy implications are discussed.
G29|The effect of reducing information asymmetry on loan price and quantity in the African banking industry|The purpose of this study is to assess how information sharing offices affect loan price and quantity in the African banking industry. The empirical evidence is based on a panel of 162 banks in 42 countries for the period 2001–2011. From the Generalised Method of Moments, public credit registries decrease loan price. With instrumental Quantile Regressions, two main findings are established. Public credit registries consistently decrease the price of loans whereas private credit bureaus consistently have the opposite effect. Public credit registries increase loan quantity in bottom quintiles (or banks associated with lower loan quantities) while private credit bureaus increase loan quantity in top quintiles (or banks associated with higher loan quantities).
G29|At what levels of financial development does information sharing matter?|Abstract Background The purpose of this study is to investigate how an increase in information-sharing bureaus affects financial access. Methods We employed contemporary and non-contemporary interactive quantile regressions in 53 African countries for the period 2004–2011. Information-sharing bureaus are proxied with public credit registries and private credit offices. Financial development dynamics involving depth (at overall economic and financial system levels), efficiency (at banking and financial system levels), activity (from banking and financial system perspectives), and size are used. Results Two key findings are established. First, the effect of an increase in private credit bureaus is not clearly noticeable on financial access, probably because private credit agencies are still to be established in many countries. Second, an increase in public credit registries for the most part improves financial allocation efficiency and activity (or credit) between the 25th and 75th quartiles. Conclusions As a main policy implication, countries in the top and bottom ends of the financial efficiency and activity distributions are unlikely to benefit from enhanced financial allocation efficiency as a result of an increase in public credit registries.
G29|ICT, information asymmetry and market power in African banking industry|This study assesses how market power in the African banking industry is affected by the complementarity between information sharing offices and information and communication technology (ICT). The empirical evidence is based on a panel of 162 banks consisting of 42 countries for the period 2001–2011. Three estimation techniques are employed, namely: (i) instrumental variable Fixed effects to control for the unobserved heterogeneity; (ii) Tobit regressions to control for the limited range in the dependent variable; and (iii) Instrumental Quantile Regressions (QR) to account for initial levels of market power. Whereas results from Fixed effects and Tobit regressions are not significant, with QR: (i) the interaction between internet penetration and public credit registries reduces market power in the 75th quartile and (ii) the interaction between mobile phone penetration and private credit bureaus increases market power in the top quantiles. Fortunately, the positive net effects are associated with negative marginal effects from the interaction between private credit bureaus and mobile phone penetration. This implies that mobile phones could complement private credit bureaus to decrease market power when certain thresholds of mobile phone penetration are attained. These thresholds are computed and discussed.
G29|Information asymmetry and conditional financial sector development|Purpose - The purpose of this study is to examine the role of reducing information asymmetry (IA) on conditional financial sector development in 53 African countries for the period 2004-2011. Design/methodology/approach - The empirical evidence is based on contemporary and non-contemporary quantile regressions. Instruments for reducing IA include public credit registries (PCRs) and private credit bureaus (PCBs). Hitherto unexplored dimensions of financial sector development are used, namely, financial sector dynamics of formalization, informalization, semi-formalization and non-formalization. Findings - The following findings are established. First, the positive (negative) effect of information sharing offices (ISO) on formal (informal) financial development is consistent with theory. Second, ISOs consistently increase formal financial development, with the incidence of PCRs higher in terms of magnitude, and financial sector formalization, with the impact of PCBs higher for the most part. Third, only PCBs significantly decrease informal financial development and both ISOs decrease financial sector informalization. Policy implications are discussed. Originality/value - The study assesses the effect of reducing IA on financial development when existing levels of it matter because current studies based on mean values of financial development provide blanket policy implications which are unlikely to be effective unless they are contingent on prevailing levels of financial development and tailored differently across countries with high, intermediate and low initial levels of financial development.
G29|Improving financial access in Africa: insights from information sharing and financial sector development|The study investigates interactions between information sharing offices, the coexistence of financial sub-systems and financial access. The empirical evidence is based on Quantile regressions in order to articulate countries with low, intermediate and high levels of financial access. The scope of the study is on 53 African countries for the period 2004-2011. The following main results are established. First, the positive association between â€œinformation sharing offices (ISOs)â€ and â€œformal financial sector developmentâ€ consistently increases with improvements in initial levels of credit access. Second, the negative linkage between ISOs and â€œinformal financial sector developmentâ€ consistently decreases with increasing levels of credit access. In summary, we establish that the positive complementarity of ISOs and financial formalization is an increasing function of financial activity (or access to credit) whereas the negative complementarity of ISOs and financial informalization is a decreasing function of financial activity.
G29|Bank Size, Information Sharing and Financial Access in Africa|Purpose - This study investigates how bank size affects the role of information asymmetry on financial access in a panel of 162 banks in 39 African countries for the period 2001-2011. Design/methodology/approach - The empirical evidence is based on instrumental variable Fixed Effects regressions with overlapping and non-overlapping bank size thresholds to control for the QLH (Quiet Life Hypothesis). The QLH postulates that managers of large banks will use their privileges for private gains at the expense of making financial services more accessible to the general public. Financial access is measured with loan price and loan quantity whereas information asymmetry is implicit in the activities of public credit registries and private credit bureaus. Findings - The findings with non-overlapping thresholds are broadly consistent with those that are conditional on overlapping thresholds. First, public credit registries have a decreasing effect on the price of loans with the magnitude of reduction comparable across all bank size thresholds. Second, both public credit registries and private credit bureaus enhance the quantity of loans. Third, compared with public credit registries, private credit bureaus have a greater influence in increasing financial access because they have a significantly higher favourable effect on the quantity and price of loans Fourth, the QLH is not apparent because large banks are not associated with lower levels of financial access compared to small banks. Originality/value - Studies of public credit registries and private credit bureaus in Africa are sparse. This is one of the few to assess linkages between bank size, information asymmetry and financial access.
G29|ICT, Conflicts in Financial Intermediation and Financial Access: Evidence of Synergy and Threshold Effects|In this study we investigate the role of information and communication technology (ICT) in conflicts of financial intermediation for financial access. The empirical evidence is based on contemporary (or current values) and non-contemporary (or lagged by a year) quantile regressions in 53 African countries for the period 2004-2011. The main findings are: First, the net effect of ICT in formalization for financial activity in the banking system is consistently beneficial with positive thresholds. The fact that corresponding, unconditional and conditional effects are persistently positive is evidence of synergy or complementary effects. Second, the net effect of ICT in financial informalization for financial activity in the financial system is negative with a consistent negative threshold. Hence, the positive (negative) complementarity of ICT and financial formalization (informalization) is an increasing (decreasing) function of financial activity. Policy measures on how to leverage the synergy or complementarity between ICT and financial formalization in order to enhance financial access are discussed.
G29|Improving financial access in Africa: insights from information sharing and financial sector development|The study investigates interactions between information sharing offices, the coexistence of financial sub-systems and financial access. The empirical evidence is based on Quantile regressions in order to articulate countries with low, intermediate and high levels of financial access. The scope of the study is on 53 African countries for the period 2004-2011. The following main results are established. First, the positive association between “information sharing offices (ISOs)” and “formal financial sector development” consistently increases with improvements in initial levels of credit access. Second, the negative linkage between ISOs and “informal financial sector development” consistently decreases with increasing levels of credit access. In summary, we establish that the positive complementarity of ISOs and financial formalization is an increasing function of financial activity (or access to credit) whereas the negative complementarity
G29|ICT, conflicts in financial intermediation and financial access: evidence of synergy and threshold effects|Abstract In this study we investigate the role of information and communication technology (ICT) in conflicts of financial intermediation for financial access. The empirical evidence is based on contemporary (or current values) and non-contemporary (or lagged by a year) quantile regressions in 53 African countries for the period 2004-2011. The main findings are: First, the net effect of ICT in formalization for financial activity in the banking system is consistently beneficial with positive thresholds. The fact that corresponding, unconditional and conditional effects are persistently positive is evidence of synergy or complementary effects. Second, the net effect of ICT in financial informalization for financial activity in the financial system is negative with a consistent negative threshold. Hence, the positive (negative) complementarity of ICT and financial formalization (informalization) is an increasing (decreasing) function of financial activity. Policy measures on how to leverage the synergy or complementarity between ICT and financial formalization in order to enhance financial access are discussed.
G29|Policy-effective Financial Knowledge and Attitude Factors in Latin America|In this research we implement a technique that produces measures of financial knowledge and attitudes by combining variables with weights that capture their impact on financial behavior variables, thus providing guidance to policy design. We use data gathered by CAF-Development Bank of Latin America in Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. It is the first time that this technique has been used in a cross-country setting. We show that the composition and the weight vary from one country to another. However, the importance of attitude variables stands out in all countries, especially regarding the setting of long-term goals by individuals.
G29|Vulnerabilidades financieras de los hogares en Colombia|El estudio sobre las vulnerabilidades financieras de los hogares es un tema que ha adquirido mayor relevancia en los últimos años debido al incremento en su endeudamiento y al potencial efecto que un choque negativo sobre este sector pueda tener sobre las instituciones financieras y el crecimiento económico. El objetivo de este trabajo es cuantificar las fragilidades financieras de los hogares colombianos en términos de su nivel de carga financiera, endeudamiento y morosidad, así como establecer un marco de referencia para ejercicios de sensibilidad sobre este sector en Colombia. La información que se emplea para este análisis proviene de la Encuesta de educación financiera y carga financiera (Iefic) realizada por el DANE y el Banco de la República. Los resultados muestran que en el periodo comprendido entre 2014 y 2016 la carga financiera de los hogares disminuyó, aunque la proporción de deuda que concentran los hogares vulnerables aumentó. Adicionalmente, las probabilidades de desempleo y default se han incrementado, lo que se ha visto reflejado en una mayor exposición del sistema hacia el riesgo proveniente de estos deudores. A pesar de que los ejercicios de sensibilidad no reflejan un aumento significativo en esta exposición, es importante realizar un monitoreo constante de las condiciones financieras de estos agentes, en un contexto de deterioro en las condiciones macroeconómicas del país.
G29|Staff Working Paper No. 665: Dealer intermediation, market liquidity and the impact of regulatory reform|We develop a model of dealer intermediation in bond markets that takes account of how changing regulatory requirements for banks since the financial crisis, in particular, the introduction of minimum leverage ratio requirements, affect the cost and ability of dealer banks to provide intermediation services. The framework considers two distinct dealer functions: that of provider of repo financing (to prospective bond market participants) and that of market-maker. The cost and ability of dealers to provide these services under different regulatory constraints determines the price impact of a given trade on the market — or the level of ‘market liquidity premia’. In the model the impact on market liquidity varies for different levels of market volatility or ‘stress’. We find that under normal market conditions estimates of corporate bond liquidity risk premia are higher under the new regulations, but also that corporate bond market liquidity is more resilient due to better-capitalised dealers continuing to intermediate markets under higher levels of market stress than pre-crisis. Mapping these changes in liquidity premia to GDP, via their impact on the cost of borrowing for corporates in the real economy, the results of the model suggest that under normal market conditions there may be a greater cost of regulation via corporate bond markets than incorporated in earlier studies. However, once offset against the benefits of greater dealer resilience, including the benefits to market functioning, there remain net benefits to new regulations.
G29|Determinants of Islamic Banks Acceptance in Oman|This paper discusses about the inception of Islamic banking in Oman. This paper would discuss the Islamic Banking Regulatory Framework (IBRF) under which the Islamic banking system is operating. The two full fledged banks which are working in Oman are Alizz Islamic Bank, Bank Nizwa and there are 6 Islamic windows which are working in Oman. The study would be related to the factors which influence the customers’ attraction towards Islamic banking in Oman
G29|Hedge fund return, volatility asymmetry, and systemic effects: A higher-moment factor-EGARCH model|We investigate whether: (i) co-skewness and co-kurtosis are significant factors in modeling hedge fund (HF) returns, (ii) HF return volatility displays clusters, asymmetry and shock persistence, (iii) volatility clusters of HF styles drive volatility clusters of one another, major asset classes, and major banking organizations, (iv) HF return and volatility patterns changed after the financial crises of 1998 and 2007–2009. A higher-moment EGARCH model and monthly data over January 1993–April 2014 period on 13 HF styles are employed. Out-of-sample forecasts are generated over the period of May 2014–April 2016. Results show: (i) most of the co-skewness and co-kurtosis coefficients are statistically significant, strongly supporting the higher-moment return generating models; (ii) there is strong evidence in favor of EGARCH specification, volatility clustering, asymmetry, and shock persistence; (iii) there were distinct effects on the returns and volatilities of HFs during the 1998 Russian bond crisis, Long-Term Capital Management crisis, and the 2007–2009 financial crisis; and (iv) shocks to volatility clusters of a HF style do spillover to other HF styles, major banking firms, and key asset classes. Our findings have major implications for regulators, investors, HF managers and hedging strategists.
G29|Perverse incentives of special purpose acquisition companies, the “poor man's private equity funds”|Special purpose acquisition companies (SPACs) are an alternative investment, structured as a one-shot private equity (PE) deal. Significant cross-sectional variation exists in SPACs' performance, which can be explained by the strong implicit incentives embedded in contracts. SPAC performance is worse for acquisitions announced near the predetermined two-year deadline, for acquisitions with deferred initial public offering underwriting fees, and for acquisitions with market value close to the required 80% threshold. Also, sponsors' involvement in the merged firm's governance improves long-term performance. This evidence has important implications given SPACs' high popularity in recent years and the new PE industry's trend toward deal-by-deal fund-raising.
G29|Mutual Funds: Does the Performance Erosion Effect Exist? Evidence from the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland|The main aim of this paper is to examine whether the performance of mutual funds in the 2000-2015 period in the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland was related to net asset value under management. The study is also to verify the hypothesis regarding the fund size at which performance decreases, causing the erosion effect in the three analyzed markets. The obtained results show a slightly positive relationship between asset size and returns. After dividing the total samples of Czech, Hungarian and Polish funds into subsamples consisting of entities with a comparable size of capital bases, it turned out that the main findings can be explained by relations observed in the subsamples of small funds (both Czech and Polish) and partly in Hungarian funds. The presented evidence may be insufficient to confirm or reject the hypothesis about the optimal fund size, but the observed positive influence of assets under management on fund performance suggests that mutual fund industries in the mentioned CEE countries are still in a developing phase and are able to increase the asset size while maintaining efficiency. Hence, the performance erosion effect does not exist in the investigated markets.
G29|The Determinants of Service Quality and Its Impact on Customer Satisfaction (A Survey of Islamic Banks Customers in Indonesia)|Objective – This study examines the factors affecting the quality of Islamic banking services in Indonesia, and its impact on customer satisfaction. Methodology/Technique – Questionnaires were distributed to 300 people, with 286 respondents having completed and returned the questionnaires. A descriptive analysis was conducted to ascertain the elements of Islamic banking services. Further, multiple regression analysis was used to analyze the influence of the quality of Islamic banking services on customer satisfaction. The results show that all elements of banking services are not in accordance with the expectations of the respondents as customers, particularly with respect to Automatic Teller Machine ('ATM') services. Findings – The results show that, with respect to all elements examined, the value of expectations was higher than the service received by customers. In addition, not all of the study hypotheses were accepted. The expectations of banking services were not influenced by Word of Mouth ('WOM'), personal characteristics or experience. Further, the source of information obtained, the age or income of the respondents, and their education and experience, did not have an effect on the expectations of Islamic banking services. Novelty – A high quality of Islamic banking services significantly affects customer satisfaction. In an effort to improve services in that industry, Islamic banking in Indonesia would benefit from placing more attention on all elements of the services provided to customers, particularly ATM services. Further, based on the findings of this study, the elements of customer service should be addressed regardless of the characteristics of the customers, such as age, income, education or experience.
G29|The Role of the Jordanian Banking Sector in Economic Development|The aim of this study is to investigate the impact of the Jordanian banking sector on economic development that was measured by the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). It aims to identify the role of the Jordanian banking sector in the support of economic development through the study of the size of the credit facilities offered by banks. The study relied on descriptive and analytic method, as well as on field study. The population of this study represents the working banks in Jordan, which offers various banking services to the customers. The tool of the study include data of credit facilities, banking deposits for Jordanian banking sector, and gross domestic product that were collected from the annual financial status of Jordanian Central Bank for the period (2000- 2015). The study found that there is a significant statistical impact of the factors (the deposits of the banking sector, Credit facilities) on Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The study rejected the null hypothesis and accepted the alternative hypothesis for the two hypotheses. Also, the study recommended that the Jordanian banking sector should expand in the granting of credit facilities to all economic sectors.
G29|Say it again Sam: the information content of corporate conference calls|Abstract This paper examines information-content of corporate conference calls. It studies the determinants, and the consequences, of information production. To facilitate this study, I develop a novel measure of information-content which analyzes every word choice made by management during both sessions of the call. In a sample of S&P 1500 firms from 2001 to 2012, this new measure of information-content explains cumulative abnormal returns. It shows how CEOs produce (suppress) information during the conference call. It shows how analyst participation in the call improves information production. It shows that a differential value is placed on information conditioned on the market segment of the firm. I contrast the effectiveness of this new measure to that of the conventional methodologies of tone and word-counting. I provide evidence that this new information-content measure is better suited to conference calls than are the other two.
G29|The Role of Punctuation in P2P Lending: Evidence from China|This paper investigates the role of punctuation in the peer-to-peer (P2P) lending market. Using data from Renrendai, one of the largest P2P lending platforms in China, we investigate how the amount of punctuation used in loan descriptions influences the funding probability, borrowing rate, and default. The empirical evidence shows that the amount of punctuation is negatively associated with the funding probability and borrowing rate. We propose that the usage of punctuation affects the readability of a loan description and reflects borrowers’ self-control and cognitive ability. Within a given number of words, excessive usage of punctuation makes loan description informal and reduces the readability of the text, thereby impairing investors’ trust in borrowers. Moreover, borrowers that overuse punctuation may have lower ability of self-control, and tend to underestimate the risk of borrowing and offer lower borrowing rate due to overconfidence.
G29|Economic, institutional, and socio‐cultural determinants of consumer credit in the context of monetary integration|We investigated the determinants of consumer credit in relation to nominal GDP in 23 EU countries using panel regressions for 1997–2014. Our contribution to existing research is evidence that both higher density of bank units and greater concentration of the banking sector lead to higher consumer lending. Our results show that the consumer credit to GDP ratio decreases when banking supervision becomes a part of a politically independent central bank. This signals that access to consumer credit is more difficult when supervision is independent from government. Finally, we find that joining the Eurozone boosts consumer lending. This result is consistent with the permanent income hypothesis, which states that households’ current consumption is determined not only by their current income but also by the income that they expect to earn. Our results can be used to increase the effectiveness of macroprudential policy in avoiding consumer lending booms and ensuring financial stability.
G29|Technology-driven information sharing and conditional financial development in Africa|Information technology is increasingly facilitating mechanisms by which information asymmetry between lenders and borrowers in the financial sector can be reduced in order to enhance financial access for human and economic development in developing countries. We examine conditional financial development from ICT-driven information sharing in 53 African countries for the period 2004-2011, using contemporary and non-contemporary quantile regressions. ICT is measured with mobile phone penetration and internet penetration whereas information sharing offices are public credit registries and private credit bureaus. The following findings are established. First, there are positive effects with positive thresholds from ICT-driven information sharing on financial depth (money supply and liquid liabilities) and financial activity (at banking and financial system levels). Second, for financial intermediation efficiency, the positive effects from mobile-driven information sharing are apparent exclusively in certain levels of financial efficiency. Third, with regard to financial size, mobile-driven information sharing is positive with a negative threshold, whereas, internet-driven information sharing is positive exclusively among countries in the bottom half of financial size. Positive thresholds are defined as decreasing negative or increasing positive estimated effects from information sharing offices and vice-versa for negative thresholds. Policy implications are discussed.
G29|Mortgage Supply and Housing Rents|We show that a contraction of mortgage supply after the Great Recession has increased housing rents. Our empirical strategy exploits heterogeneity in MSAs' exposure to regulatory shocks experienced by lenders over the 2010-2014 period. Tighter lending standards have increased demand for rental housing and have led to higher rents, depressed homeownership rates and an increase in rental supply. Absent the credit supply contraction, annual rent growth would have been 2.1 percentage points lower over 2010-2014 in MSAs where lending standards rose from their 2008 levels.
G29|Bank Size, Information Sharing and Financial Access in Africa|Purpose - This study investigates how bank size affects the role of information asymmetry on financial access in a panel of 162 banks in 39 African countries for the period 2001-2011. Design/methodology/approach - The empirical evidence is based on instrumental variable Fixed Effects regressions with overlapping and non-overlapping bank size thresholds to control for the QLH (Quiet Life Hypothesis). The QLH postulates that managers of large banks will use their privileges for private gains at the expense of making financial services more accessible to the general public. Financial access is measured with loan price and loan quantity whereas information asymmetry is implicit in the activities of public credit registries and private credit bureaus. Findings - The findings with non-overlapping thresholds are broadly consistent with those that are conditional on overlapping thresholds. First, public credit registries have a decreasing effect on the price of loans with the magnitude of reduction comparable across all bank size thresholds. Second, both public credit registries and private credit bureaus enhance the quantity of loans. Third, compared with public credit registries, private credit bureaus have a greater influence in increasing financial access because they have a significantly higher favourable effect on the quantity and price of loans Fourth, the QLH is not apparent because large banks are not associated with lower levels of financial access compared to small banks. Originality/value - Studies of public credit registries and private credit bureaus in Africa are sparse. This is one of the few to assess linkages between bank size, information asymmetry and financial access.
G29|The Digital Transformation in Banking and The Role of FinTechs in the New Financial Intermediation Scenario|One of the main changes in the industry is becoming digitalization which is witnessing a profound transformation to the banking system. Digitalization offers new opportunities for banks to place the customer at the center of the development process. New technologies seem to be and stay in the market to disrupt the retail financial service value chain, as well as introducing new players into the competitive arena. Incumbents and new comers have innovative levers to adopt. The forces shaping these changes have led the industry to reconsider the role of banking and finance, more as an “enabler” than a provider of products and services. The article aims at defining digital transformation in the banking industry, outlining what banks and FinTech companies are both developing in the market, and also pointing out that it is not going to be the technology itself that will be the disruptor of the banking industry, but rather how firm deploys the technology that will cause the disruptio
G29|Comparative empirical analysis on the effect of mortgage loan on capital adequacy ratio|Capital adequacy ratio is the main indicator for banks to proceed with their operations. Standards for the calculation of the ratio are based on Basel Accord. Key factor for the calculation is credit risk. Credit risk is a function of credit and collateral type. In this case, mortgage has lower risk weight based on its collateral structure on credit risk. This research evaluates the effects of mortgages on capital adequacy ratio to understand the effects of collateral based credits. The findings show positive results between capital adequacy ratio and mortgages of participation banks. However, mortgages have negative impact on capital adequacy ratio of conventional banks. Participation and conventional banks of Turkey are compared on linear regression to analyse the effects of mortgages on capital adequacy ratio. Results are important for further research and professionals.
G29|Une Perspective Macroprudentielle Pour La Stabilité Financière<BR>[A macroprudential perspective on financial stability]|The need to strengthen the macro prudential orientation of financial regulatory and supervisory frameworks stays a priority for financial and real healthy. Stability financial threatened with endogenous and exogenous risks translating crises, hence it has to a healthy regulation for the reduction risks. Macro prudential policy proves to be a best regulation for limiting systemic risk. We wonder about adoption a framework macro prudential for stability financial in Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). The correlation between countercyclical capital buffer and stability financial justify to make use of framework macro prudential. The causality analysis put in light the effect of policy macro prudential on financial stability. The coefficient of reserve requirements, used like an indicator par excellence, and countercyclical capital buffer cause financial stability. That’s justify an adoption of frame work macro prudential in DRC.
G29|Lack Of Adjustment Of The Cyprus Household Sector: Results From The Eurosystem’S Household Finance And Consumption Surveys|The results from the second wave of the Eurosysystem’s Household Finance and Consumption Survey (HFCS) indicate that Cyprus households experienced very large falls in their incomes and value of real assets between 2009/2010 and 2013/2014. However, despite their worsening financial situation households largely maintained their relatively high level of consumption during the crisis years from 2012 onward by taking on more debt and running down their financial assets. This relative failure of Cyprus households to adjust their expenditures and repair their balance sheets during recent years has resulted in huge debt problems for many households and their creditors. Indeed, HFCS estimates indicate that the ratio of required debt payments to income for Cyprus indebted households reached 35.7% in 2014 and was an overwhelming 64.1% for the least-wealthy bottom 20%. Policy recommendations for dealing with the serious financial difficulties of households are advanced including a program to write-off the debt of households which do not have the ability to repay.
G29|Macroprudential Policy and Financing Behaviour in Dual Banking System: Bank-Level Evidence from Indonesia|The loan-to-funding ratio based reserve-requirement (called as RR-LFR) is a macroprudential instrument used by Bank Indonesia to maintain the stability of Indonesian financial system by considering the bank liquidity condition. This paper examines the impact of RR-LFR on financing behaviour in Indonesian dual banking system. The paper uses generalized method of moment estimation (GMM) technique to address the endogeneity of explanatory variables and reduce the possible biases from residual correlation. Using a bank-level data for both Islamic and conventional banks covering the period 2001-2015, we analyze the reaction of bank financing behavior toward RR-LFR policy. The findings indicate that RRLFR is observed to be effective in curtailing financing behaviour of banking institutions. Further, we show that RR-LFR exerts more impacts in managing credit expansion of conventional banks as compared to Islamic banks.
G29|Determinants of Islamic Banking Growth: An Empirical Analysis|This paper examined the determinants of growth rate in Islamic banking using annual time series data. We apply several econometrics methods including Generalized Linear Model (GLM) and survey based indicators. We use the World Bank Enterprise Survey data to supplement our answers. Our results support the view that high oil prices, stable domestic prices, higher educated populace and greater presence of capital resources have positive effects on growth in Islamic banking. Our findings revealed that instability adversely affect Islamic banking growth. We found no clear conclusion on the impact of economic growth, greater presence of Muslim population and presence of sharia in the legal system of the country on Islamic banking growth. The major constraints impeding Islamic banking growth include regulations, tax rates, and skilled labor force. The findings call for urgent policy measures in the medium and longterm, which includes price stability, regional stability, tax reform, revamp the education system and increase sensitization of Islamic finance. Secondary school education should be encouraged to address skilled labor force. Women participation in the labor force needs to be encouraged in order to enhance greater sensitization.
G29|Factors attracting banking investment into fintech start-ups: Russian context|One of the main problems for any start-up is to find funds for the idea development, product/service creation and promoting it in the market (Binks & Ennew, 1996). In Russia banks form the main demand for fintech products and services. However, there is a belief that Russian fintech ecosystem is not well developed. This research aims at exploring which barriers for fintech start-up ecosystem development are present in Russia as well as necessary and sufficient conditions for a fintech start-up to attract bank as an investor in the context of Russian experience. Qualitative interviews with experts of Russian financial industry, including representatives from banks, a regulatory institute, IT corporations (n=32) as well as quantitative survey of fintech start-ups (n=37) provide data for this research. This study uses crisp set Qualitative Comparative Analysis (csQCA) to examine the presence of complex causality relationships between factors describing fintech start-up and receiving investment from banks. Major findings of this research corroborate the belief that Russian fintech start-up ecosystem is weakly developed. The one reason for that is the gap between what fintech start-ups offer and what market actually needs. Necessary condition for receiving bank?s investments according to crisp set QCA is having a business plan. Other conditions this research explores are sufficient and include: having a core competence in market and consumer understanding, income source as a commission per transaction, payments-related start-up?s products or services, not aiming at owning the business while doing start-up project and also readiness of the product or service. The sufficient conditions might be absent or present in certain configurations. Finally, in Russia banks finding start-up offerings unsatisfactory choose not to invest in them or to create incubators but rather develop fintech internally. This research contributes to the literature on QCA (Ragin et al., 2006; Skaaning, 2007), as well as financial technologies (Shim & Shin, 2016) and develops knowledge on fintech start-ups in particular.
G29|The Risk-Taking Channel in the US: A GVAR Approach|Employing data from thirty large banks in the US, we examine banks' risk-taking behaviour in response to monetary policy shocks. Our investigation provides support for the presence of a risk-taking channel: banks' nonperforming loans increase in medium to long run following an expansionary monetary policy shock. We also find that banks' capital structure plays an important role in explaining bank's risk-taking appetite. Impulse response analysis shows that shocks emanating from larger banks spillover to the rest of the sector but no such effect is observed for smaller banks. The results are confirmed for banks' Z-score.
G29|Bitcoins, Blockchain und Distributed Ledgers<BR>[Bitcoins, Blockchain, and Distributed Ledgers]|Zusammenfassung Virtuelle Währungen wie Bitcoins geraten zunehmend in den Blickpunkt des öffentlichen Interesses. Sie funktionieren auf Basis der Blockchain- bzw. Distributed-Ledger-Technologie. Volker Brühl erläutert ihre Funktionsweise und zeigt auf, dass diese Technologien nicht nur den Finanzsektor revolutionieren können.
G29|Agent banking in a highly under-developed financial sector: Evidence from Democratic Republic of Congo|The paper provides evidence on the number and volume of financial transactions undertaken by agents (local businesses that double as more convenient, lower cost alternatives to formal branches) of the largest microfinance institution operating in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). To our knowledge, this is the first econometric study of the activities of agents in a country as underdeveloped as the DRC. More important than agents’ personal characteristics, transactions are higher in low income, densely populated areas with high levels of commercial development, suggesting that the agent network has been best at supporting financial transactions among the urban poor. In addition, branding and effective liquidity management are strongly linked to agent activity. The results suggest that agents can be effective providers of basic financial services among the urban poor who lack suitable alternatives. But it remains to be seen how the agent banking model will play out in less densely populated areas of the DRC and other developing countries.
G29|Young Professionals? Intentions To Make Use Of Financial Planning Services: A South African Perspective|The global financial crisis coupled with an increase in life expectancy, declining working age population and economic pressures have heightened the need to be active in analysing financial resources. In South Africa, national and global economic pressures, rising health care costs and other societal factors have caused the vast majority of the population to remain underprepared financially. Young professionals are ideally positioned to combat these pressures, due to the benefits of having a longer time horizon to save and invest. However, research has shown that young professionals fail to take advantage of financial planning services early enough in life. Therefore the purpose of this study was to investigate the factors influencing the intentions of young professionals? to make use of financial planning services. From the literature, four factors were identified, namely Financial goals and objectives, Financial knowledge, Role of a financial planner and Personal circumstances. A measuring instrument, in the form of a self-administered questionnaire, was distributed to 350 respondents residing in the Eastern and Western Cape provinces of South Africa. The data collected yielded 284 usable questionnaires which were subjected to various statistical analyses. An exploratory factor analysis was undertaken and Cronbach?s alpha coefficients were calculated to assess the validity and reliability of the measuring instrument respectively. Descriptive statistics were calculated to summarise the sample data and the hypothesised relationships were assessed by means of multiple regression analysis. The results of this study show that Financial goals and objectives, Role of a financial planner and Financial knowledge were found to have a significant influence on the Intentions to make use of financial planning services. Based on the results the study, recommendations and suggestions for further research were provided.
G29|Alternative Securities Markets in Poland and the United Kingdom (Alternatywne rynki obrotu papierami wartosciowymi w Polsce i Wielkiej Brytanii)|Designed for smaller, dynamically growing and innovative companies, the NewConnect market offers not only an opportunity to raise capital for development, but also prospects for a company to emerge on the public market. In terms of the number of listed companies, it is the second largest European alternative market, just after the UK AIM. Considering its total capitalization, however, it ranks ninth. This article attempts to present the development of both markets, comparing the initial nine years of operation of each of them in order to show the position and determine the future development of the Polish capital market, in particular NewConnect, established for small and medium-sized enterprises, the number of which in Poland corresponds to half the EU average.
G29|Equilibrium with mutual organizations in adverse selection economies|Abstract We develop an equilibrium concept in the Debreu (Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 40(7):588–592, 1954) theory of value tradition for a class of adverse selection economies which includes the Spence (Q J Econ 87(3):355–374, 1973) signaling and Rothschild–Stiglitz (Q J Econ 90(4):629–649, 1976) insurance environments. The equilibrium exists and is optimal. Further, all equilibria have the same individual type utility vector. The economies are large with a finite number of types that maximize expected utility on an underlying commodity space. An implication of the analysis is that the invisible hand works for this class of adverse selection economies.
G29|Analyst information precision and small earnings surprises|Abstract This study proposes and tests an alternative to the extant earnings management explanation for zero and small positive earnings surprises (i.e., analyst forecast errors). We argue that analysts’ ability to strategically induce slight pessimism in earnings forecasts varies with the precision of their information. Accordingly, we predict that the probability that a firm reports a small positive instead of a small negative earnings surprise is negatively related to earnings forecast uncertainty, and we present evidence consistent with this prediction. Our findings have important implications for the earnings management interpretation of the asymmetry around zero in the frequency distribution of earnings surprises. We demonstrate how empirically controlling for earnings forecast uncertainty can materially change inferences in studies that employ the incidence of zero and small positive earnings surprises to categorize firms as suspected of managing earnings.
G29|An analysis on the potential competitiveness of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank|The establishment of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) is a response to the wide gap between the financing need and supply of global infrastructure investment, especially in Asia. The potential competiveness of AIIB, as compared to other multilateral development banks, is that it has a more focused function, better balanced governance structure and sound financing and can strike a balance between the requirements of developing countries and conducting operations efficiently.
G29|Hedge Fund Tail Risk: An investigation in stressed markets, extended version with appendix|This paper develops several risk measures that captures the tail risk of single hedge fund strategies and the tail risk contribution of these hedge fund strategies to the overall portfolio tail risk, conditional on the level of market distress. We show that, during the recent global financial crisis, all the different hedge fund strategies are contributing to the tail risk of the portfolio of hedge funds, mostly because of the hedge fund strategies' exposure to liquidity and credit risk.
G29|Current Risks In Cash Transit|Encashment is important for providing cash to banks and their clients. The last five years have shown that the risks related to the bank and cash transportation are growing. The main threats are connected with a whole group of criminogenic factors and the presence of organized criminal groups. This study shows that in addition to the up mentioned factors high frequency of incidents relates to both unintentional and intentional abuses committed by the collection personnel. All cash collecting companies operating in the country make daily efforts to reduce the incidence and severity of risk. Research objectives of the study are aimed at detecting risk spectrum threatening the processes of cash movement from customers to their banks and the negative economic effects of their implementation. An empirical survey is carried out among companies engaged in collection activity and banks which use their services to disclose risk profile.
G29|Managerial investment in mutual funds: Determinants and performance implications|We examine the determinants of managerial investments in mutual funds and the subsequent impacts of these investments on fund performance. By using panel data we show that investment levels fluctuate within funds over time, contrary to the common assumption that cross-sectional data are representative. Managerial investments reflect personal portfolio considerations while also signaling incentive alignment with investors. The impact of managerial investment on performance varies by whether the fund is solo- or team-managed. Fund performance is higher for solo-managed funds and lower for team-managed funds when managers invest more. These results are consistent with the higher visibility of solo managers, and less extreme investment returns of team-managed funds. Our results suggest investors may not benefit from all managerial signals of incentive alignment as managerial investments also reflect personal portfolio considerations.
G29|Singapore's Real Estate:50 Years of Transformation|"Singapore's Real Estate: 50 Years of Transformation documents the transformation and development of the real estate market in Singapore over the past 50 years. This volume is organised around two major themes, and covers issues from the ""bricks and mortar"" to the capital markets; and from local to international real estate markets. The themes aptly describe how real estate has played an important role in the economic development and growth of Singapore from a third world to a first world country. Written by well-renowned experts with deep academic and practical knowledge of the progress of real estate in Singapore, this book highlights the uniqueness of real estate markets and institutions in Singapore, which have constantly been replicated and adopted in other markets."
G29|Evolution of the Real Estate Industry in Singapore|Singapore's transformation since Independence in 1965, from a poor port city of the Third World to a modern world-class metropolis with one of the most developed and sophisticated real estate markets in the world, is truly remarkable. Very few markets in the world can claim the distinction of achieving so much as rapidly as Singapore has. This 50-year journey, made not without trials and tribulations, reflects in many ways a successful public-private partnership, combining pragmatic government policies with the entrepreneurship of the private sector. This book traces the evolution of the Singapore real estate industry and identifies the contributory factors to the successful partnership. The introductory chapter is an overarching summary of the book and subsequent chapters discuss in more detail the roles played by the government and the private sector - developers, investors, financiers, fund managers and consultants and other intermediaries - in this transformational journey from the simple beginning of a locally focused bricks-and-mortar market, building largely for owner-occupation through to globalisation and securitisation of real estate. The last two chapters look into the role of real estate education and collate the views and comments from the alumni of the NUS Real Estate school, on the future of Singapore real estate…
G29|Transforming a Nation: Role of Government Agencies|The following sections are included:IntroductionRole of Government Agencies in the Real Estate Development Life CycleSupporting Real Estate DevelopmentsGovernment's Role in HousingHousing Market InterventionThe Government's Role in Other Real Estate SectorsConclusionReferences
G29|Changing Skyline: Real Estate Development Industry in Singapore|The following sections are included:IntroductionResidential Property Market in SingaporeCharacteristics of Singapore's DevelopersLand Supply for DevelopmentCommercial Real Estate MarketsRetail Mall DevelopmentsConclusionAppendix: Major Developers in SingaporeIconic Residential Buildings Designed by World-Renowned Architects/Architecture Firms
G29|Role of Real Estate Service Providers in Growing the Real Estate Industry|The following sections are included:IntroductionPhases of Development and GrowthKey TrendsShaping the Future
G29|Singapore Commercial Real Estate Industry in a Global Context|The global real estate industry has evolved and innovated over the last 50 years and is much more complex and sophisticated today. Lagging behind in the early years, Singapore has largely caught up with the developed markets, where not only has real estate become a global business, it is now fully integrated with the capital markets. Fifty years ago, commercial real estate investment was a relatively unsophisticated business: entirely local in nature, focused on bricks-and-mortar and quite detached from the world of finance. It has since evolved from this simple beginning of building largely for owner-occupation through to the development of investment markets with institutional participation, and then to globalisation with increased cross-border investments and eventually to securitised real estate equity and debt in both private and public markets…
G29|Exporting Singapore's Experiences in Real Estate Development and Urban Planning|The following sections are included:IntroductionSpreading the Second Economic WingMajor Government-to-Government (G2G) ProjectsLeading the way by Government Linked CompaniesMotivations for Regionalisation Drives of DevelopersGoing Places by Singapore's DevelopersConclusion
G29|The Rise of Singapore's Real Estate Investment Trust (SREIT) Market|The following sections are included:History and Evolution of REITsThe Rise of Singapore REITs (SREITs)Reasons for Setting up SREITsREIT Growth StrategiesCode on Collective Investment Scheme (CIS) — Property Funds GuidelinesFeatures of SREITsCross-Border REITsAlternative REIT Models — Business Trusts Stapled with REITsAsset Management Model — Fee Based IncomeInvesting in SREITsConclusionAppendix 1. Details of REITs actively traded on the Singapore exchange.Appendix 2: Property Fund Guidelines and Various Revisions
G29|Bridging the Gap between Capital and Real Estate Markets|The following sections are included:IntroductionSecuritising Real Estate Cash FlowsMotivations for Real Estate Securitisation in the USReal Estate Securitisation Activities in SingaporeCommercial real estate securitisation Vehicles in SingaporeConclusion
G29|Real Estate Education|This chapter traces the evolution of real estate education globally and specifically in Singapore, given its role in nurturing the talent required to support the evolving real estate industry. As the real estate landscape in Singapore has evolved over the last 50 years, the real estate degree programme has also undergone significant changes to meet the constantly-changing needs of the industry. Indeed, as the only real estate degree programme offered in Singapore, the National University of Singapore (NUS) Department of Real Estate has been producing graduates for the real estate industry since its inception in 1969, four years after Singapore's independence. Today, these graduates can be found in both public and private sectors. Many are leaders in professional consultancy firms, real estate investment trusts and funds, development and other real estate-related companies and various government agencies…
G29|Transforming Singapore's Real Estate: Building on Firm Foundation|The following sections are included:Introduction and the Real Estate SystemReal Estate Professionals and EducationReflections on the Last 50 Years of TransformationA Next Wave of Transformation of Singapore's Real Estate
G29|The payout behaviour of German savings banks|Our analysis finds that despite the growing number, the majority of savings banks currently do not make any payouts. Furthermore, savings banks distribute only a small part of their net profit to the shareholders. This means that they can still build up capital even if they make payouts. Savings banks also hold significantly more capital than is called for by the regulatory framework. Finally, the regression analysis shows that savings banks that have less capital distribute profits to their shareholders considerably less frequently. This correlation has intensified since 2009, even though the Savings Banks Acts (Sparkassengesetze) were relaxed in individual federal states. All in all, our results therefore indicate that payouts do not currently pose a threat to the capital adequacy of most savings banks.
G29|Borrowers under water! Rare disasters, regional banks, and recovery lending|We show that local banks provide corporate recovery lending to firms affected by adverse regional macro shocks. Banks that reside in counties unaffected by the natural disaster that we specify as macro shock increase lending to firms inside affected counties by 3%. Firms domiciled in flooded counties, in turn, increase corporate borrowing by 16% if they are connected to banks in unaffected counties. We find no indication that recovery lending entails excessive risk-taking or rent-seeking. However, within the group of shock-exposed banks, those without access to geographically more diversified interbank markets exhibit more credit risk and less equity capital.
G29|To Separate or not to Separate Investment from Commercial Banking? An Empirical Analysis of Attention Distortion under Multiple Tasks|In the wake of the 2008/2009 financial crisis, a number of policy reports (Vickers, Liikanen, Volcker) proposed to separate investment banking from commercial banking to increase financial stability. This paper empirically examines one theoretical justification for these proposals, namely attention distortion under multiple tasks as in Holmstrom and Milgrom (1991). Universal banks can be viewed as combining two different tasks (investment banking and commercial banking) in the same organization. We estimate pay-performance sensitivities for different segments within universal banks and for pure investment and commercial banks. We show that the pay-performance sensitivity is higher in investment banking than in commercial banking, no matter whether it is organized as part of a universal bank or in a separate institution. Next, the paper shows that relative pay-performance sensitivities of investment and commercial banking are negatively related to the quality of the loan portfolio in universal banks. Depending on the specification, we obtain a reduction in problem loans when investment banking is removed from commercial banks of up to 12 percent. We interpret the evidence to imply that the higher pay-performance sensitivity in investment banking directs the attention of managers away from commercial banking within universal banks, consistent with Holmstrom and Milgrom (1991). Separation of investment banking and commercial banking may indeed be associated with a reduction in risk in commercial banking.
G29|Information sharing and conditional financial development in Africa|This study examines conditional financial development from information sharing in 53 African countries for the period 2004-2011, using contemporary and non-contemporary quantile regressions (QR) which enable the assessment of the effect of information sharing throughout the conditional distributions of financial development dynamics. The policy relevance of the QR approach builds on the motivation that blanket policies on the role of information sharing in financial development may not be effective unless they are contingent on initial levels of financial development and tailored differently across countries with low, intermediate and high levels of financial development. Information sharing is measured with private credit bureaus (PCB) and public credit registries (PCR) while financial development is proxied with dynamics of depth, efficiency, activity and size. The following findings are established. First, for financial depth, while there is a positive threshold effect from PCR in money supply and liquid liabilities, the effect from PCB is mixed. Second, for financial efficiency, there is a: (i) contemporary positive threshold from PCR and mixed effect from PCB in banking system efficiency and (ii) U-shape and positive threshold from PCR and PCB respectively in financial system efficiency. Third, for financial activity, there are consistent positive thresholds from PCR and PCB in banking system activity and financial system activity. Fourth, there are negative thresholds from PCR and PCB in financial size. Positive thresholds are consistent incremental financial development rewards from PCR and/or PCB with increasing financial development and vice-versa for negative thresholds. Mixed effects are characterised by S-shaped, Kuznets or wave-like patterns. As a main policy implication, initial conditions in financial development are essential to materialise incremental benefits from PCR and PCB. Other policy implications are discussed.
G29|The role of ICT in reducing information asymmetry for financial access|This study assesses the role of ICT in complementing private credit bureaus (PCB) and public credit registries (PCR) in reducing information asymmetry for financial access. The empirical evidence is based on Generalised Method of Moments with 53 African countries for the period 2004–2011. The following findings are established. First on financial access: (i) the marginal effects from interactions between ICT and PCR (PCB) are consistently positive (negative); (ii) net effects from interactions are negative with the higher magnitude from PCR and (iii) only thresholds corresponding to interactions between PCR and internet penetration are within range. Second, findings on financial allocation efficiency reveal positive marginal and net effects exclusively for mobile phones and PCR. Third, allocation efficiency may be constrained by increasing financial deposits. Overall, the complementarity between information offices and ICT in boosting financial access is still very limited. Policy implications are discussed with emphasis on improving the engaged complementarity and fighting surplus liquidity.
G29|Information Sharing and Financial Sector Development in Africa| This study investigates the effect information sharing has on financial sector development in 53 African countries for the period 2004 to 2011. Information sharing is measured with private credit bureaus and public credit registries. Hitherto unexplored dimensions of financial sector development are employed, namely: financial sector dynamics of formalization, informalization, and non-formalization. The empirical evidence is based on Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) and Generalized Method of Moments (GMM). The following findings are established. Information-sharing bureaus increase (reduce) formal (informal/non-formal) financial sector development. In order to ensure that information-sharing bureaus improve (decrease) formal (informal/non-formal) financial development, public credit registries should have between 45.45 and 50% coverage while private credit bureaus should have at least 26.25% coverage.
G29|Reducing Information Asymmetry with ICT: A critical review of loan price and quantity effects in Africa|This study investigates loan price and quantity effects of information sharing offices with ICT, in a panel of 162 banks consisting of 42 African countries for the period 2001-2011.The empirical evidence is based on Generalised Method of Moments and Instrumental Quantile Regressions. Our findings broadly show that ICT with public credit registries decrease the price of loans and increase the quantity of loans. While the net effects from the interaction of ICT with private credit bureaus do not lead to enhanced financial access, corresponding marginal effects show that ICT can complement private credit bureaus to increase loan quantity and decrease loan prices when certain thresholds of ICT are attained. We compute and discuss the ICT thresholds that are required to make this possible.
G29|Information asymmetry and market power in the African banking industry|This study investigates the role of information sharing offices and its association with market power in the African banking industry based on a panel of 162 banks from 42 countries for the period 2001–2011. Five simultaneity-robust estimation techniques are employed: Two Stage Least Squares; Instrumental Fixed Effects to control for unobserved heterogeneity; Instrumental Tobit regressions to control for the limited range in the dependent variable; Generalised Method of Moments (GMM) to control for persistence in market power; and Instrumental Quantile Regressions (QR) to account for initial levels of market power.
G29|Essential information sharing thresholds for reducing market power in financial access: a study of the African banking industry|Abstract This study investigates the role of information sharing offices (public credit registries and private credit bureaus) in reducing market power for financial access in the African banking industry. The empirical evidence is based on a panel of 162 banks from 42 countries for the period 2001–2011. Three simultaneity-robust empirical strategies are employed, namely (1) Two Stage Least Squares with Fixed Effects in order to account for simultaneity and the unobserved heterogeneity, (2) Generalised Method of Moments to control for simultaneity and time-invariant omitted variables and (3) Instrumental Variable Quantile regressions to account for simultaneity and initial levels of financial access. In order to ensure that information sharing offices influence market power for loan price (quantity) to decrease (increase), public credit registries should have between 3.156% and 3.3% coverage, while private credit bureaus should have between 1.443 and 18.4% coverage. The established thresholds are cut-off points at which information sharing offices completely neutralise the negative effect of market power on financial access. The thresholds are contingent on the dimension (loan price versus loan quantity) and distribution (conditional mean versus conditional distribution) of financial access.
G29|Is information diffusion a threat to market power for financial access? Insights from the African banking industry|This study assesses how information diffusion dampens the adverse effect of market power on the price and quantity of loans provided by a panel of 162 banks from 39 African countries for the period 2001–2011. First, from the Generalised Method of Moments results, a mobile phone penetration rate of 54.29, rising to 57 per 100 people are predicted to neutralise the adverse effect of market power on the average loan price and quantity respectively. Second, from the Quantile Regressions, mobile phone penetration rates of 56.20, 52.04 and 42.76 per 100 people is needed to nullify the negative effect of market power on loan quantity at the 10th decile, 25th quartile and 90th decile respectively. Third, a considerably lower internet penetration rate of 9.49 per 100 people is required to counteract the negative impact of market power on loan quantity at the 90th decile. Policy implications are discussed.
G29|Mobile money and household food security in Uganda| Despite the fact that the use of mobile money technology has been spreading rapidly in developing countries, empirical studies on the broader welfare effects of the technology on rural households are still limited. Using household survey data, we analyse the effect of mobile money on household food security in Uganda. Unlike previous studies that rely on a single measure of food security, we measure food security using two indicators – a food insecurity index and food expenditures. To account for selection bias in mobile money use, we estimate treatment effects and instrumental variables regressions. Our results indicate that the use of mobile money per se as well as the volumes transferred are associated with a reduction in food insecurity. Furthermore, the use, frequency of use, and volumes of mobile money transferred are associated with increases in food expenditures. Policy interventions and strategies aiming to improve household food security should consider the promotion of mobile money among rural households in Uganda and other developing countries as a promising instrument.
G29|Agricultural Credit Evolution – Between Myth And Reality|In the present work is presented the evolution of agriculture credits between 2007 -2015, and also an approach that reffers to agriculture crediting for the years 2014 – 2020, departing from observation that agricultural credit will follow a systemic approach closely related to general policies of the European targeting agriculture will complement other sources of financing and, first of all, to support EU funding programs
G29|An empirical analysis of Eurozone government bonds liquidity: Determinants, predictability and implications for the new bank prudential rules|Based on a large and representative data set we investigate the liquidity of Eurozone government bonds in ordinary times as well as in periods of market turmoil looking at the behavior of several liquidity indicators from 2005 to 2012. We find that the effect of adverse market conditions on liquidity strongly depends on individual bond’s characteristics. We then analyze the relative performance of different liquidity metrics. This allows us to discuss the appropriateness of the inclusion criteria for liquid assets used by the Basel Committee and the European Union. Our evidence argues for rules on HQLAs that should constrain the eligibility of government bonds depending on their characteristics (primarily, duration and rating). We also study the persistence of liquidity measures over time to assess which indicators might be used to anticipate future bond liquidity, especially ahead of market-wide crises. Based on rank correlation analysis we find that a wide array of liquidity metrics can provide stable indications over time.
G29|A Model of Financialization of Commodities|A sharp increase in the popularity of commodity investing in the past decade has triggered an unprecedented inflow of institutional funds into commodity futures markets, referred to as the financialization of commodities. In this paper, we explore the effects of financialization in a model that features institutional investors alongside traditional futures markets participants. The institutional investors care about their performance relative to a commodity index. We find that in the presence of institutional investors prices and volatilities of all commodity futures go up, but more so for the index futures than for nonindex ones. The correlations amongst commodity futures as well as in equity-commodity correlations also increase, with higher increases for index commodities. Within a framework additionally incorporating storage, we show how financial markets transmit shocks not only to futures prices but also to commodity spot prices and inventories. Commodity spot prices and inventories go up with financialization. In the presence of institutional investors shocks to any index commodity spill over to all storable commodity prices.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
G29|The role of collateral in supporting liquidity|Collateral plays an important role in supporting a vast range of transactions that help ensure the efficient functioning of the financial system. But collateral markets also have the potential to exacerbate risks to financial stability, not least given that during periods of market stress demand for high-quality collateral may increase, whilst collateral availability may fall. This paper offers a means to estimate how this potential imbalance between collateral supply and demand is likely to vary as a function of market stress. In doing so, it offers an estimate of the increase in market volatility sufficient to cause a dislocation in the market for collateral and a subsequent deterioration in market functioning. It suggests that — from the perspective of financial stability — the implications of an imbalance between the supply and demand of collateral are likely to be comparatively benign, but that the implications of a reduction in the willingness and/or ability of market participants to act as intermediaries in collateral markets are likely to have more serious consequences for market functioning. This work also provides a framework through which policymakers might be able to investigate how regulations might affect the proximity of these risks.
G29|Analyzing performance determinants: Conventional versus Islamic Banks in Pakistan|The aim of this study is to empirically examine the bank-specific, financial, and macroeconomic determinants of performance of Islamic and conventional banks in Pakistan. To do this, we first constructed the financial performance index (FPI) based on CAMELS' ratios and then run the computed index on the said determinants. We have used an unbalanced annual panel data covering the period 2006–2012. The GLS regression results show that operating efficiency, reserves, and overheads are significant determinants of conventional banks' performance, whereas, operating efficiency, deposits, and market concentration are significant in explaining performance of Islamic banks. We also show that the impact of GDP and the lending interest rate on performance is negative for both types of banks. Bank managers may focus on controlling overheads and operating costs to improve performance because, according the empirical results presented in the study, both of these variables are negatively related to the FPI. Our results suggest that advancements in overall management practices and new standards in operating efficiency and financial risk management are essential to enhance performance of banks.
G29|Islamic electronic trading platform on organized exchange|Today Islamic finance industry is under severe criticism, particularly, concerning liquidity management practices of treasury departments. Since cash lending is not possible under Islamic Shari'ah, Islamic banks tend to use securitized asset related schemes which are by no means neither acceptable under Islamic finance jurisprudence nor compliant with Maqasiq Al-Shari'ah. Maqasid Al-Shariah oversees economic activities which produce wealth and prosperity for all members of society to empower any member with certain level of belongings to bestow freedom while condemning inequality. Under this wider aim of Maqasid Al-Shari'ah, this paper presents alternative state-of-art Shari'ah compliant products, which is used in international trade finance, to be migrated to electronic trading platform under organized exchange in pursuit of replacing controversial liquidity management products. Besides, this paper introduces Islamic Commodity Future Contract, derived from asset backed Murabaha, with physical delivery as an alternative liquidity management tool for Islamic FIs and hedging tool for companies.
G29|Antecedentes del crédito en Colombia: Los Censos en la ciudad de Santafé en la segunda mitad del siglo XVIII|El presente trabajo estudia cómo operó el crédito eclesiástico durante el periodo colonial en la ciudad de Santafé. Para ello se toma como instrumento de análisis el caso de los censos consignativos redimibles de los principales de capellanías. A diferencia de otros trabajos aquí se revisan las fuentes primarias del Fondo Censos Redimibles del Archivo General de la Nación de Colombia, por lo que se estudia el proceso que involucró el otorgamiento de crédito por parte del Arzobispado de la ciudad. Se demuestra que esta institución creó criterios económicos sobre la decisión de otorgar dineros a préstamo, y que también incidieron las conexiones y redes personales. Se evidencia que el crédito eclesiástico en la ciudad estuvo dirigido a las élites y que pudo ser usado en la compra, mejora e inversión de propiedades rurales y urbanas. En este trabajo se aborda un enfoque comparativo del estudio del funcionamiento del crédito en otras regiones y con otros instrumentos financieros además del censo en el marco de un sistema de crédito colonial. A partir de ello se muestra que en la ciudad coexistieron diversos mercados de crédito y que operaron como mercados segmentados.
G29|A consistent two-factor model for pricing temperature derivatives|In the past decade, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange began to trade weather derivatives to hedge weather risk. The pricing of weather derivatives is challenging since the underlying is not tradable and thus classical arbitrage approaches have to be used with caution. In typical pricing approaches all information available to the market is assumed to be incorporated in the underlying and thus forward-looking information about non-tradable assets such as meteorological forecasts is often ignored. In this article, we analyze a new pricing methodology for temperature derivatives that accounts for forward-looking information. More precisely, we provide an empirical back-up for the theoretical framework of so-called consistent factor models for temperature forecast curves introduced previously in the literature and put this pricing approach into practice. First, we perform a thorough statistical analysis of meteorological forecast curve data. Second, based on this analysis we propose a specific consistent two-factor model, derive explicit temperature derivative prices, and calibrate the market price of risk (MPR). The power of the model is demonstrated against alternative pricing models. This confirms that at least parts of the irregularity of the MPR observed in earlier studies are not due to irregular risk perception but rather due to information misspecification.
G29|A parsimonious quantile regression model to forecast day-ahead value-at-risk|This paper proposes a parsimonious quantile regression model for forecasting Value-at-Risk. The model uses only observable measures of daily, weekly, and monthly volatility as input and thus simplifies optimization substantially compared with other methods proposed in the literature. The framework also provides a new way of illustrating the volatility effects of a heterogeneous market. When subjected to formal coverage tests for out-of-sample VaR predictions, model performance is similar to more complicated models.
G29|A note on why doesn't the choice of performance measure matter?|Choosing an appropriate performance measure is important for fund investors, nevertheless, many researchers find empirically that the choice of measures does not matter because those measures generate identical rank ordering, even though the distribution of fund returns is non-normal. In this paper we certify their findings by proving the monotonicity of several widely used performance measures when the distribution is a location-scale family. The mutual fund monthly return data from 1997 to 2015, together with simulation results, collaborate with our proof.
G29|An entropy-based early warning indicator for systemic risk|We analyze the time evolution of systemic risk in Europe by using different entropy measures and construct a new early warning indicator for banking crises. The analysis is based on the cross-sectional distribution of systemic risk measures such as Marginal Expected Shortfall, Delta CoVaR and network connectedness. These measures are conceived at a single institution level for the financial industry in the Euro area and capture different features of the financial market during periods of stress. The empirical analysis shows the forecasting ability of entropy measures in predicting banking crises.
G29|Do analysts understand the economic and reporting complexities of derivatives?|We investigate whether and how the complexity of derivatives influences analysts׳ earnings forecast properties. Using a difference-in-differences design, we find that, relative to a matched control sample of non-users, analysts׳ earnings forecasts for new derivatives users are less accurate and more dispersed after derivatives initiation. These results do not appear to be driven by the economic complexity of derivatives, but rather the financial reporting of such economic complexity. Overall, despite their financial expertise, analysts routinely misjudge the earnings implications of firms׳ derivatives activity. However, we find evidence that a series of derivatives accounting standards has helped analysts improve their forecasts over time.
G29|Investor attention to salient features of analyst forecasts|Prior research suggests that, when making economic decisions, investors focus on subsets of more salient information. We extend this research by examining variation in investor response to a salient feature in analyst forecasts. We focus on the roundness of analyst forecasts as a salient signal of imprecision. We examine whether: 1) investors notice rounding even though it is binary and has potentially limited information content, 2) investor reaction to rounding is affected by its repetition, and 3) investor reaction to rounding varies by investor type. We document a weaker market reaction to rounded compared to non-rounded forecasts, consistent with investors using rounding as an indicator of less precise forecasts. Investor response to rounding is more pronounced in the presence of multiple rounded forecasts, simultaneously disclosed in analyst reports, and is primarily attributed to less sophisticated investors. We also provide evidence on investors’ delayed assimilation of the information content in rounded forecasts subsequent to the forecast announcement date. Our results shed light on the scope of limited investor attention.
G29|Linking remittances with financial development and institutions: a study from selected MENA countries|This paper seeks to examine the effect of remittances on economic growth in Middle East and North Africa (MENA) countries. Using unbalanced panel data covering a sample of 12 MENA countries over the period 1984-2012, we studied the hypothesis that the effect of remittances on economic growth varies depending on the level of financial development and institutional environment in recipient countries. We use GMM estimation in which we address the endogeneity of remittances. Our results reveal a complementary relationship among financial development and remittances to ensure economic growth. The estimations also show that remittances promote growth in countries with a developed financial system and a strong institutional environment.
G29|Linking Remittances with Financial Development and Institutions: A Study from Selected MENA Countries|In this paper we reexamine the effect of remittances on economic growth in Middle East and North Africa (MENA) countries. Using unbalanced panel data covering a sample of 12 MENA countries over the period 1984-2012, we studied the hypothesis that the effect of remittances on economic growth varies depending on the level of financial development and institutional environment in recipient countries. We use GMM estimation in which we address the endogeneity of remittances. Our results reveal a complementary relationship among financial development and remittances to ensure economic growth. The estimations also show that remittances promote growth in countries with a developed financial system and a strong institutional environment.
G29|Mechanism of Budgetary Resources Management: Problems and Prospects of Improvement|Management of budgetary resources becomes important to ensure the stability of the national budget system, which in its turn requires modernization and increasing of budget management efficiency. The article is devoted to the highlighting of the key issues of the budgetary resources mechanism and the development of proposals for its improvement. Author's approach to the understanding of the definition 'budgetary resources mechanism' was proposed. Features of the budgetary resources management were disclosed and its components were determined. Provisions of the Budget Code of Ukraine concerning the budgetary resources management were generalized. Disadvantages of the current system of the budgetary resources management were clarified. Functions of the budgetary resources management were determined and the logical scheme of their use in the budgetary process was proposed. The algorithm of the budgetary management types use in the budget process is justified. Budgetary management mechanism in the current economic conditions was established. Prospects for improving budgetary management resources that provide budgetary management mechanism use at all stages of the budget process were outlined.
G29|Stock exchanges’ development in selected Danube Region EU member states: The way ahead|The research paper will analyze the current state of development of the capital markets of selected Danube Region EU member states and will evaluate quantitative and qualitative economic indicators on these stock markets, as well as factors promoting their development. Neighboring countries have similar cultures and well-developed business relations. The expected positive external effects from deepened intra-regional cooperation processes are along the lines of economies of scale, diminishing market uncertainties, boosted liquidity and improved depth of capital markets.
G29|Interest Rate (In)sensitivity of Emerging Market Corporate Debt: Economic Analysis based on 2002-2015 Empirical Evidence|Interest rate sensitivity assessment framework based on fixed income yield indexes is developed and applied to two types of emerging market corporate debt: investment grade and high yield exposures. Our research advances beyond the correlation analyses focused on comovements in yields and/or spreads of risky and risk-free assets. We show that correlationbased analyses of interest rate sensitivity could appear rather inconclusive and, hence, we investigate the bottom line profit and loss of a hypothetical model portfolio of corporates. We consider historical data covering the period 2002 – 2015, which enable us to assess interest rate sensitivity of assets during the development, the apogee, and the aftermath of the global financial crisis. Based on empirical evidence, both for investment and speculative grades securities, we find that the emerging market corporates exhibit two different regimes of sensitivity to interest rate changes. We observe switching from a positive sensitivity under the normal market conditions to a negative one during distressed phases of business cycles. This research sheds light on how financial institutions may approach interest rate risk management, evidencing that even plain vanilla portfolios of emerging market corporates, which on average could appear rather insensitive to the interest rate risk in fact present a binary behavior of their interest rate sensitivities. Our findings allow banks and financial institutions for optimizing economic capital under Basel III regulatory capital rules. Key Words : Fixed Income, Portfolio Performance Evaluation, Downside Risk Management, Emerging Markets, Corporate Debt, Interest rate sensitivity.
G29|Service Sector Development and its Determinants in Rwanda|The service sector is an avenue for economic transformation as not all countries have a competitive edge in manufacturing. The growing literature on service sector primarily focuses on its development in the US and Europe and on Asian emerging service economies like India. Not as much attention has been paid to the role that services can play in the economic growth of African countries primarily due to the high prevalence of agriculture in these countries. But with avenues of structural adjustments and globalization, some African countries have become service-based economies. Services are considered as an alternative to manufacturing-led development in Rwanda since its aims is to become a service-based hub to serve countries in the East African Community (EAC). Recently, the growth rate of the service sector has been impressive in the Rwandan economy. The present study is an attempt to study in detail the development of the service sector over the years in Rwanda's economy and empirically estimate its determinants by using an econometric methodology. The empirical results are based on micro-data collected during the Rwanda Enterprise Survey 2011 and the 2014 Establishment Census. The survey has data on 241 firms and establishments. Linear and limited dependent variable techniques are employed to investigate the factors behind the development of the service sector. Models are specified and estimated to assess the factors contributing to sales growth, innovation and turnovers of service firms. The results show the factors that have contributed to the development of the service sector. These factors can be used in forming public policy with the aim of using the service sector as a vehicle for speeding up the shift from a low income to a middle income state.
G29|Determinants Of Internet Financial Reporting In African Markets: The Case Of Mauritius|The Internet has revolutionized the way individuals and companies access and share information. Companies can now disseminate more information on a timely manner to stakeholders. Using mixed theoretical perspectives on corporate reporting including legitimacy, stakeholder, and signalling theories, this study investigates the extent and determinants of corporate reporting on the Internet by firms listed on the official market of the Stock Exchange of Mauritius (SEM). We use content analysis to examine information disclosed on firms’ websites. Data is collected from 34 companies’ websites including includes companies on the Official Market of the SEM. A disclosure index consisting of 52 items (mandatory and voluntary items) is constructed based on previous studies and adapted to the Mauritian context is used to measure the extent of Internet Financial Reporting (IFR). The results indicate that company size, board size, and liquidity are significant explanatory variables for the level of IFR. However, we find no significant relationship between other variables (leverage, profitability, and audit quality) and the level of IFR. To the best of our knowledge, no prior studies on drivers of IFR in Mauritius is available. Therefore this study contributes to the scarce literature on IFR in the African region and Mauritius. The findings of this study are expected to benefit several stakeholders including firms, legislators, and investors. It provides a broader picture of the characteristics of firms which use the Internet to report financial and non-financial information. Firms subject to the study can benchmark their IFR practices with the average of all firms and take appropriate actions to enhance their visibility to investors. Regulators and legislators can compare the IFR performance of Mauritian listed companies with emerging stock markets to issue guidelines for enhancing disclosure on the Internet. Investors require information to make informed investment decisions. The findings of this study can guide them as to which corporate characteristics are associated with higher Internet disclosures, thus saving them time in screening investment options.
G29|Comparative Advantage Defying Development Strategy and Cross Country Poverty Incidence|This paper argues that poverty in a country is endogenously determined by the country¡¯s long-term economic development strategy. It empirically examines the effects of adopting a Comparative Advantage-Defying (CAD) development strategy - which attempts to encourage economic actors to deviate from the economy¡¯s existing comparative advantages in their entry into an industry or choice of technology - on its level of poverty. This paper also examines how this effect of CAD differs with the level of an economy¡¯s financial development, which is the most important channel for the effects of CAD on poverty to manifest themselves. Data for the period of 1963 to 1999 (cross-section average over this time period) and 1980 to 2000 (panel with 5 years interval) for 113 countries are used in the analysis. We find that the more aggressively a country adopts CAD development strategy, the higher the level of poverty incidence. But a high level of financial development reduces the poverty-increasing impact of adopting CAD. The policy recommendation by this paper is to adopt Comparative Advantage-Following (CAF) development strategy, which facilitates the actors¡¯ entry into an industry according to the economy¡¯s existing comparative advantages, by all the countries in order to reduce poverty incidence.
G29|Banking access for the poor: Adoption and strategies in rural areas of Bangladesh|The progress of Mobile Banking (M-banking) is unsatisfactory in terms of achieving a key objective, i.e. to reach the inaccessible unbanked customers at an affordable cost for financial inclusion. We identify the causes to this problem through the investigating the factors affecting the adoption of m-banking in remote areas of Bangladesh using a 236 primary sample of m-bank customers from seven geographical locations and across professions. We document a positive effect of perceived ease of use, trusts, and perceived usefulness, and a negative effect of user interface on adopting m-banking in rural Bangladesh. our findings provides significant policy implications for policy planners and the bank managers to enrich their policies and strategies for promoting financial inclusion as well as successful banking business in rural of Bangladesh.
G29|Has the risk index of Islamic banks and conventional banks in GCC countries changed in response to the 2008 economic crisis?|In this empirical study, we investigate the effect of the 2008 economic crisis on the level of risks Islamic banks (IB) and conventional banks (CB) are facing and the determinants of their risk indices. We cover 20 banks operating in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries during 2001-2014. The results indicate that while the state of the economy had no effect on the risk index (RI) of banks, the type of bank did have an effect. The results suggest that the RI of IB was significantly lower than that of CB before and after the crisis indicating higher risks for IB. While the RI of CB is explained by solvency and liquidity variables, the RI of IB is explained by liquidity and profitability variables. Discussions, interpretations of research results and implications are provided.
G29|Bank resolution as a new MNB function – resolution of MKB Bank|In this study, the authors provide a comprehensive overview of the process of the successful resolution and reorganisation of MKB Bank Zrt., and the practical implementation of the resolution regulations, which was one of the first applications of these regulations in the European Union. The authors present the resolution tools and powers used by the central bank of Hungary (Magyar Nemzeti Bank), as the resolution authority, emphasising the indispensable cooperation between Hungarian and European Union authorities and institutions. As a conclusion, they find that the only fast and efficient way to protect the stability of the Hungarian financial system without the use of public funds was to apply the new resolution toolset. In connection with the resolution procedure, the creditors of MKB Bank Zrt. suffered no losses, as the funds of the bank’s customers and business partners were safely protected at all times.
G29|The insurance sector at a milestone: positive initial experiences with the newly introduced Solvency II system|Indisputably, the most important event of the year on the European insurance market was the transition to the so-called Solvency II (S2) regime, which laid down the new riskbased own funds requirement. In our study, we assess the first Hungarian results based on the “Day 1” S2 submissions, the MNB’s first S2-based risk assessment and the EIOPA1 stress test examining the impact of the persistently low yield environment on capital adequacy. The first experiences of the new regime are positive. The sector-level 204 per cent capital adequacy is reassuring overall. Within this, the capitalisation of 20 out of the 28 insurers is above the 150 per cent stipulated in the MNB’s recommendation on the volatility capital buffer. In 2016, the MNB introduced a new risk assessment approach based on S2 and business models, and according to that, the overall risk level of the sector is moderate, but the challenges include the low yield environment from the perspective of profitability, the level of digitalisation among operational risks as well as the adjustment to the MTPL and the life insurance market situation with regard to insurance risks. The moderate risk rating with respect to capital risk is borne out by the results of the EIOPA stress test: the persistently low yield environment has no substantial impact on capital adequacy at the sector level, however, when it is coupled with a market shock, some market participants may experience difficulties.
G29|Liquidity Needs And Liquidity Costs Of An Instant Payment System|In our study we analysed the effect of the introduction of an instant payment system in Hungary, using a large number of transaction level data of an extended time period, simulating the operation of the payment system. We analysed the two main theoretical models of instant payments: instant settlement in central bank money, and instant clearing with prefunded cyclical settlement. For both models we estimated the effect of using low and high transaction limits. We differentiated three liquidity costs associated with the operation of such a system. First, we estimated the impact on settlement queues in the real-time gross settlement system and calculated the costs of extra liquidity needed to dissolve the queues and support the continuous operation of the system. In the second step we estimated the liquidity needs of a prefunded instant payment system by different confidence levels and prudential requirements. Lastly, we analysed the effects of the different models on the stability of the payment system. The results clearly show that the costs associated with the dissolution of queues are marginal because retail payments comprise a very small percentage of the inter-bank payment flows, thus the instant payment system would not generate additional settlement queues. On the other hand, liquidity needs of a prefunded model can be significant, especially with high collateral confidence levels and high transaction value limits. However, these liquidity needs can be lowered by seasonal adjustments to the prefunded amounts and by using a robust but rational collateral confidence level. We also show that these costs are relatively higher for institutions with fewer customers as their payments turnover is more volatile, and so they have to make relatively larger prefunded deposits.
G29|Seeding the S-Curve? The Role of Early Adopters in Diffusion| In October 2014, all 4,494 undergraduates at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology were given access to Bitcoin, a decentralized digital currency. As a unique feature of the experiment, students who would generally adopt first were placed in a situation where many of their peers received access to the technology before them, and they then had to decide whether to continue to invest in this digital currency or exit. Our results suggest that when natural early adopters are delayed relative to their peers, they are more likely to reject the technology. We present further evidence that this appears to be driven by identity, in that the effect occurs in situations where natural early adopters' delay relative to others is most visible, and in settings where the natural early adopters would have been somewhat unique in their tech-savvy status. We then show not only that natural early adopters are more likely to reject the technology if they are delayed, but that this rejection generates spillovers on adoption by their peers who are not natural early adopters. This suggests that small changes in the initial availability of a technology have a lasting effect on its potential: Seeding a technology while ignoring early adopters' needs for distinctiveness is counterproductive.
G29|Seeding the S-Curve? The Role of Early Adopters in Diffusion|In October 2014, all 4,494 undergraduates at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology were given access to Bitcoin, a decentralized digital currency. As a unique feature of the experiment, students who would generally adopt first were placed in a situation where many of their peers received access to the technology before them, and they then had to decide whether to continue to invest in this digital currency or exit. Our results suggest that when natural early adopters are delayed relative to their peers, they are more likely to reject the technology. We present further evidence that this appears to be driven by identity, in that the effect occurs in situations where natural early adopters' delay relative to others is most visible, and in settings where the natural early adopters would have been somewhat unique in their tech-savvy status. We then show not only that natural early adopters are more likely to reject the technology if they are delayed, but that this rejection generates spillovers on adoption by their peers who are not natural early adopters. This suggests that small changes in the initial availability of a technology have a lasting effect on its potential: Seeding a technology while ignoring early adopters' needs for distinctiveness is counterproductive.
G29|Insights on monetary policy and public banking in Brazil (2008-2012) [Insights on monetary policy and public banking in Brazil (2008-2012)]|This paper aims to analyze the effect of monetary and banking policy during the subprime crises between 2008 and 2009 and afterwards (2010-2012). The main actions and the monetary policy of the Brazilian Central Bank are also discussed. We found that at the peak of the crisis, the main lever for restoration of the Brazilian economy was related to domestic economic policy measures, particularly the ones implemented by the main state-owned banks: Caixa Econômica Federal, Banco do Brasil and Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social. The supporting role of other economic policies and the external economic environment are also discussed here. The findings show that in the period immediately following the crisis, (2010-2012), both credit and monetary policies did not succeed in ensuring sustained economic growth.
G29|Status of the Risks Caused by Information Leaks from Commercial Banks in Bulgaria|Information is one of the key assets of commercial banks. The loss of bank information in question might cause serious financial and reputational damage to the bank. In the recent years, criminal activities related to bank robberies are occurring ever more often, bringing new risks of the criminogenic nature. Primary position among them occupies cybercrime involving siphoning off bank information. This article is aimed at detecting trends associated with the risk of information leaks. Below are the protection mechanisms and most often risk situations that threaten the banking information security. There is a well outlined trend in respect of the risks of major internal and external sources of threat. An analysis is presented and basic mechanisms for preventing the risk of leaks. Below are the economic and other negative effects on bank security and banks as a whole, in the absence of timely prevention of the risk of leaks
G29|Risk Prevention of Data Leakage by Commercial Banks|Information is one of the key assets of commercial banks. The loss of bank information in question might be in serious financial and reputational damage to the bank. In the recent years, criminal activities related to bank robberies are occurring increasingly bringing new risks of the criminogenic kind. Primary position among them occupy cybercrime connected to drawing off bank information. This study is aimed at revealing the theoretical and empirical aspects of prevention and control of the risk of data leaks. It is developed methodical scheme for prevention of that risk. Identified are channels of data leaks and their character. The paper is illustrated with an empirical study on a sample of commercial banks, which has been studied the manifestation of the risk of leaks. Below are the defense mechanisms and most often risk situations that threaten the banking information security. Contoured is the trend in respect to the risks of major internal and external sources of threat.
G29|Bitcoin as an example of a virtual currency|Virtual currencies have recently become one of the most popular topics in the media. This paper focuses on economic aspects of Bitcoin, being an attempt to answer the question if Bitcoin can be considered money in the light of economic theories of money. On the basis of the reports published by the European Central Bank and the Financial Action Task Force, as well as the available Internet and primary sources, there have been presented the types, history and functioning of virtual currencies. The knowledge of virtual currencies makes it possible to foresee the problems arising from their existence, such as possible threats to international security, difficulties with taxation etc. The growing popularity of virtual currencies and cryptocurrencies is linked with the increase of importance of non-cash payments on global scale. Thus, Bitcoin may be considered next step in the evolution of digital money.
G29|Are rankings of financial analysts useful to investors?|Several institutions issue rankings of financial analysts based on the accuracy of their price and EPS forecasts. Given that these rankings are expost they may not be useful to investors. In this paper we show that trading strategies based on perfect foresight and on past rankings outperform a passive strategy. In addition, we report that investors are better off following analysts that issue accurate price targets rather than following those with accurate EPS forecasts.
G29|Information sharing and conditional financial development in Africa|This study examines conditional financial development from information sharing in 53 African countries for the period 2004-2011, using contemporary and non-contemporary quantile regressions (QR) which enable the assessment of the effect of information sharing throughout the conditional distributions of financial development dynamics. The policy relevance of the QR approach builds on the motivation that blanket policies on the role of information sharing in financial development may not be effective unless they are contingent on initial levels of financial development and tailored differently across countries with low, intermediate and high levels of financial development. Information sharing is measured with private credit bureaus (PCB) and public credit registries (PCR) while financial development is proxied with dynamics of depth, efficiency, activity and size. The following findings are established. First, for financial depth, while there is a positive threshold effect from PCR in money supply and liquid liabilities, the effect from PCB is mixed. Second, for financial efficiency, there is a: (i) contemporary positive threshold from PCR and mixed effect from PCB in banking system efficiency and (ii) U-shape and positive threshold from PCR and PCB respectively in financial system efficiency. Third, for financial activity, there are consistent positive thresholds from PCR and PCB in banking system activity and financial system activity. Fourth, there are negative thresholds from PCR and PCB in financial size. Positive thresholds are consistent incremental financial development rewards from PCR and/or PCB with increasing financial development and vice-versa for negative thresholds. Mixed effects are characterised by S-shaped, Kuznets or wave-like patterns. As a main policy implication, initial conditions in financial development are essential to materialise incremental benefits from PCR and PCB. Other policy implications are discussed.
G29|Reducing Information Asymmetry with ICT: A critical review of loan price and quantity effects in Africa|This study investigates loan price and quantity effects of information sharing offices with ICT, in a panel of 162 banks consisting of 42 African countries for the period 2001-2011.The empirical evidence is based on Generalised Method of Moments and Instrumental Quantile Regressions. Our findings broadly show that ICT with public credit registries decrease the price of loans and increase the quantity of loans. While the net effects from the interaction of ICT with private credit bureaus do not lead to enhanced financial access, corresponding marginal effects show that ICT can complement private credit bureaus to increase loan quantity and decrease loan prices when certain thresholds of ICT are attained. We compute and discuss the ICT thresholds that are required to make this possible.
G29|Commercial Insurance as a Tool of Consumer Protection in the Czech Republic|Guarantee insurance is used by the state to solve some questions of consumer protection. To be specific it is insurance of tour operators against bankruptcy and insurance of employment agencies against bankruptcy. In both cases the insurance covers business risks of businesses and legal entities and that is the reason why the use of guarantee insurance in this context brings about several problems. On the one hand there are theoretical problems which deal with interpretation and explanation of the nature and principles of insurance and their application to insurance products and also problems concerning risk assessment of these products. On the other hand there are problems which deal with practical application and which are connected with the fact that there is no big interest in this kind of guarantee insurance among insurers with regard to their nature. Issues which approach the problem of consumer protection by means of commercial insurance are also related to the perception and understanding of insurance. Consumers demand full insurance coverage, however, taking into account the regulation of insurance market and the nature of insurance it is not possible to guarantee full insurance cover of losses which are caused by bankruptcy of a tour operator or an employment agency.
G29|The spread of branch banking and the demand for cash in post-war Germany|The period from the 1950s to the late 1970s saw an almost uniform decline of cash-to-GDP ratios in industrial countries. A closer look at the German payment system suggests that the factor causing such a change has been the shift towards cashless wage payments. In this period, in Germany, the branch network of the banks expanded significantly and at the end of the period almost all economically active persons had a current account. This change was triggered by rising wages and incomes. Rising wages increased the burden of weekly wage payments in cash, and rising incomes made the average earner more interesting for banks. Moreover, regulation and de-regulation, triggering both, price and non-price competition, may also have played a role. Technological change has not been an independent driver. The introduction of cashless wage payments has not only affected the payment behavior but also the savings behaviour of households. These changes were evolutionary rather than revolutionary, however. So, even though the cash-to-GDP ratio declined in this period, absolute amounts of real cash per capita were still rising.
G29|The Performance Audit – A Basic Attribute of the Romanian Court of Accounts and a Consolidation Solution for Sustainability in the Current Macroeconomic Environment|Through the findings and recommendations brought by the performance audit missions it is aimed to reduce costs, increase using the resources efficiency and achieving the objectives set at the level of the activity, program, and the audited process. So it is an audit of a good financial management but which is exercised at a rate too low in our country because it represents a research work that requires flexibility, imagination and analytical skills, knowledge and experience. We consider therefore that the audit approach can be justified by the fact that it increases the credibility of the information, providing a certain insurance degree for the people who rely on the audited information. Corroborating the Romanian legislation regarding auditing with the provisions of the international auditing standards and the practical issues which arise from their application, we could identify several types of public audit.
G29|Factors affecting the birth and fund flows of CTAs|Our paper investigates the timing of the inception of commodity trading advisors and the relationship between their fund flows and performance. Our results show that commodity trading advisor industry performance has, over the long-run (short-run), a positive (negative) effect on new commodity trading advisors. The functional form of the flow-performance relation varies across commodity trading advisor subcategories. Also, we do not observe a â€˜smart moneyâ€™ effect, indicating that investors are generally unsuccessful in choosing subsequent high-performing commodity trading advisors.
G29|Information Asymmetry and Financial Development Dynamics in Africa|We examine policy thresholds of information sharing for financial development in 53 African countries for the period 2004-2011. Public credit registries (PCR) and private credit bureaus (PCB) are used as proxies for reducing information asymmetry whereas financial development includes all financial dimensions identified by the Financial Development and Structure Database (FDSD) of the World Bank, namely: depth, efficiency, activity and size. The empirical evidence is based on interactive Generalised Methods of Moments with forward orthogonal deviations. The following findings are established. First, PCR and PCB have negative effects on financial depth, with the magnitude of the former higher. Second, contrary to PCR which have insignificant effects, PCB has a negative impact on banking system efficiency. Third, PCR and PCB have negative impacts on financial activity, with the magnitude of the latter higher. Moreover, their marginal effects are negative. Fourth, PCR and PCB have positive effects on financial size, with the effect of the former higher. While marginal effects are positive, corresponding thresholds are not within range. Policy implications are discussed.
G29|Socio-Economic Evolution Of Romanian Rural Area|In this paper is presented the socio-economic development of Romanian rural area by providing optimum dimensions both physically and economically to explatatiilor farm in Romania and analysis of labor productivity in agriculture, forestry and fishing. Analyzing the dynamic evolution GVA indicator reveals that during 2005-2012 the share of agriculture in GVA is in continual decline (9.52% of GVA in 2005 to 6.01% in 2014).
G29|Mathematical and Economic Modeling of the Results of Correlation Between Indicators of Profitability and Asset Management|Activity companies, regardless of sector, aims to both keep a favorable position in the market and creating financial resources to respond favorably people interact undertaking. These considerations are actually provided by the existence and sustainability of any business activity. Through this paper we follow not only the level of profitability of businesses related to food industry sector in Dolj, Romania, but also the correlation between the indicators of profitability and management of assets. The period of analysis is given by the range of 2012 - 2013, and of data analysis in terms of economic and mathematical being done using SPSS statistical and mathematical software.
G29|Does Competition for Novice Borrowers Hurt Access to Finance? An Analysis in a Context of High Risk and Low Outreach|The lack of access to financial services and to credit in particular is an issue in many developing countries. This paper studies the channels through which new borrowers get access to consumer loans and the effect of repayment data distribution both on that access and on subsequent bank switching by borrowers. We represent such dynamics with a simple model that incorporates different types of lenders and heterogeneity among individuals. The model assumptions are validated against data from the Argentinean banking system. The model yields a set of results that are characteristic of emerging markets: a significant share of the population is excluded from credit, including those who self-exclude, and lender type determines different lending conditions. Additionally, the model shows that distributing loan repayment data, by boosting competition for novice borrowers, may increase the share of the population with no access to credit. Following these findings, we advise focusing on improving available information for unbanked individuals, rather than expanding such information for individuals with a loan payment track record.
G29|Bank localism and financial crisis|This paper analyzes whether from the end of 2005 to the first half of 2012 bank localism influenced the dynamics and the quality of loans to Italian firms. To this aim, this paper proposes a new definition for local banks that, respect to the traditional classifications employed in literature, has the advantage to classify medium and small banks according to the number and the size of markets where they operate, regardless banks’ institutional category and size. The main result is that, after controlling for demand elements and the initial bank balance sheet characteristics, credit supply was influenced by banks’ size while bank localism was not significant. During the crisis, the loan default rate was substantially higher for medium and small banks; among these banks, for local banks the deterioration in credit quality was smaller with respect to non-local banks.
G29|Performance implications of active management of institutional mutual funds|" type=""main"" xml:id=""acfi12056-abs-0001""> We use information on institutional US mutual funds to examine the performance implications of the decisions they make when actively implementing their investment processes. Our findings show that the success of active fund managers' stock selection decisions is influenced both by the aggressiveness with which they implement their processes and also the style tilts incorporated into their active positions. Our findings provide useful insights into both where one might best look when choosing an active manager and also suggest possible profitable investment strategies."
G29|SMEs and access to bank credit: Evidence on the regional propagation of the financial crisis in the UK|We study the sensitivity of banks’ credit supply to small and medium size enterprises (SMEs) in the UK with respect to the banks’ financial condition before and during the financial crisis. Employing unique data on the geographical location of all bank branches in the UK, we connect firms’ access to bank credit to the financial condition (i.e., bank health and the use of core deposits) of all bank branches in the vicinity of the firm for the period 2004–2011. Before the crisis, banks’ local financial conditions did not influence credit availability irrespective of the functional distance (i.e., the distance between bank branch and bank headquarters). However, during the crisis, we find that SMEs with banks within their vicinity that have stronger financial conditions faced greater credit availability when the functional distance is close. Our results point to a “flight to headquarters” effect during the financial crisis.
G29|E-Banking And Banks’ Performance In Romania|Banks are important entities in the economy as they have a significant role in maintaining and encouraging the development of economic sectors. This is possible through the work of refocusing resources from those who have surplus to those who are in a deficit situation. Therefore, like any other company, the performance is highly desirable for banks. It is therefore essential to identify which are the main factors influencing the achievement of this goal. From this perspective, this paper aims to analyze the microeconomic factors affecting the financial performance of banks in Romania. Special attention will be paid to Internet technology or ICT as part of new banking technologies because, so far, in Romania, there are few studies of this kind.
G29|Factoring: una alternativa de financiamiento como herramienta de apoyo para las empresas de transporte de carga terrestre en Bogotá|RESUMEN El subsector de transporte terrestre de carga tiene gran influencia en la competitividad de las exportaciones y el movimiento total de mercancías en el país; por lo tanto, a través de esta investigación, se evalúa la factibilidad financiera del factoring en el subsector, mediante el análisis comparativo de escenarios que simulan la utilización de esta herramienta entre 2008 y 2012. Los resultados muestran que la aplicación del factoring en este subsector genera ventajas representadas en la reducción de la rotación de cartera, el aumento en los flujos de caja y la creación de valor para las empresas de la muestra y el agregado del subsector.******The road freight transport sub-sector has a major influence on the competitiveness of exports and the country’s overall movement of goods. Accordingly, this research evaluates the financial viability of factoring in the subsector by comparing scenarios that simulate the use of this tool over the 2008-2012 period. The results indicate that the use of factoring offers advantages in terms of reducing turnover, increasing cash flow and creating value for the companies studied, as well as adding value to the sub-sector.
G29|Evaluating trade classification algorithms: Bulk volume classification versus the tick rule and the Lee-Ready algorithm|We compare the accuracy of the bulk volume classification (BVC) to that of the tick rule (TR) and the Lee-Ready (LR) algorithm for a large sample of equities. TR and LR produce significantly better classifications than the BVC. This result applies to stocks of all sizes, including the most frequently traded. Iteratively optimizing the BVC improves its performance, but the conventional rules still outperform. TR and LR produce more accurate estimates of the volume-synchronized probability of informed trading. Order imbalances computed using TR and LR are comparable to those computed using the BVC in explaining returns, liquidity, and trading costs.
G29|Geographic proximity and analyst coverage decisions: Evidence from IPOs|Using hand-collected data on analyst locations, we study how geographic proximity affects analyst coverage decisions for U.S. firms that went public during 1996–2009, along with the impact of local coverage on firm visibility. Analysts are 80% more likely to cover local firms than non-local ones, and nearby non-underwriter analysts initiate coverage one to three weeks earlier than distant ones. Proximity matters most for smaller, less visible firms, for firms with less complex operations and for lower status analysts. Less visible firms may use local analyst coverage as a stepping-stone to increase visibility with other analysts and institutional investors.
G29|What is the value of sell-side analysts? Evidence from coverage initiations and terminations|We investigate three potential channels of analyst value creation: improving fundamental performance through monitoring, reducing information asymmetry, and increasing investor recognition. We show that changes in investor recognition have consistent explanatory power for the market reaction to coverage initiations and terminations but find mixed evidence for changes in information asymmetry and no evidence for changes in fundamental performance as determinants of the market reaction. These results suggest that analysts create value for firms under their coverage by improving their investor recognition and not by monitoring or reducing information asymmetry.
G29|What is the value of sell-side analysts? Evidence from coverage changes – A discussion|Li and You (this volume) study public firms’ common stock return reactions to two events: when analysts’ initiate coverage of the firm and when they terminate coverage. They test the returns for evidence of three sources of value added by analysts: (1) more monitoring of the firm, (2) reduced information asymmetry about the firm, and (3) greater demand for the firm’s common stock. They find consistent support for analysts adding value by increasing demand, but not monitoring or by reducing information asymmetry. Their findings also indicate that analysts’ initiations supply little new information. I review these findings, put them in perspective with related research, and note research directions.
G29|On the use of options by mutual funds: Do they know what they are doing?|Given recent regulatory inquiries into the derivative-trading practices of mutual funds, we examine their detailed option holdings to assess how mutual funds employ options, what funds use options, and how that affects performance and risk. Mutual funds’ use of options appears consistent with income generation and hedging motives, is systematically related to experience, education, and gender characteristics of portfolio managers, and does not lead to performance benefits, on average. Instead, certain uses of options lead to underperformance. We document no permanent or temporary aggressive risk taking by options users, finding instead that some funds use options to effectively lower risk.
G29|Can regulators allow banks to set their own capital ratios?|Basel regulators have received widespread criticism for failing to prevent two credit crises that hit the U.S. over the last two decades. Nonetheless, banks were considerably overcapitalized prior to the onset of the 2007–2009 subprime crisis compared to those which had undergone the 1990–1991 recession. Therefore, if capital requirements were achieved prior to the subprime crisis, how could the Basel framework be blamed again for having accelerated if not caused another credit crunch? We find that the answer to this question lies in the relationship between the capital ratio and the leverage ratio which is governed by risk-weights categories determined by the Basel regulation. We show that changes to risk-weight categories which affect the correlation pattern between both ratios are not reflected in the subprime crisis. This minimizes the implication of the Basel II regulation in the crunch that succeeded its announcement, in contrast to Basel I. We demonstrate that these dynamics are governed by a formula linking the two ratios together which derives from the sensitivity of the risk-based capital ratio to a change in its risk-weight(s). One implication of our work regarding the Basel III regulation consists in validating the newly established capital increments in a mathematical rather than heuristical approach.
G29|Tail risk and systemic risk of US and Eurozone financial institutions in the wake of the global financial crisis|We evaluate multiple market-based measures for US and eurozone individual bank tail risk and bank systemic risk. We apply statistical extreme value analysis to the tails of bank equity capital losses to estimate the likelihood of individual institutions' financial distress as well as individual banks' exposure to each other (“spillover risk”) and to global shocks (“extreme” systematic risk). The estimation procedure presupposes that bank equity returns are “heavy tailed” and “tail dependent” as identifying assumption. Using both US and eurozone banks allows one to make a cross-Atlantic comparison of tail risks and systemic stability. We also assess to what extent magnitudes of tail risk and systemic risk have been altered by the global financial crisis. The results suggest that both tail risk and systemic risk in the US are higher than in the eurozone regardless of the considered sample period.
G29|Trade openness, financial openness, and financial development in China|This paper investigates the impact of trade and financial openness on financial development in China. We use three sets of indicators of financial development to distinguish size, efficiency and competition as aspects of financial development. The empirical results, using dynamic panel estimation techniques, suggest that both trade and financial openness are statistically significant determinants of financial efficiency and competition, but that openness has a negative impact on the size of financial development. Our results also suggest that the marginal effects of openness on financial efficiency and competition are positive for the most open provinces but negative for the least open regions, while the marginal effects of openness on the size of financial development are generally negative for most provinces in the sample. The results reflect a mismatch problem between the distribution in the types of trading companies and the distribution of financial resources, and also indicate that local incumbents may be strong impediments to financial development in China.
G29|Bank funding structure and lending under liquidity shocks: Evidence from Korea|This paper examines the relation between bank funding structure and lending to firms during periods of liquidity shocks. We analyze this relation by using quarterly loan panel data of all commercial banks in Korea, as well as their borrowing firms. We find that when liquidity shocks are severe, banks generally reduce their lending, but banks with a high core funding ratio tend rather to increase their lending to firms during periods of market-wide liquidity shocks, thereby offsetting the reduction in lending due to liquidity shocks. This tendency is stronger in banks that maintain relationship banking with these firms. However, these findings are valid only for large banks. Our findings could provide some important policy implications for financial supervisory authorities seeking some regulatory policies on liquidity such as those of Basel III.
G29|Limit order book transparency and order aggressiveness at the closing call: Lessons from the TWSE 2012 new information disclosure mechanism|Based on the recent TWSE limit order book (LOB) information disclosure mechanism, this paper contributes to the studies on the determinants of order aggressiveness in the closing call. First, on the less well-studied effect of market transparency, we find that, in entering new orders, both individual and institutional investors become more aggressive after the market becomes partially transparent. Second, even though order book information is not available during the opaque period, the effect of the spread on order aggressiveness is still significant, which is evidence of the existence of the expectation effect. Third, the launch of the new mechanism has further reinforced the effect of the spread for individual investors; it, therefore, may answer to the need of individual investors more than it may do for institutional investors.
G29|Financial Engineering Versus Cancer|If financial engineering can distribute the pecuniary risk of medical research, then it can play a role in curing cancer.
G29|Earnings Management And Analyst Coverage Changes Around Ifrs Implementation: Evidence From France|Using a sample of French companies listed on the stock index CAC ALL TRADABLE, this paper analyzes the relation among analyst coverage and earnings management. We find that after the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and over a period from 2005 till 2011, analystsâ€™ coverage and experience reduce the level of earning management
G29|Are aggregate corporate earnings forecasts unbiased and efficient?|In this article, we analyze the properties of professional aggregate corporate earnings forecasts with regards to accuracy, unbiasedness, and efficiency. Using a large panel of forecasts for the years 1992–2011, we find that forecast errors are in general large, and the magnitude of forecast errors varies substantially across forecasters. Forecasts are however directionally accurate, especially during periods of slowdown. We find evidence of an underprediction bias, as forecasters failed to predict the strong growth of corporate earnings that took place over the past two decades. Forecasts biases and forecast errors are particularly large during periods of economic instability such as recession years, suggesting that biases originate in forecasters’ slow adjustment to structural shocks. Finally, we reject forecast efficiency, and find evidence of overreaction to new information, as evidenced by the negative autocorrelation of forecast revisions. Forecasters overreact equally strongly to good and bad aggregate earnings news, resulting in excessive forecast volatility. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
G29|Disciplinary Pressure is More Necessary for Cooperative Banks Than Stock Banks: Results from Bank Efficiencies Estimation|How to discipline managers of cooperative structured financial institutions (co-ops) is considered to be a critical issue by the Japanese financial regulatory authorities, because co-ops play a significant role in the domestic banking market, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. This paper seeks to clarify whether the effect of the governance-related variables on firm performance varies across stock and cooperative banks in Japan. The results in this paper confirmed that the presence of outside directors has a significant effect on efficiency measures for cooperative banks. In contrast, such variables have no significant effect for stock banks. These results suggest that outsider directors’ discipline is more necessary for cooperative banks than stock banks, which are under strong pressure from shareholders.
G29|Rural Perspective towards Financial Inclusion|Financial Inclusion or inclusive financing is the delivery of financial services at affordable costs to sections of disadvantaged and low-income segments of society, in contrast to financial exclusion where those services are not available or affordable. For the purpose of giving such financial services in easy and convenient way government has developed many financial plans in the rural areas. These plans are helpful for people who want to access financial services. The availability of banking and payment services to the entire population without discrimination is the prime objective of this public policy. Thus the term Financial Inclusion can be defined as the process of ensuring access to financial services and timely and adequate credit where needed by vulnerable groups such as weaker sections and low income groups at an affordable cost. The nations should takeover and remedy to reach the financial services to the weaker sections. So, this study has been undertaken to analyse the prospects of financial inclusion in rural areas.
G29|Do the Poor Pay for Card Rewards of the Rich?|Card payment systems are sometimes accused of taking from the poor and giving to the rich. The argument is as follows: High card fees are leading to higher retail prices for both, card users and cash users. However, high-income card holders are receiving rewards when purchasing by card. The result may be a net transfer of, mostly low-income, cash users to, mostly high-income, card users. In this article, models with product differentiation are used to show that rich card-holders may actually be paying for their card rewards themselves. In this case, there is no perverse distribution effect.
G29|Four hours is actually how many hours? – The actual time required for intraday transfers|In the past, the Central bank of Hungary took measures to improve the service quality of transfers between credit institutions which enabled actual intraday transfers for the clients of payment service providers automatically and without a noticeable increase in related costs (if certain conditions are met) starting from July 2012. This study shows that transfer orders accounted in the five daily cycles of the intraday clearing module reach the beneficiary client within an average of 2 hours and 5 minutes after debiting the bank account of the payer, and 2 hours and 50 minutes in the first cycle which is considered special from several aspects. The time required for execution in the first cycle is between 58 minutes and 3 hours and 48 minutes with a confidence level of 90%, while in the rest of the cycles it ranges from 36 minutes to 2 hours and 53 minutes. The 4-hour time window defined in the regulation does not include the period when the bank accounts of beneficiary clients are credited by recipient banks. Focusing on the period within the time of execution defined in the legislation, experience shows that credit institutions of the payer were able to forward the sum of the payment order to the credit institution of the beneficiary client in an average of 1 hour and 45 minutes throughout the five cycles of the day. That amounts to 44% of the available time window, while the extent of utilisation of the time window is only 35% in cycles 2-5. The time required for execution was also examined by the various subtypes of transfer. Experiences tell us that standing orders require 1 hour more time compared to single transfers, while credit transfers initiated in batch are executed in 20 minutes less time. Efforts are made to discover the reasons behind the longer time required for transfers in the first cycle of the day, which might be attributable mainly to difference in the process of this cycle and to a lesser degree to the fact that twice the average number of transfers in other cycles are accounted in the first cycle. Finally, recommendations are given for potential means of accelerating the execution of transfers.
G29|Diverging financial regulations after the crisis? A comparison of the EU’s and the United States’ responses|The study aims to compare the regulatory changes occurring on both sides of the Atlantic. An inappropriate regulatory environment contributed to the onset of the financial and economic crisis, and therefore the post-crisis regulation attempts to remedy the earlier deficiencies and address the problems that emerged during the crisis. The study evaluates and compares the latest financial regulation initiatives on both sides of the Atlantic and assesses the diverging attitudes to regulation in the EU and the United States in six exemplary areas: remuneration, bank capital requirements, derivatives, credit rating agencies, the regulation of hedge funds, and consumer protection. Fundamental differences in regulation pose a challenge to firms operating in both environments and harmonisation remains elusive. However, in some areas, regulators from both sides of the Atlantic are willing to give broad deference to certain regulations of foreign jurisdictions, instead of their own ones. Regular dialogue between the United States and the European Union points in the right direction, but as the article points out there are many improvements which still need to be made in order to reach a consensus acceptable for financial market actors as well as regulators.
G29|Finanziare la ricostruzione: attività e attori coinvolti nel sisma dell’Emilia Romagna|This paper aims to analyze the role of financial intermediaries in the reconstruction process that followed the 2012 Emilia-Romagna earthquake. The analysis discusses the regulatory framework and individual initiatives introduced due to the reconstruction and their impact on the local economy. The main financial intermediaries involved are the banks, which earmarked regional funding to families and firms. Our paper also examines the earthquake effects on the banks’ organization, both in terms of products and instruments employed to overcome the emergency. Secondly, a specific focus is on insurance companies. Indeed the advance payment of compensations and the rapid management of the practices have helped economic recovery of the industry. Moreover this paper considers the role of Microcredito per l’Italia that was a significant source of financing for both families and firms. Finally, we analyze an unconventional financial instrument that provided money for artistic and cultural assets: civic crowdfunding. While we are aware of the intrinsic limits of this type analysis, in this paper we develop a critical analysis of the most important unsolved aspects of the reconstruction' financing.
G29|Financial Literacy for Increasing Sustainable Access to Finance in Nepal|Recent policies and practices of Nepali financial sector are focused to establish financial institutions to increase people’s ‘access to finance’. As a result, the numbers of financial institutions licensed both by Nepal Rastra Bank and Government of Nepal are growing rapidly. All the institutions are doing the similar functions in the same market. The financial institutions licensed by Nepal Rastra Bank are classified into commercial banks, development banks, finance companies and micro finance development banks, whereas the Government of Nepal licenses to the saving and credit cooperative socieites (SACCOS). Despite the supply sided endeavors, the demand side considerations in financial sector is more silent. This creates a concern about the capability of people in consuming financial services. As a result, quality and sustainable access to finance are in question. Furthermore, the expansions of such institutions are also concentrated in urban, semi-urban and priviledged areas causing unequal distribution of institutions and limited access to finance. This situation has given rise to unhealthy competition among the actors focusing on earning rather than empowering the financial consumers. This paper explores how far the expansion of Banks and Financial Institutions including cooperatives assures the access to finance and its sustainability. The secondary data shows a significant growth of financial sector and an increment of number of people involved in financial transactions in the banking industry. However, the primary data of the study shows that such expansion is necessary but not sufficient condition to assure a sustainable access to finance. The study also explores the worth of financial literacy among the people both in urban and rural areas as one of the means to enhance people’s access to finance and its sustainability. The paper is based more on the discussion and analytical approach with a mix of secondary and primary sources of data.
G29|Financial Literacy for Increasing Sustainable Access to Finance in Nepal|Recent policies and practices of Nepali financial sector are focused to establish financial institutions to increase people’s ‘access to finance’. As a result, the numbers of financial institutions licensed both by Nepal Rastra Bank and Government of Nepal are growing rapidly. All the institutions are doing the similar functions in the same market. The financial institutions licensed by Nepal Rastra Bank are classified into commercial banks, development banks, finance companies and micro finance development banks, whereas the Government of Nepal licenses to the saving and credit cooperative socieites (SACCOS). Despite the supply sided endeavors, the demand side considerations in financial sector is more silent. This creates a concern about the capability of people in consuming financial services. As a result, quality and sustainable access to finance are in question. Furthermore, the expansions of such institutions are also concentrated in urban, semi-urban and priviledged areas causing unequal distribution of institutions and limited access to finance. This situation has given rise to unhealthy competition among the actors focusing on earning rather than empowering the financial consumers. This paper explores how far the expansion of Banks and Financial Institutions including cooperatives assures the access to finance and its sustainability. The secondary data shows a significant growth of financial sector and an increment of number of people involved in financial transactions in the banking industry. However, the primary data of the study shows that such expansion is necessary but not sufficient condition to assure a sustainable access to finance. The study also explores the worth of financial literacy among the people both in urban and rural areas as one of the means to enhance people’s access to finance and its sustainability. The paper is based more on the discussion and analytical approach with a mix of secondary and primary sources of data.
G29|The Current Situation of the Public External Audit Activity in Romania and Proposals for Improving the Activity|In order to create a clear and true picture of how the public external audit is implemented in Romania, we will see the evolution of how this type of audit was approached by the responsible institutions. Also in the paper, we will contribute with proposals for improving the external public audit activity in the current stage.
G29|The Provisions for the Risk of Loss in the Case of the Loans Granted by the European Banks|The provisioning of the banking risk associated with the granted loans is an issue of great interest in the present context of financial instability and it has acquired new meanings especially since the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers. In Europe banks align with both the international standards and requirements imposeds by the European Commission in a legislative context. In this paper the authors deal with the main aspects of the phenomenon of risk provisioning for the loans given by the European banks in the light of the international accounting standards and regulations of international financial reporting standards applicable to banking institutions.
G29|Regional innovation programs’ sustainability under risk and uncertainty|Globalization in economy has been taking on an ever greater significance recently. Particularly important it is becoming now to such leading-edge technologies in economics as regional innovation processes. The current stage of the development of regional economies differs from the past ones in that the role of innovation programs acquires ever more importance and that forming and designing of such programs becomes now a much more independent process; all this has led to a situation where we have to revise our system of economic methods and ways of managing the risks of a regional innovation program. The existing methods and ways of risk assessment and risk management for innovations are to be complemented by new approaches reflecting the market changes and the advent of new financial instruments and stratagems. In this paper I investigate the issue of applying the system optimization method to the task of building the uncertainty/risk evaluation model for the management of a regional innovation program, proceeding from the method of limiting factor values which reduces the design value of an investment efficiency parameter to its critical limit for direct problems. As a result of my study, I propose the model of a regional innovation program’s sustainability zone under risk and uncertainty, using the MATHCAT software.
G29|Bitcoin as a virtual currency|The aim of this article is to show the position of Bitcoin among virtual currencies. On the basis of the reports published by the European Central Bank and The Financial Action Task Force, as well as the available Internet and primary sources, there have been presented the types and the history of virtual currencies, the way in which Bitcoin functions and the methods of acquiring it. The article is based on the assumption that an in-depth knowledge of virtual currencies, their classification and their functioning will make it possible to regulate their legal status. It is necessary not only for tax purposes, but also in order to avoid the risk of using this payment method for terrorist or criminal purposes. The knowledge of the history of virtual currencies also makes it possible to foresee the problems that may hinder the functioning of Bitcoin and other virtual currencies. The growing popularity of virtual currencies and cryptocurrencies is linked with the increase of importance of non-cash payments on global scale. Thus, Bitcoin may be considered a next step in the evolution of digital money.
G29|Effects of Income Inequalities: Society and Economy. Anomalies of the “Flagship”|Income inequalities result in unequal societies and hinder economic growth in the long-term. Inequalities are evoked by rent seeking, but are also partly provoked by the state itself. The democratic electoral process of the Unites States does not limit financial support, therefore, people representing 1 per cent of the society elect representatives who influence the legislature and community decisions in the interest of their supporters. As a result of the impact of the media, average people fail to recognise their own interests. In certain cases, poorer sections of the population even tend to refuse state interventions that would actually improve their situation. Over the past two decades, wages and salaries have stagnated, or actually declined in the US. All surplus income flowed to 1 per cent of the population. Monetary policy and bank bailouts applied to manage the recent economic crisis also contributed to rising income inequalities. Not only democracy, but the whole of the economy cries out for reforms to be introduced both in economic policy and in politics itself.
G29|Quantum money|The quantum money (q-money) as a possible convenient, socially innovative, technologically attractive and user/issuer friendly value storing/not storing unit, mean of payment and exchange medium in the advanced financial systems of the developed states is a subject of our scientific interest in this research article. The purpose of this research article is to report on a number of topics: 1. The historical evolution of the money in the financial systems within the economies of the scales and scopes over the centuries. 2. The definition on the electronic money in the financial systems within the economies of the scales and scopes. 3. The proposal and definition on the quantum money in the financial systems within the economies of the scales and scopes. 4. The theoretical framework on the quantum money functional principles in the financial systems within the quantum economies of the scale and scopes. 5. The monetary policies toward the quantum money introduction and functioning in the financial systems within the economies of the scales and scopes. 6. The possible change impacts by the quantum money on the central banks’ existing monetary policies and the financial systems structure within the economies of the scales and scopes. We believe that the quantum money is more convenient for the existing financial and economic systems, which can be accurately characterized by the quantum macroeconomic theory in Ledenyov D O, Ledenyov V O (2015h) and the quantum microeconomics theory in Ledenyov D O, Ledenyov V O (2015j) instead of the classic macroeconomics and microeconomics theories. The authors think that the present transition to the quantum money (q-money) from the electronic money (e-money) in the finances can be conditionally compared with the present transition to the quantum devices (lasers, quantum random number generators, quantum computers) from the electronic devices (vacuum tubes, transistors, integrated circuits, analog computers, digital computers) in the electronics.
G29|Information Asymmetry and Financial Development Dynamics in Africa|We examine policy thresholds of information sharing for financial development in 53 African countries for the period 2004-2011. Public credit registries (PCR) and private credit bureaus (PCB) are used as proxies for reducing information asymmetry whereas financial development includes all financial dimensions identified by the Financial Development and Structure Database (FDSD) of the World Bank, namely: depth, efficiency, activity and size. The empirical evidence is based on interactive Generalised Methods of Moments with forward orthogonal deviations. The following findings are established. First, PCR and PCB have negative effects on financial depth, with the magnitude of the former higher. Second, contrary to PCR which have insignificant effects, PCB has a negative impact on banking system efficiency. Third, PCR and PCB have negative impacts on financial activity, with the magnitude of the latter higher. Moreover, their marginal effects are negative. Fourth, PCR and PCB have positive effects on financial size, with the effect of the former higher. While marginal effects are positive, corresponding thresholds are not within range. Policy implications are discussed.
G29|Theory of Gharar and its interpretation of Risk and Uncertainty from the perspectives of Authentic Hadith and the Holy Quran: A Qualitative Analysis|The inconclusive definition of Gharar as risk and uncertainty can be commonly found in the contemporary literatures. The difference in the meaning of Gharar is generally thought to be due to the difference in the jurisprudence point of views. The current practice is that there is no standard in defining the terms. Hence, this study introduces steps in defining terminology namely; dictionary definition, Arabic linguistic definition and jurisprudence definition. However, the philosophy of risk as stated in the Holy Quran and Hadith differs from the concept of risk in conventional finance. The finding reveals that risk in Islamic banking refers to a wider interpretation covering the concepts gharar. mysir, mukhatarah, al ghunm bil ghurm and al kharajbil daman than the element of uncertainty as in the conventional finance.
G29|Financial development in Africa - a critical examination|The thesis summarises eight published articles for my doctoral degree research project. Individually the published articles coherently present a critical examination of financial development in Africa. Three main shortcomings in the literature have motivated the project: limited studies on stock market development in spite of the need for more sources of long-term finance; the absence of literature that engages the exposure of financial systems in Africa to recent global crises and a mainstream definition of the financial system that is not relevant to the continent because it fails to incorporate the informal financial sector. The highlighted gaps are addressed in three main themes. The main results of the first theme are twofold. Political, economic and institutional governance can play a positive role in the performance of African stock markets. There is urgent need for the improvement of cross-country characteristics that enhance convergence for the performance of stock markets. Findings of the second theme are as follows. There is absence of convergence among member states of the CFA franc zones. Limited financial dynamics can be used in monetary policy to exert deflationary pressures in periods of soaring consumer prices. There is very moderate evidence supporting the hypothesis of thresholds in financial development for financial globalisation benefits. A new definition of the financial system in the third theme has also led to some interesting results. Liberalisation policies have broadly promoted the informal financial sector to the detriment of the formal sector. An example of such liberalisation is the information and communication technology sector, which has led to mobile phone penetration being positively (negatively) correlated with the informal (formal) financial sector. In another example, not all financial intermediary channels are pro-poor for the effectiveness of liberalisation policies in enhancing investment for inequality mitigation. Policy implications, research limitations and future research directions are discussed.
G29|Conflict of Interest between Investors and Financial Advisers|This article discusses the conflict of interest between investors and their financial advisers resulting from fee structures and commission schemes. Previous studies have treated this issue in relation to the amount invested or the expected holding period of the mutual fund. In this paper, we develop a model that includes simultaneously both of these parameters. The model uses a numerical simulation to support the finding that the overwhelming majority of investors are exposed to this conflict of interest and especially those investing in large amounts. A narrow area is isolated where the interests of financial advisers converge with those of investors. When we vary the variables of the model, we find that the conflict of interest is unstable and can be improved only marginally. Nonetheless we suggest two solutions, which differ in the uncertain withdrawal of the investor that is borne either by the mutual fund promoter or by the financial adviser
G29|Islamic Microfinance: Moving Beyond Financial Inclusion|The current situation of high unemployment and the widening whole of the disadvantages people in Muslims countries have spot light the need of proper access to the microfinance Currently poor and low income people in Muslim countries has little access to either conventional or Islamic microfinance. This article is an attempt to investigate to what extend Islamic microfinance can best help in alleviating poverty in Muslim communities. The results showed that the conventional microfinance concentrates on the low-income group and thus financial and socially excluded the destitute people from microcredit and other related activities such as saving and skills improvement. Further more the resluts indictes that Islamic microfinance is moving beyond conventional counterpart to provide effective social and financial inclusion simultaneously through its Islamic social tools such as Sadaqah, waqf and Zakah, that to be given directly to the extremely poor in cash or in kind to satisfy their basic needs before granting them microcredit. These results might give good an implication to those who provide microfiance in these countries to improve the social and fiancial inclusions of the disadavantages people by adopting Islamic microcredit.
G29|Empirical Investigation On The Corporate Financing For Sport Development In E.U|Assuming the increasing part that sport economics plays nowadays in research and pragmatic fields, the main objective of the present study is to investigate on the companies’ role for supporting sport development through sponsorships and donations, as one main component of the private financing for sport. The fundamental premise that stays behind this research is the potential of sport for inducing competitive advantages for the companies that assign corporate resources for this social domain. The research was conducted for the EU member countries by using secondary data freely available in official documents and databases. The comparative analysis highlighted the factors that generate significant differences between the investigated countries. The results showed that, although corporate financing for sport purposes is well-developed only in few EU countries, its part is constantly increasing as companies in different economic, social and cultural contexts are becoming aware of the strategic potential of sport on medium and long terms. The findings are presented in detail at country level.
G29|On Competition in the Banking Sector in Poland and Europe Before and During the Crisis / Jak kszta³towa³a siê konkurencja w sektorze bankowym w Polsce i w Europie przed kryzysem i w okresie kryzys|"In the past decades, the banking sector has come to be known in literature as the banking industry as it was geared to increasing profits, banks were growing, and banking products developed dynamically. It was believed that competition in the banking sector makes banks more efficient and stimulates financial innovation opening new markets. The financial crisis of 2007–2008 has sparked the interest of researchers and politicians in competition in the banking sector and its impact on the stability of the financial sector and overall economic growth. However, researchers cannot agree whether more competition improves or hinders stability.The paper is comprised of three sections and a summary. The first section discusses the concept of competition in the banking sector as well as measures of competition. The second section is a review of literature on competition in the banking sector and its determinants. The third section presents the results of research on competition in the EU, including my own research as well as other research. The paper concludes with a short summary.This publication was presented by Ma³gorzata Paw³owska during the 134th mBank-CASE Seminar ""The global financial crisis: changes in competition in the banking sector in Europe, the role of regulation and intervention by governments and central banks""."
G29|Efficiency and Technology Gap Ratio of Lending Performance of Micro-credit Institutions in Thailand: The Meta-frontier Analysis|Many types of state initiated micro-credit institution have been established in Thailand with the primary principle of extending low cost loans to low income individuals so as to eventually help improve their quality of life. However, these micro-credit institutions still have varying degree of operational drawbacks from the absence of supportive structure to ensure organizational sustainability and the lack of efficient and effective credit management systems as they have to function under the framework of specific act by which they are institutionalized. The present endeavor employed meta-frontier concept for determining technology gap ratio and lending efficiency of microcredit institutions operating under different organizational rules and regulations as well as credit management methods with the focus on agricultural cooperatives (AC), village funds (VF), and production-oriented savings groups (PSG). The needed data were collected from 600 samples of such micro-credit organizations. Meta-frontier efficiency scores were found to be different at 0.01 statistically significant level. The group having the highest average score of efficiency is agricultural cooperative (0.6116), followed by village fund (0.4370) and production-oriented savings group (0.4119), respectively. In terms of technology gap ratio, there are differences at 0.01 statistically significant level. The agricultural cooperative group has the highest score at 94.71% whereas the village fund group has the lowest score, 60.93%. The technology gap is a function of optimal group size and different lending systems, i.e., the agricultural cooperatives give on loans under the amount of share capital constraint but the village funds allocate credit for each borrower equally. The findings of this study have led to a recommendation concerning the increase in optimal group size, especially to sub-district level, because size and operational environment can contribute to efficiency enhancement. Moreover, government agencies should change their roles from providing funds to promoting community self-reliance.
G29|Why Do Different Short-sellers Pay Different Loan Fees? A Market-wide Analysis|High loan fees generate short-selling constraints and, therefore, reduce price efficiency. Despite the importance of loan fees, empirical evidence on their determinants is scarce. Using a market-wide deal-by-deal data set on the Brazilian equity lending market which uniquely identifies borrowers, brokers, and lenders, we are able to construct a proxy of search costs at the borrower-stock-day level. We find that - for the same stock, on the same day - borrowers with higher search costs pay significantly higher loan fees. Our results suggest that regulators should encourage the use of a centralized lending platform to reduce search costs in the lending market.
G29|Potential for growth of productive areas ecologically equipped (APEA) adhering to FICEI|The working group, in valuing the scientific publications made in previous years on the quantification and measurement of the indicators of 'attraction' of a territory, tried to find a sustainable development model, verifing the effect that the recent introduction APEA (Industrial Areas Ecologically equipped) has as a tool enabler the 'site location', in order to verify the effect that the reduction in the time of issuance of the necessary permits to the settlements has on potential for growth of one or more 'cluster competitor' adhering to FICEI (Italian Federation Industrial Consortia). The Ficei is a federated structure admitted to the program of support for technology transfer RIDITT, funded by the Ministry of Economic Development and the study has allowed us to develop decision support tools able to impact more on the ability to 'strategic positioning' of industrial clusters in regime of mutual competition or in competition. In particular, the simulation of the growth effect of the industrial areas APEA in regime of competition inter and intra cluster was made possible through the development of data base aggregates to which it was decided to associate logistic functions who have displayed in 'real time' the growth potential in the regime of a renewed action of technology transfer provided by the ministerial program. For the realization of the above system has realized an application capable of guiding the choices of strategic positioning simulating the growth potential compared to 'contender cluster' with a method characterized by the introduction of parametric functions of saturation of the population of enterprises and the introduction of parameters 'predation' capable of simulating the competitive effect of one or more clusters Italian the pilot area object of study. The working method used was, therefore, the following: (i) mapping of the distinctive features of the cluster Ficei-Apea; (ii) identification of the effect of technology transfer through saturation parameters to be included in logistics functions; (iii) identification of the parameters of predation required to simulate the effect of competitive industrial clusters; (iv) processing the data in the light of the selected indicators and representation of the dynamics of growth through comparative analysis of the functions of saturation. The results of the research group will permit to operate in application environments more in line with the needs of the area of innovation by helping to assess the sustainability for businesses of new business models in an area characterized by a higher degree of competition. The publication of this work is, therefore, the evolution of the work presented last year confirming the effort made by the research team to make available to the scientific community, predictive models for impact assessment that public support has on local SMEs and the related question of development.
G29|The impact of Internet technology on the Romanian banks performance|In the last decades the Internet technology era has developed increasingly more and currently it spans the whole business world. Nowadays no manager can conceive the existence of a successful business without its existence in the online environment. Therefore, more and more companies have moved a part of their activities on the Internet in recent years. This fact helps them to become more popular and to attract more customers. So, for the business world, it is well-known that a respectable company should have a website. Banks are also involved in this process. The information technology and communication revolution has affected the financial services, too. The majority of banks have websites today. Here they communicate with the public and carry out certain activities with clients so that they no longer have to go to the bank. But how does the Internet influence the performance of a bank? Since it is about a revolution in this field, it is expected that banks? performance to increase. The presence of a bank on the Internet through a website, the Internet banking and any other activities undertaken by the bank in the online environment such as online advertising should improve its financial results. Even if the bank spends more resources in this regard, it is expected that more customers to be attracted and that operations made by banks? employees to be replaced with this kind of technology. This paper examines this issue in the case of Romanian banking industry starting with 2005. How has the Internet technology affect the performance of a bank in terms of ROE? Have the banks benefit from this kind of technology revolution or the costs of these service affects their results since the users of this technology is lower than the developed countries?
G29|Performance Measurment of State-Owned Banks in Turkish Banking Sector with Grey Relational Analysis Method|Banking sector has a considerable impact on the development and growth of the national economy. Increase in the performance of this sector having an important place in the financial system of country, means to positive effects on the general economy. Today, importance of globalization and private capitalis increasing. But State-owned banks in Turkish Banking Sector have an important share of 30%. The main goal of private banks is profitability, so they don?t support the activities with low return, even though the people need. For these reasons state-owned banks were selected, in this study for measuring their performance. Performance measurement involves the process of assessing and reporting of the business activities in terms of success, effectiveness and timing. Sustainability in Performance Measurement provides a significant instrument for feedback of business for the planning in the next period. Business might develop their own service and product quality and they progress strategies to increase the performances of employees, revise their goals and make some revisions in the budget if it needs.Thus, an increase will be supplied in the efficiency and effectiveness of business. In this study, The Performances of State-owned banks in Turkish Banking Sector are analyzed with grey relational analysis method.In the analysis, four years of financial data is used related with banks between 2010-213 years. These data were analyzed by 15 ration which determine; capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality and profitability criteria.
G29|Disposition of Merida city, Venezuela businesses to participate in alternative stock market|Alternative Stock Markets are a modality of stock markets, where shares of SME are traded on. These markets are an alternative for SME, as they can finance their growth (issue of shares) and also investors, who have an additional investment alternative. The research aimed to study the intention of Merida city, Venezuela businesses to participate in a potential Alternative Stock Market (ASM, private or public management) and determine which factors are significant in that participation. The results show that 85 % of Merida companies are willing to participate in a private ASM and 70 % of them in a public ASM.
G29|Stock Exchanges Development: The Case Of Bulgaria And Romania|The main objective of the research paper is to analyze the development of the stock markets of Bulgaria and Romania. The research will aim at identifying the factors that influence the stock market development process in the two EC member-states following seven years of full EU membership, to outline the existing barriers at micro- and macro levels and draw conclusions. The Bulgarian capital market remains financially underdeveloped as compared to the Romanian one. The alternative for the stock market development in Bulgaria is to follow an evolutionary path similar to the Romanian stock market. The research methodology will include comparative and economic analysis on the basis of European financial integration theory and drawing of conclusions regarding stock market development tendencies.
G29|Bringing Financial Literacy and Education to Low and Middle Income Countries: The Need to Review, Adjust, and Extend Current Wisdom|This paper presents a World Bank led and Russia trust fund financed work program to measure financial capability and the effectiveness of financial education in low and middle income countries. The two activities and their staging have been motivated by the lessons of high-income countries with financial literacy programs and the deviating characteristics of low and middle income countries. While progress has been made in high-income countries to measure financial capability, there is little robust empirical evidence that financial education can improve it. While applying the financial capability concept in low and middle-income countries looks promising it will need to be adjusted to their characteristic and supported by innovative interventions and rigorous impact evaluation to improve it.
G29|Integrated subsidiarity of the BCC-CR: a sustainable model of local finance|In more than 130 years, the cooperative banks and rural banks, have become a best practice, widespread in all the Italian regions so as to become, through Federcasse, a federal system included among the 130 European banks, referents ECB. A model that today has about 400 local banks and that, discounting the guiding principles, interprets the function as a development bank for the area, responding to the economic and social needs of individual communities. Objective of a BCC-CR is, in fact, promote development from the bottom, making the protagonists subjects of the local economy through a process that is defined of circular subsidiarity because element of synthesis between the vertical subsidiarity (integration of the different levels expressed by territory) and horizontal subsidiarity (integration of factors of the local development). In order to analyze and deepen the best practice of the BCC -CR model is, therefore, interesting assess the sustainability of local finance through a relation of functionality that interconnects the level of performance expressed by some important national areas with the intensity of mission of the financial model. The research team has already developed a unique indicator of territorial performance, presented in the session ERSA, 2011 (Spain) and an indicator of intensity of the mission of the BCC -CR model presented in the Workshop RSAI 2012 (China) and in the annual conference PRSCO 2013 (Indonesia). This dimension of the subsidiarity has allowed the research team of assess the relative effectiveness of the model through the measurement of the level of integration between the horizontal subsidiarity and the vertical one by means the structuring of a function of two variables, that, represented by a spherical model in three-dimensional environment (the circular subsidiarity is expressed by level lines to shape of circumferences in two-dimensional level), expresses the intensity of the integration as a factor in the sustainability of local finance. Territorial cohesion and consistency with the orientations set by the different levels of governance is, in fact, a factor of local development able express the potentialities of the territory, the level of competitiveness and the ability to give concrete answers to the current critical issues. The study shows that there is room for improvement among the descriptors that express the intensity of the mission model BCC-CR (horizontal subsidiarity) and those that express the performance of the territory (vertical subsidiarity): on these areas should focus the attention of policy makers and the company management to improve the synchronization between demand of investment and the supply of savings in the territory.
G29|Geographical Distance And Moral Hazard In Microcredit: Evidence From Colombia| Recent years have seen an intense and critical debate about the impact of microcredit on entrepreneurial activities and poor households' welfare. This paper suggests that information asymmetries in the ex post loan arrangement between the microfinance institution and local borrowers could partially explain the limited impact of microcredit. The physical distance separating borrowers from the microfinance institution could be considered as a proxy of agency costs, increasing the costs of monitoring and easing moral hazard. The estimation of the effect of distance on the borrower's self‐assessed outcome of a microcredit project in Colombia confirms the presence of moral hazard in the microcredit market, with agency costs increasing with geographical distance. Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
G29|Neue regulatorische Konzepte der Bankenaufsicht und ihre Auswirkungen auf die Gesamtbanksteuerung|No abstract is available for this item.
G29|The Relation Between Overreaction in Forecasts and Uncertainty: A Nonlinear Approach|This paper examines if overreaction of oil price forecasters is affected by uncertainty. Furthermore, it takes into account joint effects of uncertainty and oil price returns on forecast changes. The panel smooth transition regression model from Gonz alez et al. (2005) is applied with univariate and multivariate transition functions to account for nonlinear relations. Data on oil price expectations for different time horizons are taken from the European Central Bank Survey of Professional Forecasters. The results show that forecasters overreact for low levels of uncertainty and underreact for increasing uncertainty. Furthermore, returns are found to be more relevant for forecast changes in short time horizons while uncertainty dominates for longer ones.
