G31|The Rise of Domestic Capital Markets for Corporate Financing: Lessons from East Asia|During the past decades, firms from emerging economies have significantly increased the amount of financing obtained in capital markets. Most of the literature has focused on issuances in international markets, which appear to have been a key driver of the overall activity in a context of financial globalization. This paper explores whether domestic issuances have also played a role in this increase in financing. By examining the case of East Asia, which captures most of the capital raisings among emerging economies, this paper shows that domestic issuances have been the main component of the overall expansion in capital market financing since 2000. As domestic markets developed, more and smaller firms accessed capital markets, while larger corporations increased their funding sources and their resilience to international shocks. The experience of East Asia shows that domestic capital markets can play a useful role and that numerous policies might aid in their development.
G31|Capital Inflows, Equity Issuance Activity, and Corporate Investment|This paper uses issuance-level data to study how equity capital inflows that enter emerging market economies affect equity issuance and corporate investment. It shows that foreign inflows are strongly correlated with country-level issuance. The relation especially reflects the behavior of large firms. To identify supply-side shocks, capital inflows into each country are instrumented with exogenous changes in other countriesâ€™ attractiveness to foreign investors. Shifts in the supply of foreign capital are important drivers of increased equity inflows. Instrumented contemporaneous and lagged capital inflows lead large firms to raise new equity, which they use to fund investment.
G31|Firm-level Investment Under Imperfect Capital Markets in Ukraine|This paper develops and estimates a model of firm-level fixed capital investment when firms face borrowing constraints. Dynamically optimal investment functions are derived for the firms with and without financial constraints. These policy functions are then used to construct the likelihood of observing each of the investment regimes in the data. Structural parameters are estimated using data from the Ukrainian manufacturing sector in 1993–1998. I provide empirical evidence of the role of market and ownership structure for firm-level investment behavior. I also discuss the effects of international trade exposure and involvement in non-monetary transactions on the probability of facing financial constraints and the resulting fixed capital accumulation path. Estimation results are used to illustrate the welfare implications of financial constraints in the Ukrainian manufacturing sector.
G31|Investment and the WACC: new micro evidence for France|We exploit a new dataset of consolidated balance sheets for some 1,850, mostly nonlisted, French corporate groups, in order to investigate the relationship between corporate investment and the cost of capital. Our empirical model is motivated by a standard Q-theory of investment and relates the rate of investment to a proxy for profits, the cost of capital and firm- and sector-level controls. We notably construct firm-level measures of the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) that account for industry-specific values of the cost of equity and reflect the actual capital structure of firms. We find a confirmation that a high WACC drags down investment: a one SD increase in the real WACC (+2 pp) is associated on average with a reduction by 0.65 pp in the investment rate. The effect is somewhat larger for manufacturing firms and when firms are highly leveraged or more dependent on external finance. We also investigate the impact of lower competition or higher uncertainty on business investment and do not find evidence in support of any role of these two factors in France in recent years.
G31|What Drives Inventory Accumulation? News on Rates of Return and Marginal Costs|We study the effects of news shocks on inventory accumulation in a structural VAR framework. We establish that inventories react strongly and positively to news about future increases in total factor productivity. Theory suggests that the transmission channel of news shocks to inventories works through movements in marginal costs, through movements in sales, or through interest rates. We provide evidence that changes in external and internal rates of return are central to the transmission for such news shocks. We do not find evidence of a strong substitution effect that shifts production from the present into the future.
G31|Collateral damaged? Priority structure, credit supply, and firm performance|A unique legal reform in 2004 in Sweden redistributed collateral rights from banks holding floating liens to unsecured creditors without changing the value of assets on firms' balance sheets. Using a country-wide panel of all incorporated firms, we document that a zero-sum redistribution of collateral rights and the resulting reduction in collateral capacity towards banks contracts the amount and maturity of corporate debt and leads firms to slow investment and forego growth. Altering their allocation of assets, firms reduce particularly those assets with a low collateralizable value for banks and also hoard more cash. However, the reform has no impact on corporate capital intensity or efficiency, suggesting that under these newly binding credit constraints firms simply shrink their operations.
G31|Biased beliefs, costly external finance, and firm behavior : A Unified theory|Overconfidence and overextrapolation are two behavioral biases that are pervasive in human thinking. A long line of research documents that such biases influence business decisions by distorting managers' expected productivity. We propose a new mechanism in which the biases change firms' precautionary motives when external financing is costly, finding that the influences of biases on investment, payouts, and refinancing are stronger for financially weaker firms. Moreover, biased and rational firms display di erential responses to economic booms and busts holding financial positions constant. Our work illustrates that managerial traits, when interacting with imperfect capital markets, drive firm dynamics in business cycles.
G31|Owners' Portfolio Diversification and Firm Investment: Theory and Evidence from Private and Public Firms|Portfolio diversification of firms' controlling owners influences their firms' capital investment. Empirically, the effect of owners' portfolio diversification on their firms' investment levels is positive for publicly-traded firms and tends to be negative for privately-held ones. These findings are consistent with predictions of a model in which a risk-averse investor simultaneously chooses her portfolio structure, and the level and riskiness of capital investment of the firm she controls, and in which the firm can be potentially constrained in its capital investment choices. Overall, our results indicate that owners' portfolio underdiversification and firms' financial constraints can impact firms' resource allocation.
G31|Consumption Taxes and Corporate Investment|While consumers nominally pay the consumption tax, theoretical and empirical evidence is mixed on whether corporations partly shoulder this burden, thereby, affecting corporate investment. Using a quasi-natural experiment, we show that consumption taxes decrease investment. Firms facing more elastic demand decrease investment more strongly because they bear more of the consumption tax. We corroborate the validity of our findings using 86 consumption tax changes in a cross-country panel. We document two mechanisms underlying the investment response: reduced firms’ profitability and lower aggregate consumption. Importantly, the magnitude of the investment response to consumption taxes is similar to that of corporate taxes.
G31|Unintended Consequences of Unemployment Insurance Benefits: The Role of Banks|Unemployment insurance (UI) policies are implemented by many countries to lower individual income risk and to automatically stabilize macroeconomic fluctuations. To the extent that these policies are successful, however, they should be reducing precautionary savings and hence bank deposits – households' major saving instrument. In this paper, we use this lower incentive to save and uncover a novel distortionary mechanism through which UI policies affect the economy. In particular, we show that when state UI benefits become more generous bank deposits decrease. Since deposits are the main and uniquely stable funding source for banks, the decrease in deposits squeezes bank commercial lending, which in turn reduces firm investment.
G31|Big Data and Firm Dynamics|We study a model where firms accumulate data as a valuable intangible asset. Data accumulation affects firms' dynamics. It increases the skewness of the firm size distribution as large firms generate more data and invest more in active experimentation. On the other hand, small data-savvy firms can overtake more traditional incumbents, provided they can finance their initial money-losing growth. Our model can be used to estimate the market and social value of data.
G31|The Economic Costs of Financial Distress|We estimate the economic costs of financial distress by exploiting cross-supplier variation in real estate assets and leverage, and the timing of real estate shocks. We show that for the same client buying from different suppliers, its purchases from suppliers in financial distress decline by an additional 10% following a drop in local real estate prices. The effect is more pronounced in more competitive industries, manufacturing and durable goods industries, for producers of less-specific goods, and when the costs of switching suppliers are low. Our results suggest that the indirect costs of financial distress are economically important.
G31|Ownership, wealth, and risk taking: Evidence on private equity fund managers|We examine the incentive effects of private equity (PE) professionals' ownership in the funds they manage. In a simple model, we show that managers select less risky firms and use more debt financing the higher their ownership. We test these predictions for a sample of PE funds in Norway, where the professionals' private wealth is public. Consistent with the model, firm risk decreases and leverage increases with the manager's ownership in the fund, but largely only when scaled with her wealth. Moreover, the higher the ownership, the smaller is each individual investment, increasing fund diversification. Our results suggest that wealth is of first order importance when designing incentive contracts requiring PE fund managers to coinvest.
G31|Fragile New Economy: The Rise of Intangible Capital and Financial Instability|This paper analyzes the endogenous risk in economies where intangible capital is essential and its limited pledgeability induces firms' liquidity demand. Banks emerge to intermediate the liquidity supply by holding claims on firms' tangible capital and issuing deposits that firms hold to pay for intangible investment. A bubbly value of tangible capital arises and increases in banks' balance-sheet capacity. Its procyclicality induces firms' investment and savings waves, which feed into banks' risk-taking and amplify downside risks. The model produces stagnant crises and replicates several trends in the decades leading up to the Great Recession: (1) the rise of intangible capital; (2) the increase of firms' cash holdings; (3) the growth of financial intermediation; (4) the declining real interest rate; (5) the rising prices of collateral assets.
G31|How Financial Management Affects Institutional Investorsâ€™ Portfolio Choices: Evidence from Insurers|Many institutional investors depend on the returns they generate to fund their operations and liabilities. How does these investorsâ€™ demand for capital affect the management of their portfolios? We address this issue using the insurance industry because insurers are large investors for which detailed portfolio data are available, and can face financial shocks from exogenous weather-related events. We find that insurers with more financial flexibility have larger portfolio weights on riskier and more illiquid assets, and have higher realized returns. Among corporate bonds, for which we can control for regulatory treatment, we find that more financially flexible insurers have larger portfolio weights on riskier and more illiquid corporate bonds. Following losses, P&C insurers decrease allocations to riskier corporate bonds. The effect of losses on allocations is likely to be causal since it holds when instrumenting for P&C losses with weather shocks. The change in allocations following losses is larger for more financially constrained insurers and during the financial crisis, suggesting that the shift toward less risky securities is driven by concerns about financial flexibility. The results highlight the importance of financial flexibility to fund operations in institutional investorsâ€™ portfolio decisions.
G31|Global Uncertainty and Firm Investment: Empirical Assessment|Using firm-level data from 36 countries, we estimate the effect of global uncertainty on corporate investment and financial decisions. Eleven global uncertainty measures that encompass macro, micro, and higher-order dimensions of uncertainty are employed. We find that while Economic Policy Uncertainty (EPU) measures negatively affect investment, non-EPU measures have positive effects. In 2010s, EPU and non-EPU measures exhibit notably different behaviors which appear to considerably influence our results. We also explore how firm- and country-specific characteristics affect the relationship between uncertainty and investment. The negative effects of EPU measures on investment are stronger for firms with high investment irreversibility and high leverage, but no such effect is observed from non-EPU measures. In countries with deeper credit markets, investment decisions are less sensitive to uncertainty. Regarding financial decisions, (1) increased EPU measures lead to increased cash holdings, while an increase in most other uncertainty measures reduces them and (2) except for Global EPU, most uncertainty measures are negatively associated with dividend payouts. Overall, our results reveal that contrary to a substantial body of recent scholarly work, the uncertainty-investment relation is sensitive to uncertainty measures and sample periods and different uncertainty measures have differential effects on cash holdings and dividend payouts.
G31|Golden Age of Capitalism: The effect of education on growth and inequality|This study explores the effect of education on the balance between income per capita and income distribution using the TEVECON model in which growth and development are driven by innovation, giving rise to new sectors. Our results can explain the Golden Age of Capitalism (1950 -1973), characterized by high growth rates and low inequality. Our experiments varying investment in education and its allocation to two social classes define a range of education policies that can lead to many combinations of income per capita and income distribution. We find that education can affect both the creation of high income per capita and income distribution, but it does not always guarantee ``positive'' economic outcomes in terms of the variables we investigate. Thus, of the development paths, our results include both scenarios similar to that described by the Kuznets curve and less ``virtuous'' ones similar to that detected by Piketty and Saez, in which economic progress is accompanied by increasingly inegalitarian income distribution. Moreover, our model predicts that even in highly developed economic systems, different education policies can give rise to combinations of high income per capita and low inequality or low income per capita and low inequality. In this context, a shift from a regime of high growth and falling income inequality, similar to the one observed in the 1950s to 1980s (P1), to a regime of lower growth and increasing income inequality, similar to the one observed in the 1980s to 2000s (P2), could have been produced by a transition from falling inequality in the distribution of education in P1 to rising inequality in the distribution of education in P2. Education alone cannot be considered to be the cause of the transition over P1-P2. Other factors such as liberalization and deregulation that began in the 1980s and increasing globalization, which has been greatly accelerated by the emergence of China, help transform the economic system in the same broad direction. In a general sense, our study shows that while education can greatly contribute to economic development, it is not an intrinsically beneficial force leading automatically to a richer and fairer society.
G31|“Has the ECB’s Monetary Policy Prompted Companies to Invest or Pay Dividends?”|This paper focuses on how the European Central Bank’s (ECB) monetary policies influenced non-financial firms. The paper’s two main contributions are, first, to shed light on non-financial firms’ decisions on leverage, and how the ECB’s conventional and unconventional policies may have affected them. Second, the paper also examines how these policies influenced non-financial firms’ decisions on capital allocation – primarily capital spending and shareholder distribution (for example, dividends and shares repurchases). Towards this end, we use an exhaustive and unique dataset comprised of income statements and balance sheets of leading non-financial firms that operate in the European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU). The main results suggest that ECB’s monetary policies have encouraged firms to raise their debt burden especially after the global recession of 2008. Finally, the ECB’s policies, mainly after 2011, seem to have also stimulated non-financial firms to allocate more resources towards not only capital spending but also shareholder distribution
G31|Asset Prices, Corporate Actions, and Bank of Japan Equity Purchases|Since 2010, the Bank of Japan (BOJ) has purchased stocks to boost domestic firms’ valuations to increase GDP growth. The stock return elasticity with respect to BOJ purchases relative to the previous month’s market capitalization is around 1.6 on the day of the purchase and decreases across longer horizons. Over a quarter, BOJ share purchases worth 1% of total assets correspond to an increase of 1% in returns and a 0.27% increase in total assets. BOJ share purchases predict equity issuances but not debt issuances. However, this largely reflects increased cash and short-term investments. This unconventional monetary stimulus thus may boost share prices and encourages equity issuances, but is ultimately not well transmitted into real tangible capital investment.
G31|Long-Term Discount Rates Do Not Vary Across Firms|Long-term expected returns appear to vary little, if at all, in the cross section of stocks. We devise a bootstrapping procedure that injects small amounts of variation into expected returns and show that even negligible differences in expected returns, if they existed, would be easy to detect. Markers of such differences, however, are absent from actual stock returns. Our estimates are consistent with production-based asset pricing models such as Berk, Green, and Naik (1999) and Gomes, Kogan, and Zhang (2003) in which firms' risks change over time. We show that long-term reversals in stock returns are the consequence of the rapid convergence in expected returns. Our results imply stock market anomalies have only a limited effect on firm valuations.
G31|Real Option Exercise: Empirical Evidence|We study when and why firms exercise real options. Using detailed project-level investment data, we find that the likelihood that a firm exercises a real option is strongly related to peer exercise behavior. Peer exercise decisions are as important in explaining exercise behavior as variables commonly associated with standard real option theories, such as volatility. We identify peer effects using localized exogenous variation in peer project exercise decisions and find evidence consistent with information externalities being important for exercise behavior.
G31|The Role of Financial Conditions in Portfolio Choices: The Case of Insurers|Many institutional investors depend on the returns they generate to fund their operations and liabilities. How do these investors’ financial conditions affect the management of their portfolios? We address this issue using the insurance industry because insurers are large investors for which detailed portfolio data are available, and can face financial shocks from exogenous weather-related events. Results suggest that more constrained insurers have smaller portfolio weights on riskier and illiquid assets, and have lower realized returns. Among corporate bonds, for which we can control for regulatory treatment, results suggest that more constrained insurers have smaller portfolio weights on riskier corporate bonds. Following operating losses, P&C insurers decrease allocations to riskier corporate bonds. The effect of losses on allocations is likely to be causal since it holds when instrumenting for P&C losses with weather shocks. The change in allocations following losses is larger for more constrained insurers and during the financial crisis, suggesting that the shift toward safer securities is driven by concerns about financial flexibility. The results highlight the importance of financial flexibility to fund operations in institutional investors’ portfolio decisions.
G31|Search for Yield in Large International Corporate Bonds : Investor Behavior and Firm Responses|"Emerging market corporations have significantly increased their borrowing in international markets since 2008. This paper shows that this increase was driven by large-denomination bond issuances, most of them with face value of US$500 million. Large issuances are eligible for inclusion in international market indexes, which attract institutional investors. Emerging market firms were able to cut their cost of funds by roughly 100 basis points by issuing large-denomination bonds. Firms face a tradeoff: issue large, index-eligible bonds to borrow at a lower cost (about 100 basis points) but pay the expense of hoarding cash. Because of the""size yield discount,""many companies issued index-eligible bonds, increasing their cash holdings. The willingness to issue large bonds and hoard cash was greater for firms in countries with high carry trade opportunities. These post-2008 behaviors reflected a search for yield by institutional investors into higher-risk securities and are not apparent in developed economies."
G31|Security Analysis: An Investment Perspective|The investment theory, in which the expected return varies cross-sectionally with investment, expected profitability, and expected growth, is a good start to understanding Graham and Dodd’s (1934) Security Analysis. Empirically, the q^5 model goes a long way toward explaining prominent equity strategies rooted in security analysis, including Frankel and Lee’s (1998) intrinsic-to-market value, Piotroski’s (2000) fundamental score, Greenblatt’s (2005) “magic formula,” Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen’s (2019) quality-minus-junk, Buffett’s Berkshire, Bartram and Grinblatt’s (2018) agnostic analysis, as well as Penman and Zhu’s (2014, 2018) and Lewellen’s (2015) expected-return strategies.
G31|Simpler Better Market Betas|This paper proposes a robust one-pass estimator that is easy to code: Justified by the market-model itself and using a prior that market-betas should not be less than –2 and more than +4, the market-model is run on daily stock rates of return that have first been winsorized at –2 and +4 times the contemporaneous market rate of return. The resulting “slope-winsorized” estimates outperform (all) other known estimators in predicting the future OLS market-beta (on R 2 metrics). Adding reasonable age decay, suggesting a half-life of about 3 to 5 months, to observations entering the market-model further improves it. The estimates outpredict the Vasicek estimates by about half as much as the Vasicek estimates outpredict the OLS estimates.
G31|IFRS9 Expected Credit Loss Estimation: Advanced Models for Estimating Portfolio Loss and Weighting Scenario Losses|Estimation of portfolio expected credit loss is required for IFRS9 regulatory purposes. It starts with the estimation of scenario loss at loan level, and then aggregated and summed up by scenario probability weights to obtain portfolio expected loss. This estimated loss can vary significantly, depending on the levels of loss severity generated by the IFSR9 models, and the probability weights chosen. There is a need for a quantitative approach for determining the weights for scenario losses. In this paper, we propose a model to estimate the expected portfolio losses brought by recession risk, and a quantitative approach for determining the scenario weights. The model and approach are validated by an empirical example, where we stress portfolio expected loss by recession risk, and calculate the scenario weights accordingly.
G31|An empirical study on the influencing factors for the over-investment of Chinese SOEs|The efficiency of investment affects the future development of the enterprises. The relevant literature on the corporate investment shows that the information asymmetry and the conflict of agency between the executives and the shareholders of the enterprises have a significant influence on the investment decision-makings. This study uses data of Chinese SOEs to analyze the factors affecting the efficiency of capital allocation of these Chinese SOEs from the perspective of free cash flow, ownership structure, agency costs, financing constraints and government intervention. The results of this study show that the phenomenon of over-investment is relatively obvious among the Chinese state-controlled listed enterprises. The results also show that substantial free cash flow, relatively high ownership concentration and government intervention are the major factors that lead to the over-investment in these Chinese state-owned listed companies. At the meantime, the financing constraints play a positive role in restraining the over-investment of Chinese SOEs, but their effect is quite weak. Moreover, the distortions of the senior executives’ value goals lead to the failure of executive compensation mechanism and the construction of a proper governance system needs to begin with the property rights relations.
G31|The accounting-and-finance of a solar photovoltaic plant: Economic efficiency of a replacement project|In this work we illustrate a simple logical framework serving the purpose of assessing the economic profitability and measuring value creation in a solar photovoltaic (PhV) project and, in general, in a replacement project where the cash-flow stream is nonnegative, with some strictly positive cash flows. We use the projected accounting data to compute the average ROI, building upon Magni (2011, 2019) (see also Magni and Marchioni 2018), which enables retrieving information on the role of the project’s economic efficiency and the role of the project scale on increasing shareholders’ wealth. The average ROI is a genuinely internal measure and does not suffer from the pitfalls of the internal rate of return (IRR), which may be particularly critical in replacement projects such as the purchase of a PhV plant aimed at replacing conventional retail supplies of electricity.
G31|Understanding Corporate Thailand I: Finance|"This study analyzes the entire universe of registered firms in Thailand. There are five main findings. First, firm size distribution is smooth, with a majority of firms in the middle of the distribution; the apparent ""missing middle? phenomenon is entirely driven by arbitrary categorization of small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Second, the Thai corporate sector is very concentrated; the concentration has also risen over the past decade. Third, larger firms seem to have advantages over smaller firms regarding financing. Fourth, smaller firms tend to disproportionately invest less in fixed assets than larger firms. Finally, firms in the middle of the size distribution exhibit the highest return on asset (ROA) but have low leverage, consistent with the symptom of credit constraints. Large firms, in contrast, seem to have lower ROA but higher debt. Meanwhile, smaller firms seem to have both lower leverage and ROA. Overall, our results suggest that the Thai corporate sector exhibits both inefficient capital allocation and financial vulnerability. The paper has important policy implications on resource allocation in the economy, particularly, regarding appropriate assistance provided to small and medium enterprises."
G31|What is the Investment Loss due to Uncertainty?|We investigate the effect of uncertainty on investment. We employ a unique dataset of 25000 Greek firms' balance sheets for 14 years covering the period before and after the eurozone crisis. A dynamic factor model is employed to proxy uncertainty. The investment performance of 14 sectors is examined within a dynamic investment model. Robust GMM estimates of the investment rate model reveal a high degree of heterogeneity among these sectors. Overall uncertainty affects negatively investment performance and this effect substantially increased in the years of crisis. Agriculture and Mining are the least affected and the most affected ones include Manufacturing, Real Estate and Hotels. Focusing on the response of investment to uncertainty, it emerges that (relative) smaller firms are affected more compared to larger ones.
G31|An Anomaly in Hong Kong Stock Market|The Eastern market wisdom of ?May is poor, June is bleak, and July will turn around? unveils an international stock markets dynamic that lower returns in May followed by even worse return in June but rebounding back to an upward trend in July. This wisdom is termed as ?Eastern Halloween? effect in this paper which has some similarities with the traditional Halloween Effect but differing in duration and timing. This paper examines the Eastern Halloween effect on Hong Kong stock market and the results show that May and June period returns are superior than the returns on the rest of the calendar months in Hong Kong Stock Market.
G31|Leverage Dynamics: Do Financial Development and Government Leverage Matter? Evidence from a Major Developing Economy|This study analyses leverage dynamics of Turkish non-financial firms over the last 20 years using a confidential and unique firm-level dataset. Results of dynamic panel estimations reveal that financial development fosters corporate leverage while government indebtedness inhibits it. Both impacts are more pronounced for private firms rather than public firms. Besides, even though improvements in financial development foster long-term debt usage for both SMEs and large firms, this impact seems stronger for SMEs. Conspicuously, results reveal that SMEs suffer much more than large firms in crowding-out periods of government leverage while both SMEs and large firms benefit in crowding-in periods. Moreover, higher business risk hinders corporate leverage of private firms and SMEs, which is not the case for either large firms or public firms. Results are robust to alternative firm size classification schemes and alternative model specifications.
G31|Search for Yield in Large International Corporate Bonds: Investor Behavior and Firm Responses|Emerging market corporations have significantly increased their borrowing in international markets since 2008. We show that this increase was driven by large-denomination bond issuances, most of them with face value of exactly US$500 million. Large issuances are eligible for inclusion in important international market indexes. These bonds appeal to institutional investors because they are more liquid and facilitate targeting market benchmarks. We find that the rewards of issuing index-eligible bonds rose drastically after 2008. Emerging market firms were able to cut their cost of funds by roughly 100 basis points by issuing bonds with a face value equal to or greater than US$500 million relative to smaller bonds. Firms contemplating whether to take advantage of this cost saving face a tradeoff: they can benefit from the lower yields associated with large, index-eligible bonds, but they pay the potential cost of having to hoard low-yielding cash assets if their investment opportunities are less than US$500 million. Because of the post-2008 “size yield discount,” many companies issued index-eligible bonds, while substantially increasing their cash holdings. The willingness to issue large bonds and hoard cash was greater for firms in countries with high carry trade opportunities that reduced the cost of holding cash. We present evidence suggesting that these post-2008 behaviors reflected a search for yield by institutional investors into higher-risk securities. These patterns are not apparent in the issuance of investment grade bonds by firms in developed economies.
G31|Robot arithmetic: new technology and wages|Existing economic models show how new technology can cause large changes in relative wages and inequality. But there are also claims, based largely on verbal expositions, that new technology can harm workers on average or even all workers. This paper shows – under plausible assumptions - that new technology is unlikely to cause wages for all workers to fall and will cause average wages to rise if the prices of investment goods fall relative to consumer goods (a condition supported by the data). We outline how results may change with different assumptions.
G31|Some Causal Effects of an Industrial Policy|We exploit changes in the area-specific eligibility criteria for a program to support jobs through investment subsidies. European rules determine whether an area is eligible for subsidies, and we construct instrumental variables for area eligibility based on parameters of these rule changes. Areas eligible for higher subsidies significantly increased jobs and reduced unemployment. A ten-percentage point increase in the maximum investment subsidy stimulates a 10% increase in manufacturing employment. This effect exists solely for small firms: large companies accept subsidies without increasing activity. There are positive effects on investment and employment for incumbent firms but not Total Factor Productivity.
G31|Corporate Financial Distress of Industry Level Listings in an Emerging Market|Any critical analysis of the corporate financial distress of listed firms in international exchange would be incomplete without a serious dissection at the industry level because of the different levels of risks concerned. This paper considers the financial distress of listed firms at the industry level in Vietnam over the last decade. Two periods are considered, namely during the Global Financial Crisis (GFC) (2007 - 2009) and post-GFC (2010 - 2017). The logit regression technique is used to estimate alternative models based on accounting and market factors. The paper also extends the analysis to include selected macroeconomic factors that are expected to affect the corporate financial distress of listed firms at the industry level in Vietnam. The empirical findings confirm that the corporate financial distress prediction model, which includes accounting factors with macroeconomic indicators, performs much better than alternative models. In addition, the evidence confirms that the GFC had a damaging impact on each sector, with the Health & Education sector demonstrating the most impressive recovery post-GFC, and the Utilities sector recording a dramatic increase in bankruptcies post-GFC.
G31|Dynamic competition and intellectual property rights in a model of product development|We study innovation timing and socially optimal intellectual property rights (IPRs) when firms facing market uncertainty invest strategically in product development. If demand growth and volatility are high, attrition occurs and IPRs should ensure the cost of imitation attains a lower bound we identify. If demand growth and volatility are low then provided that the private imitation incentive is socially excessive, IPRs should set the cost of imitation high enough to induce preemption, and possibly winner-take-all preemption. Moreover, the welfare achieved with optimal IPRs is then greater with endogenous innovation than if firm roles are predetermined, illustrating the importance of fostering dynamic competition. In extensions we show how firms benefit from open standards, takeovers have ambiguous welfare effects and simple licensing schemes are welfare improving.
G31|Calibration of DCF Valuation in Litigation: The case of HQ|HQ was a medium-sized Swedish banking group whose banking and fund management licenses were revoked in 2010, after losses in trading in equity derivatives for its own account. The parent company of the HQ group sued the board members and the audit firm and the responsible auditor for damages. NN was an expert witness for plaintiff and submitted a DCF valuation of HQ in a but-for scenario, where the banking group would have survived. This valuation is an interesting example of choice of valuation model assumptions to obtain a specific result, i. e., calibration. The nature of the calibration depends on the purpose of the model. Two possible purposes of a DCF model used by an expert for plaintiff are mentioned, maximizing the but-for value, and legitimizing a value that has been set in advance based on other considerations. From an analysis of unusual evidence that is contained in the DCF valuation model for HQ, it appears that the purpose of that model was to legitimize a value that had been set in advance. The author served as expert witness to defendant, with the task of rebutting NN. This paper is based on expert reports by NN and the author.
G31|Under pressure: listing status and disinvestment in Japan|We provide the first large sample comparisons of disinvestment by listed and unlisted firms. This study focuses on Japanese firms from 2001-2017, as this was a period of economic stagnation and financial reforms encouraging companies to restructure. We show that stock market listing is positively related to disinvestment. Listed firms disinvest 1.9% more than similar unlisted firms. Disinvestment activities of listed companies are also more sensitive to investment opportunities. Additionally, firms that disinvest show improvements in ROA and increases in future investment. Finally, we find that foreign (financial institution) ownership is positively (negatively) related to disinvestment.
G31|企業の内部情報システムの質と企業の投資行動|本稿は、企業の内部情報システムの質が企業の投資行動に与える影響を分析する。企業の内部情報システムが整備されていると、経営者が適時的に投資機会を把握することができると予想される。また、企業内部の資本配分が効率的に行われるようになると予想される。検証の結果、開示ラグの小ささで測定した内部情報システムの質が大きくなるほど、①企業の投資行動が積極的になっており、②産業レベルの投資機会に対する感応度が改善していることが明らかになった。これらの結果は、企業の内部情報システムが、経営者が把握可能な情報を変化させることを通じて、投資行動を変化させていることを示唆する結果である。
G31|Financial reporting frequency and external finance : Evidence from a quasi-natural experiment|Using a unique institutional background of Japan, this study first examines the effects of the increase in the reporting frequency on corporate financing. From Difference-in-Difference (DiD) analysis, I show that the increase in the reporting frequency increases external finance but not finance from bank. Next, I find that the positive effects of the increase in the reporting frequency are stronger in firms with a) financial constraints, b) ex-ante information asymmetry, and c) more external capital demand. I also find that the firms a) do not change the cash holding intensity, b) invest more, and c) payout more. Unlike prior literature, these findings suggest that the increase in the reporting frequency enhances firm activities.
G31|財務報告頻度のリアル・エフェクト：四半期開示の政策評価|本稿は日本の四半期開示の導入を利用して、高頻度の財務報告には企業の投資行動を促進する効果があることを実証的に示す。非上場の公開企業をコントロール・グループと設定し、報告頻度が企業の投資行動に与える影響を識別する。Difference-in-difference分析の結果、報告頻度の増加によって投資が増加しており、この効果は過小投資やquiet lifeに陥る可能性が高い企業で強いことを発見した。, Investigating the initiation of quarterly financial reporting to Japanese listed firms, this study finds that more frequent financial reporting increases corporate investment. To isolate the effects of quarterly financial reporting, I use Japanese quasi-private firms as the control sample. My Difference-in-Difference approach shows the positive effects of the frequent reporting on corporate investment. This study also finds that the effects are stronger for firms with the incentives of under-investment.
G31|Neu-Emissions-Prämien: Handlungsalternativen für CFOs bei der Emission von Corporate Bonds|Underpricing of corporate bond offerings result in excess returns for investors (new issue premia) but lead to higher costs for the issuer. This paper analyses the new issue premia of 1.556 Euro denominated fixed coupon corporate bonds and finds a systematic underpricing of new issued bonds. The results are evaluated from a perspective of CFOs whether opportunities for saving funding costs exist.
G31|Entrepreneurial finance, home equity, and monetary policy|We model entrepreneurial finance using a combination of fiat money, traditional bank loans, and home equity loans. The banking sector is over-the- counter, where bargaining determines the pass-through from the nominal interest rate to the bank lending rate, characterizing the transmission channel of monetary policy. The results show that the strength of this channel depends on the combination of nominal and real assets used to finance investments, and thus declines in the extent to which housing is accepted as collateral. A calibration to the U.S. economy supports the theoretical results and provides novel insights on entrepreneurial finance between 2000 and 2016.
G31|Digitale Währungssysteme: Kryptowährungen in der Unternehmensfinanzierung|In this working paper we basically try to answer two questions. First, we ask whether a crypto-currency is money or a currency at all in the traditional economic sense? Second, we ask whether a financial manager of a company may generate cost advantages by issuing debt in a crypto-currency? We analyse typical criteria in this respect for deciding about pros and cons of issuing debt in a crypt-currency and we take a closer look at empirical data.
G31|Debt and the Oil Industry - Analysis on the Firm and Production Level|This paper analyzes the relationship between debt and the production decision of companies active in the exploration and production of oil and gas in the United States. Over the last couple of years, the development and application of innovative extraction methods, like hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling, led to a considerable increase in United States (US) oil production. In connection with these technological changes, another important economic development in the oil industry was largely debt-driven investment in the oil sector. The extensive use of debt was fostered by the macroeconomic environment of low interest rates and investors searching for yield in the aftermath of the financial crisis. Additionally, the rising prices in the commodities markets until mid 2014 led to higher asset valuation and thus to higher return expectations fueling a virtuous circle. This increased investment activity, especially in the US, raised the production capacity and as a consequence contributed to a higher production of oil and natural gas. This trend continued in spite of the oil price decline in 2014, whereas the oil price slump in 2008 led to a reduction in oil production, which seems to be the more plausible reaction. The aim of this paper can be split into two research questions. The first research question is whether debt and leverage affects production decisions of companies active in the exploration and production (E&P) of crude oil and natural gas. The second research question then is, if the technological changes in the industry and the increased indebtedness of US oil companies led to a markedly different reaction in their production decision following 2014 compared to the similar price decline in 2008. A potential reason for the absence or delay in cutting back production after the price drop in 2014 could be supposedly higher levels of debt prior to the price decline. These questions are addressed applying the relatively new panel vector autoregressive (VAR) approach to a novel dataset combining financial data on publicly listed firms and their production data on well level.
G31|New venture investing trajectories: A large scale longitudinal study|Investment trajectories of new enterprises are a largely neglected but important issue of new firms' business behavior. This paper debuts in showing robust evidence of new venture investment time patterns by using investment time series of 4.733 new businesses. Based on a fixed effects nonlinear panel regression approach, the study models the trajectory of new venture asset acquisition in the first years after market entry. The results unveil durations and levels of investment patterns. Showing a first investment peak at market entry and a second peak years later, an initial new venture investment cycle is bimodal. Its peak-to-peak duration yields approximately nine years on average. New venture investment can be staggered into three stages, namely an initial, a plateau, and a replacement and expansion stage.
G31|The economics of capital allocation in firms: Evidence from internal capital markets|We analyze a unique survey dataset to examine the (micro)foundations of capital allocation in firms. Firms employ systems of interconnected measures to counteract agency problems, including layers of approval, divisional budgets, reporting requirements, and compensation schemes. When making funding decisions, top management relies heavily on top-level, nonfinancial information. However, substantial parts of the capital budget do not require top management approval as firms trade off the benefits and costs of decentralization. Even firms with active internal capital markets tilt capital allocation toward relatively even distributions. Within-firm agency problems may result in divisions' restricted access to internal capital.
G31|Local peer effects and corporate investment|We examine how a firms' investment behavior affects the investment of a neighboring firm. Economic theory yields ambiguous predictions regarding the direction of firm peer effects and consistent with earlier work, we find that firms display similar investment behavior within an area using OLS analysis. Exploiting time-variation in the rise of U.S. states' corporate income taxes and utilizing heterogeneity in firms' exposure to increases in corporate income tax rates, we identify the causal impact of local firms' investments. Using this as an instrumental variable in a 2SLS estimation, we find that an increases in local firms' investment reduces the investment of a local peer firm. This effect is more pronounced if local competition among firms is stronger and supports theories that firm investments are strategic substitutes due to competition.
G31|Are R&D subsidies effective? The effect of industry competition|This study explores the effect of industry competition on public R&D subsidies' effectiveness. The author finds the non-linear threshold effect of industry competition on R&D subsidies' effectiveness. Specifically, R&D subsidies' effectiveness reaches its peak when industry competition lies between the two estimated thresholds.
G31|Firm-level investment spikes and aggregate investment over the Great Recession| Firm-level investment paths are commonly characterised by periods of low or zero investment punctuated by large investment ‘spikes’. We document that such spikes are important for understanding ?rm and aggregate level investment in the UK. We show that annual variation in aggregate investment is driven by variation in the number of ?rms undertaking investment spikes rather than in the size of spikes or in investment outside of spikes. Our main contribution is to set out and estimate a ?rm-level model of the timing of investment spikes that: (i) incorporates measures of macroeconomic conditions and can be used to replicate movements in aggregate investment; (ii) incorporates a role for ?rm capital structure, which we demonstrate explains part of ?rms’ heterogeneous investment responses to the Great Recession. We ?nd an important role for low demand growth in depressing investment in the recession and for ongoing uncertainty in prolonging investment weakness in later years. The minority of ?rms that persistently operate with high debt levels were signi?cantly less likely to undertake an investment spike after the recession, which is consistent with them having been more exposed to ?nancial distress.
G31|Firm Heterogeneity and the Dynamics of Credit Rationing in Japan|The role of firms' financial heterogeneity in determining the credit channel of monetary policy attracted more attention recently. We investigate the degree of financial constraints among listed Japanese firms from 1994 to 2014. Based on an estimated financial constraints index, we analyze the distribution of this value and investigate its time-series changes. First, the distribution of financial constraints is approximately a gamma distribution with a long right tail, meaning that many firms have weak credit constraints and a small number of firms have severe credit constraints. Second, the spread between the 75th and the 25th percentiles of the financial constraints index increased, especially after 2000, which implies that financial inequality increased recently. Third, this increased inequality may be due to the growing inequality between firms within the same industry. We conduct a simple regression of the financial constraints index on productivity and find that the increased financial heterogeneity appears to be linked to the increase in productivity dispersion.
G31|Corporate Leverage and Investment in Portugal|This analysis aims at assessing the decrease of investment induced by an increase in debt of an excessively indebted corporate sector in Portugal, testing empirically the relationship between corporate indebtedness and investment. The results show evidence of a negative relationship between firms’ investment-to-capital ratio and their indebtedness over the period 2010-15. This type of relation between these variables suggests the need for companies to deleverage. Results also point to asymmetric effects beyond a certain threshold level of indebtedness, namely a debt-to-asset ratio of 45.6%, because greater access to debt can help increase investment levels, but excess leverage can reverse these benefits by raising corporate vulnerabilities. Relationship between debt and investment was also tested along firm sector to deepen the role of firm sector heterogeneity and a negative relationship was also found in the three major sectors (Wholesale and retail, Manufacturing and Construction).
G31|Credit Risk Analysis using Machine and Deep learning models|Due to the hyper technology associated to Big Data, data availability and computing power, most banks or lending financial institutions are renewing their business models. Credit risk predictions, monitoring, model reliability and effective loan processing are key to decision making and transparency. In this work, we build binary classifiers based on machine and deep learning models on real data in predicting loan default probability. The top 10 important features from these models are selected and then used in the modelling process to test the stability of binary classifiers by comparing performance on separate data. We observe that tree-based models are more stable than models based on multilayer artificial neural networks. This opens several questions relative to the intensive used of deep learning systems in the enterprises
G31|Banking on Deposits: Maturity Transformation without Interest Rate Risk|We show that maturity transformation does not expose banks to significant interest rate risk---it actually hedges banks' interest rate risk. We argue that this is driven by banks' deposit franchise. Banks incur large operating costs to maintain their deposit franchise, and in return get substantial market power. Market power allows banks to charge depositors a spread by paying deposit rates that are low and insensitive to market rates. The deposit franchise therefore works like an interest rate swap where banks pay the fixed-rate leg (the operating costs) and receive the floating-rate leg (the deposit spread). To hedge the deposit franchise, banks must therefore hold long-term fixed-rate assets; i.e., they must engage in maturity transformation. Consistent with this view, we show that banks' aggregate net interest margins have been highly stable and insensitive to interest rates over the past six decades, and that banks' equity values are largely insulated from monetary policy shocks. Moreover, in the cross section we find that banks match the interest-rate sensitivities of their income and expenses one-for-one, and that banks with less sensitive interest expenses hold substantially more long-term assets. Our results imply that forcing banks to hold only short-term assets (``narrow banking'') would make banks unhedged and, more broadly, that the deposit franchise is what allows banks to lend long term.
G31|Missing Novelty in Drug Development|This paper provides evidence that risk aversion leads pharmaceutical firms to underinvest in radical innovation. We define a drug candidate as novel if it is molecularly distinct from prior candidates. Using our measure, we show that firms face a risk-reward tradeoff when investing in novel drugs: while novel drug candidates are less likely to be approved by the FDA, they are based on patents with higher indicators of value. We show that–counter to the predictions of frictionless models–firms respond to a plausibly exogenous positive shock to their net worth by developing more of these riskier novel candidates. This pattern suggests that financial market imperfections may lead even large public firms to behave as though they are risk averse, therefore hindering their willingness to invest in potentially valuable novel drugs.
G31|Q5|In a multiperiod investment framework, firms with high expected growth earn higher expected returns than firms with low expected growth, holding investment and expected profitability constant. This paper forms cross-sectional growth forecasts, and constructs an expected growth factor that yields an average premium of 0.82% per month (t = 9.81). The q5 model, which augments the Hou-Xue-Zhang (2015) q-factor model with the new factor, shows strong explanatory power in the cross section, and outperforms other recently proposed factor models such as the Fama-French (2018) 6-factor model.
G31|Capital Reallocation|Capital reallocation is procyclical, despite measured productive reallocative opportunities being acyclical, or even countercyclical. This paper reviews the advances in the literature studying the causes and consequences of capital reallocation (or lack thereof). We provide a comprehensive set of capital reallocation stylized facts for the US, and an illustrative model of capital reallocation in equilibrium. We relate capital reallocation to the broader literatures on business cycles with financial frictions, and on resource misallocation and aggregate productivity. Throughout, we provide directions for future research.
G31|The Valuation of Fisheries Rights: A Real Options Approach|This article develops and implements a Real Option approach to value renewable natural resources in the case of Marine Fisheries. The model includes two sources of uncertainty: the resource biomass and the price of fish, and it can be used by fisheries to optimally adapt their harvesting strategy to changing conditions in these stochastic variables. The model also features realistic operational cash flows and fisheries can shutdown and reopen operations. Using publicly available data on the British Columbia halibut fishery, the required parameters are estimated and the model solved. The results indicate that the conservation of the biomass is both optimal from a financial and a social perspective. The approach could be extended to other fish species and natural resources if the appropriate data were available.
G31|State Dependent Effects of Monetary Policy: the Refinancing Channel|This paper studies how the impact of monetary policy depends on the distribution of savings from refinancing mortgages. We show that the efficacy of monetary policy is state dependent, varying in a systematic way with the pool of potential savings from refinancing. We construct a quantitative dynamic lifecycle model that accounts for our findings and use it to study how the response of consumption to a change in mortgage rates depends on the distribution of savings from refinancing. These effects are strongly state dependent. We also use the model to study the impact of a long period of low interest rates on the potency of monetary policy. We find that this potency is substantially reduced both during the period and for a substantial amount of time after interest rates renormalize.
G31|The Benchmark Inclusion Subsidy|"We study the impact of evaluating the performance of asset managers relative to a benchmark portfolio on firms' investment, merger and IPO decisions. We introduce asset managers into an otherwise standard asset pricing model and show that firms that are part of the benchmark are effectively subsidized by the asset managers. This ""benchmark inclusion subsidy"" arises because asset managers have incentives to hold some of the equity of firms in the benchmark regardless of the risk characteristics of these firms. Contrary to what is usually taught in corporate finance, we show that the value of an investment project is not governed solely by its own cash-flow risk. Instead, because of the benchmark inclusion subsidy, a firm inside the benchmark would accept some projects that an identical one outside the benchmark would decline. The two types of firms' incentives to undertake mergers or spinoffs also differ and the presence of the subsidy can alter a decision to take a firm public. We show that the higher the cash-flow risk of an investment, the larger the benchmark inclusion subsidy; the subsidy is zero for safe projects. Benchmarking also leads fundamental firm-level cash-flow correlations to rise. We review a host of empirical evidence that is consistent with the implications of the model."
G31|Growing pension deficits and the expenditure decisions of UK companies|Large deficits have opened up on defined benefit pension schemes in the United Kingdom since 2007, and at the same time investment expenditure has been subdued; this is a common phenomenon in other countries too. We use privileged access to a unique new data set from The Pensions Regulator and two identification schemes to investigate the effects of deficits and deficit recovery plans on UK companies’ dividends, investment, wages and cash holdings. Identification is based on the close relationship between low long-term interest rates and pension deficits; and the external regulation of pension schemes by The Pensions Regulator. We show that firms with larger pension deficits voluntarily pay lower dividends, but they do not invest less. However, firms that are required to make deficit recovery contributions by the regulator have lower dividend and investment expenditure compared to other firms, and more so if they are financially constrained. These effects are large for some individual companies, but macroeconomically small compared to the stimulus offered by the Bank of England’s quantitative easing policy.
G31|SMEs’ financing: Divergence across Euro area countries?|This paper studies the divergence/convergence process of European countries as regard the financing behavior of small and medium sized enterprises. Using a firm level and country representative survey, we construct country-time indicators of SMEs’ use of three external financing sources: bank loans, credit line/overdraft and trade credit. These indicators account for composition effects and demand effects. We find substantial differences between countries in the SMEs’ use of the three financing sources. In particular, the cross-country differences related to SMEs’ use of bank loans have significantly increased over the period 2010-2014. This divergence is not related to a global increase in the volatility of this use between countries. Instead, it has been driven by a sharper increase (resp decrease) in the countries where SMEs’ use was initially higher (resp. lower). Finally, we investigate whether SMEs’ uses of financing sources are correlated at the country level with various macroeconomic and banking structure indicators. The results suggest that indicators about banking concentration are good candidates to explain the cross-country divergence of SMEs’ use of bank loans.
G31|The Role of Corporate Saving over the Business Cycle: Shock Absorber or Amplifier?|We document countercyclical corporate saving behavior with the degree of countercyclicality varying nonmonotonically with firm size. We then develop a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model with heterogeneous firms to explain the pattern and study its implications for business cycles. In the presence of financial frictions and fixed operating costs, a persistent negative productivity shock signals low future income and prompts firms to hold more cash in order to preserve financial flexibility and maintain normal operations. This countercyclicality exhibits a hump-shaped relation to firm size. Compared with mediumsized firms, small firms have a higher marginal product of capital and thus better investment opportunities, which compete for resources with cash, while large firms have more pledgeable assets and demand less cash. We find that, on average, firms accumulate cash by cutting investment and employment in recessions, which reduces aggregate output and increases economic fluctuations. Corporate saving, therefore, amplifies aggregate shocks.
G31|Credit constraints, firms investment and growth evidence from survey data|We assess the impact of credit constraints on investment, inventories and other working capital and firm growth with a large panel of small and medium-sized enterprises from 12 European countries for the period 2014-2016. The data come from the Survey on the access to finance of enterprises (SAFE), a survey that is especially designed to analyse the problems in the access to external finance of European SMEs. The key identification challenge is a potential reverse-causality bias, as firms with poor investment and growth opportunities may have a higher probability of being credit constrained. We implement several strategies to overcome this obstacle: proxies for investment opportunities, lagged regressors, random effects and instrumental variables. Our findings suggest that credit constraints, both in bank financing and other financing (e.g. trade credit), have strong negative effects on investment in fixed assets, while the impact on firm growth and working capital is less robust.
G31|Policy uncertainty and investment in Spain|The aim of this paper is to investigate the effect of policy uncertainty on firms’ investment decisions. We focus on Spain for the period 1998-2014. To measure policy-related uncertainty, we use a new macroeconomic indicator constructed for this country. We find strong evidence that policy uncertainty reduces corporate investment. Furthermore, the heterogeneous results suggest that the adverse effect of policy uncertainty is particularly relevant for highly vulnerable firms. In particular, non-exporting firms, small and medium enterprises, as well as firms in poorer financial condition are shown to decrease investment significantly more than their counterparts. Overall, these results are consistent with the hypotheses that policy-related uncertainty reduces corporate investment through increases in precautionary savings or to worsening of credit conditions.
G31|The macro determinants of firms' and households' investment: Evidence from Italy|Using under-exploited institutional sector account data, we assess the main drivers of both firms' and households' investment in Italy over the past two decades. We thus test the validity of the flexible neoclassical model of investment for both sectors, in particular by exploring the significance of additional drivers to output and to the real user cost of capital and by assessing both feedback effects and short- and long-run linkages across all variables in a vector error correction framework. Our findings support the neoclassical model in the long run. However, in the short run, both firms' and households' capital accumulation is found to have been dampened by a rise in uncertainty, a deterioration in confidence, as well as by higher indebtedness and by tighter financing constraints. Moreover, we find that disregarding the role of these short-run variables hinders the understanding of investment dynamics in Italy, especially in the most recent recessionary years.
G31|Firms’ investments during two crises|We study the drivers of investment in Italy during the global financial crisis and the sovereign debt crisis. We focus on the effect of leverage while controlling for the role of other drivers: expected demand, profitability, access to credit and uncertainty. As firm-level leverage may be correlated with its unobservable characteristics, we employ instrumental variables estimation, using the median leverage of firms in the same industry and size decile as an instrument. We find that an increase in leverage equal to the interquartile range (about 30 percentage points) is associated with a lower investment rate of 1.9 and 1.4 percentage points (36 and 41 per cent of its mean) during each crisis. We also find that expected demand growth has a strong positive association with investments, whereas this relation holds for profitability only during the sovereign debt crisis. In contrast, credit rationing and uncertainty have a negative, although more limited, effect. Overall, ex-ante high firm indebtedness has been an important driver of the lower investment rate over the last decade.
G31|Family first? Nepotism and corporate investment|Nepotism emerges in a multiplicity of contexts from political assignments to firm hiring decisions, but what are its real effects on the economy? This paper explores how nepotism affects corporate investment. To measure nepotism, we build a unique dataset of family connections among individuals employed in strategic positions by the same firm. We address endogeneity concerns by exploiting the heterogeneity in ancestries across U.S. counties to construct a measure of inherited family values. We find that firms headquartered in counties where locals inherited strong family values exhibit more nepotism. Using this measure and the percentage of family households in the county as instrumental variables, we provide evidence that nepotism hinders investment. Overall, our results suggest that underinvestment in these firms is driven by both lower quality of hired workers and lower incentive to exert effort.
G31|Foreign currency borrowing, balance sheet shocks and real outcomes|Emerging market firms frequently borrow in foreign currency (FX), but their assets are often denominated in domestic currency. This behavior leads to an FX mismatch on firms balance sheets, which can harm their net worth in the event of a depreciation. I use a large, unanticipated, and exogenous depreciation episode and a unique dataset to identify the real and financial effects of firm balance sheet shocks. I construct a new dataset of all listed non-financial firms, matched to their banks, in Mexico over 2008q1-2015q2. This dataset combines firm-level balance sheets and real outcomes, currency composition of both assets and liabilities, and firms' loan-level borrowing from banks in peso and FX. This data allows me to control for shocks to firms' credit supply to identify the balance sheet shock and examine its real consequences. I find that non-exporting firms that have a larger FX mismatch experience greater negative balance sheet effects following the depreciation. Among these, smaller firms see a decrease in loan growth, resulting in stagnant employment growth and decreased growth in physical capital relative to firms with smaller FX mismatch. Larger firms with a large FX mismatch also have lower growth in FX loans following the shock, but are able to increase borrowing in peso loans, resulting in relatively higher growth in employment and physical capital. My results imply that firms are subject to net worth based borrowing constraints, and that these constraints are more binding on smaller firms and for loans in FX.
G31|Growing pension deficits and the expenditure decisions of UK companies|Large deficits have opened up on defined benefit pension schemes in the UK since 2007, and at the same time investment expenditure has been subdued; this is a common phenomenon in other countries too. We use privileged access to a unique new dataset from The Pensions Regulator and two identification schemes to investigate the effects of deficits and deficit recovery plans on UK companies’ dividends, investment, wages and cash holdings. Identification is based on the close relationship between low long-term interest rates and pension deficits; and the external regulation of pension schemes by The Pensions Regulator. We show that firms with larger pension deficits voluntarily pay lower dividends, but they do not invest less. However, firms that are required to make deficit recovery contributions by the regulator have lower dividend and investment expenditure compared to other firms, and more so if they are financially constrained. These effects are large for some individual companies, but macro-economically small compared to the stimulus offered by the Bank of England’s quantitative easing policy.
G31|Business investment, cash holding and uncertainty since the Great Financial Crisis|The Lehman Brothers event in 2008 created a large uncertainty shock that triggered an economic slowdown lasting a decade. The macroeconomic effects are well documented, but the effect on business decisions much less so. In this paper, we explore corporate data to investigate how economic uncertainty affected investment, dividend payouts and cash holdings, based on over 10,000 UK firm-year observations. We offer new insights into the relationship between business decisions and uncertainty, by exploiting two surveys of macroeconomic uncertainty from professional forecasters and CFOs collected by the Bank of England. These data demonstrate that heightened economic uncertainty lowered investment even after controlling for investment opportunities, sales growth, and the firm’s own stock volatility. Economic uncertainty also explains the rise in cash holdings and the fall in payouts. Hence, our results help explain why UK firms invested so little and held so much cash at a time of historically low interest rates, and also why they paid out smaller dividends. These results may help explain recent sluggish productivity in the UK economy, and they also are important, because they provide a benchmark for future studies of Brexit-related uncertainty.
G31|Financial markets and the allocation of capital: the role of productivity|The efficient allocation of credit is a key element for the success of an economy. Traditional measures of allocative efficiency focus on the Q-theory of investment and, in particular, on the elasticity of finance to investment opportunities proxied by firm real value added. This paper introduces a theorybased alternative measure that focuses instead on the elasticity of credit to firm productivity. In doing so, it develops a simple theoretical framework that delivers clear predictions for the elasticity of credit to current and future productivity depending on capital market frictions. When applied to the novel firm-level dataset of the Competitiveness Research Network (CompNet) set up by the EU System of Central Banks, the proposed measure leads to normative statements about the efficiency of credit allocation across the largest Eurozone economies, changing the conclusions that one would reach based on traditional empirical applications of Q-theory.
G31|A Corporate Financing-Based Asset Pricing Model|I show that an asset pricing model for the equity claims of a value-maximizing firm can be constructed from its optimal financial contracting behavior. I study a dynamic contracting model in which firms trade off the costs and benefits of a given promise to pay external lenders in a specific economic state. Deals between firms and financiers reveal the importance of that state for firm's equity value, namely the stochastic discount factor the firm responds to. I empirically evaluate the model in the cross section of expected equity returns. I find that the financial contracting approach goes a long way in rationalizing observed cross-sectional differences in average returns, also in comparison to leading asset pricing models. In addition, the model discloses that two easily measured variables, the growth rates on net worth and profitability, generate sizeable cross-sectional spreads in returns. Finally, a calibrated version of the model is broadly consistent with observed corporate policies of US listed firms.
G31|Corporate Strategy, Conformism, and the Stock Market|We show that when corporate managers rely on the stock market as a source information, they are more likely to follow common strategies because this behavior enhances the informativeness of stock prices about their growth opportunities. Thus, the stock market induces conformity in strategic choices. Our theory predicts that this effect should be weaker for public firms. Consistent with this prediction, we observe empirically that firms differentiate their products more after going public. In line with our model, this pattern is stronger when managers are better informed or when the stock prices of a firm's peers are less informative.
G31|The Sources of Financing Constraints|In order to identify the relevant sources of firms' financing constraints, we ask what financial rictions matter for corporate policies. To that end, we build, solve, and estimate a range of dynamic models of corporate investment and financing, embedding a host of financial frictions. We focus on limited enforcement, moral hazard, and tradeoff models. All models share a common technology, but differ in the friction generating financing constraints. Using panel data on Compustat firms for the period 1980-2015 and a more recent dataset on private firms from Orbis, we determine which features of the observed data allow to distinguish among the models, and we assess which model performs best at rationalizing observed corporate investment and financing policies across various samples. Our tests, based on empirical policy function benchmarks, favor trade-off models for larger Compustat firms, limited commitment models for smaller firms, and moral hazard models for private firms. Our estimates point to significant financing constraints due to agency frictions.
G31|Banking on Deposits: Maturity Transformation without Interest Rate Risk|We show that maturity transformation does not expose banks to significant interest rate risk—it actually hedges banks' interest rate risk. We argue that this is driven by banks' deposit franchise. Banks incur large operating costs to maintain their deposit franchise, and in return get substantial market power. Market power allows banks to charge depositors a spread by paying deposit rates that are low and insensitive to market rates. The deposit franchise therefore works like an interest rate swap where banks pay the fixed-rate leg (the operating costs) and receive the floating-rate leg (the deposit spread). To hedge the deposit franchise, banks must therefore hold long-term fixed-rate assets; i.e., they must engage in maturity transformation. Consistent with this view, we show that banks' aggregate net interest margins have been highly stable and insensitive to interest rates over the past six decades, and that banks' equity values are largely insulated from monetary policy shocks. Moreover, in the cross section we find that banks match the interest-rate sensitivities of their income and expenses one-for-one, and that banks with less sensitive interest expenses hold substantially more long-term assets. Our results imply that forcing banks to hold only short-term assets (“narrow banking”) would make banks unhedged and, more broadly, that the deposit franchise is what allows banks to lend long term.
G31|Financing Durable Assets|This paper studies how the durability of assets affects financing. We show that more durable assets require larger down payments making them harder to finance, because durability affects the price of assets and hence the overall financing need more than their collateral value. Durability affects technology adoption, the choice between new and used capital, and the rent versus buy decision. Constrained firms invest in less durable assets and buy used assets. More durable assets are more likely to be rented. Economies with weak legal enforcement invest more in less durable, otherwise dominated assets and are net importers of used assets.
G31|Credit shocks and the European labour market|More than five years after the start of the Sovereign debt crisis in Europe, its impact on labour market outcomes is not clear. This paper aims to fill this gap. We use qualitative firm-level data for 24 European countries, collected within the Wage Dynamics Network (WDN) of the ESCB. We first derive a set of indices measuring difficulties in accessing the credit market for the period 2010-13. Second, we provide a description of the relationship between credit difficulties and changes in labour input both along the extensive and the intensive margins as well as on wages. We find strong and significant correlation between credit difficulties and adjustments along both the extensive and the intensive margin. In the presence of credit market difficulties, firms cut wages by reducing the variable part of wages. This evidence suggests that credit shocks can affect not only the real economy, but also nominal variables.
G31|Labor Force Demographics and Corporate Innovation|Firms in younger labor markets produce more innovation. We establish this using the local labor force projected based on historical births in each local labor market in the United States. Three successive levels of analysis – labor markets, firms, and inventors – allow us to separate out effects such as firm and inventor life cycles. We also find that corporate innovation activities reflect the innovative characteristics of younger labor forces, and firms in younger labor markets have higher valuations. Our results indicate that younger people as a group – inventors interacting with non-inventors – produce more innovation for firms through the labor supply channel rather than through a financing supply or consumer demand channel.
G31|Credit constraints, firm investment and growth: evidence from survey data|We assess the impact of credit constraints on investment, inventories and other working capital and firm growth with a large panel of small and medium-sized enterprises from 12 European countries for the period 2014-2016. The data come from the Survey on the access to finance of enterprises (SAFE), a survey that is especially designed to analyse the problems in the access to external finance of European SMEs. The key identification challenge is a potential reverse-causality bias, as firms with poor investment and growth opportunities may have a higher probability of being credit constrained. We implement several strategies to overcome this obstacle: proxies for investment opportunities, lagged regressors, random effects and instrumental variables. Our findings suggest that credit constraints, both in bank financing and other financing (e.g. trade credit), have strong negative effects on investment in fixed assets, while the impact on firm growth and working capital is less robust. JEL Classification: G30, G31, G32
G31|Does Capital Flow More to High Tobin's Q Industries?|We examine whether capital flows more to high Tobin's q industries and find that it flows more to high q industries from 1971 until 1996 but not from 1997 to 2014. This change is due to a decrease in the q-sensitivity of equity funding resulting mostly from the increased q-sensitivity of repurchases after 1996. The increase in intangible assets, the aging of American firms, and the impact of the China shock explain much of the change in the q-sensitivity of equity funding and repurchases. The results are robust to how q is estimated and to a non-q measure of growth opportunities.
G31|Corporate Investment Under the Cloud of Litigation|We study the effect of legal risk on firmsâ€™ investment. Using legal risk measures based on the number of litigious words in SEC 10-K filings, we find legal risk reduces investment. Underlying mechanisms include both i) a financing channel, whereby legal risk reduces credit ratings, increases bank loan costs, and decreases borrowing, and ii) an attention channel, whereby legal risk consumes top-managementâ€™s attention. Accordingly, we find legal risk has negative effects on firmsâ€™ investment efficiency and stock performance. We address endogeneity concerns through a DiD analysis utilizing staggered adoptions of universal demand laws across states.
G31|Real Effects of Climate Policy: Financial Constraints and Spillovers|We document that localized policies designed to mitigate climate risk can lead to regulatory arbitrage by firms, resulting in unintended consequences. Using detailed plant level data, we investigate the impact of the most extensive regional climate policy in the United States, the California cap-and-trade program, on corporate real activities such as greenhouse gas emissions and plant ownership. We show that industrial plants governed by the policy reduce emissions in California when the parent company is financially constrained, but that these firms internally reallocate their emissions to plants located in other states. Similarly, constrained firms are more likely to reduce ownership in Californian plants and increase ownership in plants outside California. In contrast, unconstrained firms generally do not adjust plant emissions and ownership either in California or in other states. Overall, firms do not reduce their total emissions when part of their assets are affected by the regulation, but in fact increase them if financially constrained. The results document real spillover effects stemming from resource reallocations by constrained firms to avoid regulatory costs, undermining the effectiveness of localized policies. Our study has important implications for the current debate on global climate policy agreements.
G31|Financial Markets and the Allocation of Capital: The Role of Productivity|The efficient allocation of credit is a key element for the success of an economy. Traditional measures of allocative efficiency focus on the Q-theory of investment and, in particular, on the elasticity of finance to investment opportunities proxied by firm real value added. This paper introduces a theory-based alternative measure that focuses instead on the elasticity of credit to firm productivity. In doing so, it develops a simple theoretical framework that delivers clear predictions for the elasticity of credit to current and future productivity depending on capital market frictions. When applied to the novel firm-level dataset of the Competitiveness Research Network (CompNet) set up by the EU System of Central Banks, the proposed measure leads to normative statements about the efficiency of credit allocation across the largest Eurozone economies, changing the conclusions that one would reach based on traditional empirical applications of Q-theory.
G31|Management Information, Decision Sciences, and Financial Economics: A Connection|The paper provides a brief review of the connecting literature in management information, decision sciences, and financial economics, and discusses some research that is related to the three cognate disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric models to estimate the parameters in the associated models, and analyze some interesting issues in the three related disciplines.
G31|Big Data, Computational Science, Economics, Finance, Marketing, Management, and Psychology: Connections|The paper provides a review of the literature that connects Big Data, Computational Science, Economics, Finance, Marketing, Management, and Psychology, and discusses research issues that are related to the various disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric and statistical models to estimate the parameters in the associated models, as well as conduct simulation to examine whether the estimators in their theories on estimation and hypothesis testing have good size and high power. Thereafter, academics and practitioners could apply theory to analyse some interesting issues in the seven disciplines and cognate areas.
G31|Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data: Connections|This paper provides a review of some connecting literature in Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data. We then discuss some research that is related to the six cognate disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric and statistical models to estimate the parameters in the associated models. Moreover, they could then conduct simulations to examine whether the estimators or statistics in the new theories on estimation and hypothesis have small size and high power. Thereafter, academics and practitioners could then apply their theories to analyze interesting problems and issues in the six disciplines and other cognate areas.
G31|The Long and Short of It : Do Public and Private Firms Invest Differently?|Using data from U.S. corporate tax returns, which provide a sample representative of the universe of U.S. corporations, we investigate the differential investment propensities of public and private firms. Re-weighting the data to generate observationally comparable sets of public and private firms, we find robust evidence that public firms invest more overall, particularly in R&D. Exploiting within-firm variation in public status, we find that firms dedicate more of their investment to R&D following IPO, and reduce these investments upon going private. Our findings suggest that public stock markets facilitate greater investment, on average, particularly in risky, uncollateralized investments.
G31|Financialisation, financial development, and investment: evidence from European non-financial corporations|This article provides estimations of the effects of different financial channels on physical investment in Europe using the balance sheets of publicly listed non-financial corporations (NFCs) for the period 1995–2015. The evidence suggests that both financial payments and financial income have an adverse effect on investment in fixed assets. The negative impacts of increasing financial income are non-linear with respect to company size: they crowd out investment in large companies, and have a positive effect on the investment of relatively smaller companies. Similar to the recent literature on finance-growth nexus, we find an inverted U-shaped relationship between financial development and companies’ investment. However, in contrast to the existing literature, we also find that a higher degree of financial development in the country is associated with a stronger negative effect of financial income on investment.
G31|Investment Strategy and Selection Bias: An Equilibrium Perspective on Overoptimism|Investors implement projects based on idiosyncratic signal observations, without knowing how signals and returns are jointly distributed. The following heuristic is studied: investors collect information on previously implemented projects with the same signal realization and invest if the associated mean return exceeds the cost. The corresponding steady states result in suboptimal investments, due to selection bias and the heterogeneity of signals across investors. When higher signals are associated with higher returns, investors are overoptimistic, resulting in overinvestment. Rational investors increase the overoptimism of sampling investors, thereby illustrating a negative externality imposed by rational investors.
G31|CAPM-Based Company (Mis)valuations|There is a discrepancy between CAPM-implied and realized returns. As a result, using the CAPM in capital budgeting decisions - as is recommended in finance textbooks should have valuation effects. For instance, low beta projects are expected to be valued more by CAPM-using managers than by the market. This paper empirically tests this hypothesis using publicly announced M&A decisions. We show that takeovers of lower beta targets are accompanied by lower CARs for the bidder. Consistent with our hypothesis, the effect is more pronounced for larger acquisitions, higher growth targets, and private targets. Furthermore, low beta bidders are more likely to use their own stock to finance the deal. More generally, low beta firms are less likely to issue equity, and more likely to repurchase shares. These effects are not reversed in the long-run, suggesting that CAPM-using managers may be irrational, though this last test lacks power.
G31|Cash holdings are increasing and financial crisis strenghts it|The goal of this paper is to study the determinants of firms’ cash holdings and how cash holdings were affected by the financial crisis of 2008. Using data from the period of 1995 to 2014 of non-financial firms, we present almost 265,000 firm-year observations. Our results suggest that cash holdings have a positive relationship with investment set and a negative relationship with liquidity and firm size. Our results also show that cash holdings are influenced by capital market development and banking sector, as well as by inflation. Agency theory determinants demonstrate that firms in common law countries and countries with higher law enforcement still hold higher amounts of cash holdings. Cash holdings post-crisis are higher than pre-crisis and there is a spike in cash holdings during 2009. Our hypothesis for these results are explained by the precautionary motive.
G31|Econometric modelling of the link between investment and electricity consumption in Ghana|The study examines the long run effect of investment (proxied by gross fixed capital formation) on electricity consumption for Ghana, for the period 1971-2011, by employing annual time series secondary data from World Bank database (World development indicator). The Augmented Dickey Fuller (ADF) and Kwiatkowski-Philips-Schmidt-Shin (KPSS) tests were used to analyse the stationarity features of the data used in levels and in their first differences. The empirical verification was done using the Autoregressive Distributed Lag model (ARDL). The findings of the study indicate the data used are non-stationary in levels, however, stationary in their first difference. Investment and electricity consumption are cointegrated according to the cointegration test performed. There are both stable short run and long run relationship between investment and electricity consumption. Investment is an appropriate policy tool for electricity consumption management in both short run and long run. Further studies in the area of stationarity with structural breaks, cointegration with structural breaks, causality analysis, and multivariate modelling of investment-electricity consumption link is worth doing since the current study did not consider these issues.
G31|Behaviour of asset pricing models in pre and post-recession period: an evidence from India|The study endeavours to assess empirically the performance of various models of asset pricing employing risk factors such as market premium, book to market equity, size, investment, momentum and profitability and attempts to unearth the effects of value, size, investment, momentum and profitability. It also compares the behaviour of five different asset pricing models: standard capital asset pricing model, three and five-factor model of Fama French, four-factor model of Carhart and six-factor model during the periods of pre-recession, recession and post-recession in the Indian equity market. The study uses constituents of S&P BSE 500 as a sample, traded over the period 1st July 2005 to 31st September 2017. The results exhibit that three-factor model is an effective model which brings a lot of improvements over CAPM and suggests that market premium and size factors are the most effective and strong factors explaining the variation in returns, throughout the study period. Four-factor model performs a little better for few portfolios created based on size-momentum during 2009-17 and 2005-17. Five and six-factor model do not make any further improvement if compare with the three-factor asset pricing model. Size effect is present in all the above models and across all the time periods, however, factors such as the premium for profitability, investment and momentum are found redundant during the study period in the Indian equity market.
G31|Project appraisal and the Intrinsic Rate of Return|Building upon Magni (2011)’s approach, we propose a new rate of return measuring a project’s economic profitability. It is called the intrinsic rate of return (IROR). It is defined as the ratio of project return to project’s intrinsic value. The IROR approach decomposes the NPV into project scale and economic efficiency. In particular, NPV is found as the product of the project’s total invested capital and the excess rate of return, obtained as the difference between the IROR and the minimum attractive rate of return (MARR). This approach provides correct project ranking and is capable of managing time-varying costs of capital. In case of levered projects, shareholder value creation is captured by the equity IROR, which we call Intrinsic Return On Equity (IROE) (net income divided by total equity capital invested). If the project is unlevered, the IROE and the IROR lead to the same decision; if the project is levered, and the nominal value of debt is not equal to the market value of debt, the IROE should be preferred to project IROR.
G31|Investment decisions and sensitivity analysis: NPV-consistency of rates of return|Investment decisions may be evaluated via several different metrics/criteria, which are functions of a vector of value drivers. The economic significance and the reliability of a metric depend on its compatibility with the Net Present Value (NPV). Traditionally, a metric is said to be NPV-consistent if it is coherent with NPV in signaling value creation. This paper makes use of Sensitivity Analysis (SA) for measuring coherence between rates of return and NPV. In particular, it introduces a new, stronger definition of NPV-consistency that takes into account the influence of value drivers on the metric output. A metric is strongly NPV-consistent if it signals value creation and the ranking of the value drivers in terms of impact on the output is the same as that provided by the NPV. The degree of (in)coherence is calculated with Spearman (1904) correlation coefficient and Iman and Conover (1987) top-down coefficient. We focus on the class of AIRRs (Magni 2010, 2013) and show that the average Return On Investment (ROI) enjoys strong NPV-consistency under several (possibly all) methods of Sensitivity Analysis.
G31|The Effect of Firm Cash Holdings on Monetary Policy|Firm cash holdings increased substantially from 1980 to 2013. The overall distribution of firm cash holdings changed in the same period. We study the implications of these changes for monetary policy. We use Compustat data and a model with financial frictions that allows the calculation of the monetary policy effects according to the distribution of cash holdings. We find that the interest rate channel of the transmission of monetary policy has become more powerful, as the impact of monetary policy over real interest rates increased. With the observed changes in firm cash holdings, the real interest rate takes 3.4 months more to return to its initial value after a shock to the nominal interest rate.
G31|The GFC Investment Tax Break|The Australian Government established a temporary tax break for investment as part of its stimulus response to the global financial crisis. The policy gave all businesses undertaking equipment investment extra tax deductions and gave larger deductions to small businesses. We exploit this differential treatment to identify the effect of the tax credit using business-level datasets from the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The key conclusions that emerge are: 1. The tax break had a strong effect on business-level investment. We find this result using both difference-in-differences and regression discontinuity methods. 2. The tax break increased the investment of companies , despite Australia's imputation system for corporate dividends implying that their costs of capital were unaffected. This suggests that a non-standard mechanism, such as a relaxation in financial constraints, underlies part of the response to tax incentives. To the extent that this is the case, it may suggest that such policies are more effective during downturns, when financial constraints are more binding. Relatedly, there is no evidence that businesses responded by bringing forward investment from future years (i.e. intertemporal substitution). 3. The tax break was important on a macroeconomic level. General equilibrium estimates suggest that both GDP growth and the cash rate would have been significantly lower in 2009 without the tax break. While our work suggests that tax rates and breaks can affect real decisions for Australian corporates, despite the existence of the dividend imputation system, it provides only limited guidance on the potential effects of policies other than the one we study. Other policies will differ in terms of their timing, permanence and targeting, all of which could influence their effectiveness.
G31|Dismissal Laws, Innovation, and Economic Growth|We show theoretically and empirically that dismissal laws—laws that impose hurdles on firing of employees—spur innovation and thereby economic growth. Theoretically, dismissal laws make it costly for firms to arbitrarily discharge employees. This enables firms to commit to not punish short-run failures of employees. Because innovation is inherently risky and employment contracts are incomplete, dismissal laws enable such commitment. Specifically, absent such laws, firms cannot contractually commit so ex ante. The commitment provided by dismissal laws encourages employees to exert greater effort in risky, but path-breaking, projects thereby fostering firm-level innovation. We provide empirical evidence supporting this thesis using the discontinuity provided by the passage of the federal Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act. Using the fact that this Act only applied to firms with 100 or more employees, I undertake difference-in-difference and regression discontinuity tests to provide this evidence. Building on endogenous growth theory, which posits that economic growth stems from innovation, I also show that dismissal laws correlate positively with economic growth. However, other forms of labor laws correlate negatively with economic growth and swamp the positive effect of dismissal laws.
G31|Does cross-listing mitigate sub-optimal corporate investment?|This paper examines whether managers of cross-listed firms improve corporate investment efficiency through learning from the stock market upon cross-listing. Using a sample of UK firms cross-listed on US regulated and unregulated stock markets, we find that cross-listed firms on unregulated markets invest more efficiently than non-cross-listed firms following cross-listing. The analysis of pre- and post-cross-listing shows that cross-listed firms improve their investment efficiency post cross-listing regardless of the location of cross-listing (i.e. regulated versus unregulated exchanges). Furthermore, we find firms with low level of private information embedded in their stock prices, and firms with higher board independence improve their investment post cross-listing. Our findings suggest that managers of cross-listed firms are guided by firm-specific characteristic more than by stock market signals when they embark on new investment projects. Moreover, we find evidence that cross-listed firms on regulated exchanges perform poorly after cross-listing, whereas those cross-listed on unregulated exchange experience high performance post cross-listing. This indicates that the listing and regulatory requirements imposed on cross-listed firms by the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) do not effectively deter managers from investing in value-destroying projects.
G31|Investment Decisions and Financial Leverage under a Potential Entry Threat|This study examines investment and financing decisions of a pioneering firm and agency costs of debt in the presence of an entry threat by a potential competitor. It demonstrates that the over-investment problem demonstrated by Mauer and Sarkar (2005) remains in the presence of the potential entry threat. In addition, it demonstrates that when the pioneering firm increases leverage, a potential competitor expedites its market entry. Furthermore, high leverage creates the potential for inducing the competitor to enter the market in a downturn and exposing the pioneering firm to a risk of forced bankruptcy. Therefore, the potential entry threat hinders the pioneering firm from debt financing, and thus mitigates agency conflicts between shareholders and bondholders over investment decisions.
G31|Management Information, Decision Sciences, and Financial Economics : a connection|The paper provides a brief review of the connecting literature in management information, decision sciences, and financial economics, and discusses some research that is related to the three cognate disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric models to estimate the parameters in the associated models, and analyze some interesting issues in the three related disciplines.
G31|Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data: Connections|This paper provides a review of some connecting literature in Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data. We then discuss some research that is related to the six cognate disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric and statistical models to estimate the parameters in the associated models. Moreover, they could then conduct simulations to examine whether the estimators or statistics in the new theories on estimation and hypothesis have small size and high power. Thereafter, academics and practitioners could then apply their theories to analyze interesting problems and issues in the six disciplines and other cognate areas.
G31|Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data: Connections|This paper provides a review of some connecting literature in Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data. We then discuss some research that is related to the six cognate disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric and statistical models to estimate the parameters in the associated models. Moreover, they could then conduct simulations to examine whether the estimators or statistics in the new theories on estimation and hypothesis have small size and high power. Thereafter, academics and practitioners could then apply their theories to analyze interesting problems and issues in the six disciplines and other cognate areas.
G31|The Death of a Regulator: Strict Supervision, Bank Lending and Business Activity|An important question in banking is how strict supervision affects bank lending and in turn local business activity. Forcing banks to recognize losses could choke off lending and amplify local economic woes. But stricter supervision could also change how banks assess and manage loans. Estimating such effects is challenging. We exploit the extinction of the thrift regulator (OTS) — a large change in prudential supervision — to analyze economic links between strict supervision, bank lending and business activity. We first show that the OTS replacement indeed resulted in stricter supervision of former OTS banks. Next, we analyze the ensuing lending effects. We show that former OTS banks increase small business lending by roughly 10 percent. This increase is not entirely accounted by a reallocation of mortgage lending and stems primarily from well-capitalized banks and those more affected by the new regime. These findings suggest that stricter supervision operates not only through capital but can also overcome frictions in bank management, leading to more lending and a reallocation of loans. Consistent with the latter, we find increases in business entry and exit in counties with greater expose to OTS banks.
G31|The corporate equity puzzle|Why don't non-financial companies in Europe issue more equity? Using experimental data on firms from Europe, this paper analyses how firms trade-off between debt and external equity financing. It finds that firms are willing to pay a substantial premium on debt when presented with an equity participation as an alternative. Companies are willing to pay an interest rate that is about 8.8pp higher than the cost of equity to obtain a loan instead of external equity. This preference for debt can be explained only partially by the more favourable tax treatment of debt, fear of loss of corporate control and positive growth expectations. This paper discusses what else may explain this striking aspect of firm behaviour in the EU.
G31|The effect of pro-shareholder income distribution on capital accumulation: evidence from Japanese non-financial firms|Over the past decades, there has been a change in the pattern of capital accumulation, especially in developed countries. Although the profit rate and profit share recovered after the 1980s and 1990s, the rate of capital accumulation remained stagnant in many developed countries in the same period. This phenomenon is called “investment-profit puzzle” because the movement of the rate of capital accumulation is thought to be mainly determined by that of the profit rate or profit share. In this study, I examine the effect of financialization on the “investment-profit puzzle” in the Japanese economy. The profit rate and profit share of Japanese NFCs began to recover from the mid-1990s, whereas the rate of capital accumulation did not recover during the same period. This study reveals that pro-shareholder income distribution, namely, the rise in profit share that is evoked by financializationin in Japanese NFCs is the main cause of the “investment-profit puzzle” in the Japanese economy. In Japanese non-manufacturing industries, increasing profit share depress domestic demand and capital accumulation while it contributes to profit rate recovery. The trend of non-manufacturing industries determines the “investment-profit puzzle” in the Japanese economy.
G31|Static and Dynamic Indicators in the Analysis of Internal Sources of Companies’ Investments Financing|The Republic of Serbia is characterized by an unsatisfactory macroeconomic environment. Under the conditions of an evident shortage of liquid assets, the financial capital has moved from real to the financial sector, which led companies to over-indebtedness and shutdown of their own capacities. Therefore, capital investments largely depend on internal financing sources and the ability of companies to internally generate funds for investments. In this regard, an emphasis is placed on the difference in the assessment of the company’s investment capacity based on internal financing sources, which are measured using static and dynamic indicators in order to prove the necessity of applying dynamic coefficients, which are unfortunately not present in our domestic practice. The paper examines and proves the advantages of the use of the dynamic approach for such analyses using the example of energy sector, which is one of the most important branches in Serbian economy.
G31|Smoothing Algorithms by Constrained Maximum Likelihood|In the process of loan pricing, stress testing, capital allocation, modeling of PD term structure, and IFRS9 expected credit loss estimation, it is widely expected that higher risk grades carry higher default risks, and that an entity is more likely to migrate to a closer non-default rating than a farther away non-default rating. In practice, sample estimates for rating level default rate or rating migration probability do not always respect this monotonicity rule, and hence the need for smoothing approaches. Regression and interpolation techniques are widely used for this purpose. A common issue with these approaches is that the risk scale for the estimates is not fully justified, leading to a possible bias in credit loss estimates. In this paper, we propose smoothing algorithms for rating level PD and rating migration probability. The smoothed estimates obtained by these approaches are optimal in the sense of constrained maximum likelihood, with a fair risk scale determined by constrained maximum likelihood, leading to more robust credit loss estimation. The proposed algorithms can be easily implemented by a modeller using, for example, the SAS procedure PROC NLMIXED. The approaches proposed in this paper will provide an effective and useful smoothing tool for practitioners in the field of risk modeling.
G31|Forward Ordinal Probability Models for Point-in-Time Probability of Default Term Structure|Common ordinal models, including the ordered logit model and the continuation ratio model, are structured by a common score (i.e., a linear combination of a list of given explanatory variables) plus rank specific intercepts. Sensitivity with respect to the common score is generally not differentiated between rank outcomes. In this paper, we propose an ordinal model based on forward ordinal probabilities for rank outcomes. The forward ordinal probabilities are structured by, in addition to the common score and intercepts, the rank and rating (for a risk-rated portfolio) specific sensitivity. This rank specific sensitivity allows a risk rating to respond to its migrations to default, downgrade, stay, and upgrade accordingly. An approach for parameter estimation is proposed based on maximum likelihood for observing rank outcome frequencies. Applications of the proposed model include modeling rating migration probability for point-in-time probability of default term structure for IFRS9 expected credit loss estimation and CCAR stress testing. Unlike the rating transition model based on Merton model, which allows only one sensitivity parameter for all rank outcomes for a rating, and uses only systematic risk drivers, the proposed forward ordinal model allows sensitivity to be differentiated between outcomes and include entity specific risk drivers (e.g., downgrade history or credit quality changes for an entity in last two quarters can be included). No estimation of the asset correlation is required. As an example, the proposed model, benchmarked with the rating transition model based on Merton model, is used to estimate the rating migration probability and probability of default term structure for a commercial portfolio, where for each rating the sensitivity is differentiated between migrations to default, downgrade, stay, and upgrade. Results show that the proposed model is more robust.
G31|Account receivable management across Industrial sectors in Ghana; analyzing the economic effectiveness and efficiency|Since account receivable constitute a significant portion of current assets in manufacturing and wholesale firms, the study aimed at investigating trade credit and principles adopted by firms in the management of account receivables across the industrial sectors in Ghana. This enabled the study to examined strengths and weaknesses in account receivable strategies by firms in Ghana and recommend economically effective and efficient practice
G31|Abnormal retained earnings around the world|Using a firm-level survey database covering 41 countries, we evaluate firms’ abnormal retained earnings. The results of our work show that the trends of cash holdings and retained earnings are independent. While cash holdings around the world have been increasing, the opposite has occurred for retained earnings. We show that cash holdings are influenced by precautionary motives and retained earnings by firms’ growth opportunities. Abnormal retained earnings rise with GDP growth and decrease following the 2008 financial crisis, confirming the impact of growth opportunities. Uniquely, US firms show positive abnormal retained earnings after the crisis, possibly explaining recent trends in the US stock market.
G31|Point-in-Time PD Term Structure Models with Loan Credit Quality as a Component|Most point-in-time PD term structure models used in industry for stress testing and IFRS9 expected loss estimation apply only to macroeconomic scenarios. Loan level credit quality is not a factor in these models. In practice, credit profile at assessment time plays an important role in the performance of the loan during its lifetime. A forward-looking point-in-time PD term structure model with loan credit quality as a component is widely expected. In this paper, we propose a forward-looking point-in-time PD term structure model based on forward survival probability, extending the model proposed in [8] by including a loan specific credit quality score as a component. The model can be derived under the Merton model framework. Under this model, the forward survival probability for a forward term is driven by a loan credit quality score in addition to macroeconomic factors. Empirical results show, the inclusion of the loan specific credit score can significantly improve the performance of the model. The proposed approaches provide a tool for modeling point-in-time PD term structure in cases where loan credit profile is essential. The model can be implemented easily by using, for example, the SAS procedure PROC NLMIXED.
G31|Analyzing the critical effects of creative accounting practices in the corporate sector of Ghana|The studies strive to empirically examine, the adoption of creative accounting methods in financial reporting structures, in the corporate sector of Ghana and it ramification on the financial system.
G31|Chisini means and rational decision making: Equivalence of investment criteria|A plethora of tools are used for investment decisions and performance measurement, including Net Present Value (NPV), Internal Rate of Return (IRR), Profitability Index (PI), Modified Internal Rate of Return (MIRR), Average Accounting Rate of Return (AARR). All these and other known metrics are generally considered non-equivalent and some of them are regarded as unreliable or even naive. Building upon Magni (2010a, 2013)'s Average Internal Rate of Return (AIRR), we show that the notion of Chisini mean enables these tools to be used as rational decision criteria. Specifically, we focus on 11 metrics and show that, if properly used, they all provide equivalent accept-reject decisions and equivalent project rankings. Therefore, the intuitive notion of mean is the founding basis of investment decision criteria.
G31|Factors determining capital structure of Pakistani non-financial firms|This study is undertaken to discover the factors determining the capital structure decision of non-financial Pakistani firms. The capital structure irrelevance theory, trade off theory and pecking order theory stipulates different factors affecting a firm’s optimal debt/equity choice. However, the literature is still inconclusive about which factors and theories best defines the ideal capital structure mix. Thus, making it an unanswered, open empirical question, that, needs to be explored especially for sectors not previously studied. The effect of firm’s profitability, liquidity, size, tangibility and non-debt tax shield on capital structure decision of ten non-financial firms operating at Pakistan Stock Exchange is investigated for a period of ten years i-e from 2005-2014. By using fixed effects panel estimation method it is found that leverage ratio is inversely affected by profitability and current ratio of a firm. While, firm size, tangibility and non-debt tax shield positively effects leverage ratio. The influence of profitability is weakly significant whereas that of liquidity, size, tangibility and non-debt tax shield are strongly significant. The study also shows that results for profitability and liquidity are in accordance with the Pecking Order Theory and the result for size; tangibility and non-debt tax shield are in line with the Trade-Off Theory.
G31|Factors Effecting Commercial Banks Profitability in Pakistan|Due to significant contribution of commercial banks in the economic progress of Pakistan, this research has been carried out to analyse the possible effect of different relevant factors on the profitability of commercial banks in the country. Profitability is measured by return on assets (ROA). Using pooled regression analysis on yearly data collected from the annual reports for a panel of 14 commercial banks for eight years from 2007 to 2014, it was found that equity to assets, debts to assets, deposits to assets, bank size and assets management have a significant influence on the commercial banks profitability in Pakistan.
G31|Working Capital Management, Cash Flow and SMEs’ Performance|Purpose – The paper presents comprehensive evidence on the relationship between Working Capital Management (WCM) and SMEs’ performance by taking into consideration the plausible effect of cash flow. Design/methodology/approach – The paper adopts a panel data regression analysis on a sample of 802 British quoted small and medium enterprises listed on the Alternative Investment Market for the period from 2004 to 2013. Findings – The results of the study demonstrate the importance of cash flow on SMEs’ WCM and performance. According to our findings, WCM has a significantly negative impact on SME performance. However, with available cash flow, we find a significantly positive relationship. Additionally, our evidence revels that cash flow constrained (non-constrained) SMEs are able to enhance their performance through decreased (increased) investment in WCM. Practical implications – Overall, the results demonstrate the importance of cash flow availability on SMEs’ working capital needs. Our findings suggest that in an event of cash flow unavailability (availability) managers should strive to reduce (increase) the investment in working capital in order to improve performance. Originality/value – This current study incorporates the relevance of cash flow in assessing the association between WCM and firm performance.
G31|The Reinvestment Rate Assumption Fallacy for IRR and NPV: A Pedagogical Note|The mistaken notion that the internal rate of return (IRR) and net present value (NPV) have required reinvestment rate assumptions built into them was debunked long ago in the academic finance literature. There are no reinvestment rate assumptions built into, or implicit to, the computation and use of either the IRR or NPV. In this brief note, we first review the theoretical underpinnings of the rate of return assumption fallacy and offer two possible origins from the academic finance literature that may have been responsible for the fallacy.
G31|Lending relationships and the real economy: evidence in the context of the euro area sovereign debt crisis|The recent euro area sovereign debt crisis put the financial sector under pressure and imposed several challenges, mainly in the countries most affected by the crisis. The sovereign-bank linkage can negatively affect the economic activity, especially by bank-dependent firms. This study explores the heterogeneity across banks in their funding structure, sovereign exposures, solvency, and availability of collateral, with the aim of investigating the effect of the crisis on firms' investment and employment decisions. Exploring a detailed database that covers virtually all bank loans granted to Portuguese firms, for the period 2007-2012, the results suggest an impact on investment and employment paths for firms whose lenders depend more heavily on interbank and market funding. Moreover, the results also stress the importance of assets eligible as collateral in monetary operations conducted by Central Bank. The findings suggest how a deterioration in sovereign creditworthiness can affect the real economy via the banking sector.
G31|Environmental Efforts and Firm Performance|In this paper, we test the prediction that environmental efforts, presenting one dimension of corporate social responsibility, are positively related to firm performance. We analyze a panel sample of non-financial firms in the Netherlands over the period 2001-2014 using two approaches: ordinary least squares regressions and two-stage least squares regressions. Our two-stage least squares regressions show that firms with higher degrees of environmental efforts have better firm performance, measured as return on assets, but have poorer firm performance, measured as return on sales. However, this relationship disappears when firm performance is measured as return on equity or stock return. Our analysis further reveals that better firm performance does not necessarily lead to a disclosure of a firm's environmental efforts. We find that larger firms are more inclined to report the environmental efforts than smaller firms. Neither prior firm performance nor variation in firm performance moderates the effect of environmental efforts on firm performance.
G31|Competing for Capital: Auditing and Credibility in Financial Reporting|When self-interested agents compete for scarce resources, they often exaggerate the promise of their activities. As such, principals must consider both the quality of each opportunity and each agent’s credibility. We show that principals are better off with less transparency because they gain access to better investments. This is due to a complementarity between the agents’ effort provision and their ability to exaggerate. As such, it is suboptimal for principals to prevent misreporting, even if doing so is costless. This helps explain why exaggeration is ubiquitous during allocation decisions: money management, analyst coverage, private equity fundraising, and venture capital investments.
G31|Investment Horizon and Corporate Social Performance: The Virtuous Circle of Long-Term Institutional Ownership and Responsible Firm Conduct|We investigate the relationship between corporate social performance and institutional ownership. We distinguish between long-term and short-term institutional investors using holdings-based measures which directly capture the investment horizon of each institution. Our analysis shows that long term institutional investment is positively related to corporate social performance (mainly by an avoidance of investing in firms with significant controversies) whereas short-term institutional investment is negatively related to corporate social performance. Further investigation reveals that increased holdings of a firm by long-term investors are positively associated with its future corporate social performance. Hence, we provide evidence of a 'virtuous circle' between long term investment and social responsibility.
G31|What Is the Expected Return on a Stock?|We derive a formula for the expected return on a stock in terms of the risk‐neutral variance of the market and the stock's excess risk‐neutral variance relative to that of the average stock. These quantities can be computed from index and stock option prices; the formula has no free parameters. The theory performs well empirically both in and out of sample. Our results suggest that there is considerably more variation in expected returns, over time and across stocks, than has previously been acknowledged.
G31|Measuring Path Dependency|While risk management gained popularity during the last decades even some of the basic risk types are still far out of focus. One of these is path dependency that refers to the uncertainty of how we reach a certain level of total performance over time. While decision makers are careful in accessing how their position will look like the end of certain periods, little attention is given how they will get there through the period. The uncertainty of how a process will develop across a shorter period of time is often “eliminated” by simply choosing a longer planning time interval, what makes path dependency is one of the most often overlooked business risk types. After reviewing the origin of the problem we propose and compare seven risk measures to access path. Traditional risk measures like standard deviation of sub period cash flows fail to capture this risk type. We conclude that in most cases considering the distribution of the expected cash flow effect caused by the path dependency may offer the best method, but we may need to use several measures at the same time to include all the optimisation limits of the given firm.
G31|Corporate Leverage and Employees' Rights in Bankruptcy|Corporate leverage responds differently to employees' legal protection in bankruptcy depending on whether leverage is chosen to curtail workers' bargaining power or is driven by credit constraints. Using newly collected cross-country data on employees' rights in corporate bankruptcy, we estimate the impact of such rights on firms' capital structure, applying triple-diff strategies that exploit time-series, cross-country and firm-level variation. The estimates show that leverage increases more substantially in response to rises in corporate property values or in profitability at firms where employees have strong seniority in liquidation and weak rights in restructuring, consistently with the strategic use of leverage.
G31|Capital investment and non-constant marginal cost of capital|Abstract Business practice and prior research in capital budgeting both establish that a firm’s marginal cost of capital (MCC) is not constant across the scope of its investments. Capital budgeting decision methodology in textbooks and in practice, however, does not address the full implications of capital budgeting decisions made under a non-constant MCC paradigm. An endogeneity problem arises naturally due to the presence of a non-constant MCC. In order to value a project, it is necessary to determine the appropriate cost of capital. However, in order to determine the appropriate cost of capital, a project must be ranked in order to determine where the project is found on the MCC schedule. We establish a net present value (NPV) maximizing methodology that fully resolves this problem. We demonstrate, using a Monte Carlo simulation, the potential magnitude of investment errors and the extent of shareholder wealth destruction that occurs when commonly used methods or simplifying assumptions are employed in place of using this optimizing approach.
G31|Corporate investment and changes in GAAP|Abstract This paper investigates whether changes in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) affect corporate investment decisions. Using a sample containing forty nine changes in GAAP, I find that changes in accounting rules affect investment decisions. I then examine two mechanisms through which changes in GAAP affect investment. First, I find that changes in GAAP affect investment, particularly R&D expenditures, when firms have financial covenants that are affected by changes in GAAP. Second, I find evidence suggesting that the process of complying with some changes in GAAP alters managers’ information sets and consequently changes their investment decisions, particularly their capital and R&D expenditures and, to a weaker extent, their acquistion expenditures. This paper contributes to the literature on the real effects of accounting by providing evidence that accounting rules affect investment decisions even when the rule change does not concern the measurement and reporting of investment, and by documenting specific mechanisms through which the relation manifests.
G31|Mitigating political uncertainty|Abstract This study examines whether firms that establish political connections gain differential access to relevant information over legislative developments, thereby mitigating the negative consequences of uncertainty. I find that political connections (partially) offset the negative relation between investment and political uncertainty documented in prior research. My results do not appear to be driven by connected firms pursuing investments that are insensitive to uncertainty. I perform additional tests to address concerns over correlated omitted variables. First, I identify a setting around a tax policy development designed to provide new investment incentives to firms. In this setting, I predict and find that reduced information asymmetry for connected firms results in delaying investment in anticipation of future lucrative tax incentives. Second, I perform a falsification test and document that political connections do not mitigate the effects of general economic uncertainty. Finally, I continue to find support for my hypothesis within a propensity matched sample.
G31|Political connections and firm operational efficiencies: evidence from a developing country|Abstract This paper investigates the impact of political connections on firm operational efficiencies. We test the political interventions in investment and employment decisions. Our results provide strong support for the presence of investment inefficiencies and excessive employment amongst politically connected firms, whereas the detrimental effect of political interventions is substantially larger on employment decisions. We further find that such operational inefficiencies are more pronounced for low-growth connected firms. Finally, the economy-wide cost of the excessive employments is estimated to be 0.19 % of GDP annually.
G31|The interaction between stock prices and corporate investment: is Europe different?|Abstract I find limited evidence of firm learning from stock prices in Europe and uncover multifaceted complementarities between firm informational and operating environments in determining investment sensitivity to stock prices. Specifically, European firms seemingly do not shift away from their own (peer) stock prices even in instances in which their peers’ (own) stock prices become relatively more informative about firms’ fundamentals. This is consistent with European managers adopting more conservative strategies relative to their U.S.-based peers, and stock prices being less revealing in Europe than in the U.S. Furthermore, while a firm may attach equal weight to both its own stock prices and peer price innovations when peer firms are relatively smaller, investment responds more positively to peers’ price shocks than to that firm’s own stock prices when peers are relatively larger. Interestingly, investment sensitivity to peers’ stock prices decreases in peers’ market share, operating performance, and capital intensity. The decrease is accentuated when peer firms have more informative stock prices and are industry leaders or more capital intensive, thereby signaling perceived reduced growth opportunities. Broadly, these results imply that the specifics of the interaction between stock prices and firm behavior in the U.S. do not necessarily generalize to Europe. More important, these different learning patterns are partly attributable to differences in the amount of internal information, which in turn depends on country-level institutional infrastructures.
G31|Corporate Responses to the Repatriation Incentives and Domestic Production Activities Deduction|The 2004 American Jobs Creation Act (AJCA or the Act) sought to encourage U.S. companies to repatriate foreign earnings and invest them domestically in an effort to increase capital spending and employment. This investigation looks at how the two tax provisions in AJCA, i.e., the repatriation tax holiday and the domestic production activities deduction (DPAD), affected domestic investment and payout behaviors. An examination of repatriating firms based on the tightness of their capital constraints shows that the tax incentives fail to induce non-constrained, repatriating firms that benefit from DPAD to reinvest the capital domestically. Only capital-constrained, repatriating firms benefitting from DPAD increase domestic investment and reduce share repurchases; however, these firms also increase their cash dividend payments. The findings should be useful to policymakers as they consider modifying the corporate tax structure to increase domestic investment by encouraging U.S. firms to repatriate foreign earnings and reinvest them domestically.
G31|Interest rates, R&D investment and the distortionary effects of R&D incentives|This paper conducts the first analysis of how interest rates are related to firms’ allocation of investment between R&D and non-R&D activities and how R&D incentives alter this relationship. It theoretically predicts that if firms receive incentives mostly in the form of grants and subsidies that reduce their dependence on external finance, their share of R&D spending increases (decreases) during a credit tightening (easing). Conversely, if tax credits are the primary incentive, firms decrease (increase) their share of R&D spending during a credit tightening (easing). The paper demonstrates empirical support for these predictions by using firm-level financial and sector-level R&D incentives data and a unique methodology that focuses on the within firm allocation of investment.
G31|Words vs. actions: International variation in the propensity to fulfil investment pledges in China|We examine whether companies from certain countries are more likely to fulfil investment pledges. Using data on contracted and utilized FDI in China, we find that firms fulfil an average of 59% of their pledges within two years. The propensity to fulfil pledges is lower for firms from countries with greater uncertainty avoidance, power distance, and egalitarianism; higher if the source country is more traditional; and is unaffected by popular attitudes towards China. Prior literature has found that these cultural characteristics are associated with higher levels of utilized FDI. We extend this to show that announcements of planned corporate activity may be more reliable for firms from countries with certain cultures.
G31|The Economic Foundations of Risk Management:Theory, Practice, and Applications|The Economic Foundations of Risk Management presents the theory, the practice, and applies this knowledge to provide a forensic analysis of some well-known risk management failures. By doing so, this book introduces a unified framework for understanding how to manage the risk of an individual's or corporation's or financial institution's assets and liabilities. The book is divided into five parts. The first part studies the markets and the assets and liabilities that trade therein. Markets are differentiated based on whether they are competitive or not, frictionless or not (and the type of friction), and actively traded or not. Assets are divided into two types: primary assets and financial derivatives. The second part studies models for determining the risks of the traded assets. Models provided include the Black-Scholes-Merton, the Heath-Jarrow-Morton, and the reduced form model for credit risk. Liquidity risk, operational risk, and trading constraint models are also contained therein. The third part studies the conceptual solution to an individual's, firm's, and bank's risk management problem. This formulation involves solving a complex dynamic programming problem that cannot be applied in practice. Consequently, Part IV investigates how risk management is actually done in practice via the use of diversification, static hedging, and dynamic hedging. Finally, Part V applies these collective insights to six case studies, which are famous risk management failures. These are Penn Square Bank, Metallgesellschaft, Orange County, Barings Bank, Long Term Capital Management, and Washington Mutual. The credit crisis is also discussed to understand how risk management failed for many institutions and why.
G31|Tax Policy and Heterogeneous Investment Behavior|We estimate the effect of temporary tax incentives on equipment investment using shifts in accelerated depreciation. Analyzing data for over 120,000 firms, we present three findings. First, bonus depreciation raised investment in eligible capital relative to ineligible capital by 10.4 percent between 2001 and 2004 and 16.9 percent between 2008 and 2010. Second, small firms respond 95 percent more than big firms. Third, firms respond strongly when the policy generates immediate cash flows, but not when cash flows only come in the future. This heterogeneity materially affects investment-weighted estimates and supports models in which financial frictions or fixed costs amplify investment responses.
G31|Banks as Secret Keepers|Banks produce short-term debt for transactions and storing value. The value of this debt must not vary over time so agents can easily trade it at par like money. To produce money-like safe liquidity, banks keep detailed information about their loans secret, reducing liquidity if needed to prevent agents from producing costly private information about the banks' loans. Capital markets involve information revelation, so they produce risky liquidity. The trade-off between less safe liquidity and more risky liquidity determines which firms choose to fund projects through banks and which ones through capital markets.
G31|Internal Capital Markets in Times of Crisis: The Benefit of Group Affiliation in Italy|Firms affiliated with business groups survive the stress of the global financial and euro crises better than unaffiliated firms. Using granular data from Italy, we show that better performance stems partly from access to an internal capital market, as the survival value of group-affiliated firms increases with group-wide cash flow. Internal cash transfers increase when banks’ health deteriorates, with funds moving from cash-rich to cash-poor firms and, some evidence suggests, to firms with favorable investment opportunities. Internal capital markets’ role thus increases when external markets (banks) are distressed.
G31|Investment decisions by European firms and financing constraints|We reinvestigate the question of whether corporate investment during the financial crisis depended to a significant extent, and differently than in the pre-crisis period, on firms' short-term liquidity and indebtedness. Using data on listed firms in the euro area and the United Kingdom, we employ a correlated random coefficient panel data model estimated with instrumental variables in order to address potential endogeneity concerns. First, we find that to attain plausible identification, we must allow for the possibility that the unobserved firm-specific component of investment changed with the onset of the financial crisis. Second, our results suggest that neither cash reserves nor short-term debt, considered separately, were significant determinants of investment. However, we do find evidence of a negative conditional dependence between corporate investment and short-term debt net of cash reserves.
G31|Foreign Currency Invoicing of Domestic Transactions as a Hedging Strategy Theory and Evidence for Uruguay|In this paper we study the factors associated to the use of the US Dollar for the invoicing of domestic transactions, as a common practice of Uruguayan firms. We first build a basic model to understand the role that foreign currency invoicing might have as a financial hedging strategy in the case of a firm that exports in foreign currency, has imported imports and has both assets and liabilities in domestic and foreign currency. We show that risk averse firms might use their flows position in order to hedge currency mismatches in their stocks. Domestic invoicing of transactions is more likely the larger are negative financial positions of firms, the bigger the share of imported inputs and the smaller the share of exports. We then estimate several models for the fraction of domestic sales invoiced in foreign currency and find evidence that supports the intuition of the model.
G31|Derivatives and Exchange Rate Hedging Strategies in Uruguayan Firms|The present work analyzes the use of derivatives and the interaction with alternative hedging strategies of exchange rate risk. The knowledge, use and eventual interest in the hedging of risks with financial derivatives are analyzed, due to the state of development of the market in Uruguay. We develop empirical models that explain the determinants of the decision to use derivatives and interest in the use of derivatives, with the particularity of endogenously modeling the alternative hedging strategies that firms use. A relevant result is the that the Uruguayan firms make cover maintaining high levels of liquidity and invoicing in foreign currency in the domestic market. The endogeneity of both strategies was confirmed, and a negative and significant correlation was found between the use of these strategies and the use, and interest in using, of financial derivatives. Also, large firms are more likely to use sophisticated instruments. It seems to be an asymmetrical concern about exchange rate risk, firms that maintain currency mismatches flows in favor of the dollar are less likely to use hedging strategies.
G31|Internal Capital Markets in Times of Crisis: The Benefit of Group Affiliation in Italy|Italy’s economic and banking systems have been under stress in the wake of the Global Financial Crisis and Euro Crisis. Firms in business groups have been more likely to survive this challenging environment, compared to unaffiliated firms. Better performance stems from access to an internal capital market, and the survival value of groups increases, inter alia, with group-wide cash flow. We show that actual internal capital transfers increase during the crisis, and these transfers move funds from cash-rich to cash-poor firms and also to those with more favorable investment opportunities. The ability to borrow externally provides additional funds that are shared across group affiliated firms. Our results highlight the benefits of internal capital markets when external capital markets are tight or distressed.
G31|Secrecy, information shocks, and corporate investment: Evidence from European Union countries|This study examines how national culture affects corporate investment. We argue that national culture affects corporate investment efficiency through the level of secrecy that national culture exhibits. Using a sample of firms from eight culturally-diverse European Union countries, we find that the level of secrecy that national culture exhibits is negatively related to corporate investment efficiency after controlling for a number of firm- and country-level factors. We also find that the negative relation between national culture and corporate investment efficiency is mitigated by an exogenous shock to the information asymmetry problem between managers and investors. Our study highlights the importance of the cultural value of secrecy/transparency as a determinant of investment efficiency at the firm-level.
G31|Q, investment, and the financial cycle|The empirical performance of the Q theory of investment can be significantly improved by simultaneously considering the time- and the frequency-varying features of the investment-Q relationship. Using continuous wavelet tools, I assess the investment-Q sensitivity at different frequencies and its evolution over time, as well as the interaction of the financial cycle with the Q theory. The results show that there is a positive, stable medium-to-long-run relationship between investment and Q that begins after a positive, stable long-run relationship between credit and Q materializes. In such case, credit leads and slowly fuels the stock price boom.
G31|Managerial Reputation, Risk-Taking, and Imperfect Capital Markets|This paper presents a model of portfolio management with reputation concerns in imperfect capital markets. Managers with financial constraints raise funds from investors and select a project that is characterized by the degree of risk. Managers differ in their ability to determine the probability of success. Based on past performance, all agents revise beliefs about managers’ ability, and the beliefs affect the availability of funds in the future. This provides motivation for managers to build reputation by manipulating their performance through project selection. We show that the quality of investor protection changes fund flows, thereby influencing managers’ project selection. Our model predicts that strong investor protection causes risk-taking behavior, whereas weak investor protection leads to risk-averse behavior.
G31|Channels of Sovereign Risk Spillovers and Investment in the Manufacturing Sector|This paper identifies endogenous and exogenous indicators of firms’ investment activity, and examine, in particular, the effect that these variables have in co-determining firms’ investment decisions. Two channels of spillovers from sovereign risk to firms’ capital expenditures are defined. The first channel, the “direct channel”, describes responses in capital expenditures from an innovation in sovereign risk. The second channel, the “indirect channel”, is a transmission mechanism in which spillovers from changes in sovereign risk indirectly affect a firm’s capital expenditures via its capital market risk and profitability. While we observe that the direct risk channel is of major importance in Emerging and Developing Economies, it is comparatively small in Advanced Economies. In the case of the latter, contagion from changes in sovereign risk on firms’ capital market risk plays a much more important role.
G31|The Collateral Channel: How Real Estate Shocks Affect Corporate Investment:Comment|Chaney, Sraer and Thesmar (2012) find that over the 1993–2007 period, a $1 increase in collateral (the value of real estate a firm actually owns) leads the representative US public corporation to raise its investment by $0.06. We first demonstrate that data Winsorization induces a strong bias in favour of finding this result. There is no relationship ($0.00 per $1) between the value of real estate a firm owns and its investment in the unaltered data. We also show that the identification approach based on local variations in real estate prices does not provide evidence on the collateral channel.
G31|Strengthening the Three Lines of Defence in Terms of More Efficient Operational Risk Management in Central Banks|This paper is the result of the author`s many years of multidisciplinary research in the areas of quality management and operational risk management. The main focus of the research is aimed at strengthening the model of the “three lines of defence” in terms of more efficient management of operational risks - those that arise as a result of inadequate and unsuccessful processes and systems, human factors, as well as those that can appear as a result of external events. The strengthening of the three lines of defence model is brought about through the synergy of quality management principles, the principles of risk management, and the total quality management approach. In essence, the term strengthening may be interpreted as a process of continual improvement. Business operations based on the principles of quality management and risk management allow central banks to be able to continuously improve their overall business performance. The principles of quality management contain properly aligned and matched best solutions from current management theory and practice. Designed to work together - and this essentially means in a consistent, synchronized and synergistic manner, the principles are translated into a series of requirements and guidelines of international standards suitable for implementation. Through their synergy, the principles of quality management and risk management, as well as approaches to total quality management form a clear, applicable and sustainable paradigm of successful management of central banks. Incorporation of the principles of quality management in central bank systems and processes would significantly strengthen the three lines of defence, in terms of efficient operational risk management, which this paper aims to show in a clear and comprehensive manner. Although any central bank is a specific institution, all the principles of quality management and risk management can be applied to its operations. In addition to the numerous and highly significant benefits and synergistic effects that the application of quality management and risk management principles bring to central banks, what should also be highlighted is their impact on a new way of thinking regarding successful central bank governance, which generates a new attitude towards its responsibilities, objectives, employees, and the environment. A new way of thinking produces new behaviours and an improved business culture and can ensure the sustainable success of central banks and other financial system entities. Bearing in mind that the process of risk management is an integral part of the working of central banks, the most effective results are achieved when the “process owner” is also the “risk owner”. This paper shows that the integration of these two roles contributes to the full effectiveness and efficiency of the processes and risks management. It is clearly demonstrated that this unity of the roles, along with a quality culture, a risk culture, and risk-based thinking is embedded in all management processes - from defining policies, objectives, and plans, all the way to their operational implementation and that this ensures the fulfilment of requirements, needs, and expectations of customers and other relevant stakeholders. In all of this, the management of any central bank plays the most important role, not only because of the importance and complexity of the issues in question, but also because of their full responsibility to manage risks in a proper, effective, conscientious and dedicated manner, as that is the key precondition for achieving sustainable success.
G31|Petroleum tax competition subject to capital rationing|The recent dramatic fall in oil prices has led to extensive capital rationing in international oil companies, and subsequent fierce competition between resource extraction countries to attract scarce investment. This situation is not adequately addressed by the large literature on international taxation and multinational companies, since it fails to take account of capital rationing in its assumption that companies sanction all projects with a positive net present value. The paper examines the effect of tax design on international capital allocation when companies ration capital. We analyse capital allocation and government take for four equal oil projects in three different fiscal regimes: the US GoM, UK upstream and Norway offshore. Implications for optimal tax design are discussed.
G31|Firm Response to Competitive Shocks: Evidence from China’s Minimum Wage Policy|The large regional variation of minimum wage changes in 2002-08 implies that Chinese manufacturing firms experienced competitive shocks as a function of firm location and their low-wage employment share. We find that minimum wage hikes accelerate the input substitution from labor to capital in low-wage firms, reduce employment growth, but also accelerate total factor productivity growth particularly among the less productive firms under private Chinese or foreign ownership, but not among state-owned enterprises. The heterogeneous firm response to labor cost shocks can be explained by differences in governance or management practice, but is difficult to reconcile with the idea that competitive pressure is a substitute for governance quality.
G31|Zur Kredithürde: Perzeption der Kreditvergabebereitschaft der Banken und unternehmensspezifische Kreditmarkterfahrung|Seit 2003 werden die deutschen Unternehmen im Rahmen des ifo Konjunkturtests regelmäßig auch nach ihrer Beurteilung der Kreditvergabebereitschaft der Banken gefragt. Die Antworten auf diese »Kreditfrage« werden sowohl für die Bildung makroökonomischer Indikatoren – wie der »Kredithürde« – als auch für die Analyse von Mikrodaten, d.h. von Beobachtungen auf Ebene des einzelnen Unternehmens, genutzt. Allerdings ist es dabei unklar, ob die Antwort eines Unternehmens dessen eigene Situation reflektiert oder vielmehr die sektorspezifischen, regionalen oder gar makroökonomischen Tendenzen widerspiegelt. Deshalb wird die regelmäßige Kreditfrage seit März 2017 in veränderter Form gestellt. Die Unternehmen werden explizit danach gefragt, ob sie Kreditbedarf haben und wie sie das Verhalten der Banken bei den Kreditverhandlungen einschätzen.
G31|Product Market Competition and Option Prices|Most firms face some form of competition in product markets. The degree of competition a firm faces feeds back into its cash flows and affects the values of the securities it issues. We demonstrate that, through its effects on stock prices, product market competition also affects the prices of options on equity and naturally leads to an inverse relationship between equity returns and volatility, generating a negative volatility skew in option prices. Using a large sample of U.S. equity options, we provide empirical support for this finding and demonstrate the importance of accounting for product market competition when explaining the cross-sectional variation in option skew.
G31|Fundamental Risk and Capital Structure|I develop a dynamic capital structure model to examine how the nature of risk affects firm’s debt policy. In the model, firm’s fundamental risk, captured by its cash flow process, consists of transitory and persistent parts with markedly different dynamics. The model explains the observed dispersion in the risk-leverage relationship. Firms with similar total volatility adopt distinctive debt policies when the composition of their risk differs and issue less debt when their cash flows are more persistent to preserve debt capacity needed to fund investment. The model also provides rationale why the observable dispersion in cash flow persistence is low, which is at odds with the large degree of heterogeneity in other firm characteristics, as well as why persistence and leverage are weakly related in the data.
G31|Transitory versus Permanent Shocks: Explaining Corporate Savings and Investment|We model the investment and cash policies of a firm facing financing frictions, transitory cash flow shocks, and permanent productivity shocks. While cash holdings increase and investment and Tobin's $q$ decrease with the volatilities of either type of shocks, a higher correlation between these shocks makes the firm hold less cash, invest more, and become more valuable. We verify these predictions on a large sample of U.S. firms using estimates of permanent and transitory cash flow shocks obtained via structural estimation. Our results suggest that corporate policies and valuations are better understood when distinguishing between permanent and transitory cash flow shocks.
G31|Pérdidas esperadas y detrimento patrimonial por hurto de vehículos en Colombia|Este trabajo presenta una aproximación metodológica basada en el concepto de valor en riesgo operativo (VaRop) para la estimación de las pérdidas económicas máximas esperadas por el hurto de vehículos asegurados en Colombia, desagregado por empresa aseguradora y para las principales ciudades del país. También se estima la pérdida patrimonial para propietarios cuyos vehículos no están asegurados. Para el primer propósito, se identificaron las distribuciones de probabilidad asociadas a las series de hurtos tanto para la frecuencia como para la pérdida económica mensual, las cuales fueron agregadas mediante un proceso de simulación Montecarlo. Para la pérdida patrimonial se planteó un modelo multidimensional para cuantificar la distribución del detrimento patrimonial, la cual incorpora cinco distribuciones de probabilidad en un proceso de simulación Montecarlo. El estudio evidencia la gravedad del problema del robo de vehículos en Colombia, con unas pérdidas económicas máximas para las aseguradoras de $9.130,0 millones/mes y un detrimento patrimonial para los ciudadanos del orden de $16.458,0 millones/mes; además, refleja la baja cultura del seguro en el país donde solo el 28,16% del parque automotor está cubierto por compañías aseguradoras. ***** This paper presents a methodological approach based on the Value at Operational Risk (VaRop) concept in order to quantify the maximum economic loss expected for the theft of insured vehicles in Colombia disaggregated by insurance company and for major cities. The financial loss to owners whose vehicles are not insured is also estimated. To do this, we identified the probability distributions associated to the series of thefts both in terms of frequency and monthly financial loss, which were aggregated using a Monte Carlo simulation process, it permit estimate the operational VaR or maximum probable loss at 95%. For the equity loss, a multidimensional model was proposed for the Distribution of Wealth Quantify Detriment incorporating five probability distributions in a Montecarlo simulation process. The study highlights the grave problem of vehicle theft in Colombia. There is a maximum economic loss for insurers of $9,130.0 million/month and a capital expense for citizens in the order of $16,458.0 mill/month. There is also a low insurance culture: only the 28.16% of the stolen vehicles are insured.
G31|Revisión de gasto sector comercio, industria y turismo|Este documento corresponde al informe final del estudio de Revisión de Gasto del sector Comercio, Industria y Turismo. Contiene cuatro grandes secciones. La primera se refiere a la aproximación metodológica que se siguió en la construcción de la línea de base para el ejercicio de revisión y para la discusión con las entidades del sector. En la segunda se hace una descripción de la construcción de la línea base, así como los primeros resultados que se obtienen de ésta. Posteriormente se describe el proceso realizado con las entidades en las mesas operativas para definir la calificación de prioridad y desempeño, establecer inflexibilidades e ineficiencias, y elaborar las propuestas de reasignación, tanto para los proyectos de inversión como a nivel de las transferencias de capital. En las últimas secciones del documento se discuten elementos del proceso presupuestal del sector que resultaron de la revisión de gasto y las lecciones principales del ejercicio.
G31|Revisión de gasto sector salud|El presente documento pertenece a una serie de esfuerzos realizados por el Gobierno Nacional desde el 2015 por incorporar las Revisiones de Gasto como parte integral del proceso presupuestal. Esta herramienta busca lograr, a través de una metodología ordenada y sistemática, una mejor distribución de los recursos escasos, de forma que el gasto nacional se oriente hacia proyectos y programas de mayor impacto y que atienden necesidades más urgentes. Con la Revisión de Gasto del sector salud, se busca llegar a recomendaciones prácticas para la preparación del presupuesto y establecer lineamientos para lograr un proceso institucionalizado y comprensivo de planeación de gasto en el futuro. La metodología que aquí se presenta parte de aquella establecida por Banco Mundial en el 2016, la cual fue discutida, ajustada y acordada con el Departamento Nacional de Planeación, sin embargo la metodología no se aplicó para los recursos del Sistema General de Participaciones – SGP. En su implementación se contó con la participación del DNP, y las diferentes entidades del sector como son el Ministerio de Salud y Protección Social, INS, INVIMA y la Superintendencia Nacional de Salud. De esta manera, se buscó crear un proceso participativo que contribuya a identificar de manera consensuada y organizada posibilidades específicas de ahorro y de reasignación de recursos dentro del sector, que se ajusten a las necesidades fiscales del Gobierno Nacional y a la coyuntura económica que han ocasionado recortes en los últimos años. De otra parte, se ha incluido una sección adicional enfocada al Sistema General de Participaciones, en consideración a la relevancia estratégica del mismo a nivel territorial y por el volumen de recursos involucrados. También se analizaron los proyectos correspondientes a salud del Sistema General de Regalías, aplicando la metodología con alguna variación de acuerdo con las características de los mismos y la información disponible.
G31|Eliciting women's willingness to take a job. Evidence from displaced and extremely poor women in Cali, Colombia|Este documento presenta un experimento de laboratorio sobre las preferencias de mujeres desplazadas por la violencia y en condición de extrema pobreza, residentes en Cali, Colombia, en el mercado laboral formal e informal. En este experimento se obtienen las decisiones que estas mujeres toman respecto al ingreso constante diario, obtenido de trabajar en casa en un negocio pequeño y de baja productividad (como cocinar o coser), contra la opción de aumentar su ingreso diario trabajando fuera de casa, como empleados. El salario elegido está sujeto al número de horas lejos de casa, el precio del transporte y el costo del cuidado de los niños y/o adolecentes, y adicionalmente de si el empleo es formal o informal. Un total de 225 mujeres participaron en este experimento. Para obtener las negociaciones sobre las opciones de trabajo al interior de los hogares, el grupo de tratamiento estaba compuesto por mujeres casadas con sus esposos presentes en el experimento, y un grupo de control conformado por mujeres casadas sin que sus esposos estuvieran presentes. Se invitaron parejas para negociar en diferentes escenarios. Los resultados muestran que no hay diferencias significativas entre los grupos de tratamiento y de control, en el caso de los empleos informales. Mujeres teniendo a sus esposos presentes eran menos propensas a aceptar empleos con un menor salario en el sector formal, y más propensas a quedarse en casa, que sus contrapartes que no tenían a sus maridos presentes. Las preferencias de trabajo también varían de acuerdo a los costos del cuidado y del número de hijos menores a los 18 años.
G31|Efectos de variaciones del precio del petróleo en un escenario de incertidumbre sobre el crecimiento económico de Colombia: 2001-2016|Un gran auge del sector minero energético, especialmente del petróleo y sus derivados, seguido de una fuerte desaceleración, ha provocado toda una serie de consecuencias en el comportamiento económico del país. Este trabajo presenta una revisión literaria de los estudios que se han hecho para Colombia sobre los efectos directos de variaciones en los precios del petróleo sobre el crecimiento de la economía colombiana, posteriormente se presenta una estimación de estos efectos por medio de un modelo VAR-GARCH, el cual permite que la volatilidad del precio del petróleo afecte el crecimiento económico. Se encuentra la existencia de una relación contemporánea entre el crecimiento de la economía colombiana y el crecimiento del petróleo internacional WTI, así mismo, se encuentra una relación negativa entre el crecimiento de la economía colombiana y la volatilidad del precio internacional del petróleo
G31|Cálculo de un WACC diferenciado por región para proyectos de generación de electricidad con fuentes renovables en Colombia|Resumen: En este trabajo estamos interesados en proponer una metodología para estimar la tasa de descuento para proyectos de generación de electricidad divididos en renovables y norenovables (convencionales) y diferenciado por región. Esto requiere estimar adicionalmente un parámetro riesgo para cada región, en este caso para cada departamento del país, que tendría el efecto inmediato de regionalizar directamente la tasa de descuento o el WACC para ambos tipos de tecnologías. En la medición del riesgo-región se consideraron variables asociadas al riesgo de corrupción y a la violencia en cada departamento. Nuestros resultados sugieren que los departamentos de Antioquia y Valle del Cauca son las regiones con más riesgo de violencia y en consecuencia donde debe exigirse una rentabilidad mínima mayor. / Abstract : In this paper we are interested in proposing a methodology to estimate the discount rate for electricity generation projects divided into renewable and non-renewable (conventional) and differentiated by region. This requires estimating a risk parameter for each region, in this case for each department of the country, which would have the immediate effect of directly regionalizing the discount rate or the WACC for both types of technologies. In the region risk measurement, variables associated with the risk of corruption and violence in each department were considered. Our results suggest that departments of Antioquia and Valle del Cauca are the regions with the highest risk of violence and consequently where a higher minimum profitability should be demanded.
G31|The long-run real effects of banking crises: Firm-level investment dynamics and the role of wage rigidity|This paper studies the long-run effects of credit market disruptions on real firm outcomes and how these effects depend on nominal wage rigidities at the firm level. I trace out the long-run investment and growth trajectories of firms which are more adversely affected by a transitory shock to aggregate credit supply. Affected firms exhibit a temporary investment gap for two years following the shock, resulting in a persistent accumulated growth gap. I show that affected firms with a higher degree of wage rigidity exhibit a steeper drop in investment and grow more slowly than affected firms with more flexible wages.
G31|Manpower Constraints and Corporate Policies|Manpower constraints are the pervasive lack of specialized high- and low-skill workers, irrespective of the wage firms might offer.
G31|Die Beziehungen der Norddeutschen Wollkämmerei und Kammgarnspinnerei zu den Banken|The Relationship of the Norddeutsche Wollkämmerei und Kammgarnspinnerei (Nordwolle Group) with the Banks: Research into the relationship between banking and industry has long held the view that banks had dominated their clientele from industry, trade and retailing and they had established a position of power that was almost impossible to reign in. More recent studies question this assessment and deliver impressive evidence that the relationship between industry and banks was often characterized by information asymmetries. For example, major companies often withheld information about their earnings performance during credit negotiations so that the banks had to make large risk provisions which reduced their profitability. This was also true for the Nordwolle textile group, which had financed the expansion of its business during the Weimar Republic primarily from outside capital, first and foremost using loans from various banks. In obtaining these loans, the Group's management succeeded repeatedly in playing competing banks against one another. Even major banks such as Danat-Bank, Berliner Handelsgesellschaft, and probably Dresdner Bank as well, placed major bets on getting Nordwolle to commit itself as a client. As long as the banks could be talked into believing that company was profitable and continually expanding, the banks were ready to grant new loans. Not until the spring of 1931, after indications about the Group's actual situation had made the rounds did the banks push through extensive audits of the company's financial statements. That the efforts to rescue Nordwolle ultimately remained fruitless was not least a result of the new-found caution in awarding additional loans.
G31|Tail event driven networks of SIFIs|The interdependence, dynamics and riskiness of financial institutions are the key features frequently tackled in financial econometrics. We propose a Tail Event driven Network Quantile Regression (TENQR) model which addresses these three aspects. More precisely, our framework captures the risk propagation and dynamics in terms of a panel quantile autoregression involving network effects that are quantified through a time-varying adjacency matrix. To reflect the risk content in stress situations the construction of the adjacency matrix is suggested to include tail events. More precisely we employ the conditional expected shortfall as risk profile. Based on the similarity of the risk profiles we create a positive and a negative network factor, which capture the effects of risk contagion and risk diversification respectively. The developed joint spacings variance ratio test supports the suggested methodology. The TENQR technique is evaluated using the SIFIs (systemically important financial institutions) identified by the Financial Stability Board (FSB). The risk decomposition of the resulting network identifies the systemic importance of SIFIs and thus provides measures for the required level of additional loss absorbency. It is discovered that the positive network effect, as a function of the tail probability level, becomes more profound in stress situations and varies in its impact to SIFIs located in different geographic regions.
G31|Corporate Currency Risk and Hedging in Chile: Real and Financial Effects|This paper examines a panel (1994-2014) of Chilean non-financial firms, both publicly listed and private, which was built to analyze the determinants of the use of foreign currency debt and their potential consequences for firm investment and profitability. It is found that foreign assets and the use of FX derivatives are positively associated with firms' use of foreign currency debt. Also, depending on the estimation method, exports appear as an important determinant of the use of foreign currency debt. In terms of the potential effect of holding foreign currency debt on firms' performance after an exchange rate devaluation, no statistical differential effect is identified on either firm profitability or firm investment. This (lack of) result is interpreted as evidence that firms match liabilities and assets denominated in foreign currency and that firms actively involved in hedging aim to reduce their exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations.
G31|Risk And Profi Tability Of Islamic Banks: A Religious Deception Or An Alternative Solution?|The aim of this paper is to examine whether Islamic finance could be an alternative to the traditional financial system and could guarantee stability in times of crisis. To this end, 78 Islamic banks in 12 countries have been studied over the 2004–2013 period. A series of bank-specific and other country specific indicators are combined to explain the soundness of Islamic banking in terms of profitability as measured by ROA and ROE, and risk divided into credit risk measured by IMLGL and EQL, and insolvency risk measured by Z-SCORE. The aim is to estimate five regressions using dynamic panel data econometrics (GMM system). The results indicate that bank size and capital are the main factors responsible for increasing profitability and stability of Islamic banks and reducing their credit risk. However, the ratios forming the variable liquidity and asset quality often lead to inconclusive results. It is also found that macroeconomic variables, except inflation, are able to improve Islamic banks’ stability. This is not the case for credit risk where the ratio is still unfavorable. The conclusion is that there are no major differences between IBs and CBs in terms of their profitability and risk features. / 0
G31|On the value and determinants of the interest tax shields|Abstract We use a dynamic model of the firm to ascertain both the value and the determinants of the debt tax shields. For a representative U.S. firm, we find that the value of the interest tax shields represents less than 5 % of firm value, and it varies considerably across U.S. industries. Our results also show that this component of firm value behaves counter-cyclically over the business cycle. Finally, besides the interest rate on debt and the corporate income tax rate, we find that the curvature of the production function is one of the main determinants of the tax advantage of debt.
G31|Family ownership: does it matter for funding and success of corporate innovations?|Abstract Using the Mannheim innovation panel, we investigate whether family firms have higher financial need and how this affects both innovation input and innovation outcomes such as firm or market novelties, or process innovation. Applying the CDM framework, we find that family firms are more likely to have a latent financial need for innovation, which means that they have innovation ideas which they have not implemented yet. We find that family firms have a significantly lower marginal innovation productivity in particular for innovations with radical character, i.e., market novelties. We conclude from this evidence that family firms have a comparative disadvantage in innovation projects that imply high risk and require high innovation capability.
G31|Great East Japan Earthquake and Risk Management for Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises ―How Do Japanese SMEs Prepare against Natural Disasters?－|We conducted a questionnaire survey regarding insurance and risk management of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) all over Japan in 2014. Based on that survey, this research examined who prepared less against natural disasters before the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake and how seriously Japanese SMEs with poor risk management were affected by the earthquake. We find that SMEs in a weaker financial condition tended to take fewer measures against earthquakes before the Great East Japan Earthquake. We also find that companies in a weaker financial condition tend to prepare less for earthquake risks even after the Great Earthquake. Furthermore, we find that direct damages from the Great East Japan Earthquake were more serious for SMEs with poor risk management than for those with sound risk management.
G31|A vállalkozói ökoszisztémák térbeli megjelenésének modellezési lehetőségei - tények és problémák<BR>[Scope for modelling entrepreneurial ecosystems: facts and problems]|Kutatásunk célja a magyar gazdaság vállalkozói ökoszisztémáinak vizsgálata. A vállalkozói ökoszisztéma fogalma a gazdasági közösségek kialakulásának egy új megközelítésével született meg, amely a vállalkozói aktivitás minőségére helyezi a hangsúlyt, továbbá feltételezi, hogy a gazdasági közösségek célja a produktív vállalkozás megvalósítása. Településszintű adatokat felhasználva, a vállalkozás minőségének méréséhez a növekedési lehetőségek közelítő változójaként használt fundamentális Q mutató empirikus reprezentációját, valamint az egységnyi tőkére jutó beruházás mutatóját alkalmaztuk. Ez utóbbi mutató településszintű aggregátuma megfelelő indikátornak bizonyult. Kutatásunk másik kérdése, hogy térben koncentrálódnak-e a településszinten vizsgált vállalkozói ökoszisztémák. Térökonometriai módszerek alkalmazásával megmutattuk, hogy nem koncentrálódnak térben azok a települések, amelyekben a vállalkozás minősége magas. Végül arra a kérdésre igyekeztünk választ adni, hogy miért jut empirikus vizsgálatunk az elméleti szakirodalomnak ellentmondó álláspontra a regionális szintű ökoszisztémákkal kapcsolatban.* Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: G31, C21, L26.
G31|Debt Maturity, Default, and Investment under Rollover Risk and Solvency Concern|We consider the effects of the endogenous interaction between rollover risk and solvency concern-generated by not only debt rollover but also by an assessment regarding the firm's solvency risk via a learning process over time-on the decisions of the firm about debt maturity, default, investment, and leverage policies. We distinguish between short-term liquidity uncertainty and long-term solvency uncertainty in order to clarify how the two sources of uncertainty affect such decisions of the firm. If debt maturity is exogenously determined, it is important to note that the effect of long-term solvency uncertainty on the investment policy-debt overhang-is opposite to that of short-term liquidity uncertainty. If debt maturity is endogenously determined, we show that the equilibrium debt maturity inceases (decreases) with short-term liquidity (long-term solvency) uncertainty when the chosen debt maturity is sufficiently long, and that for any debt maturity the firm's incentives to default increase (decrease) with short-term liquidity (long-term solvency) uncertainty whereas the firm's incentives to invest decrease (increase) with short-term liquidity (long-term solvency) uncertainty.
G31|Minsky's Financial Fragility: An Empirical Analysis of Electricity Distribution Companies in Brazil (2007-15)|The present paper applies Hyman P. Minsky's insights on financial fragility in order to analyze the behavior of electricity distribution companies in Brazil from 2007 to 2015. More specifically, it builds an analytical framework to classify the firms operating in this sector into Minskyan risk categories and assess how financial fragility evolved over time, in each firm and in the sector as a whole. This work adapts Minsky's financial fragility indicators and taxonomy to the conditions of the electricity distribution sector and applies them to regulatory accounting data for more than 60 firms. This empirical application of Minsky's theory for analyzing firms engaged in the provision of public goods and services is a novelty. The results show an increase in the financial fragility of those firms (as well as the sector) throughout the period, especially between 2008 and 2013, even though the number of firms operating at the highest level of financial risk hardly changed.
G31|Tri-Cycles Analysis On Bankperformance: Panel Var Approach|The previous financial crisis has revealed the importance of risk in the financial and business cycle within the economy. This paper examines relationship among three cycles in the economy, namely (i) business cycle macro risk, (ii) credit cycle and (iii) risk cycle, and their impacts toward individual bank performance. We examine the responses of individual bank credit cycle and risk cycle toward a shock in business cycle macro risk and its consequence to the bank performance. We use Indonesian data for period of 2005q1 to 2014q4. We use unbalanced panel data of individual banks’ balance sheet with Panel Vector Autoregressive approach based on GMM style estimation by implementing PVAR package developed by Abrigo and Love (2015). The result shows dynamic relationship between business cycle macro risk and financial risk cycles. The study also observes prominent role of risk cycles in driving bank performance. We also show the existence of financial accelerator phenomenon in Indonesian banking system, in which financial cycles precede the business cycle macro risk.
G31|Does family ownership structure affect investment-cash flow sensitivity? Evidence from Italian SMEs| The aim of this article is to investigate whether family control, family management and family ownership concentration affect the investment-cash flow sensitivity of small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). By analysing a sample of Italian SMEs for the period 2004–2013, I find that family-owned businesses are significantly associated with higher investment-cash flow dependence. This relation, however, is found to be driven by two distinct factors: (i) the presence of a highly concentrated family ownership (ownership concentration channel) and (ii) the active involvement of the family in the business (family management channel).
G31|Corporate Investment in Hungary – Stylised Facts on Micro Data|This paper investigates corporate fixed investment in Hungary between 2001 and 2014 using firm-level data. We analyse the composition, heterogeneity and the drivers of corporate investment. Investments in Hungary are highly concentrated and dominated by large and foreign-owned companies. The period investigated can be split into three parts: the 2000s with moderate performance, the crisis period, and the period of weak recovery in 2013-2014. We find that structural problems were already seen before the crisis: the investment rate was stagnant and investment activity declined. However, the performance of firms was heterogeneous, as smaller and middle-aged firms became less active and dynamic. During the crisis, investment performance markedly deteriorated. Signs of recovery were seen in 2013 and 2014, but the investment rate remained subdued. We show that the ageing of the group of smaller firms played an important role in their weak investment performance, while the lack of new entrants contributed to the sluggishness of the recovery. We did not find any evidence that changes in individual sectors’ weight in the economy contributed to the low corporate investment rate or the weakening activity.
G31|Pledgeability, Industry Liquidity, and Financing Cycles|Why are downturns following high valuations of firms long and severe? Why do firms choose high debt when they anticipate high valuations, and underperform subsequently? We propose a theory of financing cycles where the importance of creditors’ control rights over cash flows (“pledgeability”) varies with industry liquidity. Firms take on more debt when they anticipate higher future industry liquidity. However, both high anticipated liquidity and the resulting high debt limit their incentives to enhance pledgeability. This has prolonged adverse effects in a downturn. Higher anticipated liquidity can, in fact, reduce a firm’s current access to finance.
G31|Firms' Internal Networks and Local Economic Shocks|This paper shows that firms spread the adverse impacts of local employment shocks across regions through their internal networks of establishments. Linking confidential micro data at the establishment level from the U.S. Census Bureau’s Longitudinal Business Database to ZIP code-level variation in house price changes during the Great Recession, we find that local establishment-level employment responds strongly to employment shocks in other regions in which the firm has establishments. Consistent with theory, the elasticity of establishment-level employment with respect to shocks in other regions is increasing with firms’ financial constraints. Moreover, establishments belonging to more expansive firm networks exhibit smaller employment elasticities with respect to their own local shocks. To account for the impacts of general equilibrium adjustments, we examine aggregate employment at the county level. Similar to what we found at the establishment level, we obtain large elasticities of county-level employment with respect to employment shocks in other counties linked through firms’ internal networks. Overall, our results suggest that firms play an important role in the provision of regional risk sharing and the propagation of local employment shocks across different U.S. regions.
G31|Financial Frictions and Employment during the Great Depression|We provide new evidence that a disruption in credit supply played a quantitatively significant role in the unprecedented contraction of employment during the Great Depression. To analyze the role of financing frictions in firms' employment decisions, we use a novel, hand-collected dataset of large industrial firms. Our identification strategy exploits preexisting variation in the need to raise external funds at a time when public bond markets essentially froze. Local bank failures inhibited firms' ability to substitute public debt for private debt, which exacerbated financial constraints. We estimate a large and negative causal effect of financing frictions on firm employment. Interpreting the estimated elasticities through the lens of a simple structural model, we find that the lack of access to credit may have accounted for 10% to 33% of the aggregate decline in employment of large firms between 1928 and 1933.
G31|The Investment CAPM|A new class of Capital Asset Pricing Models (CAPM) arises from the first principle of real investment for individual firms. Conceptually as â€˜causalâ€™ as the consumption CAPM, yet empirically more tractable, the investment CAPM emerges as a leading asset pricing paradigm. Firms do a good job in aligning investment policies with costs of capital, and this alignment drives many empirical patterns that are anomalous in the consumption CAPM. Most important, integrating the anomalies literature in finance and accounting with neoclassical economics, the investment CAPM has succeeded in mounting an efficient markets counterrevolution to behavioural finance over the past 15 years.
G31|Sharing R&D Risk in Healthcare via FDA Hedges|The high cost of capital for firms conducting medical research and development (R&D) has been partly attributed to the government risk facing investors in medical innovation. This risk slows down medical innovation because investors must be compensated for it. We analyze new and simple financial instruments, Food and Drug Administration (FDA) hedges, to allow medical R&D investors to better share the pipeline risk associated with FDA approval with broader capital markets. Using historical FDA approval data, we discuss the pricing of FDA hedges and mechanisms under which they can be traded and estimate issuer returns from offering them. Using various unique data sources, we find that FDA approval risk has a low correlation across drug classes as well as with other assets and the overall market. We argue that this zero-beta property of scientific FDA risk could be a main source of gains from trade between issuers of FDA hedges looking for diversified investments and developers looking to offload the FDA approval risk. We offer proof of concept of the feasibility of trading this type of pipeline risk by examining related securities issued around mergers and acquisitions activity in the drug industry. Overall, our argument is that, by allowing better risk sharing between those investing in medical innovation and capital markets more generally, FDA hedges could ultimately spur medical innovation and improve the health of patients.
G31|Corporate Liquidity, Acquisitions, and Macroeconomic Conditions|Firms hold liquid assets to enhance their ability to invest efficiently when external financing costs are high, especially during poor macroeconomic conditions. Using a sample of 47,378 acquisitions from 36 countries between 1997 and 2014, we study how the relation between firms' cash holdings and their acquisition decisions changes over macroeconomic cycles. We find that higher cash holdings increase the likelihood a firm will make an acquisition. Better macroeconomic conditions, which lower the cost of external finance, also increase the likelihood of an acquisition. However, larger cash holdings decrease the sensitivity of acquisitions to macroeconomic factors, suggesting that cash holdings lower financing constraints during times when the cost of external finance is high. Announcement day abnormal returns for acquirers follow a consistent pattern: they decrease with acquirer cash holdings and with better macroeconomic conditions. The results are consistent with the view that firms choose liquidity levels to insure against poor macroeconomic conditions.
G31|The Economics of Value Investing|The investment CAPM provides an economic foundation for Graham and Dodd's (1934) Security Analysis, without mispricing. Expected returns vary cross-sectionally, depending on firms' investment, expected profitability, and expected investment growth. Our economic model also offers an appealing alternative to two workhorse accounting models. Empirically, many anomaly variables are associated with future investment growth, in the same direction with future returns. An expected growth factor earns on average 0.56% per month (t = 6.66), and adding it to the q-factor model improves the model*s performance substantially. In all, value investing is consistent with efficient markets.
G31|Declining Competition and Investment in the U.S|We argue that the increasing concentration of US industries is not an efficient response to changes in technology and reflects instead decreasing domestic competition. Concentration has risen in the U.S. but not in Europe; concentration and productivity are negatively related; and industry leaders cut investment when concentration increases. We then establish the causal impact of competition on investment using Chinese competition in manufacturing, noisy entry in the late 1990s, and discrete jumps in concentration following large M&As. We find that more (less) competition causes more (less) investment, particularly in intangible assets and by industry leaders.
G31|Understanding the Rise in Corporate Cash: Precautionary Savings or Foreign Taxes|What has driven the dramatic rise in U.S. corporate cash? Using non-public data, we show that the run-up is not uniform across firms but is concentrated in the foreign subsidiaries of multinational firms. Standard precautionary motives explain only domestic cash holdings, not these burgeoning foreign cash balances. Falling foreign tax rates, coupled with relaxed restrictions on income shifting, are the root of the changing foreign cash patterns. Firms with intellectual property have the greatest ability to shift income to low tax jurisdictions, and their foreign subsidiaries are where we observe the largest accumulations of cash.
G31|Enjoying the Quiet Life: Corporate Decision-making by Entrenched Managers|In this study, we empirically test “quiet life hypothesis,” which predicts that managers who are subject to weak monitoring from the shareholders avoid making difficult decisions such as risky investment and business restructuring with Japanese firm data. We employ cross-shareholder and stable shareholder ownership as the proxy variables of the strength of a manager’s defense against market disciplinary power. We examine the effect of the proxy variables on manager-enacted corporate behaviors and the results indicate that entrenched managers who are insulated from disciplinary power of stock market avoid making difficult decisions such as large investments and business restructures. However, when managers are closely monitored by institutional investors and independent directors, they tend to be active in making difficult decisions. Taken together, our results are consistent with managerial quiet life hypothesis.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
G31|Optimal Financing for R&D-Intensive Firms|We develop a theory of optimal financing for R&D-intensive firms that uses their unique features—large capital outlays, long gestation periods, high upside, and low probabilities of R&D success—that explains three prominent stylized facts about these firms: their relatively low use of debt, large cash balances, and underinvestment in R&D. The model relies on the interaction of the unique features of R&D-intensive firms with three key frictions: adverse selection about R&D viability, asymmetric information about the upside potential of R&D, and moral hazard from risk shifting. We establish the optimal pecking order of securities with direct market financing. Using a tradeoff between tax benefits and the costs of risk shifting for debt, we establish conditions under which the firm uses an all-equity capital structure and firms raise enough financing to carry excess cash. A firm may use a limited amount of debt if it has pledgeable assets in place. However, market financing still leaves potentially valuable R&D investments unfunded. We then use a mechanism design approach to explore the potential of intermediated financing, with a binding precommitment by firm insiders to make costly ex post payouts. A mechanism consisting of put options can be used in combination with equity to eliminate underinvestment in R&D relative to the direct market financing outcome. This optimal intermediary-assisted mechanism consists of bilateral “insurance” contracts, with investors offering firms insurance against R&D failure and firms offering investors insurance against very high R&D payoffs not being realized.
G31|Does the Investment Model Explain Value and Momentum Simultaneously?|Two innovations in the structural investment model go a long way in explaining value and momentum jointly. Firm-level investment returns are constructed from firm-level accounting variables, and are then aggregated to the portfolio level to match with portfolio-level stock returns. In addition, current assets form a separate production input besides physical capital. The model fits well the value, momentum, investment, and profitability premiums jointly, and partially explains the positive stock-investment return correlations, the procyclicality and short-term dynamics of the momentum and profitability premiums, and the countercyclicality and long-term dynamics of the value and investment premiums. However, the model fails to explain momentum crashes.
G31|The Impact of Bank Credit on Labor Reallocation and Aggregate Industry Productivity|We provide evidence that the deregulation of U.S. state banking markets leads to a significant increase in the relative employment and capital growth of local firms with higher productivity, and that this effect is concentrated among young firms. Using financial data for a broad range of firms, our analysis suggests that this effect is driven by a shift in the composition of local bank credit supply toward more productive firms. We estimate that this effect translates into economically important gains in aggregate industry productivity and that changes in the allocation of labor play a central role in driving these gains.
G31|Does the Stock Market Make Firms More Productive?|We test the hypothesis that greater stock price informativeness (SPI) leads to higher firm-level productivity (TFP). Management, directly or indirectly, learns more from more informative stock prices, so that more informative stock prices should make firms more productive. We find a positive relation between SPI and TFP. The relation is stronger for smaller, younger, riskier, less capital-intensive, and financially-constrained firms. Product market competition and better governance amplify the relation, while diversification weakens it. We address endogeneity concerns with fixed effects, instrumental variables, and the use of brokerage house research department closures and S&P 500 additions as plausibly exogenous events.
G31|Stock Market Overvaluation, Moon Shots, and Corporate Innovation|We test how market overvaluation affects corporate innovation. Estimated stock overvaluation is very strongly associated with R&D, innovative output, and measures of innovative novelty, originality, and scope. R&D is much more sensitive than capital investment to overvaluation. Misvaluation affects R&D more via a non-equity channel than via equity issuance. We document how the sensitivity of R&D and innovative outcomes to misvaluation depends on growth, overvaluation, and turnover. The frequency of exceptionally high innovative inputs/outputs increases with overvaluation. This evidence suggests that market overvaluation may generate social value by increasing innovative output and by encouraging firms to engage in ‘moon shots.’
G31|Time is Money: Cash-Flow Risk and Export Market Behavior|Do liquidity constraints hinder firms’ entry in new markets? Exploiting an exogenous variation in payment delays triggered by a 2009 French reform, we use a unique combination of administrative data sets to test whether changes in working capital financing affect the propensity to enter new export markets. The effect of the reform on payment delays is isolated using a threshold rule introduced by the law. The estimations strongly support the idea that access to working capital financing plays a key role in the expansion in international markets: a decrease in payment delays by ten days is found to raise cash holdings by 1.4 percentage points and to increase the probability to reach a new foreign market by 0.4 percentage points. By contrast, the evolution of the volume of exports or the probability of exiting an export market do not seem to be affected by the variation of payment delays.
G31|The Structural Evolution Of The Banking System In Romania Under The Impact Of Fdi|Foreign banks represent important channels for the transfer of productive resources, managerial and organizational skills and experience accumulated on international level, which led to increased competition in the banking market in Romania, which contributed to some extent to the profitability of the Romanian banking sector. The purpose of the current attempt of research is the analysis of the structural evolution of the banking sector in Romania, under the impact of foreign direct investments (FDI). Analyzing the structural evolution of the Romanian banking sector, there can be observed that in 2015, FDI has influenced some important merger operations on a level with branches of foreign banks in Romania, and over 85% of the total capital of the banking system in our country belongs to credit institutions with foreign majority ownership and to their branches. Regarding the origin of the foreign capital of credit institutions, it originates from the member states of the European Union (EU). It is also worthy of note that in 2015, the top ten banks in the banking sector of Romania held 71.6% of the assets, while the remaining 26 banks held a share of only 28.4% of the market. Banca Comerciala Romana, BRD - Groupe Societe Generale and Banca Transilvania are in 2015 the main banks in the Romanian banking system, with a major market share.
G31|Valuation of an R&D project with three types of uncertainty|This paper develops an R&D decision-making model in the real options framework. The model is generic enough to capture three types of uncertainty in an R&D project, namely, uncertainty of research duration and costs, market value of technology, and a competitor fs technology development. I derive analytical solutions, which help practitioners and researchers to evaluate various cases of R&D investment. Further, by analyzing the model with a wide range of parameter values, I reveal the following effects of the three types of uncertainty on R&D investment: Higher uncertainty of research duration and costs, unlike market value uncertainty, speeds up investment, especially combined with a higher risk of competition. The investment timing can be U-shaped in the strength of competition because of the trade-off between the preemptive investment effect and the decreased project value effect. These results can account for empirical findings about the uncertainty-investment relation in industries with high R&D intensity and severe competition.
G31|Access to Financing and Firm Growth: Evidence from Ethiopia|Using Ethiopian firm-level data, we model the effect of different types of financing on firm growth. The form of financing is potentially endogenous to firm growth, and one contribution of this paper is to introduce a new instrumental variable which captures local variation in financial depth. Unlike previous studies of firms in low-income countries, we find evidence for a negative relationship between the use of external finance and firm growth, which suggests that there are substantial cross-country differences in the finance-growth nexus. We discuss possible explanations for this phenomenon and its implications for development policy.
G31|Coal mining in Central-East Europe in perspective of industrial risk|Due to increasing economic and sector risk coal mining in Europe is treated as a declining industry. In post-transition economies such approach is a threat for energy security and local and regional economic development. Nowadays, coal mining survival in Central-East Europe is additionally threatened by accumulative global risk factors, especially by price differentiation and shale gas revolution in United States of America. Revealed circumstances require deepen research and diagnosis in the area of risk and corporate management in mining enterprises in Central-East Europe. The main aim of the article is to assess industrial risk in coal mining in Central-East Europe. The research is divided into three parts. In the first one the situation of coal mining in Central-East Europe is characterized. It is the basis for selection of the countries for the detailed analysis. In the second part the industrial risk factors are assessed and described. Finally, in the third part their influence on financial results in the examined mining enterprises is evaluated. In the summary the international comparison is made and general assumptions for risk and corporate management are formulated. In the article a risk checklist is used to identify the economic and industrial risk factors. To determine their influence on financial results on the first stage of research Pearson’s coefficients are used. Than regression functions are developed. The data are collected on the basis of public statistics and financial statements of the examined mining enterprises. On the basis of research results it may be stated that there are only a few countries in Europe in which mining enterprises still operate as separate economic units and all of them have experienced serious financial troubles in the last years. Risk intensification contributed mostly to revenues reduction and negative financial results.
G31|The effects of financialisation and financial development on investment: evidence from firm-level data in Europe|In this paper we estimate the effects of financialization on physical investment in selected western European countries using panel data based on the balance-sheets of publicly listed non-financial companies (NFCs) supplied by Worldscope for the period 1995-2015. We find robust evidence of an adverse effect of both financial payments (interests and dividends) and financial incomes on investment in fixed assets by the NFCs. This finding is robust for both the pool of all Western European firms and single country estimations. The negative impacts of financial incomes are non-linear with respect to the companies’ size: financial incomes crowd-out investment in large companies, and have a positive effect on the investment of only small, relatively more credit-constrained companies. Moreover, we find that a higher degree of financial development is associated with a stronger negative effect of financial incomes on companies’ investment. This finding challenges the common wisdom on ‘finance-growth nexus’. Our findings support the ‘financialization thesis’ that the increasing orientation of the non-financial sector towards financial activities is ultimately leading to lower physical investment, hence to stagnant or fragile growth, as well as long term stagnation in productivity.
G31|Testing the Q theory of investment in the frequency domain|We revisit the empirical performance of the Q theory of investment, explicitly taking into account the frequency dependence of investment, Tobin’s Q, and cash flow. The time series are decomposed into orthogonal components of different frequencies using wavelet multiresolution analysis. We find that the Q theory fits the data much better than might be expected (both in-sample and out-of-sample) when the frequency relationship between the variables is taken into account. Merging the wavelet approach and proxies for Q recently suggested in the investment literature also significantly improves the quality of short-term forecasts.
G31|Blending under uncertainty: Real options analysis of ethanol plants and biofuels mandates|The value of a representative ethanol producer, that benefits from both low and high gasoline prices in the short-run, is modeled. Ethanol producers make a modest competitive profit in the mandate-induced region of production. A low price of gasoline increases the demand for blend ethanol and consequently increases the profit of ethanol producers. On the other hand, when gasoline becomes costlier than ethanol, the capacity constraints of the biofuels sector bind and ethanol producers gain large quasi-monopoly margins. This is an interesting example of a market where two commodities are complement up to a point and then substitute after that. We postulate the value of an ethanol producer as a strangle option consisting of two real options: the option to substitute gasoline at times of expensive crude oil and the option to expand supply of blend at times of cheap gasoline. Using a dynamic model we show that the higher volatilities of crude oil and ethanol costs increase biofuels firms' value. We also find non-monotonic relationships between the value of an ethanol plant and several underlying variables, including gasoline price level. We estimate the value provided by a 10% blend mandate to be around $150,000,000 for a representative ethanol unit. Our results offer a novel view of oil and feedstock price risks in contrast to the common belief that considers those risks as a negative factor for the biofuels sector.
